42

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

Section 21a, on the other hand, deals specifically and
solely with the adjective law-with evidence and witnesses. When the bankrupt appears before a commissioner under this section, he comes, like any other person,
merely to testify. In that connection he may, like any
other witness, assert the constitutional privilege; because
the present statute fails to afford complete immunity
from a prosecution. If Congress should hereafter conclude that a full disclosure of the bankrupt estate by the
witnesses is of greater importance than the possibility of
punishing them for some crime in the past, it can, as in
other cases, confer the power of unrestricted examination
by providing complete immunity. Compare Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S. 591; Glickstein v. United States, 222
U. S. 139, 142; Ensign v. Pennsylvania, 227 U. S. 592.
Judgment reaffirmed.
MICHAELSON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES EX REL.
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS & OMAHA
RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

SANDEFUR v. CANOE CREEK COAL COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 246 and 232. Argued April 9, 10, 1924.-Decided October 20,
1924.
1. The Clayton Act, October 15, 1914, §§ 21, 22, c. 323, 38 Stat. 738,
provides that any person who shall wilfully disobey any writ, etc.,
of any District Court of the United States or court of the District
of Columbia, by doing any act or thing therein or thereby forbidden, if of such character as to constitute also a criminal offense
under any statute of the United States or law of the State in
which committed, shall be proceeded against as in the statute

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Syllabus.

provided; that in all such cases the trial may be by the court,
or, upon demand of the accused, by a jury, and shall conform, as
near as may be, to the practice in criminal cases prosecuted by
indictment or upon information, the accused, upon conviction, to
be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both, the fine to be paid
to the United States or to the complainant or other party injured
by the act constituting the contempt, or, where several are so
damaged, be apportioned among them as the court may direct.
Concerning this, Held:
(a) That the proceeding contemplated is for the prosecution of
criminal contempts exclusively, the discretion given the court
regarding the payment of fine to private complainants being incidental and subordinate to the dominating purpose of the proceeding, which is to vindicate the authority of the court and punish
the act of disobedience as a public wrong. P. 64.
(b) A proceeding for criminal contempt, committed by disobedience
of an injunction, unlike the proceeding for civil contempt, is between the public and the defendant, is an independent proceeding
at law, and no part of the original cause. Gompers v. Bucks Stove
& Range Co., 221 U. S. 418. Id.
(c) The courts of the United States, when called into existence and
vested with jurisdiction over any subject, at once become possessed
of the power to punish for contempt, which is inherent in all
courts and essential to the administration of justice. P. 65.
(d) In so far as concerns the lower federal courts, although the
attributes which inhere in this power and are inseparable from
it can neither be abrogated nor rendered practically inoperative,
the power, within limits not precisely defined, may be regulated
by Congress. P. 66.
(e) The above statutory provision for a jury trial, applicable only
where the act or thing complained of is also a crime in the ordinary
sense, and not interfering with the power to deal summarily with
contempts committed in the presence of the court, or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, nor purporting
to extend to cases of failure or refusal to comply with decrees requiring affirmative action, does not invade the powers of the courts
as intended by the Constitution, and is within the regulatory
power of Congress. Id.
2. Section 20 of the Clayton Act, concerning the granting of injunctions "in any case between an employer and employees " involving or growing out of a dispute concerning terms or conditions
of employment, includes such cases in which the employers are
railroad companies. P. 68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioners in No. 246.

266 U. S.

3. Railroad employees who, in a dispute over wages, go out on strike
in defiance of a decision of the Railroad Labor Board, and, in
furtherance of the strike, conspire together and commit unlawful
acts in restraint of the railroad's interstate commerce, remain "employees" of the railroad in the sense of § 20 of the Clayton Act.
P. 67.
4. In such a case, existence of the status of employment at the time
when acts constituting a contempt are committed is not necessary
in order to br'ng into operation the provision for jury trial made
by § 22. P. 69.
5. Abusive language, assembling in numbers, picketing, and other
acts by strikers, for the purpose of intimidating and preventing
men desirous of securing employment with a railway company,
held prima facie violations of a penal statute of Wisconsin, (R. S.,
1921, § 4466c). Id.
6. Section 22 of the Clayton Act, although reading that the trial
"may" be by the court, or, upon demand of the accused, by jury,
is to be construed, in the light of its history and purpose, as giving
the accused the absolute right of trial by jury. P. 70.
291 Fed. 940 (No. 246), reversed.

THE first case was a certiorari to review a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the
District Court which adjudged the petitioners guilty of
contempt, after a trial in which their request for a jury
was denied.
The second case presents a question certified by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which is set forth in the opinion,
post, p. 70.
Mr. Donald R. Tichberg and Mr. Jackson H. Ralston,
with whom Mr. John A. Cadiganand Mr. Peter B. Cadigan were on the brief, for petitioners in No. 246.
I. This is a case of criminal contempt. If it were a case
of "civil contempt," the proceedings, being interlocutory,
would have terminated with the conclusion of the original
case, which was dismissed on motion of complainant.
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418.
The United States is named as complainant in the
present case by order of court,

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Petitioners inNo. 246.

Irrespective of the guilt of the defendants, it appears
clear that the lower court proceeded to punish them for
criminal offenses and to impose fines, not for the benefit
of the complainant, but, in the language of this Court in
the case last cited, "the sentence is punitive to vindicate
the authority of the court." See Stearns v. Marr, 181
N. Y. 463; In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. 448.
The judgments in this case were plainly not remedial
nor compensatory.
A brief consideration of the nature of crimes in general,
as distinguished from civil legal wrongs, will make abundantly clear that the acts for which petitioners were
ordered punished constitute criminal, not civil contempt.
Reg. v. Paget, 3 F. & F. 29, note; Austin, Juris., § 17; 1
Bishop, Crim. Law, § 32; Beale, 21 Harv. Law Rev. 1; Ex
parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38; New Orleans v. Steamship
Co., 20 Wall. 387; In re Shull, 221 Mo. 623.
That contempt of court is a criminal offense is also
recognized in innumerable decisions of the inferior federal
courts. See 5 Fed. Stat. Ann., 2d ed., 1033, note; Fischer
v. Hayes, 6 Fed. 63; Castner v. Pocahontas Co., 117 Fed.
184; In re Ellerbe, 13 Fed. 530; Bullock Co. v. Westinghouse Co., 129 Fed. 105; Anargyros v. Anargyros & Co.,
191 Fed. 208; United States v. Jacobi, 26 Fed. Cas. No.
15,460.
It has been repeatedly said by the Attorneys General
of the United States that" contempt of court is an offense
against the United States" within the President's pardoning power. 3 Ops. Atty. Gen. 622; 4 id. 458; 5 id. 579;
19 id. 476.
The court below confused: (1) the inherent power of
an equity court to furnish a remedy to the complainant
and to enforce its decree for that purpose, and (2) the
distinct (and not inherent) power of the court to punish
for a criminal offense. There is no "inherent power" in
a chancellor to punish criminal offenders. It is necessary

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioners in No. 246.

266 U. S.

to have clearly in mind the important distinction between
a proceeding in civil contempt, which is a part of an equity
proceeding, and a proceeding in criminal contempt, which
is an action at law-a prosecution by the United States
for a criminal offense.
II. Congress has power to make a trial by jury mandatory.
The inferior federal courts are creatures of congressional
legislation, and legislative limitations upon their jurisdiction and its exercise are valid. The first Congress, in
which sat many of the framers of the Constitution and
other contemporaries of the Convention, made provision
as to the exercise of the power of punishment for contempt. Judiciary Act, 1789, § 17. The abuses of Judge
Peck and the failure by one vote to impeach him (see
Peck's Trial) resulted in a congressional amendment to
§ 17 (Act of 1831), whereby Congress limited the power
of the inferior federal courts to punish for contempt.
This limitation was never declared unconstitutional, although it has been before this Court on more than one
occasion. Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; Toledo
Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402; In re
Neagle, 135 U. S.1.
In Ex parteRobinson, supra, a case which is later than
Martinv. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, referring to this
very limitation of § 17, effected by the Act of 1831, this
Court, per Mr. Justice Field, held: "The moment the
courts of the United States were called into existence and
invested with jurisdiction over any subject, they became
possessed of this power [to punish for contempts] . . .
But the power has been limited and defined by the act of
Congress of March 2, 1831."
No stronger expression of the principle here contended
for can be found than is embodied in a decision by Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall, Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cr. 93. See
Peck's Trial, p. 294; United States v. Hudson,7 Cr. 32,33;

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

47

Argument for Petitioners in No. 246.

Ex parte Cabrera,1 Wash. C. C. 232; Turner v. Bank of
North America, 4 Dall. 8; Livingston v. Van Ingen, 1
Paine, 45; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236; Sheldon v. Sill, 8
How. 441; Holmes v. Goldsmith, 147 U S. 150.
That § 1 of Art. III of the Constitution does not mean
that Congress, having established inferior courts, is powerless to limit their jurisdiction, is very clearly shown by
the provisions of the first Judiciary Act and the history
of its adoption. Warren, New Light on the History of
the Federal Judiciary -Act of 1789, 37 Harv. Law Rev. 49.
And see Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265; 1
Works of James Monroe, Monroe to Madison, Aug. 12,
1789.
The lack of authority to issue a writ of mandamus in
the absence of express statutory grant of power is well
recognized. In re Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 482; Knapp
v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 197 U. S. 536.
The authority of the federal courts to issue writs of
habeas corpus is derived from the acts of Congress, first,
limiting the power, and later, by successive legislative enactments broadening the power.
In England and in most Colonial admiralty courts at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution and for many
years prior, admiralty jurisdiction did not extend to seizure
under the laws of impost, navigation or trade, and accordingly such cases were tried in a common law court by a
jury. The Judiciary Act of 1789, however, gave to the
District Courts "exclusive original cognizance of all civil
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including
seizures under laws of impost, navigation or trade." Thus,
the first Congress, having established an inferior court did
not permit parties to exercise the right recognized for
many years before the Constitution and at the time of its
adoption of trial by jury in a certain class of cases. This
portion of the Judiciary Act which has been before the
Court on many occasions has never been held unconstitutional.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioners in No. 246.

266 U. S.

There is no inherent judicial power in a court of equity
to punish criminal contempts. [Citing articles by F.
Solly-Flood, Q. C. in Vol 3 N. S. Royal Historical Society,
(1886), and by John Charles Fox, 24 Law Quar. Rev.
(1908), and reviewing numerous cases and authorities
there cited, and adding others, to show that, from 38 Hen.
III (1253) down to 1736, even direct contempts were
punished through ordinary criminal procedure, and not
summarily by the Chancellor.] It seems that Dodd's
Case, Sand. Chan. Ord. 538 (1736) is the earliest where
a court of chancery ever committed a stranger for contempt, and that was a case of a direct affront to the court.
In 1742 Lord Hardwicke, in punishing a direct contempt
to the chancery court (Re Read and Huggonson and the
St. James' Evening Post, 2 Atk. 469) treated as new summary punishment without the usual processes followed
in criminal cases.
Not only Chief Justice Wilmot, in his undelivered
opinion in Rex v. Almon, Wilmot's Notes, 243 (1765);
but also Blackstone, 4 Comm. 285, and Hawkins, 2 P1.
Crown, c. 22, § 36, fail to cite authority for their conclusions that the courts were empowered to deal summarily
with direct contempts. See Gompers v. United States,
233 U. S. 604; Beale, Harv. Law Rev., Jan. 1908.
The court for the trial of criminal contempts may be
constituted by act of Congress as a tribunal consisting of
a judge and jury. 8 Am. & Eng. Encyc. Law, 2d ed., p. 22;
In re Choate, 18 Civ. Pro. Rep. (N. Y.) 186; People v.
Barrett, 18 id. 230; affd. 121 N. Y. 678; 15 Corp. Juris,
717; People v. Molineux, 168 N. Y. 264; Mascall v. Commissioners, 122 Ill. 620.
III. It is the duty of Congress to provide for trial by
-jury in criminal contempt proceedings. Const. Art. III,
§ 2; Sixth Amendment; Schick v. United States, 195 U. S.
68. Distinguishing In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, and Ellenbecker v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31.

MICEAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Petitioners in No. 246.

IV. The petitioners were "employees" within the
meaning of the Clayton Act.
A strike or lockout does not terminate the relationship
of employer and employee. 31 Yale Law. Jour. 321;
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Northern.Pac. R. R. Co.,
60 Fed. 803; Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co. v. Bowns, 58
N. Y. 573; Longshore Co. v. Howell, 26 Ore. 527; Arthur
v. Oakes, 63 Fed. 310; Uden, v. Schaefer, 110 Wash. 391;
Iron Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45;
Kemp v. DivisionNo. 241, 255 Ill. 213; Rex v. Neilson, 44
N. S. 488.
A very good example of the continuance of the relationship of employer and employee in connection with railroads, despite the cessation of work and payment of
wages, is found in the rules governing the work of the
shop-craft employees affecting all important railroads and
particularly the one concerned in the present case. See
Rules 27 and 28, promulgated by the Railroad Labor
Board, Decisions U. S. R. R. Labor Board, vol. II. pp. 576,
577. Rule 28 is particularly impressive as showing that
men laid off on account of feduction in forces are still regarded as employees because otherwise the carrier would
be violating the Yaw in furnishing them with passes. Int.
Com. Act, § 1 (7), § 22.
The purpose of the Clayton Act is to deal with industrial relations in a broad way, and it would be destructive
of the legislative intention to construe the words used in
such a technical sense as to make it possible for private
persons to defeat the effective operation of the act. (See
Duplex PrintingCo. v. Deering,254 U. S. 443, dissenting
opinion.)
The force of this contention is doubled when one considers the provisions of the Transportation Act in connection with the provisions of the Clayton Act. The
Transportation Act provides for the adjustment of disputes between carriers and employees in order to prevent

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Sandefur.

266 U. S.

interruptions of interstate commerce, and provides for
representation of employees through their organizations.
If, when a dispute arises between a carrier and its employees resulting in the cessation of work, it should be
held that the workers concerned can no longer be regarded
as employees, then the provision for their representation
through their organizations would be nullified. The purpose of the act would be defeated. The Transportation
Act recognizes that those men who are trained to perform
the services necessary for the operation of the railroads
are to be regarded as railway employees who may be organized in associations to promote their cormnon interests,
the membership of which cannot be arbitrarily diminished
by the action of management in temporarily refusing to
furnish work. In like manner, the membership of these
organizations is not diminished by the refusal of groups
of members to perform work under nonacceptable conditions. The organized employees must be regarded as
employees whether all the members are actively engaged
in rendering service or not. See construction of word
"employees" in Duplex Case, supra.
V. Trial by jury is an absolute right under the provisions of the Clayton Act.
Mr.James W. Henson and Mr. Jackson H. Ralston,with
whom Mr. N. P. Taylor was on the brief, for Sandefur.
This is clearly a proceeding to punish for criminal contempt. The facts certified by the Court of Appeals show
that after the injunction was granted the Canoe Creek
Coal Company filed affidavits tending to show that certain named parties, including Sandefur, had violated the
injunction by the use of violence and threats of violence
against some of the miners that worked for that company;
that the acts charged against him and the others were
criminal offenses under the laws of Kentucky; that he
was tried before the court, found guilty, the court holding the proceedings to be punitive, and the sentence was

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Sandefur.

that he pay one hundred dollars into court for the use
and benefit of the United States.
This and other courts have often distinguished between
criminal and civil contempts. Merchants' Stock & Grain
Co. v. Board of Trade, 201 Fed. 20; Gompers v. Bucks
Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418.
The judgment of the District Court was in no sense
remedial, for the Coal Company had suffered no loss and
hence received none of the fine imposed. The sentence
was punitive to vindicate the authority of the court and
was ordered paid into court for the use and benefit of the
United States as any other fine in criminal cases.
It is conceded that the courts of this country have held
in a general way that courts had the inherent power to
hear and punish summarily direct and indirect contempts,
but these decisions were generally rendered in the absence
of any statute regulating the power or procedure. An investigation, however, will disclose, as we believe, that for
hundreds of years even direct contempts were uniformly
dealt with by information, presentment, or indictment,
and trial by jury. This appears to have been the procedure from the time of the Magna Carta down to the death
of Henry V. After this it appears that a practice grew up
for the courts without a jury to deal with and punish summarily offenders who had committed some direct contempt or who had refused to obey a decree of the court.
It is submitted that it is very doubtful whether, when the
Constitution of the United States was written, there was
any recognized "inherent" authority in a court of equity
to punish summarily for indirect contempts. Many of
our courts have held that the authority to try and punish
persons guilty of contempt was inherent in the court, but
in practically every instance to which our attention has
been called they have followed legislative direction upon
the subject.
All federal courts, except the Supreme Court, are creatures of Congress and subject to its will. In their creation

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Sandefur.

266 U. S.

they were clothed with certain powers and duties; but
these may be and are changed from time to time.
Congress is given, by Art. I, § 8, cl. 18, of the Constitution, the power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution
in the Government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof."
When the Constitution provided that the judicial power
should be vested in one Supreme Court "and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish" (Art. III, §1), there was no limitation
fixing the exact portion of the judicial power which should
be vested in the judge as a constituent part of the court.
Certainly, since the inferior federal courts were to be such
courts as Congress might establish, there was ample power
conferred upon Congress to direct in what manner and
with what constituent parts such inferior courts should be
established and function. Therefore, how can it be contended that the Constitution prohibits Congress from
establishing as the "court" for the trial of a certain class
of cases a tribunal consisting of a judge and jury? See
In re Choate, 18 Civ. Pro. Rep. (N. Y.) 186; People v.
Barrett, 18 id. 230; affd. 121 N. Y. 678; People v. Molineux, 168 N. Y. 264; Mascall v. Commissioners, 122 Ill.
620.
Furthermore, Congress was under express mandate to
carry out the purpose expressed in the same article that
"the trial of all crimes . . . shall be by jury "-a
purpose reiterated in the Sixth Amendment.
Again, may it not be suggested that it is properly the
function of the legislative department rather than the
judicial department to determine what are "criminal
prosecutions?"
If Congress had established a District Court to consist
of three judges of whom a majority must agree, in order
to render judgment, would it not be an unlawful act for

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Sandefur.

one judge to exercise alone any of the powers of the court?
Is it not equally unlawful, when an inferior court is constituted by act of Congress as consisting of a judge and
jury, for the judge alone to attempt to exercise the power
conferred upon that court?
It may be conceded that, in the absence of ample
legislative authority, all courts, from the necessity of the
case, have an inherent power to protect themselves and
enforce their judgments. Still, the question remains, can
the law-making power regulate or define the procedure to
be taken by courts in such cases?
No court, so far as we are informed, has ever denied
the right of trial -y jury where a statute provided for
such a trial, except the District Court in In re Atchison,
284 Fed. 604; and in Michaelson v. United States, 291
Fed. 940. Legislative power to grant the jury trial has
been conceded in many cases. Arnold v. Commonwealth,
80 Ky. 300; In re Gitkin, 164 Fed. 71; Kirk v. Milwaukee
Co., 26 Fed. 501; E: parte Morris,28 Oh. C. C. 611; State
v. Hazeltine, 82 Wash. 81; In re Oldham, 89 N. C. 23;
Atwell v. United States, 162 Fed. 97; State v. Galloway,
5 Cold. (Tenn.) 326; State v. Frew, 24 W. Va. 416; State
v. Morrill, 16 Ark. 384; In re Gorham, 129 N. C. 481;
Nichols v. Superior Court, 130 Mich. 187.
This whole question of the power of Congress is set at
rest by Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505. Cf. Kline v.
Burke Constr. Co., 260 U. S. 226; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 326, 338.
The provisions of the Clayton Act in question grant
an absolute right to trial by jury and the act is constitutional.
The jury may pass upon the facts going to make up
guilt or innocence.
If it is held that Congress was without power to enact
this legislation granting a trial by jury, then that lack of
power must be arrived at by implication, as the organic

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Canoe Creek Coal Co.

266 U. S.

law is silent on the question. Can it be contended that
an unrestrained power will be inferred or implied in such
cases?
The manifest purpose of the Clayton Act was to assist
in solving many of the perplexing questions that frequently grow out of the engagements of these particular
classes (employer and employee) which compose the
business life of our country. This Court has recognized
and affirmed the validity of some of the most material
parts of the act under consideration. American Steel
Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184; Duplex
Printing Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; In re Atchison,
284 Fed. 604. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 594, distinguished.
The court in Patton v. United States, 288 Fed. 812,
fully recognized the validity of the act in granting a jury
trial in a case like this. So, United States v. Taliaferro,
290 Fed. 214; Taliaferro v. United States, 290 Fed. 906.
Mr. Edward PorterHumphrey, with whom Mr. William
Wait Crawford and Mr. Churchhill Humphrey were on
the brief, for Canoe Creek Coal Company.
Congress cannot invade the province of the judiciary.
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Massachusetts v.
Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.
A District Court of the United States has inherent and
constitutional power to act in matters of contempt, without a jury, and the provision of the Clayton Act, permitting trial by jury in such cases, is invalid because, if upheld, it would materially impair the court's power in this
respect. Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 738; Const., Art. III, § 1;
Art. III, § 2, cl. 1, 2; Jud. Code, § 268; Rev. Stats. § 725;
Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289; In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. 448;
Eilenbeckerv. Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31; Interstate
Commerce Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; In re Debs,
158 U. S. 564; Michaelson v. United States, 291 Fed. 940;
In re Atchson, 284 Fed. 604; Hale v. State, 55 Oh. St.
210; Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418;

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

Kline v. Burke Constr. Co., 260 U. S. 226; Farrell v.

Waterman S. S. Co., 291 Fed. 604.
There is no right of trial by jury in a contempt proceeding under the Constitution, because it is not the trial
of a crime or a criminal prosecution, and the court can act
without a jury in such matter, regardless of whether the
proceeding be classified as a civil or criminal contempt.
Const., Art. III, § 2, cl. 3; Sixth Amendment; Seventh
Amendment; Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 738; Myers v. United
States, 264 U. S. 95; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; United
States v. Debs, 64 Fed. 724; McDougall v. Sheridan, 23
Idaho, 191; Bowman v. ContinentalOil Co., 256 U. S. 642;
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418;
Merchants' Stock & Grain Co. v. Board of Trade, 201
Fed. 20; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 687.
Mr. Richard L.. Kennedy, with whom Mr. William T.
Faricy, Mr. Lyman T. Powell and Mr. John S. Sprowls
were on the brief, for respbndent in No. 246.
I. The decision of the trial court denying the petitioners
a jury trial upon the ground that the acts charged did not
constitute criminal offenses under any statute of the
United States or under the laws of Wisconsin and were,
therefore, not within the Clayton Act, was correct.
We agree that these prosecutions were for criminal contempt as distinguished from civil contempt. We do not
agree that they are ordinary "criminal prosecutions."
On the contrary, they are" sui generis" and have been so
recognized by this Court for many years. Bessette v.
Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324; Myers v. United States, 264
U. S. 95.
The distinction between civil and criminal contempt results from a consideration of whether the punishment
sought to be imposed is for the purpose of vindicating
the dignity and authority of the court and for the benefit of the public generally, or is for the benefit of the op-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

266 U. S.

posing party in the action. Bessette v. Conkey Co., supra;
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418.
It is not a determinative factor that the acts charged
constituted a violation of a state or federal statute. An
act might be a criminal contempt without constituting a
violation of any state or federal statute. Conversely, the
act might be a clear violation of a state or federal criminal
statute, or both, and yet be a civil rather than a criminal
contempt.
A concession that the acts charged constituted criminal
contempts does not militate against the contention that
the acts charged did not constitute a criminal offense under
state or federal statutes and that the Clayton Act was,
therefore, inapplicable.
Counsel have not cited any federal statute of which
the acts charged constitute a violation, and we believe
there is none.
Section 4466a, Wis. Rev. Stats., would be applicable
only if petitioners had been charged with maliciously
doing the things prohibited by the statute. Aikens v.
Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; Allis-Chalmers Co. v. Iron
Molders' Union, 150 Fed. 155; Randall v. Lonstorf, 126
Wis. 147; White v. White, 132 Wis. 121; Schultz v. State,
135 Wis. 644; Schultz v. Frankfort Ins. Co., 151 Wis. 537;
Trade Press Pub. Co. v. Milwaukee Typographical Union,
180 Wis. 449.
To constitute a violation of § 4466c, Wis. Rev. Stats.,
the accused must either have hindered or prevented another from engaging in or continuing in any lawful work
or employment, or attempted so to hinder or prevent,
etc. The petitioners were not charged with having done
either of these two things. They were charged with
having been "assembled for the purpose of intimidating
and preventing men, desirous of securing employment
with said company, from entering upon such employment." In other words, they were charged with having

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

gotten together for the purpose of violating § 4466c but
not with having violated it.
II. Under § 22 of the Claytoli Act a jury trial is not
mandatory, even in contempt cases falling within the
provisions of § 21.
Not only do the terms of § 22 appear to justify this
contention, but the history of the proceedings leading to
its enactment and the state of the law at the time appear
to establish that fact. Inherent power in the courts to
punish for contempt, without a jury, had been recognized
by a long line of decisions of this Court. Innumerable
decisions of the state courts and of the federal courts,
other than this Court, were to the same effect.
A construction of § 22 which would nullify this rule
should not be adopted, unless the language of the section
will bear no other construction.
An examination of the Cqngressional Record covering
the period when the Clayton Act and antecedent measures
were being urged upon Congress, indicates that Congress
did not intend to make trial by jury compulsory, but to
leave it in the discretion of the court, and so used in § 22
the word "may" advisedly.
Where an amendment to a pending measure is offered,
which tends to broaden its scope, refusal of the legislative
body to adopt an amendment indicates an intention to
restrict the application of the statute. Connole v. Norfolk & W. Ry. Co., 216 Fed. 823.
When the majority prepared and reported its bill, it
deliberately rejected the word "shall" contained in the
bills which had been before it, to make a trial by jury
compulsory, and inserted in lieu of it the permissive word
may
The Court, in construing these sections, will assume
that Congress intelligently made this change, and particularly that it heeded the suggestions, in this respect,
so often made in the decisions, for the purpose of avoid19458°-25--8

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

266 U. S.

ing constitutional doubts and a conflict with the courts.
Lincoln v. United States, 202 U. S. 484; In re Debs, 158
U. S. 564.
To say that this section is merely declaratory of the
common law is not at all fatal to the act, because, as we
understand the decisions in Duplex PrintingCo. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, and American Steel Foundries v. TriCity Council, 257 U. S. 184, the Court so construed § 20
of this same act, and decided that Congress had introduced
no new principle, but that the section was merely declaratory of what had been the best practice, always, and that
Congress was merely seeking to stabilize a rule of action
and render it uniform.
III. The petitioners were not entitled to a jury trial
under §§ 20, 21 and 22 of the Clayton Act, because the
relationship of employer and employee did not exist between the respondent and the petitioners after July 1,
1922, when they went out on the strike of the Shop Crafts
Unions, because of (a) the legal status of the respondent,
and (b) that of the petitioners, as former employees of
a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 352, 353. See Duplex Printing
Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 470; American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184, 202.
The petitioners were not employees but "former employees." Canoe Creek Coal Co. v. Christinson,281 Fed.
559, 561.
Attention is invited to a resolution of the United States
Railroad Labor Board, in which it is stated, in substance,
that the six organizations comprising the Federated Shop
Crafts, had notified the Board that the members of the
organization, "are no longer employees of the railroads,
under the jurisdiction of the Railroad Labor Board or
subject to the application of the Transportation Act."
The suggestion that the provisions of the Transportation Act regarding the adjustment of disputes between

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

railroads and their employees would be nullified if strikers
were not regarded as employees, would appear to be completely answered so far as the petitioners are concerned
by the finding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
strike in question was an "unlawful strike."
In Duplex PrintingCo. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, it is
held that the Clayton Act, while permitting members of
labor organizations to carry out the legitimate objects
thereof, does not authorize "unlawful" strikes. Hitchman Coal Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229; Eagle Glass Co.
v. Rowe, 245 U. S. 275; American Steel Foundriesv. TriCity Council, 257 U. S. 184; Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S.
312; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259
U. S. 344.
The petitioners were members of the nation-wide organization involved in United States v. Railway Employees' Dept., 283 Fed. 479; 286 Fed. 228; 290 Fed. 978.
Where an organization of strikers, as such, deliberately
carries on a strike in an unlawful manner and resorts to
the criminal methods adopted by the organization of
which petitioners were members, the relationship of employer and employee has been terminated.
IV. The so-called strike of the shop-craft unions was
a controversy with or a strike against the Labor Board as
an instrumentality of our National Government, and is to
be classed with the insurrection of the Boston policemen.
To establish the exemption or privilege under § 20, the
issue must be a dispute concerning the terms or conditions
of employment. Duplex Printing Co. v. Deering, 254 U.
S. 443; United States v. Railway Employees' Dept., 290
Fed. 978.
The legal status of the Railroad Labor Board, and the
effect of its decisions, were established in Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72.
V. The petitioners' demand for a jury trial was rightly
denied because §§ 21 and 22 of the Clayton Act, in providing for a trial by jury, are unconstitutional.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

266 U. S.

The functions of government under our system are apportioned among three co~rdinate branches. No one
branch should be permitted to encroach upon the authority of another. Petitioners' argument would result in
making Congress supreme. See dissenting opinion in
United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 510, 511;
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488; Martin v.
Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 327-330. Cf. Cary v.
Curtis, 3 How. 235, 245.
While Art. III, § 1, of the Constitution specifically refers
by name only to the Supreme Court and to this extent
makes a distinction between such court and the inferior
federal courts, petitioners' argument would apply to all
the federal courts, including the Supreme Court, as the
Constitution provides that "The judicial power of the
United States, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and
in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to
time ordain and establish." It would, therefore, appear
that so far as the vesting of judicial power is concerned,
there is no distinction between the Supreme Court and
the inferior federal courts.
The constitutional convention, in vesting the judicial
power, had in mind the acquisition of additional territory
and the increase of population, and realized that the number and the territorial jurisdiction of the inferior courts
which might become necessary could not be determined
at the time the Constitution was adopted. Therefore,
Congress was empowered to establish from time to time
such courts as were necessary to meet the exigencies of
litigation and to fix the territorial jurisdiction of each;
but the respondent submits that it was never intended
that Congress should limit the judicial power of such
courts when established. As stated by Story, J., in Martin
v. Hunter's Lessee, supra, it was the duty of Congress
to vest the whole judicial power in such courts as were
established, as otherwise Congress might successively re-

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Argument for Respondent in No. 246.

fuse to vest the jurisdiction in any one class of cases
enumerated in the Constitution and thereby defeat the
jurisdiction as to all. Section 1 of Art. III of the Constitution, in providing that "the judges, both of the supreme
and inferior courts, shall hold their offices during good
behaviour, and shall, at stated times, receive for their
services, a compensation, which shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office," appears to make the
creation of such inferior courts mandatory upon Congress.
Assuming, but not conceding, that Congress had the
power in the act establishing inferior federal courts to
limit their judicial power, it is submitted that when once
so ordained and established, and vested with all "judicial
power," it was then beyond the power of Congress to
abridge or take away any of these inherent powers. Distinguishing, Kline v. Burke Constr. Co., 260 U. S. 226.
Cf. Farrellv. Waterman S. S. Co., 291 Fed. 604.
In England, the judicial was not known as a separate
power, but was, both in theory and practice, a part of the
executive. The king, at the common law, by his prerogative, had the power, as chief magistrate of the nation, to
erect tribunals of justice, to define their powers and duties,
to create offices and appoint and remove officers and to
appoint judges and limit the tenure of theiroffice. There
could be no contest between the executive and judiciaf
power, for the whole was. exbcutive. United States v.
Kendall, 26 Fed. Cas. pp. 702, 753.
The petitioners say that by § 17, Act of 1789, "Congress
limited the power of the inferior federal courts to punish
for contempt." Sed vide, United States v. Toledo Newspaper Co., 220 Fed. 458, 481; affd. 237 Fed. 986; 247 U. S.
402.
Congress in passing the Act of March 2, 1831, c. 99, 4
Stat. 487, was not seeking to limit the powers of the
courts but simply to define them.
The existence of inherent power in the federal courts
to punish for contempt, without a jury, has been es-

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

tablished by a long line of decisions of this Court, viz:
United States v. Hudson, 7 Cr. 32; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat 204;
Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; Ex parte Terry, 128
U. S. 289; Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S.
31; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
447; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171
U. S. 101; Bessette v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324; Gompers
v. Bucks Stave & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418; Gompers v.
United States, 233 U. S. 604; Toledo Newspaper Co. v.
United States, 247 U. S. 402; Howat v. Kansas, 258 U. S.
181.
Decisions of federal courts, other than this Court, and
of the state courts, to the same effect, are too numerous
to permit of citation. See 31 Cent. Dig., "Jury," §§ 63,
139; and Decennial and succeeding annual digests,
"Jury," § 13 (21), § 21 (4).
In view of this array of authority, the respondent submits that the power of a court to punish for contempt,
without a jury, is inherent, and being so inherent, it is
essential, inseparable and inalienable. If the power to
punish for contempt is one of the inherent judicial powers
of the court, essential to its existence, is it not a part of the
"judicial power," which, by the Constitution, was vested
not only in the Supreme Court but also in the inferior
courts, when once established? See Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 190.
MR. JUSTIcE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases were argued together and will be disposed
of in one opinion. The principal question presented in the
Michaelson case, and the sole question in the Sandefur
case, is whether the provision of the Clayton Act of
October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 738, 739, §§ 21, 22, requiring a jury trial in certain specified kinds of contempt

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Opinion of the Court.

is constitutional. Subordinate questions presented in the
Michaelson case are: (a) Whether petitioners were, or
whether it is necessary that they should be, "employees"
within the meaning of the act, § 20; (b) whether the acts
alleged to constitute the contempt were also criminal offenses under the statutes of the United States or of the
State where committed; (c) whether the provision for a
jury is mandatory or permissive.
The petitioners in the Michaelson case, were striking
employees of the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha
Railway Company, and, with others, were proceeded
against by bill in equity for combining and conspiring to
interfere with interstate commerce by picketing and the
use of force and violence, etc. After a hearing, a preliminary injunction was granted. Subsequently, proceedings in contempt were instituted in the District Court,
charging petitioners with sundry violations of the injunction; and a rule to show cause was issued. Upon the
answer and return to the rule, petitioners applied for a
jury trial under § 22 of the Clayton Act; but the District
Court denied the application and proceeded without a
jury. At the conclusion of the hearing, the petitioners
were adjudged guilty and sentenced to pay fines in various
sums, and in default of payment to stand committed to
jail until such fines were paid. Thereupon the case was
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals by writ of error;
and by that court the judgments were affirmed. 291 Fed.
940.
First. Is the provision of the Clayton Act, granting a
right of trial by jury, constitutional? The court below
held in the negative, on the ground that the power of a
court to vindicate or enforce its decree in equity is inherent; is derived from the Constitution as a part of its
judicial power; and that Congress is without constitutional authority to deprive the parties in an equity court
of the right of trial by the chancellor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U.S.

If the statute now under review encroaches upon the
equity jurisdiction intended by the Constitution, a grave
constitutional question in respect of its validity would
be presented; and it, therefore, becomes our duty, as this
Court has frequently said, to construe it "if fairly possible,
so as to avoid not only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also grave doubts upon that score." Panama
R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375.
Shortly stated, the statute provides that wilful disobedience of any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree
or command of any district court of the United States or
any court of the District of Columbia by doing any act or
thing forbidden, if such act or thing be of such character
as to constitute also a criminal offense under any statute
of the United States or law of any State in which the act
is committed, shall be proceeded against as in the statute
provided. In all such cases the "trial may be by the
court, or, upon demand of the accused, by a jury" and
"such trial shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice in criminal cases prosecuted by indictment or upon
information." Upon conviction the accused is to be
punished "by fine or imprisonment, or both," the fine to
be "paid to the United States or to the complainant or
other party injured by the act constituting the contempt,
or may, where more than one is so damaged, be divided
or apportioned among them as the court may direct."
The provision for trial by jury upon demand, as we shall
presently show, is mandatory; and the question to be
answered is whether it infringes any power of the courts
vested by the Constitution and unalterable by congressional legislation. We first inquire whether the proceeding contemplated by the statute is for a civil or a criminal
contempt. If it be the latter-since the proceeding for
criminal contempt, unlike that for civil contempt, is between the public and the defendant, is an independent
proceeding at law, and no part of the original cause,

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Opinion of the Court.

Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418;
444-446, 451-we are at once relieved of the doubt which
might otherwise arise in respect of the authority of Congress to set aside the settled rule that a suit in equity is
to be tried by the chancellor without a jury unless he
choose to call one as purely advisory.. We think the
statute, reasonably construed, relates exclusively to criminal contempts. The act or thing charged must be of
such character as also to constitute a crime. Prosecution
must be in conformity with the practice in criminal cases.
Upon conviction the accused is to be punished by fine or
imprisonment, or both. True, the fine may be paid to the
United States or to the complainant or divided among
the parties injured by the act, as the court may direct;
but that does not alter the essential nature of the proceeding contemplated by the statute. The discretion given
the court in this respect is incidental and subordinate to
the dominating purpose of the proceeding which is punitive to vindicate the authority of the court and punish
the act of disobedience as a public wrong. See Re Merchants' Stock Co., Petitioner,223 U. S. 639, 641; Matter
of ChristensenEngineering Co., 194 U. S.458, 461; Merchants' Stock & Grain Co. v. Board of Trade, 187 Fed.
398, 401; Kreplik v. Couch Patents Co., 190 Fed. 565,
572. "If the contempt savours of criminality, and the
sentence is penal, that according to the books appears to
be enough." Long Wellesley's Case, 2 Russ. & M. 639,
667.
But it is contended that the statute materially interferes with the inherent power of the courts and is therefore invalid. That the power to punish for contempts is
inherent in all courts, has been many times decided and
may be regarded as settled law. It is essential to the administration of justice. The courts of the United States,
when called into existence and vested with jurisdiction

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court..

266 U. S.

over any subject, at once become possessed of the power.
So far as the inferior federal courts are concerned, however, it is not beyond the authority of Congress (Ex parte
Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 510-511; Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, 326) ; but the attributes which inhere in that power and are inseparable from it can neither
be abrogated nor rendered practically inoperative. That
it may be regulated within limits not precisely defined
may not be doubted. The statute now under review is of
the latter character. It is of narrow scope, dealing with
the single class where the act or thing constituting the
contempt is also a crime in the ordinary sense. It does
not interfere with the power to deal summarily with contempts committed in the presence of the court or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, and
is in express terms carefully limited to the cases- of contempt specifically defined. Neither do we think it purports to reach cases of failure or refusal to comply affirmatively with a decree-that is to do something which a
decree commands--which may be enforced by coercive
means or remedied by purely compensatory relief. If
the reach of the statute had extended to the cases which
are excluded a different and more serious question would
arise. But the simple question presented is, whether Congress may require a trial by. jury upon the demand of
the accused in an independent proceeding at law for a
criminal contempt which is also a crime. In criminal
contempts, as in criminal cases, the presumption of innocence obtains. Proof of guilt must be beyond reasonable
doubt and the defendant may not be compelled to be a
witness against himself, Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range
Co., supra, p. 444. The fundamental characteristics of
both are the same. Contempts of the kind within the
terms of the statute partake of the nature of crimes in
all essential particulars. "So truly are they crimes that
it seems to be proved that in the early law they were

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

Opinion of the Court.

punished only by the usual criminal procedure, 3 Transactions of the Royal Historical Society, N. S. p. 147
(1885), and that at least in England it seems that they
still may be and preferably are tried in that way." Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604, 610-611. This is also
pointed out by counsel in the case of O'Shea v. O'Shea
and Parnell,L. R. 15 Prob. Div. 59, 61; and, in the course
of one of the opinions in that case, it is said (p. 64):
"The offence of the appellant [criminal contempt] is
certainly a criminal offence. I do not say that it is an
indictable offence, but, whether indictable or not, it is
a criminal offence, and it is an offence, and the only offence
that I know of, which is punishable at common law by
summary process." The proceeding is not between the
parties to the original suit but between the public and
the defendant. The only substantial difference between
such a proceeding as we have here, and a criminal prosecution by indictment or information is that in the latter
the act complained of is the violation of a law and in the
former the violation of a decree. In the case of the latter,
the accused has a constitutional right of trial by jury;
while in the former he has not. The statutory extension
of this constitutional right to a class of contempts which
are properly described as "criminal offences" does not,
in our opinion, invade the powers of the courts as intended
by the Constitution or violate that instrument in any
other way.
Second. We come, then, to consider the reasons which,
assuming the validity of the statute, are nevertheless
urged to preclude the right to a jury trial. The first contention is that petitioners were not "employees" within
the meaning of the act, because, having gone out on strike,
the relationship of employer and employee had come to an
end. The dispute out of which arose the unlawful acts
alleged in the bill was one between the employer on the
one hand and its employees on the other, respecting terms

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

or conditions of employment, namely, the scale of wages
to be paid employees of the class to which defendants belonged. This dispute had been submitte.d to the Railroad Labor Board, which, after a hearing, had fixed the
scale to be paid; but the defendants declined to abide by
the action of the Board and went out on strike, and in
furtherance thereof conspired together and committed
various unlawful acts in restraint of respondent's interstate commerce. The purpose of the strike was to bring
about an increase of wages. The case was obviously within the provisions of § 20, in respect of injunctions. The
court belovi held that, while ordinarily this would be so, it
was not so in this instance because, (1) the employer was
a railroad company, bound to continue its operations in
the public interest and therefore not on an equal footing
with its employees, and (2) that, since the scale of wages
had been fixed by the Railroad Labor Board, the strike, in
effect, was against the Board, a governmental instrumentality, "to be classed with the insurrection of the Boston
policemen." To say that railroad employees are outside
the provisions of the statute, is not to construe the statute,
but to engraft upon it an exception not warranted by its
terms. If Congress had intended such an exception, it is
fair to suppose that it would have said so affirmatively.
The words of the act are plain and in terms inclusive of all
classes of employment; and we find nothing in them
which requires a resort to judicial construction. The reasoning of the court below really does not present a question of statutory construction, but rather an aigument
justifying the supposititious exception on the ground of
necessity or of policy-a matter addressed to the legislative
and not the judicial authority. Neither was the strike one
against the Labor Board. It is a strike notwithstanding
the action of the Board, but against the respondent. The
policemen's strike was against a governmental employer.
The Labor Board was not an employer but an arbitrator,
whose determination, moreover, had only the force of

MICHAELSON v. UNITED STATES.
42

69

Opinion of the Court.

moral suasion. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Labor Board,
261 U. S. 72, 84. Moreover, it is to be observed that
§§ 21 and 22, which deal with the subject of contempts, do
not contain the limitation in respect of employment contained in § 20. Section 21 provides: "That any person
who shall willfully disobey any lawful writ, process, order,
rule, decree, or command of any district court," 'etc., "shall
be proceeded against for his said contempt as hereinafter
provided." Section 22 provides for a trial by jury upon
demand of the accused in all cases within the purview of
the act. Whether the general language of § 21 should be
limited by construction because it forms a part of an act
dealing with unlawful restraints and monopolies, or for
any other reason, we need not now stop to inquire. It is
enough to say that in a controversy, such as we have here,
at least, it does not require the existence of the status of
employment at the time the acts constituting the contempt are committed, in order to bring into operation the
provision for a trial by jury.
We take no time to discuss the contention that the acts
alleged as constituting contempt do not also constitute
criminal offenses. According to the petition for the rule
and affidavits in support of it these consisted of abusive
language, assembling in numbers, picketing and other acts,
for the purpose of intimidating and preventing men desirous of securing employment with the railway company
from entering such employment. Prima facie, at least,
this violated the statute of Wisconsin where the acts were
committed, R. S. 1921, § 4466c,1 and this is enough.
I" Section 4466c. Any person who by threats, intimidation, force
or coercion of any kind shall hinder or prevent any other person from

engaging in or continuing in any lawful work or employment, either
for himself or as a wage worker, or who shall attempt to so hinder
or prevent shall be punished by fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail not more than six
months, or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.72

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Neither is it necessary to consider at length the final
contention that the jury provision of the statute is not
mandatory but permissive. It is mandatory. The argument to the contrary is based on the use of the permissive
word "may "-" such trial may be by the court, or, upon
demand of the accused, by a jury." Strictly and grammatically considered, the word "may" limits both
phrases, "by the court" and "by a jury"; but to construe it as contended, in practical effect, would be to subvert the plain intent and good sense of the statute. And
this is made clear by the history leading up to and accompanying the enactment, as well as the reports of the committees having the bill in charge. The Judiciary Committee of the House, in reporting the bill, said:
"The trial is by the court (1) in case no jury be demanded by the accused, (2) if the contempt be in the
presence of the court or so near thereto as to obstruct the
administration of justice, or (3) if the contempt be
charged to be in disobedience of any lawful writ, process,
order, rule, decree, or command entered in any suit or
action brought or prosecuted in the name or on behalf
of the United States. In other cases the trial is to be by
jury." House Report, No. 613, 62d Cong., 2d sess.
The intent of Congress in adopting the provision was
to give to the accused a right. of trial by jury, not merely
to vest authority in the judge to call a jury at his discretion. See Supervisors v. UnitedStates, 4 Wall. 435, 446-7.
The Sandefur case is here on certificate requesting the
instruction of this Court upon the following question of
law:
"Do those provisions of Section 22 of the Clayton Act
which require a conviction upon a jury trial as a condition
precedent to punishment for contempt, upon demand for
jury in the case specified, impose a valid restriction upon
the inherent judicial power of the United States District
Courts?"

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
42

Syllabus.

The facts stated in the certificate bring the case within
the principle of what has already been said, and the question must be answered in the affirmative.
No. 246 reversed and remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
No. 232, answer: Yes.

AIR-WAY ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CORPORATION
v. DAY, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF OHIO,
ET AL.
DAY, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF OHIO, ET
AL. v. AIR-WAY ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CORPORATION.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 31 and 32. Argued April 30, May 1, 1924.-Decided October 20,
1924.
A manufacturing corporation, incorporated in Delaware with an
authorized capital stock of a designated number of non-par value
shares, of which, only about one-eighth were issued, had all its
property in Ohio, where it was duly authorized to do business,
and transacted during a tax year a business of which 28% was
confined to Ohio and the remainder was interstate. Under an Act
of May 17, 1921 (§ 8728-11 Gen. Code Ohio) which prescribes
an annual fee payable by each foreign corporation having common
stock without par value, for the privilege of exercising its franchise
in the State, of "five cents per share upon the proportion of the
number of shares of authorized common stock, represented by
property owned and used and business transacted in this State
... ," the taxing authorities assessed a tax by applying this
prescribed rate to the entire number of shares authorized. The
court below reduced this by taking such proportion of the total
number of shares authorized, as the value of the property plus

