ENDICOTT CO. v. ENCYCLOPEDIA PRESS.
271

285

Syllabus.

as appears from the record, was not raised by the Company either before the Commission or the state courts,
in each of which its objections to the validity of the tax
were phrased in terms having no reference to this specific
question. And not having been raised in the Court of
Appeals or passed on by that court, it is not a question
which can now be reviewed by this Court under an assignment of errors raising it here for the first time.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly

Affirmed.
Mr. JusTicE McREYNOLDS dissents.
ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORPORATION v. ENCYCLOPEDIA PRESS, INC.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 41.

Submitted October 7, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. Due process of law does not require that a judgment debtor,
who had his day in court before the judgment was rendered, shall
be given additional notice and opportunity to be heard before issuance of a garnishment to satisfy the judgment. P. 288.
2. A statute (N. Y. Code Civ. Proc., § 1391,) providing for an execution which, when served on the employer of a judgment debtor,
becomes a lien and continuing levy on a percentage of future wages
of the latter, requiring the former to pay them to the officer as
they become due or be liable to an action therefor by the judgment
creditor in which the recovery shall be applied fipon the execution,
does not deprive the garnishee or the judgment debtor of property
without due process of law by interference with their liberty of
contract. P. 290.
3. Nor does such procedure impair any substantial constitutional
right of the garnishee because it entails additional expense of
bookkeeping. Id.
4. The contention that such a statute is void because contrary to
public policy does not present a federal question. Id.
200 App. Div. 847; 234 N. Y. 627, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals,
affirming a judgment against a garnishee.

Mr. Maurice E. Page for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas B. Merchant for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the constitutional validity of § 1391
of the New York Code of Civil Procedure relating to the
garnishment of wages and other choses in action of a judgment debtor.
This section of the Code, as amended by the Laws of
1919, c. 278,1 provides that where a judgment has been recovered and an execution thereon returned unsatisfied,
the judgment creditor may apply to the court without
notice to the judgment debtor, and on satisfactory proof
that any wages, debts, earnings, salary, income from trust
funds or profits, are, or will thereafter become, due and
owing to the judgment debtor, to the amount of twelve
dollars or more per week, a judge or justice shall order that
an execution issue against such wages, etc., of the judgment debtor. On presentation of such execution by the
collecting officer to the person from whom such wages,
etc., are or may become due and owing, the execution shall
become a lien and continuing levy upon such wages, etc.,
to the amount specified in the execution, not exceeding ten
per centum thereof, until the execution is fully satisfied.
Any person to whom the execution is presented, who is or
becomes indebted to the judgment debtor, shall, while the
execution remains a lien upon the indebtedness, pay over
to the officer the amount of the indebtedness prescribed
'After the institution of this suit this section of the Code was re6nacted as § 684 of the Civil Practice Act. Laws of 1920, c. 925.

ENDICOTT CO. v. ENCYCLOPEDIA PRESS.
285

287

Opinion of the Court.

by the execution until it is wholly satisfied; and such payment shall be a bar to any action therefor by the judgment
debtor. If such person fails or refuses to pay over to the
officer the percentage of such indebtedness, he'shall be
liable to an action therefor by the judgment creditor; and
the amount recovered shall be applied towards the payment of the execution. Either party may apply at any
time for such modification of the execution as shall be
deemed just.
The Encyclopedia Press, Inc., having duly recovered a
judgment in the Supreme Court of New York against an
employee of the Endicott Corporation receiving weekly
wages of more than twelve dollars, was awarded, ex parte,
under this section of the Code, an execution against his
wages, directing the Corporation to pay over each week
ten per centum thereof until the execution was satisfied.
The Corporation failed and refused so to do, and continued to pay the employee his entire weekly wages
as they became due.
The Encyclopedia Press thereupon brought suit in the
Supreme Court against the Corporation, upon the execution, for the accumulated percentages of the weekly wages
that it had not paid over. Judgment was recovered;
which, upon successive appeals, was affirmed, without
opinions, by the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals. 200 App. Div. 847; 234 N. Y. 627. The record
was remitted to the Supreme Court, to which this writ of
error was directed.
The Corporation contends that § 1391 of the Code is in
conflict with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, in that it authorizes the issuance of a garnishment execution without notice to the judgment debtor
or affording him a hearing, and, further, in that it inter2See the opinions of the Supreme Court and Appellate Division in
an earlier case involving similar questions. 189 N. Y. Supp. 673;
199 App. Div. 194.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

feres with the liberty of contract between the judgment
debtor and the garnishee.
1. We assume for present purposes that a garnishee
sued upon the execution has, by reason of the nature of
the cause of action and the liability which this section imposes upon him, the right to challenge its constitutionality
on the ground that it is wanting in due process as against
the judgment debtor. See High v. Bank of Commerce,
95 Cal. 386.
The words "due process of law," when applied to judicial proceedings, "mean a course of legal proceedings according to those rules and principles which have been
established in our systems of jurisprudence for the protection and enforcement of private rights." Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 733; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34,
46. They require a proceeding which, observing the general rules thus established, follows forms of law appropriate to the case and just to the parties to be affected; and
which, whenever it is necessary for the protection of the
parties, gives them an opportunity to be heard respecting
the justice of the judgment sought. Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 7.01, 708. However, the established rules of our system of jurisprudence do not require
that a defendant who has been granted an opportunity to
be heard and has had his day in court, should, after a
judgment has been rendered against him, have a further
notice and hearing before supplemental proceedings are
taken to reach his property in satisfaction of the judgment. Thus, in the absence of a statutory requirement,
it is not essential that he be given notice before the issuance of an execution against his tangible property;
after the rendition of the judgment he must take "notice
of what will follow," no further notice being "necessary
to advance justice." Ayres v. Campbell, 9 Iowa, 213,
216; Reid v. Ral'lway Co., 32 Pa. St. 257, 258; Foster v.
Young, 172 Cal. 317, 322; McAnaw v. Matthis, 129 Mo.
142, 152.

ENDICOTT CO. v. ENCYCLOPEDIA PRESS.
285

289

Opinion of the Court.

There is no more reason why the judgment debtor
should be entitled to notice before the issue of an execu-

tion provided by statute as supplemental process to impound, in satisfaction of the judgment, choses in abtion due
to him which cannot be reached by an ordinary execution.
No established rule of our system of jurisprudence requires that such notice be given. On the contrary, it has
been frequently held in the state courts that, in the absence of a statutory requirement, it is not essential that

the, judgment debtor be given notice and an opportunity
to be heard before the issuance of such garnishment.
High v. Bank of Commerce, supra, p. 387; Coffee v.
Haynes, 124 Cal. 561, 565; Ketcham v. Kent, 115 Mich.
60, 63; Hexter v. Clifford, 5 Col. 168, 173; Kesler v. St.
John, 22 Iowa, 565, 566; Phillips v. Germon, 43 Iowa,
101, 102; Smith v. Dickson, 58 Iowa, 444, 445; Pistchalv.
Durant, 168 App. Div. 100, 102. And see Daigle v. Bird,
22 La. Ann. 138, 139; Chanute v. Martin, 25 Ill. 63, 65;
Cross v. Brown, 19 R. I. 220; Winner v. Hoyt, 68 Wis.
278, 286. In High v. Bank of Commerce, supra,in which
the constitutionality of a garnishment statute was challenged because it did not require notice to the judgment
debtor before issuance of the writ, the court said: "So
far as the judgment debtor is concerned, he cannot complain; he is a party to the judgment, and is fully aware of
the legal effect of it, viz., that what his debtors owe him
can be applied, by proper proceedings in the action which
is still pending, to the satisfaction of his judgment debts;
and due process of law has been had to make him aware of
that fact. If, then, anything is due from his debtor, he
is not injured if it is so applied. If nothing is due him
from such debtor, then the matter is of no concern to
him. . . . We therefore see no force in the suggestion that the statute is unconstitutional, in that the judgment debtor has under it no notice of the supplementary
proceeding after judgment affecting his rights of prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

erty." And in Ketcham v. Kent, supra, the court aptly
said that if notice were given the judgment debtor before
issuing the garnishment, "the very advantage sought by
the writ would possibly be of no avail, as a disposition
could be made of the fund or property before service could
be had."
We conclude that the provision of § 1391 of the Code
authorizing the issue of a garnishment execution on the
ex parte application of the judgment creditor, is not in
conflict with the due process clause.
2. Nor does this section deprive the judgment debtor
and garnishee of property without due process of law by
interference with their liberty of contract. The statute
in no wise prevents them from making such contract as
they choose, but merely subjects the proceeds of the contract that become due the judgment debtor to the payment of the judgment rendered against him. This is not
an interference with the right of contract within the
meaning of the due process clause. Compare Philbrick v.
Philbrick, 39 N. H. 468, 474, and Laird v. Carton, 196
N. Y. 169, 172. The suggestion that a substantial constitutional right of the garnishee is impaired because he may
be put to some additional expense of bookkeeping in
keeping his account with the judgment debtor, is plainly
without merit.
3. It is further contended that this section of the Code
is void because contrary to public policy. This, however,
does not present a federal question.
Affirmed.

