570

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

City of Covington, 251 U. S. 95. These taxes were held
valid because, unlike a gross-receipts tax, they do not
withhold, "for the use of the State, a part of every dollar
received in such transactions." See 245 U. S., p. 297.
Surely the tax upon the corporate franchise is as indirect
as the tax upon the pipe-line.
I find in the Commerce clause no warrant for thus
putting a State to the choice of either abandoning the
corporate franchise tax or discriminating against intrastate commerce; 4 nor for denying to a State the right
to encourage the conduct of business by natural persons
through imposing, for the enjoyment of the corporate
privilege, an annual tax so small that it cannot conceivably be deemed an obstruction of interstate commerce.

MICHIGAN PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION ET
AL. v. DUKE, DOING BUSINESS AS DUKE CARTAGE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 283.

Argued November 21, 1924.-Decided January 12, 1925.

1. A state law imposing upon all persons engaged in transportation
for hire by motor vehicle over the public highways of the State
the burdens and duties of common carriers, and requiring them
to furnish indemnity bonds to secure payment of claims and liabilities resulting from injury to property carried, when applied to
a private carrier without special franchise or power of eminent
domain and engaged exclusively in hauling from a place within the
State to a place in another State the goods of particular factories
under standing contracts with their owners, violates the Commerce
Clause, by taking from the carrier use of instruments by means of
which he carries on interstate commerce, and by imposing on him
4 See the discussion of Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor,
165 T. S. 194, by Thomas Reed Powell, 32 Harv. Law Rev. 251,
261-2.

MICHIGAN COMMISSION v. DUKE.
570

571

Argument for Appellants.

unreasonable conditions precedent to his right to continue to carry
on interstate commerce. P. 576.
2. To convert property used exclusively in the business of a private
carrier into a public utility, or to make the owner a public carrier,
by legislative fiat, is beyond the power of a State, since it would
be taking property for public use without just compensation, in
violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 577.
Affirmed.

APP.AL from a decree of the District Court granting an
interlocutory injunction. See 294 Fed. 703.
Mr.H. E. Spalding, with whom Mr. Andrew B. Dougherty, Attorney General of the State of Michigan, Mr. 0. L.

Smith and Mr. William L. Carpenterwere on the briefs,
for appellants.
I. The Fourteenth Amendment is not violated by requiring all those using public highways in motor vehicle
transportation for hire, including those who have previously done that business under private contract, to become common carriers.
A common carrier is not required to carry goods that
he has not facilities to handle, or for which he has not
space, nor is he required to carry goods of a class that he
does not hold himself out to carry. He must, however,
carry for all who offer, indifferently. This is the distinguishing characteristic of his business.
Highways are established for the use and convenience
of the public. Their regulation and control is in the
legislature or in those subordinate bodies, administrative
or municipal, to which it has delegated the power 6f
regulation. The legislature may impose any regulation
or limitation upon the use of highways that might conceivably promote the public interest-anything not
clearly arbitrary, anything that may facilitate traffic or
make it safe, lessen the wear or prevent the destruction
of the road bed, or relieve the public burden of construc-

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellants.

266 U. S.

tion and maintenance-is within legislative competence.
It may limit the speed and weight of vehicles. It may
prescribe types of vehicular construction. It may exclude traffic of certain kinds, or condition the use of highways in such traffic upon the payment of certain fees.
See Scovel v. Detroit, 146 Mich. 93; Commonwealth v.
Kingsbury, 199 Mass. 542; Dobson v. Mascall, 199 N. Y.
Supp. 800; People v. Rosenheimer, 209 N. Y. 115; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Schoenfeldt, 123 Wash. 579; Hadfield v. Lundin, 98 Wash. 657; Ex parte Dickey, 76 W.
Va. 576; Jersey City Gas Co. v. Dewight, 29 N. J. Eq.
242; Packardv. Banton, 264 U. S. 140.
The principle that those who use the public highways
as a place of business for private gain are exercising a
privilege and not a right is as applicable to private as
it is to public carriers.
To the same end, the protection of the public interest,
the legislature may therefore require those who use the
public highways in their private, business of transportation for hire, to carry for the public at large as well as
under private contract, and to be subject to regulation
and control as common carriers.
The legislature cannot subject private property to
public use without compensation, but may condition the
use of public property-a public facility-in the transaction of a private business in such a manner as to insure the convenience and accommodation of the public.
It is therefore competent for the legislature to require
those who at the passage of the Act are engaged or
thereafter engage in motor vehicle transportation for hire
on the public highways to do that business as common
carriers. That is, without precluding them from carrying
out such special contracts as they have made, it may
compel them, if they continue in the business, to become
common carriers and submit to the regulations which
the Act imposes on such carriers. Pipe Line Cases, 234

MICHIGAN COMMISSION v. DUKE.
570

Opirfion of the Court.

U. S. 548. Producers Transp. Co. v. Railroad ComM.,
251 U. S. 228; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. West Coast
Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483; Northern Pac.Ry. Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, distinguished.
The lengths to which the regulation of business which
does not involve the use of public property or service to
the general public may be constitutionally carried is
shown by the following: Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391;
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389;
Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; Block v.
Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman,256
U. S. 170.
II. The provisions of § 3 of the Act are within its
title.
III. The remaining provision of § 3 subjecting carriers
under the Act to all laws of the state regulating transportation by other common carriers so far as applicable
is not invalid for indefiniteness.
IV. A State may require all carriers over its highways,
including those engaged in interstate transportation, to
protect their patrons by insurance or bond against injuries
sustained in carriage upon the highways of the State.
Nashville, etc., Ry. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; Chicago, etc., Ry.
Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133.
Mr. Hal H. Smith and Mr. Percy J. Donovan, for appellee, subritted.
. MR. JusTicE

BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal under § 266, Judicial Code, from an
order granting an interlocutory injunction restraining
appellants from enforcing against appellee, plaintiff
below, Act No. 209, Public Acts of 1923 of Michigan.
The act provides that no person shall engage or continue

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

in the business of transporting persons or property by
motor vehicle for hire upon the public highways of the
State over fixed routes or between fixed termini, unless
he shall have obtained from the Michigan Public Utilities Commission a permit so to do. The permit shall be
issued in accordance with the public convenience and
necessity, and may be withheld when it appears that the
applicant is not able to furnish adequate, safe or convenient service to the public. §§ 1, 2. Section 3 provides
engaged . . . in
that, "Any and all persons . .
the transportation of persons or property for hire by
motor vehicle, upon or over the public highways of this
shall be common carriers, and, so far as
state . .
applicable, all laws of this state now in force or hereafter
. by
.
transportation
.
enacted, regulating
shall
rates,
of
regulation
including
carriers,
other common
apply with equal force and effect to such common car. by motor vehicle . . ." Section 7 proriers .
vides that, "Any and all common carriers under this
act shall carry insurance for the protection of the . . .
property carried by them in such amount as shall be
or shall furnish
ordered by said commission . .
. conditioned upon the payan indemnity bond .
ment of all just claims and liabilities resulting from
property carried by such carrier, and
.
injury to
in a company authorized to do business in this state,
in an amount to be fixed and approved by said commission." A rule adopted by the commission requires
all common carriers, defined by the act, to take out such
an indemnity bond; and the commission has announced
that no permit will be given until there has been filed
with it a certificate of the bonding company showing that
such bond had been issued. The act imposes upon every
such carrier a fee for the privilege of engaging in the
business defined in § 1, and appropriates all fees to the
general highway fund. And it prescribes punishment

MICHIGAN COMMISSION v. DUKE.
570

Opinion of the Court.

by fine or'imprisonment or both for violations of the
act or of any lawful order, rule or regulation of the com-

mission.
At the time of the passage of the act, plaintiff had three
contracts to transport from Detroit, Michigan, to Toledo,
Ohio, automobile bodies made at the plants of three
manufacturers in Detroit and initended for the use of an
automobile manufacturer at Toledo. He had been doing
such hauling for some years, and had a large investment
in property used exclusively for that purpose. He employed 75 men and operated 47 motor trucks and trailers
upon the public highways of Michigan, which formed
a part of the route between Detroit and Toledo. He had
no other business and did not hold himself out as a carrier
for the public. It was shown that defendants intended
to enforce the act against him, and that, unless he obtained the permits required, they would cause his vehicles
to be stopped on the highways by state police and local
officers, and the prescribed penalties to be imposed upon
him. Plaintiff alleged that the enforcement of the act
would cause him irreparable injury, the loss of his con.
tracts, the destruction of his business, and the loss of a
substantial part of his capital investment. He assailed
the act as invalid; and, among other things, averred that
it contravenes the commerce. clause of the Constitution
of the United States; that it is repugnant to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that
it violates the Constitution of Michigan, because it contains a plurality of objects, and its real object is not expressed in the title. The lower court held that § 7,
providing for indemnity bonds imposes a direct burden
on interstate commerce, and that the provisions of § 3
applicable to private carriers are foreign to the title of
the act and fall under the condemnation of the state constitution. See opinion of the same judges in Liberty

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Highway Co. v. Michigan Public Utilities Commission,
294 Fed. 703, 706, 708, decided the same day that the injunction was granted in this case.
Plaintiff is a private carrier. His sole business is interstate commerce, and it is limited to the transportation
covered by his three contracts. He has no power of
eminent domain or franchise under the State, and*no
greater right to use the highways than any other member
of the body public. He does not undertake to carry for
the public and does not devote his property to any public
use. He has done nothing to give rise to a duty to carry
for others. The public is not dependent on him or the
use of his property for service, and has no right to call
on him for transportation. The act leaves it to the commission to require plaintiff, if he is to use the highways,
to be prepared to furnish adequate service to the public.
It would make him a common carrier and subject him to
all the duties and burdens of that calling and would require him to furnish bond for the protection of those for
whom he hauls.
This Court has held that, in the absence of national
legislation covering the subject, a State may rightfully
prescribe uniform regulations necessary for public safety
and order in respect to the operation upon its highways
of all motor vehicles-those moving in interstate commerce as well as others; that a reasonable, graduated
license fee imposed by a State on motor vehicles used in
interstate commerce does not constitute a direct burden
on interstate commerce, and that a State, which, at its
own expense, furnishes special facilities for the use of
those engaged in intrastate and interstate commerce may
exact compensation therefor, and if the charges are
reasonable and uniform, they constitute no burden on
interstate commerce. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.
610, 622; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167. Such
regulations are deemed to be reasonable and to affect

MICHIGAN COMMISSION v. DUKE.
570

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce only incidentally and indirectly.
But it is well settled that a State has no power to fetter
the right to carry on interstate commerce within its
borders by the imposition of conditions or regulations
which are unnecessary and pass beyond the bounds of
what is reasonable and suitable for the proper exercise
of its powers in the field that belongs to it. Sioux
Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 201. One bound to
furnish transportation to the public as a common carrier
must serve all, up to the capacity of his facilities, without
discrimination and for reasonable pay. The act would
put on plaintiff the duty to use his trucks and other
equipment as a common carrier in Michigan, and would
prevent him from using them exclusively to perform his
contracts. This is to take from him use of instrumentalities by means of which he carries on the interstate
commerce in which he is engaged as a private carrier and
so directly to burden and interfere with it. See Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley District, 233 U. S.
75, 78, 79; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Wharton,
207 U. S. 328, 334; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois,
163 U. S. 142, 153. And it is a burden upon interstate
commerce to impose on plaintiff the onerous duties and
strict liability of common carrier, and the obligation of
furnishing such indemnity bond to cover the automobile
bodies hauled under his contracts as conditions precedent
to his right to continue to carry them in interstate commerce. See Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232 U. S.
14, 33. Clearly, these requirements have no relation to
public safety or order in the use of motor vehicles upon
the highways, or to the collection of compensation for
the use of the highways. The police power .does not
extend so far. It must be held that, if applied to plaintiff
and his business, the act would violate the commerce
clause of the Constitution.
Moreover, it is beyond the power of the State by legislative fiat to convert property used exclusively in the

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

business of a private carrier into a public utility, or to
make the owner a public carrier, for that would be taking
private property for public use without just compensation, which no State can do consistently with the due
process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Producers Transportation Co. v. Railroad Commission,
251 U. S. 228, 230; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262
U. S. 522, 535. On the facts above referred to, it is clear
that, if enforced against him, the act would deprive
plaintiff of his property in violation of that clause of the
Constitution.
The Supreme Court of Michigan has not decided
whether the act contravenes the state constitution; and
as we hold that the enforcement of the act against plaintiff would deprive him of his rights under the Federal
Constitution, and that therefore the decree must be affirmed, we do not pass on state questions. Pacific Tel.
Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196, 204.
Decree affirmed.

