DAVIS v. KENNEDY.
144

147

Statement of the Case.

the failure to register and to give bond did not make the
sale void.
Longpre v. Diaz, 237 U. S. 512, has no bearing on the
present case. There the conveyance assailed was made
with no semblance of authority, as the parties knew, and
it was held that persons holding under a conveyance that
was void upon the facts known to them could not be possessors in good faith, and that a judge of first instance had
no jurisdiction to validate the sale at a later date. Here
the judge had the jurisdiction that we have stated and an
order that on its face was a valid exercise of that jurisdiction furnished a proper title to one who believed the facts
to be as the order implied.
Judgment reversed.

DAVIS, AGENT, v. KENNEDY, ADMINISTRATRIX
OF KENNEDY, DECEASED.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.

No. 85. Argued October 17, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
Where a railway collision, killing an engineer, was directly due to
neglect of his personal duty not to move his train forward
without positively ascertaining that another train had passed,
the possibility that the accident might have been prevented but
for contributory negligence of other members of the crew in not
performing the look-oui duty devolving also upon them, will not
sustain an action by his representative against the carrier under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 148.

Reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Tennessee affirming a judgment for death by personal
injuries, recovered under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Mr. Fitzgerald Hall, with whom Mr. Frank Slemons
and Mr. Seth M. Walker were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. E. Norvell, Jr., for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE

Hoimus delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action under the Employers' Liability Act
of April 22, 1908, c. 149, ยง 1, 35 Stat. 65, brought by the
administratrix of David Kennedy to recover damages for
his death upon a railroad while under federal control.
The death was caused by a collision between two trains
called No. 1 and No. 4, west of a point known as Shops
which was two and a half miles west of Nashville, Tennessee. The tracks were double from Nashville to Shops
but after that the track was single. No. 1, bound for
Nashville, had the right of way, and the crew of No. 4,
bound westward, had instructions never to pass Shops
unless they knew as a fact that No. 1 had passed it.
Kennedy was the engineer of No. 4. The conductor had
told him that the train was crowded and had asked him
to look out for No. 1, which Kennedy agreed to do. He
ran his train on beyond Shops however and the collision
occurred.
The trial was in a Court of-the State of Tennessee, and
the plaintiff got a judgment which was sustained by the
Supreme Court of the State on the ground that the other
members of the crew as well as the engineer were bound
to look out for the approaching train and that their negligence contributed as a proximate cause to the engineer's
death. We are of opinion that this was error. It was
the personal duty of the engineer positively to ascertain
whether the other train had passed. His duty was primary as he had physical control of No. 4, and was managing its course. It seems to us a perversion of the
statute to allow his representative to recover for an in-

DUCKETT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147

149

Opinion of the Court.

jury directly due to his failure to act as required on the
ground that possibly it might have been prevented if
those in secondary relation to the movement had done
more. Frese v. Chicago;Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
263 U. S. 1, 3.
Judgment reversed.
A. W. DUCKETT & COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 108. Argued October 23, 24, 1924.--Decided November 17, 1924.

Possession of terminal property, including a pier on which the claimant had a lease from the owner, was requisitioned and taken by the
President temporarily for war purposes (Act of August 29, 1916,)
under a general public notice and promise of compensation. Held
that claimant's leasehold interest being part of the res, was taken,
and that a promise upon the part of the Government to pay for
it was implied. P. 151. Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States,
261 U. S. 502, distinguished.
58 Ct. Clms. 234; id., 403, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for the value of a leasehold interest in
property requisitioned during the late war.
Mr. Don R. Almy, with whom Mr. Ernie Adamson was
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTicE

Om S delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a claim against the United States for the value
of the claimant's interest in Pier No. 8 of the Bush
Terminal Company under a lease that ran through Sep-

