AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
42

Syllabus.

The facts stated in the certificate bring the case within
the principle of what has already been said, and the question must be answered in the affirmative.
No. 246 reversed and remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
No. 232, answer: Yes.

AIR-WAY ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CORPORATION
v. DAY, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF OHIO,
ET AL.
DAY, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF OHIO, ET
AL. v. AIR-WAY ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CORPORATION.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 31 and 32. Argued April 30, May 1, 1924.-Decided October 20,
1924.
A manufacturing corporation, incorporated in Delaware with an
authorized capital stock of a designated number of non-par value
shares, of which, only about one-eighth were issued, had all its
property in Ohio, where it was duly authorized to do business,
and transacted during a tax year a business of which 28% was
confined to Ohio and the remainder was interstate. Under an Act
of May 17, 1921 (§ 8728-11 Gen. Code Ohio) which prescribes
an annual fee payable by each foreign corporation having common
stock without par value, for the privilege of exercising its franchise
in the State, of "five cents per share upon the proportion of the
number of shares of authorized common stock, represented by
property owned and used and business transacted in this State
... ," the taxing authorities assessed a tax by applying this
prescribed rate to the entire number of shares authorized. The
court below reduced this by taking such proportion of the total
number of shares authorized, as the value of the property plus

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Air-Way Corp.

266 U. S.

the local business was of that value plus all the business, and by
applying the rate to the result. Held:
(1) That the tax, computed either way, and the act, violate the
commerce clause, since all the corporation's business, intrastate
and interstate, and all its property, were represented by the shares
of stock outstanding; and the application of the rate to all the
shares authorized, or to a number greater than the total outstanding, necessarily amounted to a tax and direct burden upon
all the property and business, including the interstate commerce.
P. 82.
(2) The fee imposed, in either case, was arbitrary, since the number
of non-par shares which the corporation might issue under the
law of Delaware was not an indication of the amount of its
capital, and the number not subscribed or issued had no relation
to the value of the privilege of doing business in Ohio. P. 83.
(3) The act, in its practical operation, does not require like fees
for equal privileges held by foreign corporations in Ohio under
the same circumstances. P. 84.
(4) A classification of foreign corporations for the purpose of
determining the amounts of such annual franchise fees should be
based upon something having relation to the purpose for which
it was made. P. 85.
(5) The Ohio act, having no tendency to produce equality, and
being of such character that there is no reasonable presumption
that substantial equality will result from its operation, violates
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
279 Fed. 878, reversed.

APPEAL and cross appeal from a decree of the District
Court, enjoining the Treasurer and other officials of Ohio
from collecting more than a stated portion of a franchise
fee from the above named corporation, but declining to
hold the tax void in toto, as the corporation claimed it
to be, in this suit to enjoin its collection.
Mr. Newton A. Tracy, with whom Mr. Thomas H.
Tracy and Mr. George D. Welles were on the briefs, for
Air-Way Electric Appliance Corporation.
Under the Ohio constitution, "a tax on privileges and
franchises can not exceed the reasonable value of the
privilege or franchise originally conferred, or its continued

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
71

Argument for Air-Way Corp.

annual value thereafter. The determination of such
values rests largely in the general assembly, but finally in
the courts." Southern Gum Co. v. Laylin, 66 Oh. St. 578.
The privilege which appellant corporation has enjoyed
for one year in Ohio was to use and own property of the
value of $458,278 upon which it must pay the usual property taxes, and to do business in the State to the extent
of $70,802.30. The lower court fixed the fee chargeable
for the year 1921 at $14,926.00. Such a fee, when considering the privileges conferred, is far above the continuing value thereof and is unreasonable and in fact
confiscatory.
The basis upon which the tax is computed bears no
relation to the value of the privilege conferred. First, it
takes the proportion of the number of shares of authorized
stock represented by property owned and used and business done within the State, and, second, it multiplies that
number by an arbitrary figure of five cents.
An initial fee based upon the authorized stock is usual,
both when a new domestic corporation is formed and
when a foreign corporation becomes domesticated. Beyond that, any fee for the privilege of carrying on business based upon authorized stock, unless it is reasonably
limited in its maximum amount, is an anomaly, and unjustifiable.
Unissued stock, however, represents nothing and can
have no relation to property owned or business transacted.
Hence a fee computed on such a basis is unreasonable and
unjust.
Various methods of computation have been used by
different States. New York, for example takes the proportion which the corporation's actual capital employed
within the State bears to its entire capital. Other States
take the proportion of the subscribed or issued capital
stock represented by property owned within the State;
while another method used is to measure the fee by the
business transacted within the State. It will be noticed
19458°-25-9

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Air-Way Corp.

266 U. S.

that in each of these methods the basis taken is indicative
of the value of the privilege conferred. This is accomplished directly under a plan where the actual capital
employed within the State is taken, and indirectly where
the issued stock represented by the capital employed
within the State is used.
When a basis of taxation is taken which does not reflect
the value of the privilege sought to be taxed, there is a
want of due process of law and a denial of the equal protection of the law. Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178;
InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135.
The charge of five cents a share upon each share of
authorized stock is also arbitrary and unjust as there is no
logical connection between that charge and the value of
that proportion of the privilege represented by that share.
If the legislature can fix an arbitrary fee of five cents per
share without any justification therefor, what is to keep
them from making the charge five dollars per share?
A corporation's capital stock can be properly used as
a medium for determining a tax based on its business
transacted and property used within the State, only when
it fairly reflects the value of the franchise granted. The
par value of the issued stock does this to a certain extent,
since money or property has been received by the corporation for the stock, but the number of shares into which
the authorized issued and unissued stock is divided has
no relation whatever to the value of the property of the
corporation or the business transacted by it. Farrington
v. Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8; People v. Walsh, 195 N. Y. S.
184.
There is an arbitrary discrimination between domesticated foreign corporations having par value stock and
those having non-par value stock, amounting to a denial
of the equal protection of the law.
There is an arbitrary discrimination between various
domesticated foreign corporations having non-par stock
amounting to a denial of the equal protection of the law.

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
71

Argument for Air-Way Corp.

That the legislative power to classify for the purpose
of taxation is limited by the requirement that the basis
of the classification must bear a reasonable relation to the
purposes for which the classification is made has been repeatedly held by this Court. SouthernRy. Co. v. Greene,
216 U. S. 400; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Daughton,
262 U. S. 413, and many other cases.
It is also well settled that when a state law establishes a class and lays down a rule for taxing its members,
the application of the rule must be such as will result in
substantial equality as between the members of the class.
Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Ca., 240 U. S. 55;
Farringtonv. Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8; Staples v. Kirby
Petroleum Co., 250 S. W. 293.
The actual determination of the value of the stock by
the State Securities Commission in *effect fixes the par
value of the stock, that is the price at which it must be
sold, and it therefore represents the money or property
with which the corporation began to do business in the
same manner as stock having par value. This is easily
ascertained and can be conveniently applied. The argument of necessity, therefore, if it ever could justify an
arbitrary classification, does not exist in this case.
When one department of a State has fixed the value
of non-par stock at a set price, any law which taxes the
privilege of doing business within its confines computed
on its stock on a basis far in excess of the value theretofore fixed, amounts to the taking of property without due
process of law.
The computation of the annual fee charged foreign
corporations on the basis of their authorized stock while
domestic corporations are charged on the basis of their
subscribed or issued stock results in a flagrant discrimination in favor of domestic corporations. Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. Kansas City, etc. R. R. Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Day.

266 U. S.

Stiles, 242 U. S. 111; Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147, distinguished.
That cases involving corporation taxes must be determined upon their own peculiar facts has been repeatedly
held. Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68;
Kansas City Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227; Kansas
City etc. R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111.
Section 8728-11, as amended, is unconstitutional as
being retroactive, or action of appellees illegal as they
give the same a retroactive effect. Ohio Const., § 28,
Art. 2.
Mr. William J. Meyer, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Crabbe, Attorney General of the State of Ohio, was on
the brief, for Day, Treasurer, et al.
"Business transacted" in Ohio by a foreign corporation doing all its manufacturing in Ohio and selling its
products both in and outside of Ohio, includes, within
the contemplation of §§ 5499 to 5503, General Code, the
entire manufacturing cost of such products.
The construction of §§ 5499 et seq., which we here contend for, was not presented to the District Court. There
is no finding of facts by that court, nor is there any evidence, showing manufacturing costs. Nevertheless, we
take it that if this Court finds that the decree below
proceeded from an erroneous view of the law, there may
be a reversal with instructions to the District Court to
make correction in the amount of the tax. Murdock v.
Ward, 178 U. S. 139; Little Miami etc. R. R. Co. v.
United States, 108 U. S. 277; Barnes v. Williams, 11
Wheat. 415.
The exceedingly small element of interstate commerce
in a case like the present, was pointed out in Hump Hairpin Mfg. Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290.
But we have been unable to discover anything in that
case or in the formula of the tax commission referred to
by the District Court which excludes from the term

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
71

Opinion of the Court.

"business transacted in Ohio" the cost of manufacturing
in Ohio of goods which might ultimately be sold in interstate commerce. The formula of the tax commission is a
verbatim quotation from State v. Coal Co., 17 Oh. N. P.
Rep. (N. S.) p. 60.
We submit then that the District Court was not warranted in treating plaintiff's sales, $179,792.28, outside
of Ohio as "business transacted" outside of Ohio, but
that from such amount there should be deducted the cost
of manufacturing.
This construction of the statute, we submit, will not
yield an unconstitutional result as burdening interstate
commerce. American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S.
459; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Bacon v.
Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517.
And again, the construction is consistent with the principle that goods do not enter the field of interstate commerce until they begin to be transported to another State
from the State in which they were manufactured.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff, Air-Way Electric Appliance Corporation,
brought this suit against the above named treasurer and
other state officers to restrain the collection of a franchise
fee charged against it as a foreign corporation for the
privilege of exercising its franchises in Ohio during the
year commencing July 1, 1921, on the grounds, among
others, that the legislation of Ohio, under which the fee
was imposed, is invalid under the commerce clause of the
Constitution, and is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Plaintiff was incorporated in 1920 under the laws of
Delaware. Under its certificate of incorporation and the
laws of that State, its authorized capital stock is 400,000
shares without par value, of which 200,000 shares are
common stock and 200,000 founders' stock. The only

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 1U. S.

difference between the two classes is that holders of the
former are entitled to one vote per share and of the latter
to five votes per share. Shortly after its incorporation, it
obtained from the Secretary of State in conformity with
the laws of Ohio a certificate of admission to do business
in that State, and also paid the initial fee for the privilege
of there exercising its franchise. §§ 178, 179, 180, 183,
184, General Code of Ohio. It complied with the laws of
Ohio regulating the sale of stock in that State and received
a certificate from the Commissioner of Securities authorizing sale at $7 per share. §§ 6373 (1)-6373 (24), General Code of Ohio. It acquired two large manufacturing
plants at Toledo, including grounds, buildings, tools, machinery, etc. August 1, 1920, it commenced business,the manufacture of electrical household appliances and
their sale in Ohio and elsewhere. In July, 1921, as required by law, it filed with the tax commission a report
covering the year ended July 1, 1921. There had been
issued and were then outstanding only 50,485 shares of
stock, of which 10,010 shares were common and 40,475
were founders' stock. All of its property was located in
Ohio; its value was $458,278.56. The amount of business
transacted in the preceding year was $250,594.58. The
complaint alleged and the answer admitted that the value
of the stock was $7 per share..
Section 5503 (enacted May 31, 1911) imposes an annual
fee required of foreign corporations having capital stock
with par value as follows: "On or before October fifteenth, the auditor of state shall charge for collection, as
herein provided, annually, from such company, in addition to the initial fees otherwise provided for by law, for
the privilege of exercising its franchises in this state, a
fee of three-twentieths of one per cent. upon the proportion of the authorized capital stock of the corporation
represented by the property owned and used and business
transacted in this state
.

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
71

79

Opinion of the Court.

An Act of May 17, 1921 (§ 8728-11, General Code of
Ohio) provides: ".

.

.

The amount of fees payable by

a foreign corporation having common stock without par
. . undet section 5503 shall be three-twen-

value

tieths of one per cent. upon the proportion of the authorized preferred stock represented by property owned
and used and business transacted in this state and five
cents per share upon the proportion of the number of
shares of authorized common stock, represented by
property owned and used and business transacted in this
state

. .

.

Under the section last quoted, an annual fee of $20,000
was assessed and payment on or before December 1, 1921,
was demanded, and notice was given that, if not made on
or before that day, a penalty of 15 per cent. would be
added. Under the laws of the State, all fees, taxes and
penalties constitute liens on the corporation's property; a
fine for each day's delinquency may be imposed; and in
case of failure to pay, its authority to do business is liable
to cancelation, and injunction and ouster are authorized.
§§ 5506, 5507, 5509, 5512, 5513.
Plaintiff's report to the tax commission stated that the
amount of business transacted in Ohio in the year ended
July 1, 1920, was $250,594.58, whereas that figure represented its total sales, of which only $70,802.30, or about
28 per cent. was intrastate, and the balance $179,792.28,
or about 72 per cent. was interstate. The-state officers,
assuming that all plaintiff's property and business was
located and transacted in Ohio, made no apportionment
between local and interstate business and fixed the annual
franchise fee at five cents per share on its total authorized
stock.
Plaintiff invoked equity jurisdiction on the ground that
it was threatened with irreparable injury through the enforcement of the coercive provisions of the statutes above
referred to. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 587. A mo-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

tion for a temporary injunction was heard by a court of
three judges. § 266, Judicial Code. It was held (279
Fed. 878) that the plaintiff's objections to the act and the
tax were not valid; but the bill was retained to await the
result of an application by the plaintiff to the tax commission for a rehearing and correction of the amount of
the tax. Plaintiff made such an application, setting forth
the above mentioned amount of intrastate and interstate
sales respectively. The commission held that, as more
than 60 days had elapsed after the certification of the
amount of the tax by the state auditor, it had no jurisdiction to entertain such an application. At a later hearing, the court held that the commission was authorized to
grant plaintiff a rehearing and make correction if it
found the tax or any part of it to be erroneous; that it
was not the intent of the state laws to include interstate
commerce as a basis for the levy, and that plaintiff may
not be taxed on its interstate business and on the portion
of its authorized stock represented by property owned
and used and business transacted in other States; that
the $20,000 charge included a substantial sum levied
directly on the stock representing interstate business and
that the tax should have been $14,926-five cents per
share on 298,520 shares. These figures were arrived at
by taking such proportion of 400,000, the total number
of shares authorized, as the actual value of plaintiff's
property in Ohio plus its local business in that State is
to such actual value plus all its businerss, and by applying
thereto five cents per share.1 By the decree defendants
I The formula employed by the court is the same as the announced
rule of the tax commission for the ascertainment of the correct
amount of the tax to be paid by foreign corporations, and is taken
from the case of State v. Coal Co., 17 Ohio Nisi Prius Reports (New
Series) 60. It was applied as follows:
$458,278.56 + $70,802.30 x 400,000=298,520
$458.278.56 + $250,594.58
298,520 x $0.05=$14,926.00.

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
71

Opinion of the Court.

are enjoined from collecting any part of the tax in excess
of $14,926. The plaintiff appealed, and attacks the act on
the grounds above stated. Defendants appealed and contend that the lower court erred in finding that 298,520
shares of the authorized capital stock of plaintiff represented the property owned and used and business transacted by it in Ohio, and in enjoining the collection: of a
tax in excess of $14,926.
In cases involving the validity of .the laws of a State
imposing license fees or excise taxes on corporations organized in another State, this Court has decided:
"1. The power of a State to regulate the transaction
of a local business within its borders by a foreign corporation,-meaning a corporation of a sister State,--is not unrestricted or absolute, but must be exerted in subordination to the limitations which the Constitution places on
state action.
"2. Under the commerce clause exclusive power to regulate interstate commerce rests in Congress, and a state
statute which either directly or by its necessary operation burdens such commerce is invalid, regardless of the
purpose with which it was enacted.
"3. Consistently with the due process clause, a State
cannot tax property belonging to a foreign corporation
and neither located nor used within the confines of the
State.
"4. That a foreign corporation is partly, or even
chiefly, engaged in interstate commerce does not prevent
a State in which it has property and is doing a local business from taxing that property and imposing a license
fee or excise in respect of that business, but the State cannot require the corporation as a condition of the right to
do a local business therein to submit to a tax on its interstate business or on its property outside the State.
"5. A license fee or excise of a given per cent. of the
entire authorized capital of a foreign corporation doing

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U3. S.

both a local and interstate business in several States,
although declared by the State imposing it to be merely
a charge for the privilege of conducting a local business
therein, is essentially and for every practical purpose a
tax on the entire business of the corporation, including
that which is interstate, and on its entire property, including that in other States; and this because the capital
stock of the corporation represents all its business of
every class and all its property wherever located.
"6. When tested, as it must be, by its substance-its
essential and practical operation-rather than its form or
local characterization, such a license fee or excise is unconstitutional and void as illegally burdening interstate
commerce and also as wanting in due process because laying a tax on property beyond the jurisdiction of the
State." International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246
U. S. 135, 141.
All plaintiff's business, intrastate and interstate, and
all its property wherever located were represented by the
50,485 shares of stock outstanding. The annual fee demanded by the state officers is five cents per share on
400,000 shares, and that fixed by the lower court is based
on 298,520 shares. The inevitable effect of the act is
to tax and directly burden interstate commerce of foreign
corporations permitted to do business in Ohio, and engaged in interstate commerce, wherever the number of
shares authorized, subject to the charge of five cents each,
exceeds the number of outstanding shares attributable to
or represented by the corporation's property and business
in that State. In this case, the fee fixed by the commission was based on nearly eight times the number of outstanding shares and that determined by the court on
nearly six times that number. As some of the outstanding
shares are represented by plaintiff's interstate business,
the application of the rate to all the shares, or to a number
greater than the total outstanding, necessarily amounts to

AIR-WAY CORP. v. DAY.
71

Opinion of the Court.

a tax and direct burden upon all the property and business including the interstate commerce of the plaintiff.
International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, 142.
We hold that the act violates the commerce clause.
The fee determined by the lower court, as well as that
fixed by the state officers, is arbitrary. Without holding
that such a charge must be measured by the value of the
privilege for which it is imposed, it may be said that some
relation to such value is a reasonable requirement. Indeed, under the constitution and laws of Ohio, a tax on
privileges and franchises cannot exceed the reasonable
value of the privilege or franchise originally conferred or
its continued annual value thereafter. Southern Gum
Co. v. Laylin, 66 Oh. St. 578. That value depends on the
"property owned and used and business transacted" in
Ohio. § 8728-11. Plaintiff's authority to issue stock or
the number of shares it may have outstanding at any time
does not depend upon the laws of Ohio. Under the laws
of Delaware where the corporation was organized, these
matters are left to the discretion of the persons controlling the corporation. Laws of Delaware 1917, c. 113,
§ 3; Revised Code, c. 65, 1918a, § 4a. The number of
non-par value shares of the corporation is not an indication of, and does not purport to be a representation
as to, the amount of its capital. Each outstanding
share represents merely an aliquot part of its assets.
The number of shares not subscribed or issued has no
relation to the privilege held by plaintiff in Ohio, and
it is not a reasonable measure of such a fee. Such
shares may never be subscribed or issued, or additional
shares may be issued to acquire property or do business
in other States or to carry on interstate commerce.
Plainly the fee, to the extent that it is based on a number
of shares in excess of those outstanding, has no relation
to what was paid in for the stock or to its value or to the
amount of plaintiff's capital, its property or its business,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

intrastate in Ohio or interstate. The act in its practical
operation does not require like fees for equal privileges
held by foreign corporations in Ohio under the same circumstances. Unless, under the laws of the States where
organized they chance to be authorized to issue the same
number of non-par valde shares, the annual franchise fees
imposed on foreign corporations having the same amount
of property and business, and exercising the same privileges in Ohio will not be the same; and the charge imposed
on one may be many times that made against another.
If plaintiff's authorized shares were of the par value of
$100 each, the amount of capital stock for apportionment
between its property and business in Ohio and its interstate business to arrive at the franchise fee would be
$40,000,000; and, adopting the basis of apportionment
determined by the lower court which attributed about 75
per cent. of the shares to the property and business in
Ohio, the amount of the fee would be $4,778; and with
par value of $7 each,-the amount for which the Commissioner of Securities authorized plaintiff to sell its shares in
Ohio, and their admitted value,-the amount for such
apportionment would be $2,800,000, and the fee would
be $3,134.46.2 These figures are to be contrasted with
$14,926, fixed by the lower court. Again, compare two
corporations organized in a sister State having the same
number of authorized non-par value shares, one having
property and business of little value, all in Ohio, and the
other having much more property and business in that
State, and also much property and business in other
States. The act would require the former to pay five
'If par value were $100:
298,520 x 8100=$29,852,000
$29,852,000 x 3/20 of 19'%=$44,778 amount of tax.
If par value were $7:
298,520 x $7=$2,089,640
$2,089,640 x 3/20 of 1%=$3,134A6 amount of tax.

TWIN FALLS CO. v.. CALDWELL.
71

Syllabus.

cents per share on all its shares, but would require the
latter to pay a fee based only on the proportion of its
shares representing its property owned and used and
business transacted in Ohio.
It is clear that the mere number of authorized non-par
value shares is not a reasonable basis for the classification
of foreign corporations for the purpose of determining
the amount of such annual fees. Such a classification is
not based on anything having relation to the purpose for
which it is made. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S.
400, 417; Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412,
415. The act has no tendency to produce equality; and
it is of such a character that there is no reasonable presumption that substantial equality will result from its
application. Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S.
135, 139; Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240
U. S. 55, 58; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Road Improvement District,256 U. S. 658, 660. The act violates
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Plaintiff's motion for a temporary injunction should
have been granted.
Decree reversed.
TWIN FALLS SALMON RIVER LAND & WATER
COMPANY ET AL. v. CALDWELL ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 8. Argued March 3, 1924.-Decided October 27, 1924.
1. Where the existence and merits of a controversy brought into an
equity cause by a supplementary petition and decided by the District Court were adequately revealed by the record taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, though the supplementary petition itself
was omitted, but the court, misled by this omission, reversed the
decree upon the ground that the matter, for lack of a pleading,
was not before the District Court, it was not necessary, when the

