292

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

SOVEREIGN CAMP WOODMEN OF THE WORLD
v. O'NEILL ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 58. Submitted October 9, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. A decree of the District Court dismissing a bill upon the specific
ground of want of jurisdiction is appealable directly to this Court
under Jud. Code, § 238. P. 295.
2. It is a settled general rule that, in a suit based on diversity of citizenship brought against several defendants to enjoin the collection
of claims against the plaintiff which are separate and distinct
although depending for their validity upon a common origin, the
test of jurisdiction is the amount of each separate claim, and not
their aggregate amount. P. 295.
3. But there is an exception to this rule, where the bill alleges, not
only that the defendants' claims are baseless, but that they originated and are being prosecuted in pursuance of a conspiracy to embarrass and attempt to ruin the plaintiff, the amounts of the particular claims not being disputed and the validity of all depending on the same issue. P. 295.
4. In such case, the conspiracy partakes of the nature of a fraudulent
conspiracy, and ties together the several claims as one claim for
jurisdictional purposes, making their aggregate amount the value
of the matter in controversy. P. 297. McDaniel v. Traylor, 196
U. S. 415; 212 U. S. 428.
5. The objection that relief by injunction sought against proceedings
in a state court is prohibited by Jud. Code, § 265, goes to the
equity of the particular bill and not to the federal court's jurisdiction of the suit. P. 298. Smith v. Apple, 264 U. S. 274.
286 Fed. 734, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed, for want of jurisdiction, a bill to enjoin the defendants from prosecuting separate actions for damages in
a state court and from endeavoring to collect money
from the plaintiff in any other manner by reason of the
matters alleged.

WOODMEN OF THE WORLD v. O'NEILL.
292

293

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. T. D. Greshamfor appellant. Mr. D. E. Bradshaw
and Mr. J. Hart Willis were also on the brief.
The following cases were cited: Marshall v. Holmes,
141 U. S. 589; National Surety Co. v. State Bank, 120
Fed. 593; Wells Fargo& Co. v. Taylor, 254 U. S. 175; Supreme Lodge v. Ray, 166 S. W. 46; 1 Pomeroy Eq. Jur.,
3d ed., § 269, p. 445; Virginia-CarolinaChemical Co. v.
Home Ins. Co., 113 Fed. 1; Montgomery Light & Power
Co. v. Charles,258 Fed. 723; CommodoresPoint Terminal
Co. v. Hudnall, 283 Fed. 150; MdDaniel v. Traylor, 196
U. S. 415; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Smith, 128
Fed. 1; Robinson v. Wemmer, 253.Fed. 790; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kuteman, 54 Fed. 547; Petriv. Cree~man
Lumber Co., 199 U. S. 487.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SAwFO1D delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit in equity brought in the District Court by
the Sovereign Camp Woodmen of the World, a fraternal
society organized under the laws of Nebraska, against
twenty-five of its members, all citizens of Texas. Federal
jurisdiction was based upon the diversity of citizenship,
and the matter in controversy, which, it was averred, exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of three thousand dollars. Jud. Code, § 24, subd. 1.
The bill alleged, in substance, that the defendants had
entered into an agreement and conspiracy to embarrass
and attempt to ruin the Society; that pursuant to this
agreement and conspiracy they endeavored at a meeting
of the Head Camp of Texas to secure their election as
delegates to a session of the Sovereign Camp at New
York; that they were defeated and other persons were
duly elected and certified to the Sovereign Camp; that

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

they contested the election and appealed to the Sovereign
Camp, which decided that they had not been elected and
were not entitled to be recognized as delegates or to any
privileges or perquisites as such, and seated the delegates
certified by the Head Camp; that under the constitution
and by-laws of the Society this decision was final; that
nevertheless, acting in concert and pursuant to their joint
agreement and conspiracy, they had brought twenty-five
separate actions at law against the Society in a local court
of Texas to recover amounts ranging from $987.00 to
$1,170.00, which they severally claimed as per diem and
mileage aflowances and traveling expenses by -reasonof at-.
tending the Sovereign Camp as delegates;' that in each of
these suits the same cause of action was alleged, in identical language, and only one issue was involved in all of
them; 2 that there was no merit in the cause of action set
up by the defendants and the suits were wholly without
any foundation; that if the Society were compelled to
defend each of these separate suits, it would be subjected
to an enormous expense; and that its remedy at law was
inadequate: wherefore it prayed that the defendants be
enjoined from prosecuting their separate suits in the
state court or endeavoring to collect in any other manner
The bill also alleged that one of the defendants in pursuance of
the conspiracy originally brought suit in the state court against the
Society for $28,882, alleging that the other defendants had transferred
their claims to him, but that, upon notice of a petition for removal
of the suit to the federal court, he had amended his original petition
by striking out the averment of such assignments and limiting his
claim to the amount claimed to be due him individually; and that
thereafter the other defendants had brought their separate suits in
the state court.
-It appears from the averments of the bill that the contention of
the defendants was that by a secret exchange of ballot boxes forged
and fraudulent votes were substituted for the true votes, and that
they were elected at the original meeting after a minority of the
delegates to the Head Camp had withdrawn to hold a pretended
separate meeting.

WOODMEN OF THE WORLD v. O'NEILL.
292

295

Opinion of the Court.

any sums of money from the Society by reason of the
matters alleged.
The District Court, on motion of the defendants, dismissed the bill on the ground that the court was "without
jurisdiction" thereof; being of opinion that as jurisdiction was based on diversity of citizenship, the requisite
jurisdictional amount was not present, since each of the
defendants claimed in his suit in the state court an
amount less than $3,000, and that § 265 of the Judicial
Code also deprived the court of jurisdiction. 286 Fed.
734.
As the bill was dismissed upon the specific ground of
want of jurisdiction, the direct appeal to this Court was
properly allowed. Jud. Code, § 235; Smith v. Apple, 264
U. S. 274, 277.
1. It is the settled general rule, frequently applied by
this Court in tax cases, that in a suit based on diversity
of citizenship brought against several defendants to enjoin the collection of claims .against the plaintiff which
are separate and distinct-although depending for their
validity upon a common origin-the test of jurisdiction
is the amount of each separate claim, and not their aggregate amount. Walter v. NortheasternRailroad, 147 U. S.
370, 372; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Walker, 148 U. S.
391,392; Fishback v. Western Union TelegraphCo., 161 U.
S. 96, 100; Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164 U. S. 319, 322.
An exception to this general rule was, however, recognized
in McDaniel v. Traylor, 196 U. S. 415, 427. There the
heirs of one Hiram Evans, an intestate, brought suit in the
circuit court against several defendants to enjoin the enforcement of claims that had been allowed as liens upon
his real estate by orders of a probate court. Each claim
was less than the requisite jurisdictional amount, but
their aggregate exceeded that sum. The bill alleged that
these claims were not debts of the intestate, but that the
defendants had conspired and confederated with the ad-

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

ministrator to secure their payment out of the estate, and
that the orders allowing them had been procured as the
result of the conspiracy and the fraud practiced in pursuance thereof. This Court reversed a decree of the circuit
court dismissing the bill, on demurrer, for want of jurisdiction, and held that, on the face of the bill, the value of
the matter in dispute was "the aggregate amount of the
claims fraudulently procured by the defendants acting in
combination to be allowed in the Probate Court as claims
against the estate." In the opinion, after referring to the
class of cases to which Walter v. Northeastern Ratlroad
belonged, the Court said: "The case before us, however,
is presented by the bill in an entirely different aspect.
The case may be regarded as exceptional in its facts, and
may be disposed of without affecting former decisions.
There is no dispute as to the amount of any particular
claim. So far as the bill is concerned, if any one of the
specified claims is good against the estate of Hiram Evans,
then all are good . .
The matter in dispute is whether
the lands . . . can be sold to pay all the claims, in
the aggregate, which the defendants, by combination and
conspiracy, procured the Probate Court to allow against
the estate of Hiram Evans. The essence of the suit is the
alleged fraudulent combination and conspiracy to fasten
upon that estate a liability, for debts of John Evans,
which were held by the defendants and which they, acting in combination, procured, in co~peration with James
Evans, to be allowed as claims against the estate of
Hiram Evans. By reason of that combination, resulting
in the allowance of all those claims in the Probate Court,
as expenses of administering the estate of Hiram Evans,
the defendants have so tied their respective claims together as to make them, so far as the plaintiffs and the
relief sought by them are concerned, one claim. The
validity of all the claims depends upon the same facts.
The lien on the lands which is asserted by each defendant

WOODMEN OF THE WORLD v. O'NEILL.
292

297

Opinion of the Court.

has its origin as well in the combination to which all
were parties as in the orders of the Probate Court which,
in furtherance of that combination, were procured by
their joint action."
And in McDaniel v. Traylor, 212 U. S. 428, 433-on a
second appeal-in affirming a decree of the circuit court,
made on return of the case, again dismissing the suit for
want of jurisdiction, upon a finding that the allegation
that the defendants had conspired in procuring the allowance of the claims, had not been established,' it was said:
"As we have already seen, it was the fraudulent combination and conspiracy which united the claims and made the
aggregate of the claims the matter in dispute. By reason
of that combination we decided the claims were 'so tied'
together as to make them, 'so far as the plaintiffs and the
relief sought by them are concerned, one claim.'"
We find that under the allegations of the present bill
the case comes fairly within the reason of the exception
recognized in the McDaniel Cases. It is not only alleged
that the defendants' claims are without foundation, but
that they originated and are being prosecuted in the state
court in pursuance of an agreement and conspiracy to
embarass and attempt to ruin the Society. There is no
dispute as to the amount of any particular claim; and the
validity of all of them depends upon the same issue. A
conspiracy to prosecute, by concert of action, numerous
baseless claims against the same person for the wrongful
purpose of harassing and ruining him, partakes of the
nature of a fraudulent conspiracy; and in a suit to enjoin
3 On the first appeal this Court had said (p. 428): "If the plaintiffs

do not prove such a combination and conspiracy, in respect, at least,
of so many of the specified claims as in the aggregate will be of the
required amount, then their suit must fail for want of jurisdiction in
the Circuit Court; for, in the absence of the alleged combination, the
claim of each defendant must, according to our decisions, be regarded,
for purposes of jurisdiction, as separate from all the others."
194S8W-25--23

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

them from being separately prosecuted, it must likewise
be deemed to tie together such several claims as one claim
for jurisdictional purposes, making their aggregate amount
the value of the matter in controversy. We conclude,
therefore, that, on the face of the bill, the District Court
had jurisdiction of the suit by reason of the diversity of
citizenship and the amount in controversy.
2. The jurisdiction thus acquired was not taken away
by § 265 of the Judicial Code, providing that, except in
bankruptcy cases, "the writ of injunction shall not be
granted by any court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State." This section does not
deprive a district court of the jurisdiction otherwise conferred by the federal statutes, but merely goes to the question of equity in the particular bill; making it the duty of
the court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, to determine
whether the specific case presented is one in which relief
by injunction is prohibited by this section or may nevertheless be granted. Smith v. Apple, supra, p. 278.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INERENEIR.
IN EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Argued November 17, 1924-Decided November
18, 1924

1. A receiver appointed by this Court to conserve and operate private
oil wells as an incident to an interstate boundary suit, is not subject to a state occupation tax, laid on those who engage in producing oil, based on the market value of the oil produced. P. 301.
2. But where the net proceeds of such operations by the receiver
are in his hands ready to be paid over to the persons for whose

