MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. ROAD DISTRICT.

187

Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
v. WESTERN CRAWFORD ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 67. Submitted October 10, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. Where a special road improvement is abandoned after preliminary
publication and inquiry because the cost would probably exceed
the benefits to the lands included in the improvement district, the
State may defray the expenses of the inquiry by assessing the lands
according to their values as assessed for purposes of county and
state taxation. P. 188.
2. The fact that an assessment so made exceeded the amount of the
anticipated benefit to the same property, as officially estimated in
the preliminary proceedings, did not render the assessment obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment, there being no suggestion
of flagrant abuse or purely arbitrary exercise of the taxing power.

P. 190.
157 Ark. 304, affirmed.
ERROR to

a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas

sustaining a decree for a tax levy as originally entered by
the Chancery Court of Crawford County, reversing a subsequent decree of that court by which. the levy was
changed.
Mr. Harry P. Warner, Mr. Thomas B. Pryor,Mr. W.
F. Evans and Mr. Edward J. White for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. E. L. Matlock for defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE BRKNDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1920 Arkansas created the Western Crawford Road
Improvement District by a special act. Pursuant to its
provisions the commissioners named therein took the

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

proceedings incident to organizing the district. They
determined what work would be required, estimated the
cost thereof, and had the preliminary assessment made of
the benefits and burdens. In so doing the commissioners
necessarily incurred expenses for publication of notices,
for the services of engineers, lawyers and assessors, and
for other matters. After the required data had been obtained, it was concluded that the cost of the proposed
improvement would probably exceed the benfits; and
the project was duly abandoned. The aggregate preliminary expense was $20,611.80. The special act had
provided:
"Section 25. In case, for any reason, the improvement
contemplated by this district is not made, the preliminary
expense shall be a first lien upon all of the lands in the
district, and shall be paid by a levy of a tax thereon upon
the assessed value for county and State taxation, which
levy shall be made by the chancery court of Crawford
County and shall be collected by a receiver to be appointed by said court."
For the purpose of paying the preliminary expense the
commissioners applied to the appropriate court for a tax
levy. A decree was entered for a levy of 1.65 per cent. on
the assessed value of the land in the district subject to
taxation. Thereupon, the Missouri Pacific Railroad
Company 1 brought, in the same court, this suit to restrain
enforcement of the decree. The aggregate assessed value
of property within the district was $1,453,938. The
assessed value of the Missouri Pacific property was
$145,250. The tax assessed against its property to defray
the preliminary expense was $2,396.62. The board of asIThe St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company joined as coplaintiff. Its situation, being in all respects like that of the Missouri
Pacific, does not require discussion.

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. ROAD DISTRICT.
187

189

Opinion of the Court.

sessors appointed under the special act estimated the
amount of the anticipated benefit at $1,960. The sole objection of the railroad was that the tax to defray the preliminary expense was distributed in proportion to the
assessed value of the property, instead of in proportion to
the amount of the benefit thereto which it was estimated
would accrue if the improvement was made. It argued
that the smaller sum would, under both the State and
the Federal Constitution, have been the limit of its assessment for the improvement if carried out; that it could not
be taxed more for the preliminary expense of a projected
improvement which had been abandoned; and that, therefore, ยง 25 violated the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court of Arkansas
sustained the decree for a levy as originally entered. 157
Ark. 304. That judgment is here on writ of error.
The state court held that the provision in ยง 25 for payment of preliminary expenses necessarily implied a legislative determination that the cost of the preliminary expenses would not exceed the anticipated benefits of the
construction of the improvement; that this legislative determination is conclusive unless shown to be arbitrary
and unreasonable; that nothing was shown to overcome
the legislative determination except the unapproved assessment lists filed by the board of assessors; that the assessment was incomplete because it was never approved
by the board of commissioners; and that, since the abandonment of the project relieved them from the duty of
considering its correctness, the court cannot know what
the assessment against the railroad would have been, had
the assessment of benefits been proceeded with. The
lower court held, therefore, that the tax laid was not obnoxious either to the state constitution or to that of the
United States.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

So far as concerns the -Federal Constitution, the validity
of the tax may be rested, also, on other grounds. A State
may defray the cost of constructing a highway, in whole
or in part, by means of a special assessment upon property
specially benefited thereby. But it is not obliged to do
so. Road building is a public purpose which may be effected by general taxation. The cost may be defrayed
out of state funds; or a tax district may be created to
meet the authorized outlay. The preliminary enquiry
whether it is desirable to construct the road, is one in
which all landowners within the district are interested.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not require that taxes
laid for this purpose shall be according to the benefits to
be received by the person or thing taxed. Compare Kelly
v. Pittsburgh, 104 U. S. 78. The cost of making the
investigation may be met by a fixed charge per acre, as in
Houck v. Little River DrainageDistrict, 239 U. S. 254,
and Miller & Lux v. Sacramento& San JoaquinDrainage
District, 256 U. S. 129, or by distributing the cost over all
the land in the district in proportion to its value as assessed for county and state taxation, or otherwise. The
fact that the money to be raised by this tax will be applied toward defraying the expenses of an abandoned
road project, and not to the cost of a road wholly or
partly completed, is obviously immaterial. Houck v.
Little River DrainageDistrict, supra,p. 265.
There is here no suggestion of that flagrant abuse or
purely arbitrary exercise of the taxing power against
which the Federal Constitution affords protection. Valley
Farms Co. v. Westchester, 261 U. S. 155, 163; Thomas v.
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 261 U. S. 481, 483.
Affirmed.

