GERDES v. LUSTGARTEN.
314

Syllabus.

The objection was well pleaded as a defense in accordance

with the Nebraska practice. There is no reason why a
defense pleaded, but not urged at an earlier trial, may not
be insisted upon at a new trial. See Moulor v. American
Life Insurance Co., 111 U. S. 335, 337. The ruling that
the former decision of the state court became the law of
the case does not affect the power of this Court to regxamine the question. Messenger v. 4nderson, 225 U. S.
436, 444; Grays Harbor Co. v. Coats-Fordney Co., 243
U. S. 251, 257; GeorgiaRy. Co. v. Decatur,supra,437.
It must he held that defendant plainly asserted and
reasonably insisted upon his immunity from suit on plaintiff's claim in the Nebraska court under ยง 10 of the Federal
Control Act and the orders of the Director General. His
objection to the jurisdiction should have been sustained.
Judgment reversed.

GERDES, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF LUSTGARTEN, BANKRUPT, v. LUSTGARTEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 70. Submitted October 13, 1924.-Decided November 24, 1924.
1. Under the provision of ยง 14b of the Bankruptcy Act denying
a discharge to a bankrupt who has "obtained money or property
on credit upon a materially false statement in writing made by
him to any person . *. . for the purpose of obtaining credit
from such person," the vice inherent in the original falsity of a
statement is not remedied by lapse of time; and if the creditor
extend credit upon such a statement while it is still in force and
binding upon the bankrupt, within the time in which the bankrupt intended it should serve that end, it does not lie in the bankrupt's mouth to say that, by reason of extrinsic circumstances,
the creditor was not justified in relying upon it. P. 326.
2. Under ยง 14b of the Bankruptcy Act, to withhold discharge from
a bankrupt upon the ground that he failed to keep books of ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

count, etc., with intent to conceal his financial condition, ths
intent must be shown. P. 327.
3. Upon review of a bankruptcy case wherein decision of the law
involved left the outcome dependent upon questions of fact which
had not been determined by either the referee or the District
Court or the Circuit Court of Appeals, held appropriate that the
case be remanded to the District Court, although this Court could
determine the questions itself from an examination of the testimony, or remand to the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 327.
289 Fed. 481, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed an order of the District Court refus-

ing a discharge in bankruptcy.
Mr. Moses Cohen for petitioner.
Mr. Laurence J. Bershad for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFoRD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Lustgarten, the respondent, was adjudged bankrupt in
an involuntary proceeding in the Southern District of
New York. He duly filed an application for discharge.
Two creditors filed objections, specifying four grounds of
opposition,' which were referred to the referee.2 Thereupon an order was made directing the trustee to prosecute
the specifications at the expense of the estate.
Only two of them are here involved: one alleging that
Lustgarten had failed to keep proper books of account, and
the other, that he had obtained credit from the Corn Exchange Bank, an objecting creditor, upon a false statement
in writing.
Section 14b of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended by the
Act of June 25, 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat. 838, provides that the
judge, on hearing a bankrupt's application for discharge
IGen. Ord. No. 32.

2

Gen. Ord. No. 12, cl. 3.

GERDES v. LUSTGARTEN.
321

Opinion of the Court.

and the pleas and proofs.made in opposition thereto, shall
"discharge the applicant unless he has . . . (2) with
intent to conceal his financial condition . .
failed
to keep books of account or records from which such condition might be ascertained; or (3) obtained money or
property on credit upon a materially false statement in
writing, made by him to any person or his representative
for the purpose of obtaining credit from such person . . .
No evidence was introduced before the referee under
the specification of opposition relating to the books of account. As to the obtaining of credit, it was shown that
on January 5, 1920, Lustgarten gave the Bank a signed
statement setting forth his financial condition on December 15, 1919, and showing a net worth of more than
$58,000. This statement recited that it was made "for
the purpose of obtaining loans," and stated that: "This
statement is to be regarded by Abraham Lustgarten and
by The Corn Exchange Bank as continuous and binding,
and to form a true statement as to the assets and liabilities
of the undersigned, and other matters, to be relied upon
by The Corn Exchange Bank upon application by the
undersigned, for all loans until another statement in writing shall be substituted for this, or this statement recalled.
. . . And further, whenever my financial condition is
changed materially from the financial condition shown in
the, above statement, I agree to notify the said Bank at
once of such change, whether applications for further
loans are made or not." There was conflicting evidence
as to whether or not the statement as to Lustgarten's
financial condition was materially false. In October and
November, 1920, and February, 1921, the Bank, on his applications, made him three loans, aggregating $11,000. He
had meanwhile given the Bank no notice of any change in
his financial condition; and there was no evidence that it
had in fact substantially changed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

The referee reported that, without deciding the "difficult" question of fact whether Lustgarten's statement to
the Bank was false when given, and assuming that the
Bank had relied upon it in extending the credits, he was
of opinion that it had no right so to do, since in view of
the financial depression prevailing in 1920, the "reasonable time" for which the statement remained a " continuing statement" had expired when the credits were extended; and he recommended that the discharge be
granted.
The District Court, at a hearing on the referee's report-apparently assuming, but not deciding, that the
financial statement was false and that the Bank had relied
upon it--held that as the statement was a continuing one
and provided for notice of any material changes, the
Bank had a right to rely upon it until such notice was
given. The court also considered the specification relating to the books of account,' and upon the evidence that
had been taken before the referee upon a closely related
specification not here involved,4 held that the fact that the
books did not show an indebtedness which Lustgarten
claimed to have owed his nephew, constituted a failure to
keep proper books and that the intent to conceal his financial condition was reasonably to be inferred.. The discharge was accordingly denied.
On an appeal by Lustgarten from this order, the Circuit
Court of Appeals-without passing upon the question
whether the financial statement was false, and expressing
doubt whether on the testimony it could be said that the
Bank had relied upon it-held that, in any event, on account of the lapse of time between the making of the
statement and the obtaining of the loans and the general
3 No reason was stated for considering this specification, which, apparently, had not been relied on before the referee.
4 The referee had found that this other specification was not sustained by the proof; and it was disregarded by the District Court.

GERDES v. LUSTGARTEN.
321

Opinion of the Court.

financial conditions then prevailing, the Bank "was not
justified in relying upon the statement," I And on the
testimony relating to the books of account, the court
found that the failure to make entries showing the indebtedness to Lustgarten's nephew was due to inadvertent
and faulty bookkeeping and "not to any intent to conceal financial conditions." The order of the District
Court was accordingly reversed, with instructions to grant
the discharge. 289 Fed. 481. Thereafter this writ of certiorari was granted the trustee. 262 U. S. 741.
1. On the question of the continuing effect of a false financial statement, there is a conflict of opinion between
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and
those for the Third and Fifth Circuits. In Ragan v.
Cotton (5th Circ.), 200 Fed. 546, 550, it was held that
where a bankrupt had made a false financial statement for
the purpose of obtaining credit, which provided that it
should be binding for continuing credit unless changed,
and a creditor had relied upon such false statement in extending credits for purchases made from nine to twelve
months thereafter, the discharge should be denied. And
in Haimowich v. Mandel, (3rd Circ.), 243 Fed. 338, 342,
it was held that where a bankrupt had made a false financial statement as a basis for obtaining credit, and seven
months thereafter, within the time in which the bankrupt
"intended the statement to serve that end," creditors had
been induced by its falsity to extend credit to him, the
discharge was barred. There the court said that the test
whether a false statement given upon one date and acted
upon at a later date, operates as a bar to a discharge, is
"whether at that time the false statement was still in
force and binding upon the bankrupt, to be determined
'Inthus holding the Circuit Court of Appeals followed its earlier
ruling in Re B. & R.Glove Corporation, 279 Fed. 372, involving the
right of a creditor to reclaim property sold a bankrupt on the faith
of a continuing financial statement.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U.S.

according as it is found that the sale on credit was or was
not the proximate result of the statement . . . and
that its original falsity was or was not the thing that
worked the mischief."
We think that these two cases embody, in substance,
the rule that should be here applied. Under the Bankruptcy Act the discharge is to be denied if it is shown that
the bankrupt "obtained money or property on credit
upon a materially false statement in writing, made by
him . . . for the purpose of obtaining credit." The
only essentials to the statutory bar, in so far as relates to
the present question, are: (a) that the written statement was made for the purpose of obtaining credit; (b)
that it was materially false; and (c) that the credit was
obtained upon it. If these are established the vice inherent in the original falsity of the statement is not remedied by the lapse of time; and if the creditor extends
credit upon such a false statement while it is still in force
and binding upon the bankrupt, within the time in which
he intended it should serve that end, it does not lie in
his mouth to say that by reason of extrinsic circumstances
the creditor was not justified in relying upon it. In short,
the lapse of time is only material in determining whether
credit was extended within the period intended, while
the statement was still binding on the bankrupt, and
whether the creditor in fact extended the credit upon the
faith of the statement. Here Lustgarten's statement expressly recited that it was made "for the purpose of obtaining loans" from the Bank, and that it should be regarded by himself and the Bank as "continuous and
binding" and relied on by the Bank "for all loans" until
changed or recalled. Lustgarten applied for the loans in
question without either changing or recalling the statement. And it is entirely clear that the loans were made
while the statement was still binding upon him and
serving the end which he intended, as shown both by its

GERDES v. LUSTGARTEN.
321

Opinion of the Court.

plain and unambiguous provisions and by his own conduct in pursuance thereof.
We therefore conclude that the Circuit Court of Appeals
was in error in holding that, irrespective of the questions
of the falsity of the statement and the reliance of the
Bank upon it, the discharge should be granted upon the
theory that the Bank was not justified in relying upon it
when the credits were extended; and that if the statement when made was materially false and the Bank made
the loans in reliance upon it, the discharge should have
been denied.
2. An examination of the evidence in reference to the
books of account discloses no error in the finding of the
Circuit Court of Appeals that Lustgarten's failure to make
the entries of the indebtedness to his nephew was not due
to any intent to conceal his financial condition; and, on
the contrary, leads us to the conclusion that this finding
is in accordance with the greater weight of the evidence.
Under the Bankruptcy Act, however, such intent must be
shown in order to bar the discharge.
3. The question then arises as to what disposition we
should now make of the case. The material questions of
fact in reference to the financial statement, upon which
the decision must ultimately depend, have not as yet been
determined in the courts below. They were not decided
by the referee who heard the testimony; they were apparently assumed by the District Court; and they were
not passed upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals on account of its ruling in reference to the lapse of time. We
may now either determine these questions upon an independent examination of the testimony, or remand the
case for further proceedings in order that they may be
determined in the lower courts. Cole v. Ralph, 252 U. S.
286, 290. If they had been specifically decided by the
District Court and only the Circuit Court of Appeals had
failed to pass upon them, an appropriate course would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

to remand the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Lutcher Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 268; Brown
v. Fletcher, 237 U. S. 583, 588. But since they were not
expressly decided by the District Court, we conclude that,
under all the circumstances, we should take the course
adopted in Marconi Wireless Co. v. Simon, 246 U. S. 46,
57, that is, reverse the decrees in both the courts below
and remand the case to the District Court. If it be
determined that the financial statement was materially
false and that the Bank made the loans in reliance upon
it, the discharge should be denied; otherwise it should
be granted.
The decrees of the District Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeals are accordingly reversed, and the cause
is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
UNITED STATES v. NORWEGIAN BARQUE
"THEKLA," HER TACKLE, ETC.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 258. Argued November 20, 1924.-Decided December 1, 1924.
1. When the United States comes into court to assert a claim, it so
far takes the position of a private suitor that justice may be done
with regard to the subject matter. P 339.
2. In a collision case, wherein libel and cross libel of the respective
owners had been consolidated and the first libelant had been ordered under old Admiralty Rule 53 to give security for the other's
damages, the United States intervened, standing on the first libel,
and filed a claim alleging its possession and ownership of that
libelant's vessel at the time of collision, with a stipulation of the
Emergency Fleet Corporation for security in a specified sum conditioned that the claimant (United States) and the Corporation
should abide all orders of the court and pay the amount awarded
by the final decree. The District Court, finding that the United

