HOUSE v. ROAD IMP. DIST.
173

Syllabus.

or more definite questions of law arising upon the record
but, in effect, asks decision of the whole case. Waterville
v. Van Slyke, 116 U. S. 699, 700, 704; Jewell v. Knight,
123 U. S. 426, 433; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60, 63, 65;
United States v. Union PacificRy. Co., 168 U. S. 505, 512,
513; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Williams,
205 U. S. 444, 452; Hallowell v. United States, 209 U. S.
101, 106, 107.
The constantly increasing demands upon us make it
highly important that only matters which are both substantial and in approved form should be presented.
Certificate dismissed.

HOUSE v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2,
OF CONWAY COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
HOUSE v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 5,
OF CONWAY COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

Nos. 92 and 93. Argued October 17, 20, 1924.-Decided November
17, 1924.
1. Where the decision of a State Supreme Court construed a road
district statute as allowing twenty-eight days' notice by publication
to land owners of proceedings to assess for benefits and adjudged
that the notice published, read with the statute, sufficiently described the lands affected, held, that contentions that the statute
did not provide due process of law were too insubstantial to
support a writ of error. P. 176.
2. The objection that a statute assessing lands for a road improvement is arbitrary and void as to plaintiff because the improvement
could not benefit his lands while other lands actually benefited
were not included in the district assessed, held clearly without
merit. P. 177.
Writs of error to review 158 Ark. 330, 357, dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

THEsE were two suits to enjoin collection of special
road taxes assessed on plaintiff's lands in Arkansas.
Plaintiff prosecutes error to the decrees of the Supreme
Court of that State affirming the decrees of the Chancery
Court of Conway County, which denied her the relief
prayed.

Mr. Joseph M. Hill, with whom Mr. Henry L. Fitzhugh was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. G. B. Rose and Mr. Lasker Ehrman, with whom
Mr. Chas. T. Coleman, Mr. D. H. Cantrell, Mr. J. *F.
Loughborough and Mr. A. W. Dobyns were on the briefs,
for defendants in error in No. 92.
Mr. G. B. Rose, with whom Mr. W. P. Strait, Mr. D.
H. Cantrell, Mr. J. F. Loughborough and Mr. A. W.
Dobyns were on the briefs, for defendants in error in
No. 93.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Both of these writs must be dismissed.
No. 92.
The only ground suggested to sustain the writ in this
cause is that Act No. 245, Arkansas Legislature, 1919,
which established Road District No. 2 of Conway County,
was duly challenged as repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. Such a challenge must be distinct and substantial.
The act undertook to create the district with boundaries
which include plaintiff's lands and specified the proceedings for assessing benefits to meet necessary costs. Her
lands were assessed as provided. Some months thereafter, by a bill in equity, she claimed insufficient notice
and asked relief from both assessment and consequent

HOUSE v. ROAD IMP. DIST.
175

Opinion of the Court.

penalties; also that the commissioners' plans should be
declared null and she be heard as to the merits of any
assessment. She offered to pay any sum the court might
find just and equitable.
The bill alleges th'at the statute authorized and the
commissioners gave only seventeen days' notice of the
assessment, by publication, that she had no actual notice,
and that the publication failed sufficiently to describe
her lands. For these reasons she maintained the act did
not provide due process of law and violated the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Supreme Court, having considered the objections,
held that the statute allowed twenty-eight days after the
first publication during which time petitioner might have
objected to the assessment, and declared this was adequate; also that when read in connection with the statute
the notice sufficiently described the lands. Plaitiff in
error now insists that the act is null because it prescribes
insufficient notice and description of the asisessed lands.
Accepting the statute as construed by the state court,
the suggested objections to its validity appear to us
wholly wanting in merit.
No. 93.
This cause grew out of the creation of District No. 5,
Conway" County, by Act No. 245, and assessment for
benefits thereunder. With one exception the questions
now raised are the same as those in cause No. 92. As an
additional ground for challenging the statute plaintiff in
error claims that it is arbitrary and beyond the power of
the Legislature because the proposed improvement could
not benefit plaintiff's lands, while other lands actually
benefited were not included. The record does not show
that this objection was placed upon any federal ground
in the courts below; but, assuming that the point was
properly made, we think it is clearly without merit.

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254,
265; Miller & Lux v. Sacramento Drainage District, 256
U. S. 129, 130; Valley Farms Co. v. Westchester, 261 U. S.
155, 163, 164.
Writs of ErrorDismissed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v.. CITY
OF DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO TH3E SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 71. Argued October 14, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The right of jury trial in a state court is determined by the

local law, concerning which this Court accepts the decision of the
highest state court. P. 179.
2. When a party in a state court, with full opportunity, offers no
evidence to sustain defenses alleged under the Constitution, a
judgment overruling the defenses does not deprive him of federal
rights. Id.
185 N. C. 240, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina sustaining a mandamus to enforce an ordinance
of the City which required three railway companies to
eliminate a grade crossing.
Mr. W. M. Hendren and Mr. F. M. Rivinus, with
whom Mr. W. B. Guthrie, Mr. Theodore W. Reath,
Mr. James F. Wright and Mr. L. E. Jeffries were on the
briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James S. Manning, with whom Mr. John H.
Manning and Mr. S. C. Chambers were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By ordinance the City Council of Durham declared
a certain grade crossing dangerous and ordered plaintiffs

