OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Syllabus

438 U. S.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS,
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MINNESOTA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA

No. 77-747.

Argued April 25, 1978-Decided June 28, 1978

Appellant, an Illinois corporation, maintained an office in Minnesota with
30 employees. Under appellant's pension plan, adopted in 1963 and
qualified under § 401 of the Internal Revenue Code, employees were
entitled to retire and receive a pension at age 65 regardless of length of
service, and an employee's pension right became vested if he satisfied
certain conditions as to length of service and age. Appellant was the
sole contributor to the pension trust fund, and each year made contributions to the fund based on actuarial predictions of eventual payout needs.
But the plan neither required appellant to make specific contributions
nor imposed any sanction on it for failing to make adequate contributions, and appellant retained a right not only to amend the plan but also
to terminate it at any time and for any reason. In 1974, Minnesota
enacted the Private Pension Benefits Protection Act (Act), under which
a private employer of 100 employees or more (at least one of whom was
a Minnesota resident) who provided pension benefits under a plan
meeting the qualifications of § 401 of the Internal Revenue Code, was
subject to a "pension funding charge" if he terminated the plan or closed
a Minnesota office. The charge was assessed if the pension funds were
insufficient to cover full pensions for all employees who had worked at
least 10 years, and periods of employment prior to the effective date of
the Act were to be included in the 10-year employment criterion.
Shortly thereafter, in a move planned before passage of the Act, appellant
closed its Minnesota office, and several of its employees, who were then
discharged, had no vested pension rights under appellant's plan but had
worked for appellant for 10 years or more, thus qualifying as pension
obligees under the Act. Subsequently, the State notified appellant that
it owed a pension funding charge of $185,000 under the Act. Appellant
then brought suit in Federal District Court for injunctive and declaratory
relief, claiming that the Act unconstitutionally impaired its contractual
obligations to its employees under its pension plan, but the court upheld
the Act as applied to appellant. Held: The application of the Act to
appellant violates the Contract Clause of the Constitution, which provides that "[n]o State shall . . . pass any . . . Law impairing the
Obligation of Contracts." Pp. 240-251.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Syllabus

(a) While the Contract Clause does not operate to obliterate the police
power of the States, it does impose some limits upon the power of a
State to abridge existing contractual relationships, even in the exercise
of its otherwise legitimate police power. "Legislation adjusting the
rights and responsibilities of contracting parties must be upon reasonable
conditions and of a character appropriate to the public purpose justifying
its adoption." United States Trust Co. v. New Jersey, 431 U. S. 1, 22.
Pp. 242-244.
(b) The impact of the Act upon appellant's contractual obligations
was both substantial and severe. Not only did the Act retroactively
modify the compensation that appellant had agreed to pay its employees
from 1963 to 1974, but it did so by changing appellant's obligations in
an area where the element of reliance was vital-the funding of a pension
plan. Moreover, the retroactive state-imposed vesting requirement was
applied only to those employers who terminated their pension plans or
who, like appellant, closed their Minnesota offices, thus forcing the
employer to make all the retroactive changes in its contractual obligations at one time. Pp. 244-247.
(c) The Act does not possess the attributes of those state laws that
have survived challenge under the Contract Clause. It was not even
purportedly enacted to deal with a broad, generalized economic or social
problem, cf. Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398,
445, but has an extremely narrow focus and enters an area never before
subject to regulation by the State. Pp. 247-250.
449 F. Supp. 644, reversed.
STEWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and POWELL, REHNQUIST, and STEVENS, JJ., joined. BRENNAN, J., filed
a dissenting opinion, in which WHITE and MARSHALL, JJ., joined, post,
p. 251. BLACKMUN, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of
the case.

George B. Christensen argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the briefs were Chester W. Nosal and John R.
Kenefick.
Byron E. Starns, Chief Deputy Attorney General of Minnesota, argued the cause for appellees. With him on the brief
were Warren Spannaus, Attorney General, pro se, Richard B.

Allyn, Solicitor General, and Kent G. Harbison, Richard A.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

Lockridge, and Jon K. Murphy, Special Assistant Attorneys
General.*
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the Court.

The issue in this case is whether the application of Minnesota's Private Pension Benefits Protection Act' to the appellant violates the Contract Clause of the United States
Constitution.
I
In 1974 appellant Allied Structural Steel Co. (company),
a corporation with its principal place of business in Illinois,
maintained an office in Minnesota with 30 employees. Under
the company's general pension plan, adopted in 1963 and
qualified as a single-employer plan under § 401 of the Internal
Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. § 401 (1976 ed.), 2 salaried employees were covered as follows: At age 65 an employee was
entitled to retire and receive a monthly pension generally
computed by multiplying 1% of his average monthly earnings
by the total number of his years of employment with the
company.3 Thus, an employee aged 65 or more could retire
without satisfying any particular length-of-service requirement, but the size of his pension would reflect the length of
his service with the company.'
An employee could also
*PeterG. Nash, Eugene B. Granof, and Stanley T. Kaleczyc filed a brief
for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States as amicus curiae
urging reversal.
1 Minn. Stat. § 181B.01 et seq. (1974).
This is the same Act that was
considered in Malone v. White Motor Corp., 435 U. S. 497, a case presenting a quite different legal issue.
2 The pfan was not the result of a collective-bargaining agreement, and
no such agreement is at issue in this case.
3 The employee could elect to receive instead a lump-sum payment.
4 Thus, an employee whose average monthly earnings were $800 and who
retired at 65 would receive eight dollars monthly if he had worked one year
for the company and $320 monthly if he had worked for the company for
40 years.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Opinion of the Court

become entitled to receive a pension, payable in full at age 65,
if he met any one of the following requirements: (1) he had
worked 15 years for the company and reached the age of 60;
or (2) he was at least 55 years old and the sum of his age
and his years of service with the company was at least 75; or
(3) he was less than 55 years old but the sum of his age and
his years of service with the company was at least 80. Once
an employee satisfied any one of these conditions, his pension
right became vested in the sense that any subsequent termination of employment would not affect his right to receive a
monthly pension when he reached 65. Those employees who
quit or were discharged before age 65 without fulfilling one of
the other three conditions did not acquire any pension rights.
The company was the sole contributor to the pension trust
fund, and each year it made contributions to the fund based
on actuarial predictions of eventual payout needs. Although
those contributions once made were irrevocable, in the sense
that they remained part of the pension trust fund, the plan
neither required the company to make specific contributions
nor imposed any sanction on it for failing to contribute adequately to the fund.
The company not only retained a virtually unrestricted
right to amend the plan in whole or in part, but was also free
to terminate the plan and distribute the trust assets at any
time and for any reason. In the event of a termination, the
assets of the fund were to go, first, to meet the plan's obligation to those employees already retired and receiving pensions; second, to those eligible for retirement; and finally, if
any balance remained, to the other employees covered under
the plan whose pension rights had not yet vested.' Employees within each of these categories were assured payment only
to the extent of the pension assets.
5Apart from termination of the fund and distribution of the trust assets,
there was no other situation in which employees in this third category
would receive anything from the pension fund.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

The plan expressly stated:
"No employee shall have any right to, or interest in, any
part of the Trust's assets upon termination of his employment or otherwise, except as provided from time to time
under this Plan, and then only to the extent of the benefits payable to such employee out of the assets of the
Trust. All payments of benefits as provided for in this
Plan shall be made solely out of the assets of the Trust
and neither the employer, the trustee, nor any member of
the Committee shall be liable therefor in any manner."
The plan also specifically advised employees that neither its
existence nor any of its terms were to be understood as implying any assurance that employees could not be dismissed from
their employment with the company at any time.
In sum, an employee who did not die, did not quit, and
was not discharged before meeting one of the requirements
of the plan would receive a fixed pension at age 65 if the
company remained in business and elected to continue the
pension plan in essentially its existing form.
On April 9, 1974, Minnesota enacted the law here in question, the Private Pension Benefits Protection Act, Minn. Stat.
§§ 181B.01-181B.17. Under the Act, a private employer of
100 employees or more-at least one of whom was a Minnesota resident-who provided pension benefits under a plan
meeting the qualifications of § 401 of the Internal Revenue
Code, was subject to a "pension funding charge" if he either
terminated the plan or closed a Minnesota office.' The charge
was assessed if the pension funds were not sufficient to cover
full pensions for all employees who had worked at least 10
years. The Act required the employer to satisfy the deficiency by purchasing deferred annuities, payable to the
employees at their normal retirement age. A separate provi6 Although the company had only 30 employees in Minnesota, it was
subject to the Act because it had over 100 employees altogether.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Opinion of the Court

sion specified that periods of employment prior to the effective date of the Act were to be included in the 10-year
employment criterion.!
During the summer of 1974 the company began closing
its Minnesota office. On July 31, it discharged 11 of its 30
Minnesota employees, and the following month it notified the
Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and Industry, as required
by the Act, that it was terminating an office in the State.8
At least nine of the discharged employees did not have any
vested pension rights under the company's plan, but had
worked for the company for 10 years or more and thus qualified as pension obligees of the company under the law that
Minnesota had enacted a few months earlier. On August 18,
the State notified the company that it owed a pension funding
charge of approximately $185,000 under the provisions of the
Private Pension Benefits Protection Act.
The company brought suit in a Federal District Court ask7Entitled "Nonvested Benefits Prior to Act," Minn. Stat. § 181B.04
provided:

"Every employer who hereafter ceases to operate a place of employment or
a pension plan within this state shall owe to his employees covered by
sections 181B.01 to 181B.17 a pension funding charge which shall be equal
to the present value of the total amount of nonvested pension benefits based
upon service occurring before April 10, 1974 of such employees of the
employer who have completed ten or more years of any covered service
under the pension plan of the employer and whose nonvested pension
benefits have been or will be forfeited because of the employer's ceasing to
operate a place of employment or a pension plan, less the amount of such
nonvested pension benefits which are compromised or settled to the satisfaction of the commissioner as provided in sections 181B.01 to 181B.17."
1 According to the stipulated facts, the closing of the company's Minnesota office resulted from a shift of that office's duties to the main
company office in Illinois the previous December. The closing was not
completed until February 1975, by which time the Minnesota Act had been
pre-empted by federal law. See Malone v. White Motor Corp., 435 U. S.,
at 499. We deal here solely with the application of the Minnesota Act
to the 11 employees discharged in July 1974.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

ing for injunctive and declaratory relief. It claimed that the
Act unconstitutionally impaired its contractual obligations to
its employees under its pension agreement. The three-judge
court upheld the constitutional validity of the Act as applied
to the company, Fleck v. Spannaus, 449 F. Supp. 644, and
an appeal was brought to this Court under 28 U. S. C. § 1253
(1976 ed.).' We noted probable jurisdiction. 434 U. S. 1045.
II
A
There can be no question of the impact of the Minnesota
Private Pension Benefits Protection Act upon the company's
contractual relationships with its employees. The Act substantially altered those relationships by superimposing pension obligations upon the company conspicuously beyond those
that it had voluntarily agreed to undertake. But it does not
inexorably follow that the Act, as applied to the company,
violates the Contract Clause of the Constitution.
The language of the Contract Clause appears unambiguously absolute: "No State shall ... pass any.. . Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts." U. S. Const., Art. I, § 10.
The Clause is not, however, the Draconian provision that its
words might seem to imply. As the Court has recognized,
"literalism in the construction of the contract clause . . .
would make it destructive of the public interest by depriving
the State of its prerogative of self-protection." W. B. Worthen
Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S. 426, 433.1°
9 The claims of Walter Fleck and the other two individual plaintiffs were
dismissed by the District Court for lack of standing, Fleck v. Spannaus,
421 F. Supp. 20, leaving only the company as an appellant. Warren
Spannaus, the Attorney General of Minnesota, is an appellee.
:10See generally B. Schwartz, A Commentary on the Constitution of
the United States, Pt. 2, The Rights of Property 266-306 (1965); B.
Wright, The Contract Clause of the Constitution (1938).

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS

234

Opinion of the Court

Although it was perhaps the strongest single constitutional
check on state legislation during our early years as a Nation,"
the Contract Clause receded into comparative desuetude with
the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, and particularly
with the development of the large body of jurisprudence under
the Due Process Clause of that Amendment in modern constitutional history." Nonetheless, the Contract Clause remains
part of the Constitution. It is not a dead letter. And its basic
contours are brought into focus by several of this Court's
20th-century decisions.
First of all, it. is to be accepted as a commonplace that the
Contract Clause does not operate to obliterate the police power
of the States. "It is the settled law of this court that the
interdiction of statutes impairing the obligation of contracts
does not prevent the State from exercising such powers as
are vested in it for the promotion of the common weal, or are
necessary for the general good of the public, though contracts
previously entered into between individuals may thereby be
affected. This power, which in its various ramifications is
known as the police power, is an exercise of the sovereign right
of the Government to protect the lives, health, morals, comfort and general welfare of the people, and is paramount to
any rights under contracts between individuals." Manigault
v. Springs, 199 U. S.473, 480. As Mr. Justice Holmes succinctly put the matter in his opinion for the Court in Hudson
Water Co. v. McCarter,209 U. S.349, 357: "One whose rights,
such as they are, are subject to state restriction, cannot remove them from the power of the State by making a contract
Perhaps the best known of all Contract Clause cases of that era was
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518.
12 Indeed, at least one commentator has suggested that "the results might
be the same if the contract clause were dropped out of the Constitution,
and the challenged statutes all judged as reasonable or unreasonable
deprivations of property." Hale, The Supreme Court and the Contract
Clause: III, 57 Harv. L. Rev. 852, 890-891 (1944).
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U.S.

about them. The contract will carry with it the infirmity
of the subject matter."
B
If the Contract Clause is to retain any meaning at all, however, it must be understood to impose some limits upon the
power of a State to abridge existing contractual relationships,
even in the exercise of its otherwise legitimate police power.
The existence and nature of those limits were clearly indicated
in a series of cases in this Court arising from the efforts of the
States to deal with the unprecedented emergencies brought on
by the severe economic depression of the early 1930's.
In Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398,
the Court upheld against a Contract Clause attack a mortgage
moratorium law that Minnesota had enacted to provide relief
for homeowners threatened with foreclosure. Although the
legislation conflicted directly with lenders' contractual foreclosure rights, the Court there acknowledged that, despite the
Contract Clause, the States retain residual authority to enact
laws "to safeguard the vital interests of [their] people." Id.,
at 434. In upholding the state mortgage moratorium law,
the Court found five factors significant. First, the state legislature had declared in the Act itself that an emergency need
for the protection of homeowners existed. Id., at 444. Second, the state law was enacted to protect a basic societal interest, not a favored group. Id., at 445. Third, the relief was
appropriately tailored to the emergency that it was designed
to meet. Ibid. Fourth, the imposed conditions were reasonable. Id., at 445-447. And, finally, the legislation was limited to the duration of the emergency. Id., at 447.
The Blaisdell opinion thus clearly implied that if the Minnesota moratorium legislation had not possessed the characteristics attributed to it by the Court, it would have been
invalid under the Contract Clause of the Constitution.1 3
13 In Veix v. Sixth Ward Building & Loan Assn., 310 U. S. 32, 38, the
Court took into account still another consideration in upholding a state

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Opinion of the Court

These implications were given concrete force in three cases
that followed closely in Blaisdell's wake.
In W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S. 426, the Court
dealt with an Arkansas law that exempted the proceeds of a
life insurance policy from collection by the beneficiary's judgment creditors. Stressing the retroactive effect of the state
law, the Court held that it was invalid under the Contract
Clause, since it was not precisely and reasonably designed to
meet a grave temporary emergency in the interest of the general welfare. In W. B. Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U. S.
56, the Court was confronted with another Arkansas law that
diluted the rights and remedies of mortgage bondholders.
The Court held the law invalid under the Contract Clause.
"Even when the public welfare is invoked as an excuse," Mr.
Justice Cardozo wrote for the Court, the security of a mortgage cannot be cut down "without moderation or reason or in
a spirit of oppression." Id., at 60. And finally, in Treigle v.
Acme Homestead Assn., 297 U. S. 189, the Court held invalid
under the Contract Clause a Louisiana law that modified the
existing withdrawal rights of the members of a building and
loan association. "Such an interference with the right of
contract," said the Court, "cannot be justified by saying that
in the public interest the operations of building associations
may be controlled and regulated, or that in the same interest
their charters may be amended." Id., at 196.
The most recent Contract Clause case in this Court was
United States Trust Co. v. New Jersey, 431 U. S. 1.14 In
law against a Contract Clause attack: the petitioner had "purchased into
an enterprise already regulated in the particular to which he now objects."
14 See also El Paso v. Simmons, 379 U. S.497. There the Court held
that a Texas law shortening the time within which a defaulted land claim

could be reinstated did not violate the Contract Clause. "We do not
believe that it can seriously be contended that the buyer was substantially
induced to enter into these contracts on the basis of a defeasible right to
reinstatement . . .or that he interpreted that right to be of everlasting

effect. At the time the contract was entered into the State's policy was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

that case the Court again recognized that although the absolute language of the Clause must leave room for "the 'essential
attributes of sovereign power,' ... necessarily reserved by the
States to safeguard the welfare of their citizens," id., at 21,
that power has limits when its exercise effects substantial
modifications of private contracts. Despite the customary
deference courts give to state laws directed to social and
economic problems, "[1legislation adjusting the rights and
responsibilities of contracting parties must be upon reasonable
conditions and of a character appropriate to the public purpose justifying its adoption." Id., at 22. Evaluating with
particular scrutiny a modification of a contract to which the
State itself was a party, the Court in that case held that
legislative alteration of the rights and remedies of Port Authority bondholders violated the Contract Clause because the
legislation was neither necessary nor reasonable. 5
III
In applying these principles to the present case, the first
inquiry must be whether the state law has, in fact, operated
as a substantial impairment of a contractual relationship. 6
sell the land as quickly as possible ....
" Id., at 514. In sum, "Et]he
measure taken ... was a mild one indeed, hardly burdensome to the
purchaser . . .but nonetheless an important one to the State's interest."
Id., at 516-517.
' 5 The Court indicated that impairments of a State's own contracts
would face more stringent examination under the Contract Clause than
would laws regulating contractual relationships between private parties,
431 U. S., at 22-23, although it was careful to add that "private contracts
are not subject to unlimited modification under the police power." Id., at
22.
16 The novel construction of the Contract Clause expressed in the dissenting opinion is wholly contrary to the decisions of this Court. The
narrow view that the Clause forbids only state laws that diminish the
duties of a contractual obligor and not laws that increase them, a view
arguably suggested by Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380, has since been
expressly repudiated. Detroit United R. Co. v. Michigan, 242 U. S. 238;

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Opinion of the Court

The severity of the impairment measures the height of the
hurdle the state legislation must clear. Minimal alteration
of contractual obligations may end the inquiry at its first
stage." Severe impairment, on the other hand, will push
the inquiry to a careful examination of the nature and purpose of the state legislation.
The severity of an impairment of contractual obligations
can be measured by the factors that reflect the high value the
Framers placed on the protection of private contracts. Contracts enable individuals to order their personal and business
affairs according to their particular needs and interests. Once
arranged, those rights and obligations are binding under the
law, and the parties axe entitled to rely on them.
Here, the company's contracts of employment with its employees included as a fringe benefit or additional form of
compensation, the pension plan. The company's maximum
obligation was to set aside each year an amount based on the
plan's requirements for vesting. The plan satisfied the current federal income tax code and was subject to no other
legislative requirements. And, of course, the company was
free to amend or terminate the pension plan at any time. The
company thus had no reason to anticipate that its employees'
Georgia R. & Power Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432. See also, e. g.,
Sherman v. Smith, 1 Black 587; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516,
530; Henley v. Myers, 215 U. S. 373; National Surety Co. v. Architectural
Decorating Co., 226 U. S. 276; Columbia R., Gas & Electric Co. v. South
Carolina, 261 U. S. 236; Stockholders of Peoples Banking Co. v. Sterling,
300 U. S. 175. Moreover, in any bilateral contract the diminution of duties
on one side effectively increases the duties on the other.
The even narrower view that the Clause is Jimited in its application to

state laws relieving debtors of obligations to their creditors is, as the dissent recognizes, post, at 257 n. 5, completely at odds with this Court's
decisions. See Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; Wood v.
Lovett, 313 U. S. 362; El Paso v. Simmons, supra. See generally Hale,
The Supreme Court and the Contract Clause, 57 Harv. L. Rev. 512, 514-

516 (1944).

17 See n. 14, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

pension rights could become vested except in accordance with
the terms of the plan. It relied heavily, and reasonably, on
this legitimate contractual expectation in calculating its annual contributions to the pension fund.
The effect of Minnesota's Private Pension Benefits Protection Act on this contractual obligation was severe. The
company was required in 1974 to have made its contributions
throughout the pre-1974 life of its plan as if employees'
pension rights had vested after 10 years, instead of vesting in
accord with the terms of the plan. Thus a basic term of the
pension contract-one on which the company had relied for
10 years-was substantially modified. The result was that,
although the company's past contributions were adequate
when made, they were not adequate when computed under the
10-year statutory vesting requirement. The Act thus forced a
current recalculation of the past 10 years' contributions based
on the new, unanticipated 10-year vesting requirement.
Not only did the state law thus retroactively modify the
compensation that the company had agreed to pay its employees from 1963 to 1974, but also it did so by changing the
company's obligations in an area where the element of reliance was vital-the funding of a pension plan. 8 As the
Court has recently recognized:
"These [pension] plans, like other forms of insurance,
depend on the accumulation of large sums to cover contingencies. The amounts set aside are determined by a
painstaking assessment of the insurer's likely liability.
Risks that the insurer foresees will be included in the
In some situations the element of reliance may cut both ways. Here,
the company had relied upon the funding obligation of the pension plan
for more than a decade. There was no showing of reliance to the contrary by its employees. Indeed, Minnesota did not act to protect any
employee reliance interest demonstrated on the record. Instead, it compelled the employer to exceed bargained-for expectations and nullified an
express term of the pension plan.
's

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Opinion of the Court

calculation of liability, and the rates or contributions
charged will reflect that calculation. The occurrence of
major unforeseen contingencies, however, jeopardizes the
insurer's solvency and, ultimately, the insureds' benefits.
Drastic changes in the legal rules governing pension and
insurance funds, like other unforeseen events, can have
this effect." Los Angeles Dept. of Water & Power v.
Manhart, 435 U. S. 702, 721.
Moreover, the retroactive state-imposed vesting requirement was applied only to those employers who terminated
their pension plans or who, like the company, closed their
Minnesota offices. The company was thus forced to make
all the retroactive changes in its contractual obligations at one
time. By simply proceeding to close its office in Minnesota, a
move that had been planned before the passage of the Act,
the company was assessed an immediate pension funding
charge of approximately $185,000.
Thus, the statute in question here nullifies express terms of
the company's contractual obligations and imposes a completely unexpected liability in potentially disabling amounts.
There is not even any provision for gradual applicability or
grace periods. Cf. the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U. S. C. §§ 1061 (b) (2), 1086
(b), and 1144 (1976 ed.). See n. 23, infra. Yet there is
no showing in the record before us that this severe disruption of contractual expectations was necessary to meet an
important general social problem. The presumption favoring
"legislative judgment as to the necessity and reasonableness
of a particular measure," United States Trust Co., 431 U. S.,
at 23, simply cannot stand in this case.
The only indication of legislative intent in the record before
us is to be found in a statement in the District Court's
opinion:
"It seems clear that the problem of plant closure and
pension plan termination was brought to the attention

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

of the Minnesota legislature when the MinneapolisMoline Division of White Motor Corporation closed one
of its Minnesota plants and attempted to terminate its
pension plan." 449 F. Supp., at 651. "
But whether or not the legislation was aimed largely at a
single employer, -0 it clearly has an extremely narrow focus.
It applies only to private employers who have at least 100
employees, at least one of whom works in Minnesota, and
who have established voluntary private pension plans, qualified under § 401 of the Internal Revenue Code. And it
applies only when such an employer closes his Minnesota
office or terminates his pension plan.2 Thus, this law can
'19The Minnesota Supreme Court, Fleck v. Spannaus, 312 Minn. 223,
251 N. W. 2d 334, engaged in mere speculation as to the state legislature's
purpose.
21In Malone v. White Motor Corp., 435 U. S., at 501 n. 5, the Court

noted that the White Motor Corp., an employer of more than 1,000
Minnesota employees, had been prohibited from terminating its pension
plan until the expiration date of its collective-bargaining agreement, May 1,
1974. International Union, UAW v. White Motor Corp., 505 F. 2d 1193
(CA8). On April 9, 1974, the Minnesota Act was passed, to become
effective the following day. When White Motor proceeded to terminate
its collectively bargained pension plan at the earliest possible date, May 1,
1974, the State assessed a deficiency of more than $19 million, based upon
the Act's 10-year vesting requirement.
21 Not only did the Act have an extremely narrow aim, but also its effective life was extremely short. The United States House of Representatives had passed a version of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, 29 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq. (1976 ed.), on February 28, 1974,
120 Cong. Rec. 4781-4782 (1974), and the Senate on March 4, 1974, id.,
at 5011. Both versions expressly pre-empted state laws. That the
Minnesota Legislature was aware of the impending federal legislation is
reflected in the explicit provision of the Act that it will "become null and
void upon the institution of a mandatory plan of termination insurance
guaranteeing the payment of a substantial portion of an employee's vested
pension benefits pursuant to any law of the United States." Minn. Stat.
§ 181B.17. ERISA itself, effective January 1, 1975, expressly pre-empts

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

Opinion of the Court

hardly be characterized, like the law at issue in the Blaisdell
case, as one enacted to protect a broad societal interest rather
than a narrow class. 2
Moreover, in at least one other important respect the Act
does not resemble the mortgage moratorium legislation whose
constitutionality was upheld in the Blaisdell case. This
legislation, imposing a sudden, totally unanticipated, and substantial retroactive obligation upon the company to its employees,23 was not enacted to deal with a situation remotely
approaching the broad and desperate emergency economic
conditions of the early 1930's-conditions of which the Court
in Blaisdell took judicial notice. 4
Entering a field it had never before sought to regulate,
the Minnesota Legislature grossly distorted the company's
existing contractual relationships with its employees by superimposing retroactive obligations upon the company substanall state laws regulating covered plans. 29 U. S. C. § 1144 (a) (1976 ed.).
Thus, the Minnesota Act was in force less than nine months, from April 10,
1974, until January 1, 1975. The company argues that the enactment of
the law while ERISA was on the horizon totally belies the State's need for
this pension legislation.
22 In
upholding the constitutionality of the Act, the District Court

referred to Minnesota's interest in protecting the economic welfare of its
older citizens, as well as their surrounding economic communities. 449 F.
Supp. 644.
23 Compare the gradual applicability of ERISA, which itself is not even
mandatory. At the outset ERISA did not go into effect at all until four
months after it was enacted. 29 U. S. C. § 1144 (1976 ed.). Funding and
vesting requirements were delayed for an additional year. §§ 1086 (b),
1061 (b) (2) (1976 ed.). By contrast, the Minnesota Act- became fully
effective the day after its passage. The District Court rejected out of
hand the argument that employers were constitutionally entitled to some
grace period to adjust their pension planning. 449 F. Supp., at 651.
24 This is not to suggest that only an emergency of great magnitude can
constitutionally justify a state law impairing the obligations of contracts.
See, e. g., Veix v. Sixth Ward Building & Loan Assn., 310 U. S., at 39-40;
East New York Savings Bank v. Hahn, 326 U. S. 230; El Paso v. Simmons,
379 U. S. 497.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

tially beyond the terms of its employment contracts. And
that burden was imposed upon the company only because it
closed its office in the State.
This Minnesota law simply does not possess the attributes
of those state laws that in the past have survived challenge
under the Contract Clause of the Constitution. The law was
not even purportedly enacted to deal with a broad, generalized
economic or social problem. Cf. Home Building & Loan Assn.
v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S., at 445. It did not operate in an area
already subject to state regulation at the time the company's
contractual obligations were originally undertaken, but invaded an area never before subject to regulation by the State.
Cf. Veix v. Sixth Ward Building & Loan Assn., 310 U. S. 32,
38.
It did not effect simply a temporary alteration of the
contractual relationships of those within its coverage, but
worked a severe, permanent, and immediate change in those
relationships-irrevocably and retroactively. Cf. UnitedStates
Trust Co. v. New Jersey, 431 U. S., at 22. And its narrow
aim was leveled, not at every Minnesota employer, not even
at every Minnesota employer who left the State, but only at
those who had in the past been sufficiently enlightened
as voluntarily to agree to establish pension plans for their
employees.
"Not Blaisdell's case, but Worthen's (W. B. Worthen Co. v.
Thomas, [292 U. S. 426]) supplies the applicable rule" here.
W. B. Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U. S., at 63. It is not
necessary to hold that the Minnesota law impaired the obligation of the company's employment contracts "without moderation or reason or in a spirit of oppression." Id., at 60.6
But we do hold that if the Contract Clause means anything at
25See
26

n. 13, supra.

As Mr. Justice Cardozo's opinion for the Court in the Kavanaugh case

made clear, these criteria are "the outermost limits only." The opinion
went on to stress the state law's "studied indifference to the interests" of
creditors. 295 U. S., at 60.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

all, it means that Minnesota could not constitutionally do
what it tried to do to the company in this case.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed.
It is so ordered.
MR.

JusTIcE BLACKMUN

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

with whom MR. JusTicE WHITE and
MR. JusTicE MAPsiSALL join, dissenting.
MR.

JUSTICE BRENNAN,

In cases involving state legislation affecting private contracts, this Court's decisions over the past half century, consistently with both the constitutional text and its original
understanding, have interpreted the Contract Clause as prohibiting state legislative Acts which, "[w] ith studied indifference
to the interests of the [contracting party] or to his appropriate
protection," effectively diminished or nullified the obligation
due him under the terms of a contract. W. B. Worthen Co.
v. Kavanaugh, 295 U. S. 56, 60 (1935). But the Contract
Clause has not, during this period, been applied to state legislation that, while creating new duties, in nowise diminished
the efficacy of any contractual obligation owed the constitutional claimant. Cf. Goldblatt v. Hempstead, 369 U. S. 590
(1962). The constitutionality of such legislation has, rather,
been determined solely by reference to other provisions of the
Constitution, e. g., the Due Process Clause, insofar as they
operate to protect existing economic values.
Today's decision greatly expands the reach of the Clause.
The Minnesota Private Pension Benefits Protection Act (Act)
does not abrogate or dilute any obligation due a party to a
private contract; rather, like all positive social legislation, the
Act imposes new, additional obligations on a particular class
of persons. In my view, any constitutional infirmity in the
law must therefore derive, not from the Contract Clause, but
from the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

I perceive nothing in the Act that works a denial of due
process and therefore I dissent.
I
I begin with an assessment of the operation and effect of the
Minnesota statute. Although the Court disclaims knowledge
of the purposes of the law, both the terms of the Act and the
opinion of the State Supreme Court disclose that it was designed to remedy a serious social problem arising from the
operation of private pension plans. As the Minnesota Supreme Court indicated, see Fleck v. Spannaus, 312 Minn. 223,
231, 251 N. W. 2d 334, 338 (1977), the impetus for the law
must have been a legislative belief-shared by Congress, see
generally Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
(ERISA), 29 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq. (1976 ed.)-that private
pension plans often were grossly unfair to covered employees.
Not only would employers often neglect to furnish their employees with adequate information concerning their rights
under the plans, leading to erroneous expectations, but also
because employers often failed to make contributions to the
pension funds large enough adequately to fund their plans,
employees often ultimately received only a small amount
of those benefits they reasonably anticipated. See Fleck v.
Spannaus, supra, at 231, 251 N. W. 2d, at 338. Acting against
this background, Minnesota., prior to the enactment of ERISA,
adopted the Act to remedy, inter alia, what was viewed as a
related serious social problem: the frustration of expectation
interests that can occur when an employer closes a single
plant and terminates the employees who work there.'
Pension plans normally do not make provision to protect
'Since appellant's plan remains in force at its other plants, this case does
not involve a termination of a pension plan, and I will therefore not discuss
the aspect of the statute that involves such contingencies except to observe
that it, too, is a sensitive attempt to protect employees' expectation
interests.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

the interests of employees--even those within only a few
months of the "vesting" of their rights under the plan-who
are terminated because an employer closes one of his plants.
See generally Bernstein, Employee Pension Rights When
Plants Shut Down: Problems and Some Proposals, 76 Harv.
L. Rev. 952 (1963). Even assuming-contrary to common
experience-that an employer adequately informs his employees that a termination for any reason prior to vesting will
result in forfeiture of accrued pension credits, denial of all
pension benefits not because of job-related failings, but only
because the employees are unfortunate enough to be employed
at a plant that closes for purely economic reasons, is harsh
indeed. For unlike discharges for inadequate job performance,
which may reasonably be foreseen, the closing of a plant is a
contingency outside the range of normal expectations of both
the employer and the employee-as is made clear by the fact
that Allied did not rely upon the possibility of a plant's closing
in calculating the amount of its contributions to its pension
plan fund.2
The Minnesota Act addresses this problem by selecting a
period-10 years of employment-after which this generally
unforeseen contingency may not be the basis for depriving
employees of their accumulated pension fund credits, and by
establishing a mechanism to provide the employees with the
equivalent of the earned pension plan credits. Although the
Court glides over this fact, it should be apparent that the Act
will impose only minor economic burdens on employers whose
pension plans have been adequately funded. For, where, as
was true here and as will generally be true, the possibility of
a plant's closing was not relied upon by actuaries in calculating
the amount of the employer's contributions to the plan, an
2 All parties to this case agree that Allied's actuarial assumptions in
calculating its annual contributions to the pension plan did not include the
possibility of a plant's closing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

adequate pension plan fund would include contributions on
behalf of terminated employees of 10 or more years' service
whose rights had not vested. Indeed, without the Act, the
closing of the plant would create a windfall for the employer,
because, due to the resulting surplus in the fund, his future
contributions would be reduced. In denying the windfall, the
Act requires that the employer use the money he will save in
the future to purchase annuities for the terminated employees.'
Of course, the consequence for the employer may be a slightly
higher pension expense; the greater outlay might arise, in part,
because the past contributions to the plan would have reflected
the actuarial possibility that some of the employees who had
served 10 years might not ultimately satisfy the plan's vesting
requirement.
I emphasize, contrary to the repeated protestations of the
Court, that the Act does not impose "sudden and unanticipated" burdens. The features of the Act involved in this case
come into play only when an employer, after the effective date
of the Act, closes a plant. The existence of the Act's dutieswhich are similar to a legislatively imposed requirement of
3Because appellant's pension plan was, at the time of the plant closing,
underfunded by in excess of $295,000, appellant's pension-funding chargewhich the parties stipulate will be between $114,000 and $195,000-will not
in fact be offset by future out-of-pocket savings. But this is incidental.
What is critical is that appellant, like all covered employers, will be forced
to assume an economic burden only a little greater than that inherent in
its original undertaking to set up a pension plan for the benefit of its
employees.
Although the Court refers to the fact that, under the terms of the
plan, no sanctions could be imposed on appellant for not adequately
funding it, no substantial objection can be levied against the Act to the
extent that it mandates funding sufficient to meet the employer's original
undertaking. The plan in the present case can be interpreted as imposing
a duty on the employer to fund it adequately, see App. to Brief for
Appellant 10a (§ 10 of the plan), and the employees here surely would
have understood it as imposing that requirement. There can be no serious
objection to a measure that makes such a promise enforceable.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN, J.,

dissenting

severance pay measured by the length of the discharged
employees' service-is simply one of a number of factors that
the employer considers in making the business decision whether
to close a plant and terminate the employees who work there.
In no sense, therefore, are the Act's requirements unanticipated. While the extent of the employer's obligation depends
on pre-enactment conduct, the requirements are triggered
solely by the closing of a plant subsequent to enactment.'
II
The primary question in this case is whether the Contract
Clause is violated by state legislation enacted to protect
employees covered by a pension plan by requiring an employer
to make outlays-which, although not in this case, will largely
be offset against future savings-to provide terminated employees with the equivalent of benefits reasonably to be
expected under the plan. The Act does not relieve either the
employer or his employees of any existing contract obligation.
Rather, the Act simply creates an additional, supplemental
duty of the employer, no different in kind from myriad duties
created by a wide variety of legislative measures which defeat
settled expectations but which have nonetheless been sustained
by this Court. See, e. g., Usery v. Turner Elkhorn Mining
Co., 428 U. S. 1 (1976); Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239 U. S.
394 (1915). For this reason, the Minnesota Act, in my
view, does not implicate the Contract Clause in any way. The
basic fallacy of today's decision is its mistaken view that the
Contract Clause protects all contract-based expectations,
including that of an employer that his obligations to his
employees will not be legislatively enlarged beyond those
explicitly provided in his pension plan.
4 Although appellant here apparently decided to close its Minnesota plant
prior to the Act's effective date, appellant had every opportunity to re-

consider that decision after the Act was adopted and presumably reached
its final decision after weighing the possible liabilities under the Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

A
Historically, it is crystal clear that the Contract Clause was
not intended to embody a broad constitutional policy of
protecting all reliance interests grounded in private contracts.
It was made part of the Constitution to remedy a particular
social evil-the state legislative practice of enacting laws to
relieve individuals of their obligations under certain contractsand thus was intended to prohibit States from adopting "as
[their] policy the repudiation of debts or the destruction of
contracts or the denial of means to enforce them," Home
Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 439 (1934).
But the Framers never contemplated that the Clause would
limit the legislative power of States to enact laws creating
duties that might burden some individuals in order to benefit
others.
The widespread dissatisfaction with the Articles of Confederation and, thus, the adoption of our Constitution, was largely
a result of the mass of legislation enacted by various States
during our earlier national period to relieve debtors from the
obligation to perform contracts with their creditors. The
economic depression that followed the Revolutionary War witnessed "an ignoble array of [such state] legislative schemes."
Id., at 427. Perhaps the most common of these were laws
providing for the emission of paper currency, making it legal
tender for the payment of debts. In addition, there were "installment laws," authorizing the payment of overdue obligations in several installments over a period of months or even
years, rather than in a single lump sum as provided for in a
contract; "stay laws," statutes staying or postponing the payment of private debts or temporarily closing the courts; and
"commodity payment laws," permitting payments in certain
enumerated commodities at a proportion, often three-fourths
or four-fifths, of actual value. See id., at 454-459 (Sutherland, J., dissenting); Sturges v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122,
204 (1819); see also B. Wright, The Contract Clause of the

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

Constitution 4 (1938); Hale, The Supreme Court and the
Contract Clause, 57 Harv. L. Rev. 512-513 (1944).
Thus, the several provisions of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution-"No State shall . . . coin Money; emit Bills of
Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in
Payment of Debts; [or] pass any . . . Law impairing the
Obligation of Contracts... ."-were targeted directly at this
wide variety of debtor relief measures. Although the debates
in the Constitutional Convention and the subsequent public
discussion of the Constitution are not particularly enlightening
in determining the scope of the Clause, they support the view
that the sole evil at which the Contract Clause was directed
was the theretofore rampant state legislative interference with
the ability of creditors to obtain the payment or security
provided for by contract. The Framers regarded the Contract
Clause as simply an adjunct to the currency provisions of
Art. I, § 10, which operated primarily to bar legislation
depriving creditors of the payment of the full value of their
loans. See Wright, supra, at 5-16. The Clause was thus
intended by the Framers to be applicable only to laws which
altered the obligations of contracts by effectively relieving one
party of the obligation to perform a contract duty.'
B
The terms of the Contract Clause negate any basis for its
interpretation as protecting all contract-based expectations
from unjustifiable interference. It applies, as confirmed by
consistent judicial interpretations, only to state legislativeActs.
See generally Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan,263 U. S. 444 (1924).
Its inapplicability to impairments by state judicial acts or by
national legislation belies interpretation of the Clause as
5 Of course, as our recent decisions make plain, the applicability of the
Clause has not been confined to classic "debtor relief" laws, but has been
regarded as implicated by any measure which dilutes or nullifies a duty
created by a contract. See, e. g., El Paso v. Simmons, 379 U. S. 497 (1965).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

intended broadly to make all contract expectations inviolable.
Rather, the only possible interpretation of its terms, especially
in view of its history, is as a limited prohibition directed at a
particular, narrow social evil, likely to occur only through state
legislative action. This evil is identified with admirable precision: "Law[s] impairing the Obligation of Contracts."
(Emphasis supplied.) It is nothing less than an abuse of the
English language to interpret, as does the Court, the term
"impairing" as including laws which create new duties.
While such laws may be conceptualized as "enlarging" the
obligation of a contract when they add to the burdens that
had previously been imposed by a private agreement, such
laws cannot be prohibited by the Clause because they do not
dilute or nullify a duty a person had previously obligated himself to perform.
Early judicial interpretations of the Clause explicitly rejected the argument that the Clause applies to state legislative
enactments that enlarge the obligations of contracts. Satterlee
v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380 (1829), is the leading case. There,
this Court rejected a claim that a state legislative Act which
gave validity to a contract which the state court had held,
before the enactment of the statute, to be invalid at common
law could be said to have "impaired the obligation of a
contract." It reasoned that "all would admit the retrospective character of [the particular state] enactment, and that
the effect of it was to create a contract between parties where
none had previously existed. But it surely cannot be contended, that to create a contract, and to destroy or impair one,
mean the same thing." Id., at 412-413.' Since creating an
obligation where none had existed previously is not an impairment of contract, it of course should follow necessarily that
6

Satteflee, which was written by Mr. Justice Washington, necessarily
rejected the contrary dictum of Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 84 (1823),
another of Mr. Justice Washington's Court opinions.

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

legislation increasing the obligation of an existing contract is
not an impairment.7 See Hale, supra, at 514-516.
C
The Court seems to attempt to justify its distortion of the
meaning of the Contract Clause on the ground that imposing
new duties on one party to a contract can upset his contractbased expectations as much as can laws that effectively relieve
the other party of any duty to perform. But it is no more
anomalous to give effect to the term "impairment" and deny a
claimant protection under the Contract Clause when new
duties are created than it is to give effect to the Clause's
inapplicability to acts of the National Government and deny
a Contract Clause remedy when an Act of Congress denies a
creditor the ability to enforce a contract right to payment.
Both results are simply consequences of the fact that the
Clause does not protect all contract-based expectations.
More fundamentally, the Court's distortion of the meaning
of the Contract Clause creates anomalies of its own and
threatens to undermine the jurisprudence of property rights
developed over the last 40 years. The Contract Clause, of
course, is but one of several clauses in the Constitution that
protect existing economic values from governmental interference. The Fifth Amendment's command that "private
property [shall not] be taken for public use, without just
7 In Georgia R. & Power Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S.432 (1923), Detroit
United R. Co. v. Michigan, 242 U. S.238 (1916), and in dictum in other
cases, see ante, at 244-245, n. 16, this Court embraced, without any careful
analysis and without giving any consideration to Satterlee v. Matthewson,

2 Pet. 380 (1829), the contrary view that the impairment of a contract
may consist in "adding to its burdens" as well as in diminishing its efficacy.
Georgia R. & Power Co. v. Decatur, supra, at 439. These opinions
reflect the then-prevailing philosophy of economic due process which has
since been repudiated. See Fergusonv. Skrupa, 372 U. S.726 (1936). In
my view, the reasoning of Georgia R. & Power Co. and Detroit United
R. Co. is simply wrong.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

compensation" is such a clause. A second is the Due Process
Clause, which during the heyday of substantive due process,
see Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.45 (1905), largely supplanted the Contract Clause in importance and operated as a
potent limitation on government's ability to interfere with
economic expectations. See G. Gunther, Cases and Materials
on Constitutional Law 603-604 (9th ed. 1975); Hale, The
Supreme Court and the Contract Clause: III, 57 Harv. L.
Rev. 852, 890-891 (1944). Decisions over the past 50 years
have developed a coherent, unified interpretation of all the
constitutional provisions that may protect economic expectations and these decisions have recognized a broad latitude
in States to effect even severe interference with existing
economic values when reasonably necessary to promote the
general welfare. See Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York
City, ante, p. 104; Pittsburghv. Alco Parking Corp., 417 U. S.
369 (1974); Goldblatt v. Hempstead, 369 U. S. 590 (1962);
Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374 (1932); Euclid v. Ambler
Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365 (1926). At the same time the
prohibition of the Contract Clause, consistently with its wording and historic purposes, has been limited in application to
state laws that diluted, with utter indifference to the legitimate interests of the beneficiary of a contract duty, the existing contract obligation, W. B. Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295
U. S.56 (1935); see United States Trust Co. v. New Jersey,
431 U. S. 1 (1977); cf. El Paso v. Simmons, 379 U. S. 497
(1965); Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S.
398 (1934).
Today's conversion of the Contract Clause into a limitation
on the power of States to enact laws that impose duties
additional to obligations assumed under private contracts must
inevitably produce results difficult to square with any rational
conception of a constitutional order. Under the Court's
opinion, any law that may be characterized as "superimposing"
new obligations on those provided for by contract is to be

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

regarded as creating "sudden, substantial, and unanticipated
burdens" and then to be subjected to the most exacting scrutiny. The validity of such a law will turn upon whether judges
see it as a law that deals with a generalized social problem,
whether it is temporary (as few will be) or permanent, whether
it operates in an area previously subject to regulation, and,
finally, whether its duties apply to a broad class of persons.
See ante, at 249-250. The necessary consequence of the
extreme malleability of these rather vague criteria is to vest
judges with broad subjective discretion to protect property
interests that happen to appeal to them.'
To permit this level of scrutiny of laws that interfere with
contract-based expectations is an anomaly. There is nothing
sacrosanct about expectations rooted in contract that justify
according them a constitutional immunity denied other
property rights. Laws that interfere with settled expectations
created by state property law (and which impose severe
economic burdens) are uniformly held constitutional where
reasonably related to the promotion of the general welfare.
Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239 U. S. 394 (1915) is illustrative.
There a property owner had established on a particular parcel
s With respect, the Court's application of these criteria illustrates this
point. First, I find it difficult to understand how the Court can assert that
the Act's attempt to protect the expectation interests of employees to

pension plans does not deal with a "broad, generalized.., social problem" but
that the mortgage moratorium in Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,
290 U. S. 398 (1934), did. The Court's suggestion that the Act has a "narrow aim" because it applies only to pension plans overlooks that it is the
existence of the pension plan that creates the need for this legislation. Second, the assertion that Minnesota here "invaded an area never before subject
to regulation" takes an exceedingly restrictive view of the subject matter of
the Act. If it is regarded not as a private pension plan, but rather as the
compensation afforded employees by large employers, then the statute
operates in an area that has been extensively regulated. The only explanation for the Court's decision is that it subjectively values the interests of
employers in pension plans more highly than it does the legitimate expectation interests of employees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

of land a perfectly lawful business of a brickyard, and, in
reliance on the existing law, continued to operate that business
for a number of years. However, a local ordinance was passed
prohibiting the operation of brickyards in the particular locale
and diminishing the value of the claimant's parcel and thus of
his investment by nearly 90%. Notwithstanding the effect of
the ordinance on the value of the investment, the ordinance
was sustained against a taking claim. See also Miller v.
Schoene, 276 U. S. 272 (1928) (statute required cutting down
ornamental red cedar trees because they had cedar rust which
would be harmful to apple trees in the vicinity).
There is no logical or rational basis for sustaining the duties
created by the laws in Miller and Hadacheck, but invalidating
the duty created by the Minnesota Act. Surely, the Act
effects no greater interference with reasonable reliance interests than did these other laws. Moreover, the laws operate
identically: They all create duties that burden one class of
persons and benefit another. The only difference between the
present case and Hadacheck or Miller is that here there was a
prior contractual relationship between the members of the
benefited and burdened classes. I simply cannot accept that
this difference should possess constitutional significance. The
only means of avoiding this anomaly is to construe the Contract Clause consistently with its terms and the original
understanding and hold it is inapplicable to laws which create
new duties.
III
But my view that the Contract Clause has no applicability
whatsoever to the Minnesota Act does not end the inquiry in
this case. The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment limits a State's power to enact such laws and I therefore
address that related challenge to the Act's validity.' I think
that any claim based on due process has no merit.
1 recognize that the only question presented by appellant is whether
the Minnesota Act violates the Contract Clause. See Jurisdictional State-

ALLIED STRUCTURAL STEEL CO. v. SPANNAUS
234

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

My conclusion rests to a considerable extent upon Usery v.
Turner Elkhorn Mining Co., 428 U. S. 1 (1976). That case
involved a federal statute that required the operators of coal
mines to compensate employees who had contracted pneumoconiosis even though the employees had terminated their work
in the coal-mining industry before the Act was passed. This
federal statute imposed a new duty on operators based on past
acts and applied even though the coal mine operators might
not have known of the danger that their employees would
contract pneumoconiosis at the time of the particular employees' service. Id., at 17; see also id., at 40 n. 4 (PowI"LL,
J., concurring in part). While indicating that the Due Process Clause may place greater limitations on the Government's
power to legislate retrospectively than it does on the Government's ability to act prospectively, the statute was upheld on
the ground that Congress had broad discretion to deal with
the serious social problem of pneumoconiosis affecting former
miners and that it was "a rational measure to spread the costs
of the employees' disabilities to those who have profited from
the fruits of their labor-the operators and the coal consumers." Id., at 18.
A similar analysis is appropriate here. The Act is an
attempt to remedy a serious social problem: the utter frustration of an employee's expectations that can occur when he is
terminated because his employer closes down his place of work.
The burden on his employer is surely far less harsh than that
saddled upon coal operators by the federal statute. Too, a large
part of the employer's outlay that the Act requires will be
offset against future savings. To this extent, the Act merely
ment 2. However, I think that a due process claim is fairly subsumed
by the question presented and, under the circumstances, elementary fairness requires that I address the due process claim. This reasoning does
not apply to the other possible challenges to the Act-e. g., ones based on
the "Taking" Clause or on the Commerce Clause-for these others involve
rather different considerations from those involved in the Contract and
Due Process Clause analyses.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

prevents the employer from obtaining a windfall, an effect
which would immunize this aspect of the statutory requirement from attack even under the more stringent standards the
Court reads into the Contract Clause. See El Paso v.
Simmons, 379 U. S., at 515 and cases cited. To the extent the
Act does more than prevent a windfall, it is simply implementing a reasonable legislative judgment that the expectation
interests of employees of more than 10 years' service in the
receipt of a pension but who, as an actuarial matter, would
not satisfy the vesting requirements of the pension plan, should
not be frustrated by the generally unforeseen contingency of a
plant's closing.
Significantly, also, the Minnesota Act, unlike the federal
statute upheld in Turner Elkhorn Mining, is not wholly retrospective in its operation. The Act requires an outlay from
an employer like appellant only if after the enactment date
of the Act (thus when it may give full consideration to the
economic consequences of its decision) the employer decides to
close its plant.
Nor, finally, do I believe it relevant that the Act is limited
in coverage to large employers. "In establishing a system of
unemployment benefits the legislature is not bound to occupy
the whole field. It may strike at the evil where it is most felt."
Carmichael v. Southern Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S. 495, 519520 (1937).
In sum, in my view, the Contract Clause has no applicability whatsoever to the Act, and because I conclude the Act
is consistent with the only relevant constitutional restrictionthe Due Process Clause-I would affirm the judgment of the
District Court.

