127

FEBRUARY, .8O4

And sec6ndly, "That by the record aforesaid it'man. C.-aoPi
.
"ifestly appeareth that the said Circuit Court had not ,V
"any jurisdiction of the cause aforesaid, nor-ought to
Xo.
"have held plea thereof, or given judgment therein, but
"ought to have dismissed the same, whereas the said
"Court hath proceedecl to final judgment therein."
H rper, -for the plantif in error, .:stated the only
question tobe whether the, plaintiff had a right.to assign
for er Qr, the want of jurisdiction in that Cot'.Ato which
he had choseha to.resort.
It is true, asa general rule,'that a man cannotrevers'e"
a judgment for error in process or delay, unless- he can
shew that the error, was to his disadvantage.; but it is
also a rule, that he.may reverse a.judgment for ahi errdr
of the Court, even though .it be for'his advantage. As
if a verdict be found for the debt, •damages, and'costs ;
and the judgment be only for' the debt and damages, the
defendant may assign - for error that' the judgment was
not also for costs, although the error is for his advantage.
Here it was the duty of the Court to see that they had
jurisdiction, for.the consent of parties could'not give it.
It is. therefore an error of he Court,' and the plaintiff
has a right to tblce advantage of it. 2 Bac. Ab. Tit. Brrpr. (K. 4.)-8 Co. 59. (a-) Beecher's case.-1 Roll.
Ab. 159.-Boor 692.-1 Lev. 289. Bernardv. Bernard.
The defendant in error did not appear, but the citation
haying been duly served, the judgment was reversed;
•

• II

""

. I"

iHEAD

e&
AmoRy

HEAD & AMORY. v. THE PROVIDENCE IN- THE Feovx.
COXZ
iNsU.
'
.SURANCE COMPANY.
PANY.

THIS was an action on the case brought by the plain.
tiffs in error, upon two policies of insurance, in the Circuit Court of the first. circuit, holden atProvidencein
the district of Rhode-Island,t in which action'judgment
was rendered at April term 1802, for the plaintiffs 'in
error, upon one of the policies only, viz. that upon the
vese.

t Under the act of Corigress" of Fednary.IS, 1801, by which sixtee

Circtit Judges were appointed.

If the insured
nake a propounderwriters
to canc4 the
policy, which
eted-If
the underwi'rs afterwards

128

SUjPREME COURT.e. S.

The declaration.cosisted of fo'ur counts

HEAD

& AMtotY
-Vo

1st. A special count' upon a policy dated Sedtfer
12th, 1799, by which the defendants in error ihsured the
PANYG
CON. plaintifTs "ten thoitsanddollars, oih merchandize
on board
P
"the Spanidlh brig Nueva Empresst, at and-fron,271Ralag&
assent to the " to Yrera Cruz, and at and from thence.to liet port of
proposition, " discharge in Spain; the property beiAg shipped in the
but beforein
"name if'ypaniards,
and the assured 'not appearing as
r ...
Tr~i Paovi.
DNzCe INsu.

n
,owners m any of the papers,"" "beginning the advenreaches the in. "ture upon the saicLmerchandize at MIalagaas aforesaid,
surd they
"and t6 continute during the voyage aforesaid, and until
co

I r ation of
*such assent

have ntice of'c

the loss of the 'skid vessel shall be arrived and moored at anchbr;
vessel insured, "6twenty-four houfs in -safety-"'
f

Such proposi-

ton and assent

A special cb4iit - on another policy dat~d April 5th,
amount to an 1800, on.the veisel, at and. from -Cuba, "toher p'ort of
agreement to, discharge in $pain, by which the defe'ndants'inmired'the'
ancel the pol. plaintiffs the sum ofsix thousand dollars.
..

A corporate
body can act
only in the
manner prescribed by theact of incorporation which,
gives it-exist-

3. A count for money had and received.
4. A count for" money paid, laid out, and Qpended.

The defendants pleaded the general issue, and the

ence. It is the dfence set up at the trial "was thatthe first policy (viz.
mere creature

n d
rives, A its

ofh.
I

-powers from
the-act of in-

Porpatigm.

-

f

p
(
on the merchandize) was discharged by a subsequent

agrement between.the plaintiffs and defendants.

The jury returined the foUowing verdict: "We find on
"the first count of the paintfIs'" dpclaration, that the
"defendants did not promise, in manner and form as set
"forth in the declaration. On-the second count *e find
"the defendan.ts did promise in' manner and form as set
"forth in the declaration, and assess damages for the
pfaiitiffs in thd sdnI. of,'&f'en hundred and'forty-two
"dtolrs"dndfrv "beits'bbng the sum due on said policy
after deucin the' amunt *ofthe premium notes due
"f bioth sid policiei 'kth "&t."

X till ofex epflou' .&4taen by the plaintiffs it .the'
trial, which 'statdd'-that they gave in.evidence, a cbpy of
the act of incorporation of the said company and the-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

.129

two policies of- insurance, which were admitted by the
HEAD
defeladants'. coun's'el. to have been dUly executed in.behalf &Aaonr
ofthe company. Tiat thidefend'nts' counsel "further THE v
.agreed mad eon iessed. before the said Court and Jury, TzcE Iao"that the plaintiffs had iiterest in the said vessel, called RANGE Corn
a the Nrueva Empressa, and the carg6on board the same,
PANY.
"to the- full amount of the sums assured as aftresaid in
"said.policies ; and that the same were captured in aid
"upon the prosecution 6f.the voyage menfioned.in s ld
.Ipldon the first day, of Auegust, 1800, and al'terCwards on thie ,Soth day of said month of August, were
"condemnned by -th .Court cif 'vice-*admiralty' at St.
"'fon's.Newfoundland, as prize of war to the officers
.' and cr6w of the British ship 6f war galled ihe Pluto,
"who captured the same as aforesaid, whereby the prop"-erty insired&.s aforesaid, was utterly lost to the'plain"tifis.- .Whereupon-the said defefidants,.by their counsel, did .dontend and insist before the said Couit' and
v'
" Jury, that the :force, etfectandbobligation of said policyr
"on saidcargo, was settled, and discharged by a subse.
"'quent -agreement, which they alleged to have been
"CC
made between thd"plaintiffs and the said Providence
"Insizranze Conipany, and thereupon read and gave in
"eviden ce to the Jury on. the trial aforesaid, a certain
"'letter, from the said Head & Amory to Nicholas Brown
".and-Thomas P. Ives, merchants, doing business under
"the firm of Brown & Ies, bearing date the 21st 6f
".August 1800, which letter was admitted by the plain"t.T," and is.as "follows.
Boston, August 21, 1800.
GENTLEMEN,

We have your favour under the 18th inst.
The brig Nueva Empressa'is still detained at the Havanna ; having expected a convby, and the place being
closely waitched by British 'cruisers, the master has
thought it prudent for all concerned not to proceed to
sea; we have no direct'advices from him, but we learn
by an American mapter from thence, that the vessel is
very much eaten by the worms, and was so leaky that

SUPREMIE COURT7 U. S.
great repairs must oe made, and, perhaps, itwill benecessary to re-ship the effects in some other Spanish bottom.
Tu. Paovx- We are about making the attempt to have the voyage termEicr INs-. minated at the Havanna, which can only be done by the
RANCE C31- consent of the officers of the ,5anishgoverbment there,
RnAD

& AXtoRY-

r.

and that gained by a considerable douceur, but before
we make this attempt, we wish to know at what rate we
can settle with the underwriters on the- merchandize,
and if we can nake it for our interest, and permission as.
aforesaid can be obtained, we would terminate the
adventure at the.Havanna. Some of the concerned have
made an agreement with their underwriters in this town
to return twenty-five per cent, and finish the risk on'the
above. conditions, the hazard of her getting safe to ,Spain,
free from capthre, being very great; we wish a conditional permission from our underwriters to end the vo~yage, if we can effect it, ad the rdte of premium thex
will in such case rvpturn.
We are, &cHead & Amnory.
The bill of exceptions- theinstates that the defendants?
eounsel further offered and. gaye in evidence to the Jury,
the foll6iving papers.
I. A letter from Brown & Ives to the plaintiffs, dated
Aug-ust !6th, 1.800, in- which they say, "Your letter to
"-us.on the subject of that vessel (the Nueva Dnpressa)
"was laid before.the Insurance Company, and the sec"retary says," If Messrs. Head & Amory are disposed
'"-tomake a settlement and cancel the policies, the direc7 tors w7ll agree to return 25 per cent, but they are not
"- diosed to rmake any conditional agreement."

2; A letter from the plaintiffs to Brown & Ives, dated
Boston, A'ng-wvt 28i 1800, as follows, "We have your
favour under the 26th instant. We note the answer of
the Providence Insurafiee Company to our proposal ;
we are sorry they will not" accede to our proposition
for making the agreement conditional. On reflection
we conclude to accept their offer and cancel 6ur policy,
tlhey giving up our note- on our paying 6ne half the

FEBRUARY, 1804.
-amount of the same,-nnd the risque to cease at the
Havanna."

HEAD

& Ao.
Tur Povx-

3. A letter from Brown & Ives to the plaintiffs, dated
"Your
.Protndence, Septcnber 2d, 1800, which sais,
•"
letter to us saying that you would settle the policy on
the Spanish brig, on a return of 25 per cent, was
shewn to the company, and we have received the fol-.
lowing note.
"Prqvidence "nkrance Ofce, Sept. 1, 1802.
"GENTL-IEN

"The Providence Insurance Company will
"agree to settle both of the policies upon the Spanish
" brie Thieva 2.Epressa, &c. at tle,.fHdvanna; and to
"return 25 per cent upon the first, and 31 - 83 1-3
" per cent, on the last, but they decline making a partial
c¢ settlemeii of. one v, thout the other. The premium"note for the first policy , say 5002 - 75, will fall due,
1. at bank 12th instant;
"Yoirs, &c.
"'ohn
"M"essrs.

Mlason, -Pres't.

Brown & Ives."

"You ivill please to give us your instructions. The
other Company will settle .at the same rate, say retain
1 1-2 per cent."
4. A letter. from the plaintiffs to Brown & Ives, dated
Boston, Sept. 3d, 1800, as follows; "We have your
favour under the 2d instant, handing us a copy of a note
received from the Presidefit of the Providence Insurance Company. When we consented to their proposition of settling the policy by paying 25 per cent, it
was not, because it was most agreeable to us. Wewished to make it conditional, as has been done in this
town ; and we had a right to suppose when, we con.
sented to their *terms, the business was settled. If
we can succeed with the Slanklh government, the policici

Ims-

D.EUc
RANCE
rAN Y.

Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HTAD

& AxoaR
V.

on vessel and freight will be withdrawn of course atthe
usual custom; but we do not think it right to make one

Tuz Povi- the condition of the other. If we make this settlement,
-ENc- INsU- We shall make every effort by money and interest to have
RANCL Cor. the adventurpe terminate at the Zavanna, and the sooner
PANY.
we know the better. By the last accountvthe vessel was
ver,- much eaten by the worms, and wafiied very great
repairs. This, we hope, will induce them to grant us
the permission. The terms we acceded to were very
favourable to the company, as it Wvas paying. thrtu at the
rate of 35 per cent for the outward premium."
5. A letter from Brown & Ives to the plaintiffs, dited
Providence, September 9th, 1800, as follows, "Gentlemen, your letter of the 3d instant was laid bef6re the
Directors of the Providence Insurance Company, and
they have returned the following note :
" Setember 6th, 1800.
"As there appears to have been a misunderstanding
"in the business as it respects the first propositi'os of
"the- company, the directors are willing to accede to
"Messrs. Head and Amory's proposition (vii.) to settle
"the policy on the merchandize, at 25 per cent, although
"it was their ifitention and expectation to have both pgl"icies- included in the settlement.. Messrs. Head aid
" Amory will please to forward the policy and have it
"9cancelled .immediately, Premium-note due 12-15
"September.
"You will please to govern yourself accordingly, and
we will attend to your wishes."
6. A letter from the plaintiffs' clerk to Brown & Ives,
dated Boston, Sept.12th, 1800, viz. " Gentlemen, tlis
is to acknowledge the receipt of your favot'r of the 9th
inajant, contfining the note from -the .directors of the
Providence Insurance Company. 'Mr. Head is absent
.on ajourney, h wil" return on Tuesday.or Wedniesday
next, "whenyour letter willbe delivered-him."
7. A letter from the plaintiffs to Brown & Ives, dated
Boston, Sept. 17th, 1800, as follows, ".Gentlemen, we
have this day seen your letter of the 9th instant contain-

FEBRUARY, 180-.

133

H-D
ing the proposition of the Insurance Company, to cancel the policy on rherchandize on board the brig Vue- & AxonV.
va Empressa at 25 per cent. Previous to our seeing TUE PaovI-

this letter, intelligence had arrived of the capture of this
vessel, and of course it prevents any further negotiation

on that subject. This circumstance you may suppose
was quite unexpected by us, but unfortunately there is
direEt proof of it: a Spania-d being now in town who
came from 'Newfoundland, and saw the brig ther6,
being perfectly acquainted with Captain Zevallo-, and he
knows, the vessel and cargo'were condemned, and the
master has gone to Lisbozz

DENCK

INsU-

CoXEAUCF
PAEYx.

"As the office is now in our debt we presume they will
not desire us to pay the note fbr the premium, bift ceduct it when the loss is paid' You will of course mention
this loss to the office. The news reached town a day or
two before the retu'rn of our I. Head. We are," &c.
8., The note or letter of the defendants referred to in
Brown & _Ives's letter of 26th of A1ugust; 1800, signed
by Milliam Hl. Mason, secretary of the company.
9. The note or letter of the defendants referred to in
Brown & Ives's of Sept. 2d, signed by yohn Mason, president of the company, and dated Sept. 1, 1800.
10. The note or letter of the defendants of the 6th
Sept..1800, referred to in Brown & Ives's letter of 9th
Sept. 1800, not signeA- but written in the hand-writinj
-f the secretary of'saidxcotpany, and by him delivered
at the compting-house of Brown' & Ives as the answer
of 'the board of directors of said company ; all of which
notes or letters of the defendants were handed to Brown
& Ive& by the secretary of the company, and were answers t The letters of the plaintiffs;.
The bill of excep tions also states, that it was proved
by the testimony of Mr. P,-nwn, of the house of Brown
& Ives, that he delivered the p aintiffs' letter of the ;d of.
Sept. 1800oto the secretary of saic ompany at their office on the 4th of Sept.-That.the board af directors did
not meet of course until the meeting of the f b, when
the said note bears date.-That the following day ( W

P

SUPREME COURT U. S.
!I.EAD

is the 7th) was .,mda.-T hat Brown went from Providence into the country in the afternoon of the 6th, and
V.
'rHE PROVI. continued absent from "Providenceuntil 10 o'clock in the
DENcE Isu. forenoon of Monday the 8th ; when hc returned and reAmour

RANCE COM.
PANY.

ceived the same note of the 6th, which had been left at
the compting-housc as before mentioned, and 'that he

forwarded the same to the plaintiffs on the next post day,
as is stated in Brown & Ives's letter of Sept. 9th, and
that it went in the mail, and came in due course to the
hands of the plaintiffs' clerk, at their usual place of doing
business, on the 1Oth or 1Ith of 'Sept.
It further states, that Richlard 7ackson, jun. of Providence, president of another marine, insurance company,
was also sworn as .a witness and testified "1that in effec"ting insurance, or settling a policy, or making any ad"justment or agreement aboutinsurance, the apsent oJ:
"the paitifs to doing a thing, was in all respects as bind"ing on the parties, as the thing done, according to the
"usage and practice among underwriters."
The bill of exceptions then proceeded as follows:"The above correspondence was offered by the defendants as evidence of a proposal on the part of the plain"tiffs acceded toby the defendants, and it was contended
"bythe defendants' counsel that the effect of the said cor"resondence, accompaniedwiththe testimony of the said
. NicholasBrown,andofthe said RichardJackson,jun.as
" aforesaid, was a good defence against the plaintiffs'
"claim on the policy on thecargo. Andthe saidplaintiffs
"did, by their counsel, object to the admittance.of said
"papers purporting to be notes or letters from the said
"Providence' Insufance Company as evidence of any
"proposal or agreement on their part; nmore especially
"to the said note of the 6th of Sept. 1800; by reason
" that the said ProvidenceInsurance Company could not
"make any agreement but by an instrument made and
"signed by the president of said. company, or some
"other person specially appointed to sign the same ac"cording to the provisions of the act aforesaid. Also
"that no evidence was given of any record-or entry in
"the books or papers of the said Providence Insurance
"Company relative td the said suppoied agreement.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

185

1 The counsel for the plaintiffs did also contend and
HEAP
&
A"o'n
tIwsaid
that
"insist before the said court and jury,
V.
Head & Amorj -were not bound or obliged by the let- THE Pnori.
"ters signed by them as aforesaid, to discharge the said Dnrcr. IrsuCaxpolicy on the said cargo, and that the same policy, not- -"
and
withstanding the letters-aforesaid, was in full forde
" effect.
" But the said court notwithstanding all the objec-"
"tions aforesaid, did admit and allow the said-nptes and'
f, letters, from the said Brown and Ioes, and the said
"Providence Insurance Company, in manner aforesaid,
"to be given itn evidence to the said jury on the trial
"aforesaid.
"And the said honourable Yohn Lowell, chief judge
"of said court, who alone addressed the jury in the said
-" cause, did then and there declare and deliver.. al the
"opinion of the court, to the jury aforesaid, that the said
"correspondence of. the parties- contained in the letters.
"and notes aforesaid, according to the usage of mer"chants and under~vriters, lid import an agreement o
"the part of the plaintiffs to settle, and discharge the said
"policy on the cargo on the terms.proposed and acceded
"to in said correspondence ; and that, in the opinion of
"the court, nothing remained to be done, after the said
"note of the 6th of September 1800,to discharge the
" said policy, but that the same ought to be considered
"-as settled and terminated in consequenc.e of the'plain"tiffs' proposal, and the subsequent agreement thereto.
" on the part of the defendants, as 'contained' in said
"correspondence.
"The said chiefjudge .further stated to thejury, that
"if they concurred with the court in this opinion, above'
"expressed, on the legal effect of said correspondenc,'l
"and other evidence adduced as aforesaid, they ougit
"to find for the defendants on the first count in the plain"tiffs' declaration and for the plaintiffs on the second
"count for the damages therein demanded, deducting
"the premium notes. But if the jury were of opinion
"that any thiffg further remained to be done after the
"said note of the 6th of Sept. to close and complete the
"contract proposed on the part of the plaintiffs for can-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HAD
8 AMORY
V.
Tims PaoVID- NCI" ]NSUItAr. CobmPANY.

" ceiling said policy, then they ought to find for the
C plaihtiffs -onthe first and second countsin said declara"tion.

" The reduction of the said premium note by the jury
was done by consent of parties.
"And the said jury then and there gave their verdict
"for the plaintiffs only on theseconi count in said decta'"ration, and assessed the defendants in damages fifteen
" hundred and forty-two dollars and fivekents, "the-said
"jury, by the consent of parties, firstdedticting from the
"damages on the said second count, and which were
"not disputed, the amount of the premium notes, and
"which deduction was made by consent of the parties;
"and as,,to the said first cQunt on the said policy upon the
"sid cargo, thejury found that the defendants did.not
".promise ; :all whioh was in
qonsxqence-of the evidence
"admitted as aforesaid, against.the objections of tht
"plaintiffs, and from the direction given-to the juryby
"the honourable 'court aforesaid."-.Whereupon the
plaintiffs excepted to the said evidence, and to the opinion and direction of the court given as aforesaid.*
The case was now argued by f
Adams, of MassaA.'.
chusetts, and Mason attorney for the district of Colunibia,
on behalf of the plaintiffs in error ; and by Hunter, of
Rhode-Island, and Martin, attorney-gexieral, of Maryland, for the defendants.
Adams, for the plaintifs in error.
The errors assigned are,
* The circuit court was holden by Lowetl, chiefjudge, and Bou'ie,
assistant judge. The b;!1
of exceptions was dated April 7th, 1802, and
was sealed only by .7adge Bourne, who annexed to it the following certi.
ficate.
I Benjamin Bourne, one of the aforenamedjusties, dohereby certi.
fy that the exceptions-contained in the foregoing bill, were made at the
trial of the said cause, and then substantially reduced to writing. And
After the form was settled as aforesaid, and agreed to by the honourable
Yohn Lowell, chief judge of the said court, but before he put his seal
thereto, he died.
Witncis my hand and seal this 30th Yune, A. D. 1800.
BENJ..BOURNE, Yudge
(SEAL
of the Circuit Court.
(
)

FEBRUARY,. 1804.

137

I , That'judgment vas giveti for the defendknt on •HzAm
A~o
.
the.first-count, when it ought to have been given forthe
TH PRe
planitiffs.

x-

.Cox.
PANY.2. That-the evidence referred to in the bill of excep. .AtNcE
tions ought.not to have been admitted.
*

3. Thai the court ought to have directed the jury that
-the evidence proved no contract of the plaintiffs to dis-.
charge the first policy
4.; That if the'.evidence did pro,%e a contract, it should
have been gven, not in this, but another action.
5. That the,judgment and.proceedings.were altogeth.
er erroneous.
The first and last of these assignments of error, being
of a general nature, will be. noticed' only so far as to
submit to-the court 'a questioriarising from the face of
the proceedings, and which cannot come within the purview of the three intermediate and specific assignments.
The declaration consists of four counts; two upon thepolicies-the third for money had and received-ther
fourth for money'paid, laid out andexpende'.
There is but one issue (the general issue) joined upon'the four counts. The verdict finds- for the defdndants upon the first count, for the plaintiffs upon the seO
cond; and says nothing of the twoothers.
A part of the issue only is therefore found by the
verdict.
We shall not make-this A subject' of argunett, but
merely read one or two authorities in point.:-Trialsper
pais 63. " If upon an issue all the matter be not fully
" inquired a venire facias de novo shall issue." In the
same booA p. 287, "a verdict that finds part of the issue,
" and finding nothing-for the rest, is insifficient foi the"
"whole, because they have not tried the whole issue
"wherewith they are charged."-1 :lit. 227. (a)
5

SUPREME COU1RT V. S.
NZAD

& A~o
v. .'i
-

Tu

The 2d error aosignedis that the evidence referred ta
in the bill of exceptions ought not to have been admitted,.

Pgov-

The grounds upon which we support this allegation
,ulme InsyJakbs Cox- depend in sone egree upon the state of the cause when
k
this evidende was offered.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that the plaintiffs had then substantially proved their demand uponboth the policies. The contract, the interest, the loss,
as in the
were all proved, and the claim of the plaintiff W_
same eondition upon both.
The evidence of the defendarits excepted to, was produced*to prove a subsequent agreement of the parties

to dischargd the obligation of the policy upon the cargo.
Tliis evidence ought not to have been admitted,
1. Because it was all evidence of a supposed parotagreement.
2. Because part of it was given as proof of the acts of
a corporation.

3. Because anot'er part was testimony to a point of
law.
The whole- mass of this -evidence consisting, 1st. of
etters from the plaintiffs to Messrs. Brown &'ves.2d. Of notes purporting to be acts of the defenddnts.-3d, Of the testimony of Mr. Brown, and 4th of that of
Rikhardyachson, president of another Insurance Company in Providence, was combined together to prove one
point ; a contract of the plaintiffs to discharge'tIhe contested Ifolicy. If tlferefore any part of it wasimxproper,.
the.whole was so.
A. ParalEvidence.

,

It is not denied that there -are cases in which evidence
of a parol'agreement may be admitted to discharge the
obligations of a written contract; but as this is a deviation from - a very general and important principle of

FEBRUARY, 1804.

1-439

.Hx4 t
law, it ha& never been done but where it was necessary
to prevent, fraud on the part of the party claiming the k Ato '
benefit of the written contract, and where the parol TiNs.psev,.
agreement has .been executed. There is no instance zzxzoz INwf
where an eieutory parolcontract,or mere mutual prom. I&es.CON.
. I
ises, have been allowed to dischairge the obligation of ;A
written executed'conetact.

2. Acts of the Corporation...
By. the. ruler of the common law the acts-of a corpo.
ration can-&i proved only by instruments under their
seal.. By the charter and constitution of the Providence
Ipsuratice Company, they are authorised to make'poli.
cies and other instruments under.the sigpaature of theik
President, cduntersigned by -their Secretary.- In:thi&.
evidence excepted against &re are three letters or
notes which were admitted as proofs of the Company's
acts, neither of -which is authenticated either by their
seal, which alone could make them-valid at common
law, or by the doiuble signature of the President and
Secretary, as required by the charter and constitution
of the Company. One of them is signed by the President alone, one by the Secretary alone, and the third is
not Signed at all.
The reasons upon which these'rules are founded
appear in .1 31. Com. 475.-6 Vziner, 268, 287, 288.JXydon Corporations, 1, 449, 450, 259,, 268.
,3.As to Richar "ackson's

testimony.

This was the most excetionable testimony admjtted,.
because it was evidently to a point of law, and-not to..
faot. Usage is in its nature matter of fact. But whether
the fact of usage be binding is in its nature a point of
law. This testimony seems to have been the hinge yp.pp
which the whole cause turned ; and it is the more im.
portant as it was the ground upon which the court bolow adopted it as law. It is all abstract provositiwn.
large and liberal indeed; but altogether principle,wit&out t.ference to any fact. Among. underwriters, sayi
he, p1.n.ise is- in all respects as binding as performpnce.
I B1.Vqm.: 75, 76.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The third assignment of error is, that the Court

HEAD
ORY
THE

should have d

cted the Jury that the evidence proved

PRovi. no contract of the plaintiffs.

DENCE

INSU-

RANCCOM-

As this point embraces most essentialy the' merits of
Sthe controversy, it is proper to examine the particular
nature of the transaction.
What was the ltimate object of the parties?
On the part of the plaintiffs it was to cancel the policy,
on certain conditions.
• - On the part of the defendants the intention *as dif-

ferent in every one of their notes ; but still the ultimate
object of cancelling was contained in all. From the
tenor of the whole correspondence there is no evidence
of an intention by either of the parties to make a contract
for can6lling the policies. On both sides it was meant
to consummate the thing, and not to make a new bargain
for discharging that which existed. "
In the first letter of the plaintiffs there is indeed an
inquiry whether the defendants woild make a conditional
contract, todepend upon the contingency of their obtaining leave from the Spanish government at the Havanna to terminate the adventure there; where they supposed the vessel still to be. But this was explicitly
denied by the defendants ; and this denial'itself serves
strongly to shew that they were determined nbt to leave
the business in the unsettled state of a new contract;
but either to adhere to that which existed, or to finish
the business in the usual and obvious way, by cancelling
the instrument in which it was contained.
The whole transaction therefore must be considered
in the light of a negocation-mere communications between the parties which coul:d be consummated on one
side'olnly by cancelling the policy ; and on the other by
giving up thc premium notes.
A ch cumstance which further corroborates this view
of the thing is, thai neither of the parties ever indicated
a time for finishing th- business. Had it been in the

FEBRUARY, 1804.
contemplation of either to make a bargain for discharging t]e existing obligations between them, this would
naturally have been one of the most important points to
be settled. For until they had agreed upon.the time
when their new reciprocal obligations should commence,
what would have been their situation ? The policy was
-in the hands of the plaintiffs ; the note was in possession of the defendants ; and both were negotiable instruments. It is expressly laid down in the books that
mutual promises mustbe made at the same time. Until
the new bargain was completed the defendants were
bound by the risks of the policy-; and it would have
been very material to both parties to fix the moment
when their obligation to these risks should cease.
Let us go further and inquire, if these papers can be
construed into a mutual engagement, zhen they became so.
The first letter of the plaintiffs contained only an inquiry, and manifested a desire to settle conditionally
one of Aepolicies.
The note of the defendants in answer, contained in
.tid litter of Brown and Ires of 26th Auztst, refuses to
make a conditional settlement ; but offers to cancelthe
pooliciers, retaining 25 per cent of the premium upon both.
Let it here be remarked, that although the defendants
made this offer, supposing it bottomed on the intimations of the plaintiffs' first letter, yet it was founded
.upon a.gross mistake of the Insuiance Company, n'ot
only as to those intimations, but as to the state of the
two policies at that time. They have in their third
note'expressly declared that their intention and expecta.
tion in the first was to cancel both the policies ; and on
the same terms.
.Thejfrst policy was for 10,000 dollars on the cargo of
•
the vessel, on a'double voyage; from Malaga to Vera
Cruz, and from thence back to Spain; .at a premium of
50 per cent; The outward voyage insured by this instrument had been safely performed. The return voyage
bad commenced ;"and in its progress the vessel had been

HEAD

& AMo
V.

THE Pnovi-

Vhsu.

DnEIcE
RAN4CE COX.
PANY.

1142
HEAD
&.MORY
V.

SUPRE-E COURT U. S.

driven- ifito the. Htanna,where the plaintiffs supposed
she still remained.

THs PROVI.

The secondpolicy was for 6,600 dolls on the vessel;
Ils.,06ntCox- made after the plaintiffs knew she was at- the Havanna.

DFYCE

?

It wa's for a single voyage, at and from the gavanna to
'Euriope,and the premium was at 33 1-3 per c.ent.
On the frst poli 4Aie outiard voyage was completed, and the home*ifd voyage had commenced. No
apportionnmdra. of the premium was possible. The plaintiffs could not candel the contract but with the consent
of ihe defendants; and the terms upon which'they n*aturally and re~sonably wished to settle were to give the
defendanuts gne half of the amount of the premium s a
compensation for the risque they had incurred.

On the secondpolicy the risque had barel commenced,
could obif they Hcmanna,
as they suppostd. Their intention was at
the
tain :pertrission from the government
to break up the voyage, and terminate the adventure
there. Had they done so, they might have withdrawn
the poltcy, and obtained'a restoration of the zwhole pre.
mium; with -the cuxstoia'ry deduction of half per cent,
For this they did not want the consent of the defend*
ants; it was their right-so to do.
Trhis cir

tstance is important in two points of view.

First-It laid the foundation of the mistake' of the
plaintiffs in -their answer to this offer of the defendants;
and of all the subsequent 'mistakes and differences be.
tween the-parties.
It is impossible -to suppose that the defendants- meant
to trifle with the plaintiffs. They intended to make a
serious offer ; and the- fairest 'construction is that, they
made it without attending' to the- subject hatter; without loQking Into their oswn records to see the. different
situation of the two policies; aiidwithodit adverting to
the plaintiffs' letter which expressly limited.the n~gotition to the policy on the
-argo.

"

FEBRUARY, 1o84.
In the second -place, it furnishes a violentpremizmption HEAD
at the time no idea that they & ANoRY
that tie. defendants had
•
V.
were kngaged in the serious and deliberate employment TER Pnovw.
of making a contract-a contract too, which the now nzic Isucdntend must dissolve afn.instrument so seriou's in its na, RANCEANY.COMture, so forcible in its operation, so varioxis in.its details,. so precise and specific in all its conditions, apd so
-minute and discriminative in the effect of all its stipulations, as a policy of insurance.'.'t -individual underwriter when he pledges himself by' his signture to indemnify a merchant for the numerous and deplorable
calamities to which navigation is liable; must .feel him- self bound by all the ties of duty to himself and his fellow creature, to act with caution, and with a knowledge
of the right he.acquires, and of the duty, he incurs. .A
corporationby their essential character ai.d constitution,
are under obligations of a still higher nature to do nothing inconsiderately. They are- a deliberative body.
The members .who act' in their behilf, bind not only
themselves but their associates. They are Tesponsible
not only to themselves and their families, but to the public, to the legislature unde'r whose sanction their proceedings are regulated, and to their country which is interested in the accuracy' of -their trahsactions. "Is it
then possible. to suppose that such a'body should have
conceived themselves performing solemnly one of the
acts for.which they. were entrusted with all the po&ers
and attribiqtes of a corporation, when they accdmplish.
ed it with such utter,ignorance of the whole subject upon which they were epgaged; with such gross negligence as ip the -eye of ihe law i.s equivalent to fraud?
For ihe honout of the defendants. We hope not.
But the present inquiry is at zvht time this supposed
solenm contract to discharge a-perfect claim to indemnity took place ; and certainly .if the defendants.did consider themselves as contracting, this, at least, is not the
time when the obligation of the parties took effect. The
real offer to settle, both policies on the same terms was.
certainly such as the defendants ought not to.have made
and such as the plaintiffs could not accept. Indeed its
absurdity .furnishes
a full apology for the mistake of the
plaintiffs which appears in their reply of the 28th of
August, and in which they manifest their acceptance of"

144
H&AO

SUPREME - COURT.Ut S.

what they sup'posed the offer to be.

That is, to scttle
But in acTiiF Paoyx cepting it the plaintiffs add conditiors, and there is no
N;E ;INsu.idence that these conditions *ere ever asseriteclto by
EANCE'
CoM..the
defbndants.. It is clear therefore that no agreement
PA:I;y.
"
binding upon the parties can be found, at the date of
this letten of the plaintiffs. Here was a mere misake.
aov. on- policy; the policy .on the merchandize.

Thia' mistake on #w'rt of the plaintiffs was very natural. They either did not perceive the s-at the end of the
word policy, in the answer of the defendants communicated
in the letter of Brown & Ives ; or if they did, they might
well suppose it was an error in the copy, especialy is that
is not the usual orthography of the plural of the w'ord pooiicy. They might have thken it for a comma, or a careless
stroke of the pen, but could not suppose that it contained
the whole substance of the defendants' offer.
w

.iithqrto then there isnothing like a contract.
nothing but mistake on both sides.

There

The next of thes& papers is the second letter signed by.
the president of the Insurance.Cojmpany. dated Septenber
1, directed. to Brown & Ives, and inclosed by them in
theYletter to the'plaintiffs of 2d September.
This fakes'a proposal entirely new. "That the Company will agree to settle both the policies at the .Tavanna,
and return 25 per cent on the first, and 31 83 1-3
per cent on the lst, but they decline miking a partial settlement of one without the other. This note, as wall bs
the former, ev.idently shews that the Cmpany :had no idea
of having- agreed to an'y thing. In bot they say they
will agree, necessarily implying a farther act on their part
to complete the settlement, even if their' offers had been
accepted.
We come now to the plaintiffs' letter of September 3d,
which in the opinion of the learned and lamented judge
who tried the caus;, contained a proposal to the defendants, which by their acceptance on the 6th became a complete contract betiveen the parties, and by the custom of
merchants and underwriters, sufficient of itself to dissolve
the policy. With the utiost deference for his opinion,
and the highest respect for his memory, we apprehencl

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

145

HEAD
there was-errorboth in regard to his idea of this letter-,
Axopvi
and of the operation of the laws of insurance in this parPnovx."
exTHz
the
iW
is
true,
ticular. In the first part of' this I6tter,
pressions imply a strong degree of disappointment -on the z,'m, Ixsu-

part of the plaintiffs at finding the directors had receded

from what the plaintiffs had supposed was their first offer.
But in the second part they explicitly decline the last offer
.of the'company. They say that if they ban succeedwith
the Spanish government, thepoli ys on vessels and freight
will of course be withdrawn."at!he utsual custom. But
thev will iot make one the conditioi of the other. And
iii the next sentence, they 'most unequivocally shew that
they had abandoned all idea of holding the defendants to
their supposed offer, and were only degirous of- having it'

made in reality.. "Iy we make this settlement," "the

"sooner we know the better." "The terms we acceded to, were very favdurable to the company." Each
of these expressicns indicates that they considered the
former transactio:-s as given, up; and that 'they had no
idea 9 f binding !emsclves to a settlement, before they
could Anow. whether the defendants would' agree to make
one.
Let us now consider the force and effect of the unsigned 'note 'of the 6th of September. The opinion of the
court below, as expressed in the bill qf exceptions is, that
after this note nothing remiined to be done; but that the
policy was settled and discharged.
W
What says the note?
Ii begins by acknowledging that there had beei a misunderstanding in the business, as respected the firs t propositions of the company, and by admitting that this misunderstanding was justly imputable to them; for it makes
that the inducement upon which the directors express their
willingness to accede -to the plaintiffs' propositions. It
does not say the directorahave acceded,nor even that they
do accede, but they are willing to accede.--And to what
proposition? To settle the policy on the merchandize at
25 per cent. Nothing is said 'about-when or where the
risk should cease; nor about taking up the note on the
payment of one half. Is this the language proper for the
final completion of a solemn bargain? They were willing
to accede to a proposition ; they go on to specify that proT

RANCE CoMPANY.

146

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ikb . position, and in specifying it they leave out half the par-

-& AMOR
THz

ticulars, espeeially that important one which the proposio

PRaov.
2,ENCE INSUEA.-E Cox.
PANY.

tion contained, the'cessationtof the risk.
" Itmay be said that this is scrutiniing with hyTercritical

nicety the expressions of a loose note, the terms of-which
were not so accurately, weighed; and' which' was not
draWn up by a special pleader. But it may be asked, is it
just, rational, -or proper that such unguarded immature
notes as this," should by the.'solemn sanction of .law be
adjudged to be of a- force and obligation paramount to
that of a policy of insurance; an instrument, in the printed parts of which; there is scarcely -the cross of a t, or
the dot. of an i,:but.has .had its comment and its adjudicatioti. - Lord Mmsfield has obgerved that the merchants
seldom introduce a writien clause into a policy, but it
ends ir a law-suit. -And we are now told by Mr. Yack- son that a succession of blunders, under the name of an assent of partie , is to iiverthro* the whble force and effect
of an im~portant instrum~ent, which has gone through t'h
erutiblk Qf three hundred years'. 41pe'ience.
The parties never could intend that these. inconsiderate,
shapeless approximations to a settlement, should of thmJ
selves operate as.a final aettleiment.
At the clos e of this note it is said,
MA1essrs. Head &
"Amory will please to send th4 policy imthediately to be
cancelled,'.' and after it,-" premiuiii note due 12-15 S7eft."
If nothing remined to be done, why were the directors
so anxious to have the policy sent immediately to be. settkd. Why wer6 they so accurate and precise innoting
both the day, and the day of grace when the note would
become due? Why"buf because thby were sensible, that
the most important part of the'business still remained to
be done? Why but because they were conscious that the
plaintiffs still had their option, either to send the policy
to be cancelled, or to pay the note at its day of payment.
Loose as these notes are; hasty and inartificial as tieir
language is, some meaning must be given to their contents; and when we see the defendants so solicitous to
have the policy cancelled, and so punctilious to mark the
days of payment for'the note, we can give their words no
possible construction, importing on their part that the.
politk- was seftdle i that nothing remained to be done.

FEBRUARY,- 1841

•147

We are still seeking for the ime when this supposed
4outract -of dissolution, took- -effect. By 4 the laws in
1the world but those of Mi" yachson, mutual promises
are considerations of esph other. •

READ

,oxi
',,

PROVX-

IsN-.
ANCE- -CO*.

Both parties must be bound to the performance of their

respective promises. 'One promise canr~ot be -binding-"
-and the other remain invalid. T'o find this time. we have
.sought in vain, through -the Whole.orrespondence of-the

'parties..
i.s. eqtially vain - tP seek it in the opinion of
the court, which is, that nothing remainedtahbedone after.
the said note of the6th Sepienber, 1800. Here alb ip a
want of precision in conveying the idea of time, an4 ii is

i%,feit which liqshl the n'ature of the thin ,- .-The words
' after the said note of the 6th of $eptemberl" are not a
designatidu.of time." Had tht covrt said after the signing
.•f.tent, (ad,as we conceive, allthepromisesofthe camri
'oany
o.ght by. their chaiter to be signed,) the time would".have bedi fixd.at thedate 6f the signature, But this they
could-not &ay;.
a e.'noe is unsigned. Had.the court. said,
after the. Twriing ..of the note then the ;engagement of
the company w'9 d. have bden contracted, *not by the note
.6fth- directoi ,:: but by the handz.vriting of the clerh.
kiad ilie.cgt sWid after'.:the delivery- of this note, tht
juesti4qnwould iec r, delivery to whom . And to whom
could it bq but t6 the plaiptifl? This would doubtless have
altered he'stat, 6f the,-question; for if the reciprocal
!t.¢gag-ments were binding -nly fii j ihe'time df delivery,
or'notice of this note :ten they e d.ssolved by, an external eviern befQre they were formed. TXhe whole super-

:structure had cruinblel.: t6 aitons. .Foi the plaintiffs had

received information, of, the. 6dis o
vf'essel and 'cargo.
I say dissolved befire they
iefirmed ad the absurdit! f the expression, is only'the geiuime' mirror of tle,
impossibility.6f the thing.

-

-

The meaning of the court must- have been, that the'
note of the directors on the 6th of -Septemberconstituted
the assent ofthe companqy, as they considered the plaintiffs'
letter of the 3d September as proof of their assent. The .
plaintiffs then must'.be considered as having made their
piomise on the 8d, when they wrote their letter; and the
coriespondent promise of the defendants as haying been
made on the 6th hy the note of the directors. If so, the .
pvl 1ut , .were bound from the sd and the defendan.t3
Iromifh
h of &,te-bep.

"

.

148

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

The promises were not made at the same time; both
parties were not equally bound; for one was bound three
THE PRaov- days sooner than the other. Will it be said that the offer
.txcE I.su. and the acceptance must be considered as one transacion,
AN,.CE Co-. because it was impossible it should: be completed at once,
the parties residing more than forty miles distant from
rzN,.
each other ? This is an additional proof that the consummation of the thing, the cancelling of the policy, and the
taking up of the note, was, and alone could be, the intent
of the parties and until that was -flected the original instruments must, in the nature of things, retain all their
validity.
HEAD
& A2oRy

Consider how unequal the situation of the parties was
if the plaintiffs were bound on the 3d and the df-fendants
onl on the 6th. From the moment the plaintiffs became
obligated by the new engagement, the risk of the policy
was transferred from the defendants to them; yet their
obligation to pay the whole premium note had not ceased;
nor could it cease until the defendants had decided whether they would accept or reject'th&-Zffer. On the other
hand the defendants from the 3d of September must have
been defacto released from all the risks of the policy, and
the whole of the
at the same time entitled to riecover
from the plaintiffs. During all this interpremiun"i
val, the plaintilfs must have been at once liable to all the
risks of the policy, and to the payment of the whole premium, while the defendants were discharged from the
risk and entitled to the premium. - Is there any measure
of equal justice or common equity which can sanction
such a state of things as this?
But this is not all. From the moment when the plaintiffs sent their letter of the 3d Septerberto the post-office,
their promise was out of their power. , According to this
system of justice, they had no longer the right or the
power to retract from this offer. Their word and their
property were pledged; yet the defendants retained the
right of adhering to the policy and the premium, or of
dissolving them on the terms of the offer. The plaintiffs
were entirely at their mercy. The policy, it is true. re;
mained in their hands uncancelled, but it had lost all its
force and effect. The unsigned note of the secretary,
like the ghost of paper money in MII'Fingal, had turned
it back to rags again. But this was unknown to the

FEBRUARY, 1o4.-

149

Hliky
they had received inlaintiffs; and before thdy knew it"
Irmation of the loss, and had acqired a perfect right to &AmboRy
THz PRovsindemnity.
DENCZ INSU-

Hitherto the argument has proceeded upon the suppo- RANCE CoM.
PANY.
sition, that the plaintiffs' letter did really contain a certain
proposal, and the unsigned note an acceptance of that
proposal It has been endeavoured to prove that even
admitting this, they did not constitute an agreement sufficient to dissblve the policy. The necessity of fixing a
iime when the mutual engagements of the parties could
take effect must be obvious. The necessity of notice to
both parties, that the new engagement had superseded that
of the "policy, must be equally clear. But neither the
time nor the notice can be found, until after the'perfect

.right to the indemnity secured by the policy was vested
in the plaintiffs.
Let us now consider the subject in another point of
view. One 6f the principal reasons which must alWays
give a contract written and signed with deliberate solemnity a more powerful sanction than a verbal agreement is
its superior certaipty. .There is no instrument reduced
to a greater degree of certainty thah ipolicy of-insurance.
It is a genieral maxim of law, as well as an obvious dictate of reason, that every contract requires the same pow-

e'r to effect its dissolutior *as to effect its creation. The
whole system of law founded upon th statute of frauds
is built upon the principle that a contract -in'writing, and
signed by the, party contracting the engagement, is more
forcible and binding in its nature, than an engagement verbally made, or agreed to without being reduced to that
form. The circuit court seems to have been of opinion
that this supposed agreement of the parties, was something more -than a parol agreement; and indeed it did
pass, whatever it was, in the form of letters and n6tes.
But if certainty is one of the characters of a written contract, this was far from possessing that requisite.
A written agreement,. in qontemplation of law, as well
as in the common understanding of mankind, must be a
paper containing the whole meaning of the parties, and
signed by them, or at least by one of them. When the
contract is altogether executory, containing merely pro-

mise forpromise, it seems equally to require the signature

150

SUPREME COUIT, U. S.

of both. A policy' of insuranoe4 , for ingtveeAi Aip
only by one of th6 parties, bit that i.because.itsnUse=
•V.
'depends
upon performance by the other., It commences
"THEP'Rov.
DzEqcS INs- only by the payment of the premium. It is difficult to conNANCZ CoX- ceive how a contract, which must be-pickedout piecemeal
I
from nine pr ten letters and notes, and spliced by the verbal
testimony of two witnesses in open court, can be- consi,.dered as a written a.gr0ement,
HEAD

AxoRY

If however these papers could'be grappled and d6ve.'
tailed into an agreement,'. as betweeir .individuals, -we wik
whether this can be done when, one.of. the parties ima Wf6ration aggregite? By the principles of.the common
aw, the-. promqises of. a -corporation. can be ausheticated only -by a record,. 0r-:by their seaL. - By ihe.arter
of the Prond'." ien Insrurie Cqmpany, the signatute of
their president and 0ecretary are'necessary..to give validity
to their policies, and other instruments. The act of the
cqrpany which- constituted- as we are told, their'issett
to " he propbsitions of the- plaintiffs, was done, at. a
%vetlymeeting of the diiectodrs. Ye.i-of this act (in
their own view higher in its'nature than the act of making
a policy,) no record was made ; 'no instruments delivred
to the plaintiffs, or ever drawn up, excepting this note of
the secretary,, unsigned, undirected, and .nqteven "idica,'
tiveof the subject to :which-it relates, oth~ewise't.an, i.
the general terms of "the,business."
If -the intelligence recdived by the plaintiffs on th6 14th
of Feptember, had been, niot -that thev~ssel wis lost; but
that.6he had arrived safe in Spain; .wotild the defendants
have2een contented with half the premium?. 'Theymust
now say so to. support their present ground; but. they
would then have discovered that while the policy remained
uncanicelled and the premium note in their hands, something
did remain to be done. They would have called upon the
Klaintiffs for payment of -the whole note, and if payment
ad been refused, would have -sued them. What defence.
coul41 the present plaintiffs have had against their action?
have produced- all this mass of evidence on
Cold-'th
their-side? Would not the company then have said, we
never meant to consider these as thefial transactions, and.'
you knew it; we never entered so much.as a minute of
them on our records ; we never did an act to authenticate
them:, is all our acts must be authenticated; we consi.er

FEBRUARY, 1io4;

'

151

in A:
ed ourselves bound until the policy should be cancelled.
You knew we could not be bound by awritten agreement, & Auogt
unless signed- and countersign,d as our charter requires, -Ta PRov.'
and you shall, not produce in -evidence to discharge the vszcz Imr,debt you justly owe us, these notes, which we purposely iAt'E Coumade irregular, to prevent your supposing they could disPAN.
solve the force of a previous copltrt . Surely the court
would have admitted the weight oftiese objections.
They would not have suffered sAu'c shapeless nothings
as these notes, to be shewn as the formal release of a corpQration. The defendants *might have added that the
notes thenselves'did not fully meet the propositions of
the plaintiffs. It-is true, they agred to settle the policy
at'25per.cent, but they had not promised to deliver up
thenote.. The plaintiffs therefore, could nPt have produced these papqis to prove the promise of the. defehdan4
and of, eouise there was no- consideration for the barga.
and the'defndants would have said it was little les5 ."
fraud, if the plaintiffs, after the arrivalof their vess4, a4
attempted by such'means to evade the payment ohaf"
the premium note. The subject has been presented in.
this light to eifborce the objection against-these papers, ast
evidence of the qcts of.a corporation. In poin of equity
the case is. infinitely stronger on the side of the plaintiffs,
that it would have been on the side Pf the defendants."
If it w'asai agreement at all the defeidants were not bound
by it, until three days later than the plaintiffs, and when the company bound themselves, it was with the full know.]a4gethat the pilaintiffs were bound too. Thedefendants
,did not remain from the 3d to the 17th of September:"
without hnowing whether the agreement was made or not.
It has thus been endeavoured to prove that this, transac'tion was not, and could not possibly be an agreement.be'
tween the parties, of foice and effect to dissolve the obligations of the policy."
" "
1L Because the object-of the negotiation was to act, and
qot to promise; to cancel,. and not to make an agreement
-forcancelling.
2. Because the businesswas transacted much too loosely on both sides, and especially on that of the'com'pany, to
shew any intention to make a bargain, paramount in force
tP the policy.

SUPREME COURT U.- S.
READ

3. Because it is impossible to fix any one time, or even
any one day, upon which the agreement became binding
vPovi. on both parti.es.

TE

Tz

DENCE INS..
RANCE C M.
PANY.

4. Because if understood as an agreement, its operation
was altogether unequal upon the two parties ; all the benefit being on one side, and all the burthen on the other.
5. Because in point of form it could not be an agreement; one of the parties being a corporation; and no
authentication of its assent being given.
In opposition to all this, what is said ?-That ire agreements about insurance, the assent of the parties, to the
doing of a thing, is in all respects as binding as the thing
done.
As we apprehend the fallacy, upon which the defendants prevailed in this cause before the circuit court, lies
ind this opinion of Mr. Yac son, we shall examine it with
some attention, and hope to shew that, in its only possi"ble application to this cause, it is a great mistake; that
in the most punctilious court of honour it would not be
true ;- and that, instead of according with the usage and
practice of underwriters, it is in direct opposition to the
whole system of insurance law.
In the first place the assent of theparties to the doing
of a thing, must be founded upon a certain state of things
and relations between the parties at the time when the
assent is given. If before the thing is done, that state of
things is totally changed by external. events, the basisAo
the agreement has failed, and the assent of parties cannot bind them as much as the thing done.
I write to Mr. fackson, "Sir your word is as good
as your deed; so is mine.-I have a ship at Newiort
thatl wish-to sell for ten thousand dollars-will you buy
it ? If so, I will execute the bill of .sale, and you shall
pay me the money." Mr. 7ackson answers me, "I will
buy your ship on the terms you propose." After Mr.
Jachson has written this letter, and before I receive it,
my ship is burnt. Is there any court of honour which
will say, because his word is as good as his deed, that he
is bomid to take my bill of sale of a ship which no longer

FEBRUARY, 1804.

ibr

exists, when he 'gave me 'his word to take my bill of
sale of a. ship wbich did exist? Is there any court of
equity which would decree that I should make thd con
veyance, and that he should pay me the money -Ex .
ataine to thispoint, 5 Viner. 509, 505, 514, 517, 526.
Let us now apply the principle to cases of insurance.
Mr. YacAson's 'testimony is, that this assent of par.
ties to the doing of a thing is as binding as the thing
done, in efecting insurance, as much as in discharging
a policy.
Let us suppose that this whole. neg otiation between
the parties had been," not to cancel, but to make a policy.
The plaintiffs' first letter to Brozdn and Ives' would
have said, we want insurance for 10,000 dollars done on
the brig at and from the Havianna to Spain. The same
risk has been insured here at 25 per~cent.; what can you
do it for at the ProvidenceInsurance Company ?-They
say, " we will insure on the, brig and cargo at 25 per
cent, but not conditionally." The plaintiffs mistake this
for an offer to insure on the brig alone, and write, "we
accept this offer, and will send a premium note in due
tiyne."-On receiving this the defendants find there has
been a mistake. They make a new offer, to insire the
brig at 25.per cent, and the cargo at another premium.
The plaintiffs on receiving this, say, "we thought the
matter settled; we have insured on the cargo elsewhere;
we say again we want insurance on the brig. If we
mahke this insurance we shall order the brig to sail at
once, and the sooner we know, the better." This is exactly their letter of 3d September, only supposing it wad
a policy to be'made, and not a policy to be discharged.
On the 6th of September, the directors say, "as there
appears to have been a misunderstanding, we are wilh
t6 make insurance on the brig' alone at 25 per cpht,
though we meant and expected to insure bot i bri
brand
cargo. Messrs. H. and A. will please to send their premium note -immediately and we will have the policy
made."
.Nowput the case on both sides.-Before
the pli.intiffs

HEAD
&

11,
V'.ORY

THrE PaovzD-cE
Ik'suRANCE CoMPANY.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HEAD

& AV.oav
V,.

receive this note they have had information that their

vessel, which they supposed at the Havanna, had sailed,

Before that-insurance,
zE.icn I.;su. to which both parties had assented, could be done, there
RA-:GE Com. was no insurance to do. Will any one say that the de.
TUE Pp.ovl. and was Ysfely arrivedin Spain.

fendants could in such a case have recovered from the
plaintiffs the premium of a policy never made, merely
because it had been agreed to be made ? In what form
of action either at law or in equity could they have call.
ed upon the plaintiffs to pay a premium upon an adventure known to be terminated before the risk could be
incurred?
Again-Suppose that before the plaintiffs receive this
note, they have had information that the vessel had sailed and was lost, what would the defendants have said if
the plaintiffs had written them thus-" Gentlemen, the
vessel you have agreed to insure is lost, we have never
paid you the premium, nor even given a note for it;
but the assent of the parties to the doing of a thing is as
binding as the thing done ; pay us 10,000 .dollars for
our loss." Would not the defendants have justly replied "C
you have never paid or secured to us our premium.
Before the transaction could be completed you knew
your vessel to be lost. How can you call upon us for
an indemnity we never undertook ?"
The assent of the parties is so far from placing an
agreement about insurance out of the reach of external

events, that it does not, even in numerous instaices,
prevent the parties themselves from retracting. The
contract of hsurance is perhaps of all others that of
which the obligation most forcibly depends upon per.
forniance, i.i contradistinction to mere assent. To
evince this, I will refer to a very ingenious writer upon
the subject.-ll3llar, 110, 383, 434, 534.
I have dwelt so entirely upon this third assignment of
error, which appears to me to embrace the vitals of the
cause, that I have nothing left to say upon the fourth,
which is that if the evidence did prove a contract, it
ought not to have been produced in this, but another
action.

FEBRUARY, 18i4.
As to the objections of form; the incomplete verdict
HzA'a
of the jury-theinadmissibility of the evidence-the in- &AMoaY
capacity of a corporation to contract, but by instruments TEE Paovi.
peculiarly authenticated, and the insufficiency of this V-defence to meet this action ;-without feeling myself 1A1C

authorised to abandon them,' I hope I have wasted no
time in maintaining them. But the plaintiffs in this action are not only my clients, they are my friends. Their
letters subsequent to the time when the dispute arose,
very explicitly declare that they considered the whole
proceedings as mere communications, and that they nev
er considered themselves or the company as discharged
from the obligations of the policy, and of the premium
note. I have therefore been anxious to shew that upon
principles of law; of ja'tice, of equity and of honour,
their opinion was well founded ;-that the policy was
not diszharged-that they were arid still are entitled to
the indemnity, which they had purchased with so heavy
a premium.; and of course that there was error in the
proceedings and judgrient of the circuit court. If the
qbject of the parties, to cancel conditionally the policy,
was never completed-if the companyi by their egregious mistake in the first instance, and by their dilatory
.proceedings in the last, were the real cause why it ivas
never completed, it seems to me they have no reason to
pretend that the plaintiffs ought to be bound by an unfin.
ished project of settlement which cannot be carried into
effect without discarding the most established -rules of
law) and the most unequivocal dictates of equity.
Hunter, contra.
The question is, was there a bargain made? Does
the correspondence prove an agreement ?
The objection to the form of the verdict is cured by
the act of cqngress, of 24,th September, 1789. Pol. 1,
p. 72, § 32.
1. It is objected that there can be no contract, because
it is not under the corporate seal, nor signed by the pre
sident and countersigned by the secretary.
If the intention of the parties is clear, and the substance of the agreement has been -reduced -to writing, it
is sufficient.

IzsuCox.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
I-IF^D

& A$oR
THE

2)

The doctrine that a corporation cannot act but by its
seal, .may answer for the transactions of Bishops, D6 ns,

prtovi- and Chapters,' Abbots and Monks, but according to moiI.ssu- ern decisions', does not apply to mercantile corporatior's,

Ia,.iGE CoifPA ' Y.
FI

aA mercantile transactions.-2 Bac. Ab. 13. Gwillini's
Edition. The bank of England, the East-India compa-

ny, and §imilar corporations may, by aii agent, riake
promissory notes, draw and accept bills of exchange,
and make all kinds of contracts and promises, like natural persons. It will be presumed that the authority so
given to the agent is matter of record, or under "the corporate seal.
The Providence Insurance Company are, by their
charter, empowered to make policies, and other instruments without seal. The second section'declares "1that
"€all policies of assurance and other instruments made
"€and signed by the president of said company, or any
aother ndlcer threof, at cording to the.ordinances, bye.
1 la~vs, and regalations of said company, or of their'
" board of directors, shall be good and effectualin law,
"' to bind and'obiige the said. company -to the perform".ance thereof in manner as set forth in the constitution
CCof said company herein after recited and ratified."
The 5th art.1cle of their constitutidn provides, that
The directors shall meet statedly once in every week,
"and at such other times as the president, or board 6f
directors, shall think necessary. The president with
"two directors in rotation shall assemble daily at the in" surance office for the dispatch of-business, agreeably
"to the rules and regulations of the g, neral meeting of
, stockholders, and of the boaird ot directo'rs." " The
"pre..ident with the Iwo director., in rotation, hal have
"fillpower and authority, in beha.f of the cohn, any, tq
"

" mtke nurances upon vessels and'propertyladen there.

in." And all policies thereon shall be sub.%cribed by
the pre:ide.,r, asr resident of the I rovidence Insurance
Compauyv, and coun.ersigned by the secretary; and
," the preident andcon:mittee of attending directors shall
"ascertain and agree for the premiums, and the secu.
"ritv of the payment thereof, as they shall think prop"er." " All losses arising on any policy, subscribed as
" aforesaid, shall be adjusted by the president andbo.rd
I of directors."
"
"

FEBRUARY, 1804.

157

If the great object of their :nstitution may be accom-

plished without seal, h fortiori may the means for at-

HI-b
oRY

&A

tanning that object; omne majus contilnet in .emina-. TH; pitovi.
The provision in the charter that they might makepoli- Ex C Ixsg
des 'and other instruments without
seal, was inroduced
. Co'~p.Ny.
for their ease and benefit ; but it would be of no advantage to them if all their preliminary acts must still be
under the corporate, seal.
2. *As to the rule eo higamnne &c. it does .not always
apply to mercantile instruments. A 'charter parts may
be dissolved by parol. Abbot 'on Shipping 260. And less
solemnityis required..in dissolving than in completing
a mercantile contract.. However strict the rule may be
at law in other cases; ket-it does. not prevail in equity ;
and in questions of insurance,, which is a c6ntraGt founded upon broad equitablh. principles, courts of common
Jaw are bdund by the sAmhe rules of decisioh as'court's of
equity, Parh, 3.
But in the present case the agreement to dissolve the.
policy was made by the same authority -wh.ich made the
p9liy. By the constitution of the' Company the. Presi"-dent and tivo Directors have power to "makeinsurance ;
and the agreement to dissolve, was also by the 'President
*aud Directo~s. The note of the 6th'of Siptember was
in the hand writing of the Secretary, 'who was acknow-.
ledged by -both parties' as the authorised agent of the
S'Cdlpany to sigify their assent, jind was by,hir delivered to. Brown & Ive.," -the authorised :igealts of the.
.laintiffs.. -It contains- the .named of the Diret'rs, and
.purpofts to'be by ther 'Authotity"; and.-althougfh the iuthority of the Secretary does not appear to -be under the
Colrpotite- seal, -or on record- yet it' is io be presumed
-that he wa .. o-appointed. Thus in the case of Rex v,.
?igg, -3 P. Williams 419 which was an indi'ctiient for
erasing an inddrsement from'a note of the 'Bahk off En'.land signed bLy one Adams., their cashier, ifWas cdihtended
"that it was nota- iote of the blank, because not under
.6ecorporate seal, rind the jury found that Adanzs was
not auihorised by the.bank unter.their seal to sign notes.
for them, but was entrusted. and'emploved by them-for.
"-thatpurpose. Upon that indietment" the- prisoner:.was
-coavitted ; which shews that even -in -a "citaIa"-ase'Ji

SUPREIME COURT U. S.
!IFAD

& Auoxy

was held that a Corporation aggregate may act by an
agent although not authorised under the corporate seal.

V.

T

E PROV-

DixCE
RANCE

INsBut the plaintiffs have, by their bill of exceptions,
COM1. admitted the note of the 6th of ,September, to be the an-

swer of the Comnpany to their letter of the 3d, and therefore cannot now deny the authority of the Secretary.Espinasse'sReports, Neal v. Irvin.

If the defendants had insisted upon the whole premium, this correspondence would have been a complete
defenci for the plaintiffs.
It is not necessary that the note should have been
signed. Their charter authorises the Company to contract without signature. Signature is required only to
policies and other intrunents. It is not contended that
this correspondence can be called an instrument,.and yet
it may be evidence of a contract. Even under the statute of frauds which requires a note in writing signed by
the party charged, it is not necessary that the signature
should be at the bottom of the note. It is sufficient if
the name of the party be written by him in any part of
it. 1 Powel on Contracts, 236.
It has been said that mutual promises must be made
at the same time or both will be'nudapacta. This is
true, but not applicable to the case. In making an agree-.
ment it is not necessary that the proposition on one part,
and the assent on the other, should be both mqde at the
same time. The assent may be either precedent, concomitant, or subsequent. 1 Pozvell, 131.
•3. 'It is objected that the intention of the parties was
not to contract, but to act; that there was no agreement,
and that the correspondence amounts only to an incom.
plete negotiation for cancelling the policy.
.Nothing more is necessaA' to make an agreement or
contract than the assent of both parties. In this case the
plaintiffs requested and the defendants gave their assent.
The assent of the plaintiffs was precedent, and required
not1hing more to be done on their part. Wheii the de-'
fendants assented to the proposition of the plaintiffs, the

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
bargain was closed, and neither could retract. Nothing
more was necessary to be done: or if any thing remained,
it was only what ought to be done according to the agreement, and therefore it is to be considered as if done.

HEAD

& AwnV.
THE Paovz.
MENGE

INsu.

RANCE COM.

If notice was necessary, it was given to Brown &
Zves, the agents of the plaintiffs, and from that time at
leasi the bargain was finished.
There is no objection in the record to the testimonV
of Mr. 7dckson. It was -only evidence of the usage and
custofa of underwriters in this country; and it is every
day's practice to produce witnesses as to the custom of
merchants, and the usages of trade. 3 Keb. 444. Stanley
v; Ayle.-2 Strange. 1000. Lumley v. Palmer.-Abbot,
1W3, 140.
As to the otations from Millar, they apply only to
the commencement of a contract of insurance, not to its
dissolution; and'we hope our case is to be decided by
.English law, and not by Scotch metaphysics.
But even if we go to the Civil law, here Was the pretise form of a Roman stipulation. Promittis P Promiteo..-Spondes P Spondeo.
.Martin, on the same side.
The question is, what was excepted to on the trial.
'The letter of 21st of August, which was the beginning
of the correspondence, was admitted by the plaintiffs to
be read. The other letters were in answer, and were
only a continuation of the correspondence and therefore
were properly admitted by the court. There is no objection, in the bill. of exceptions, to Mr. _7ackson's testimony. He. was examined only to the usage of insurance companies, and as to the manner in which such
agreements are considered among underwriters. That
this is usual appears from the case of Henhie v. Roy, Ex.
Assurance Company, 1 Vez. 317. which case also states
the principle, that equity will consider that as done,
which ought to bedoner In mercantile cases the rule of
law is the same as that of equity. 5 T. R. 229, Tooke. v.
Yollidmrworth ; Buller's opinion.

*

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HEAD

& Avb1&iy

Brown & Ives were the agent5 of the plaintiffs, and
are to be considered as the plaintiffs themselves.

v.

TuE PROVIME.NCE
XACE

I-.se-

PA NY.

iThey

The words of the note of September 6th are not in the

toni- future tense, as has been alleged, but in the present.
are

"

The Directorsare willing."

The last words'of the note, mentioning the time when
the pre-hfium note. would become due',. are relied upon.
But they prove nothing, because at all events the plaintiffs wer'e bound to provide for half of that note, and.
therefore it was-proper to give them that inforniation.
The words of the learn~dJudge who tried the cause,
are that. " nothing remained to be done after the said,
" note of the 6th of September, 1800, to discharge said
"policy'; but that the same ought to be considered as
1settled and terminate.d in consequence of the plaintiffs'
"1Oroppsa and the subeqtient agreement thereto *onthe
". part of the defendants, ascontained in said correspon-

-dence."
We admit that notice of accepting a contract must be
in reasonable time.' But the rule respectingbills .ofex.
'change, as to. the shortest possible time, does not apply.
It,was the duty of Brown ? Ires to have had some
person at their counting-house to receive- the answer and
transmit.- it to the plaintiffs ; and the absence of Mr.
Brown cannot be imputed as laches to the defendants.
The tjne. when the contract was complete was when
the note of t'&e 6th was delivered at the .4ounting-house
of Brown & Ives.
The effect of, that note was to. discharge the plaintiffs
from one half'f the premium-note, and if the vesselhad
arrived- safe, the defendants could have recovered only
the other half.
-Pothier,in his treatiseon Obligations, vol. .p. 4.&,
5, defines an agreement to be "'the assent of two or
rriore persons, to form an engagement between them.
1 or to dissolve or modify one already formed. Duorum
" veoplurium. in idemplacitum conse su." "A contract

FEBRUARY, 1804.
includes a concurrence of the will of two persols at
HEAD
"leait, one of whom makes, and the other accepts the &ANoRY
promise." In the present case the assent of the plain- TEE Ptovrtiffs is proved by.their continued anxiety and wish to -)NcE lcsuhave that done which the defendants at length agreed RAYcE Couto do.
Mason, in reply.
The question upon the merits of this case is very
simple. Does the evidence prove a contract to cancel
this policy; or does if only prove a negotiation on foot,
with a view to that subject, not terminated .
We h6ld the latter.
Brown & Aes were not the agents of the plaintiffs,
but only the instruments of communication. They had
no power to contract, and the defendants knew it. ;As
well may the postman -who carries the.letter be callea an
agent.
The plaintiffs' letter of 21st of August contains no
proposition ; but merely asks for one.
The first offer is .madehi the note of-26th of August,
signed by the Secretary'
The letter of the plaintiffs of 28th accepts what they
mistook for the real offer. But the reply of.the Presi.
dent, of Septbmber 1st corrects the mistake and makes"
a new offer, and rejects the terms contemplated by the
plaintiffs. Here then the thing ends. Did the plaintiffs' letter of the 3d renew the propogition ? It contains
no proposition ; nor does it authorise Brown & Ives to
snake one. It is merely.a letter of complaint.
They say" ifwE maae this settlement," thkereby cleirly
shewing that they reserved to themselves an option to
renew the negotiation or not, as they should judge
proper. The worm.eaten state of the ship is allegedas the reason for their hope that the Spanish government
would permit them to terminate the voyage at the RaX

SUPREME COURT' U. S.
tanna ; not that the defendants would permit them to
cancel the policy?

HEAD
& Au ay
V.

rIE
bDZN.

PROVX1-,,su.

Suppose then the letter of the 3d of September as out
Com- of the question, would the note of the 6th make a conthe former negotiation having ended? The re-

RA1CK
P AN~fY.

Stract,

newal, or acceding by the defendants to a proposition
which they had before refused, and.which the plaintiffs
considered as rejected did not revive the proposition of
the plaintiils, (if such it may bd called) contained in their
letter of the 28th of August Pandthev could no be bound
without a new assent.
The case is analagous to that of Coohe v. Oxley, 3 T.
,R. 653. where Oxley having proposed to sell to CooAc
266 hogsheads of tobacco at a certain price, gave him a
certain time, at his request, to deteimine whether he
would buy them or not. Coohe, within the time, determined to -buy them, and gave notice thereof to Oxley.;
yet Oxley was held not liable in an action for not delivering them ; for Coohe not being bound -by the original
contract, therewas no consideration-to bind Oxley.
Thus far on the effect of these communications as
between man and man. We shall now endeavour to
shew that the defendants have done nothing in the course
of this negotiation which was binding on them, and
therefore the plaintiffs cannot be bound on their part.
It is not pretended that a simple contract cannpt be
dissolved by a parol agreement; but we say it must be
such a parol agreement as will bind both parties.
The note of the 6th is neither an act, nor a declaration
of the Company. All the powers of a corporation aggregate are derived either from the common law, or
from stattte law. By the statute the seal is dispensed
with, but other solemnities are substituted, with which
they must comply. They can act as a corporate body
only in the mode prescribed. There is no law or byelaw which gives authenticity to such a note. The President and Directors may speak as natural persons, and
say what they will- do in their corporate capacity, but
they cannot bind the corporation but by the means pro.

FEBRUARY, 1804..

1 163

vided by law., -They may make preliminary arrangeHXAD
ments, but'they can conclude nothing. That this was & AxoNx
-their own understanding is evident by their not having Tux "PRovz.
made any redcrd of these transactions upon their books, zocz INsuand leaving every thing upon this loose, unsigned, note R""E
C0o1.
of their Secretary.

•

- It has 'been said that there was no exception to he
-testimony of Mrecfac'son i but the fact is not.so.." The
words of the bilr of exceltions are " whereupon the
"9counsel for the iaic4 Head & Ambryj did except to the
"1aforesaid evidence," which includes the whole evidence offered on the. part of the defendants.

Customs are of two kinds; general and special. The
latter only are the proper subject of oral proof: but then
they must be proved by facts, -nd not by opinions. In:
this case the testimony was not as to fact or opinion, but
as to the law. 2 Burr. 1216. 122b. Edie i. A. I

Cmrpany.

February25th. MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is a declaration; on a policy of insurance, and
the only question in the case is, whether the policy was
vacated by a subsequent agreement between the parties.
This question depends entirely on the legal operation of
certain written communications between them, which
appear in the record.
Messrs. Head & Amory of Boston had obtained insurance through their correspondents, Messrs. Brown
& Ives of Providence, on the cargO of the .Sdnish brig
the rueva Empressa, at and from kffalaga to VRra Cruz,
and at and from thence to her port of discharge in Spiain.
An insurance was afterwards obtained on the brig, at
and from Cuba, (she having been chased into thiz Havanna by British cruisers,), td her port of delivery in

Spain.
The vesselIavingbeen detained in port, closely watched by cruisers till she was worm eaten, Head &WAmory
became desirous of terminating their risk at the Havan-

PAT.

164
HEAD

Amoa
TH
PIovjbEN a
INsu-

SUPREME COURT'U. S.

na, which could only be effiected by permission of the
government at that place, which was not'to be obtained
but with considerable expense.

They therefore applied

to the insurance company, through their corresponderits,
aANGE
CoM. Brown & Irves, by a letter dated Boston, the 21st August,
P&,NY.
Y

1800, to know whether a conditional permission could

be obtained from the underwriters, to terminate the
voyage at the Havanna, provided the consent of the
government could be obtained; hnd if so, on what
terms that conditional, permission would be granted.
The underwriters refused to make any conditional
agreement, -but offered to vacate both .policies on terms
mentioned in a letter'signed by their president, Misunderstanding the letter as a proposition for vacating the
policy on the cargo only, the terms proposed were acceded to, and. a letter was written from Head &?Amory
to Brown & Ives, declaring their acceptance of the pro.
position, understooqd to be made by the insurance company, in. such a, manner as very clearly .to shew the mis.
talce under which it was written. On seeing this letter
the mnisoppreh,.nsion of the parties was discovered and
explaified, and the agreement considered as not being
made; at the same time a new proposition Was made
for settling both policies. To this letter declining absolutely any agreement respecting either policy singly, and
pronosing specific terms on which they would settle
bQth, Head & Amo -y returned an answer dated the 3dof September 1800, which "was addressed to Brown &.?
Ives, and is in these words.-(See ante p. 13.1.)
This letter was laid by Brown & Ives b'efore the company, and their secretary returned the following note
without a signature.
(See the note of September'6th, 1800-antep. 132..)
This note was forwarded by Brown.& Ives, to Messrs.
Head,& Amory, but'before they received it, intelligence
came to hand that the .Nueva £mnpressa had sailed from
the Havanna, and had been captured, and was: condemned as a prize late in the month of August. .Headh.
4mnory there-fore isisted on their policy?

FEBRUARY, 1804.

.165

. Every thing respecting the .delays in the communications, s laid out of the case,, because, they do not ap.
pear to the court in any manner to affect it.
Richard _ac'son the President 5f another Marine Insurance Company, was also examined and testified that
.in effecting insurance," or settling a policy, or making
a•iy adjustment or agreemient about insurance, the assent
of the parties to doing a thing was' in all respects as
binding on the parties,' as the thing done, according to
the usage and practice afnong underwriters.
Upon this testimony, the court instructed the jury
that the agreement to -cancel the policy for the cargo,
was fully proved, and they ought to find for the defn.
dants on that count. The jury accordingly found for
the defendants, and the plaintiffs have sued out a. writof error tb -bringthe cause into this court.
The opinion and instructions of the judges of the circuit court to the jury are said tor be erroneous; because,
The communications which, have been citedf-do iot
import a, contrac. They.were negotiations preparatory
to an. agreement, but not an agreement itself.
The letter of the 3d of Sepiember, certainly manifests
some" degree' of disappointment, at finding 'that the
agreeme6nt supposed to have been concluded, had not
really been made; and also proves their opinion that the
negotiation. was - not absolutely broken off, but was yet
pending.. "If- we make this settlement say they, we
shall -make every effort by money and interest to have
the adventure terminated at the Havanna,and the soon.
er we know the better." "The terms we 'acceded to
were very favourable to the company, as it was paying
them atthe rate of 35 per. cent for the outward premium."
Yet 'the- letter contains no direction to make any specific proposition to the company, and may be construed
either as a mete inquiry, whether the company would
cancel the policy for the insurance on the cargo singly,
on the terms which had before been understood to have
been offered, or as a new and positive proposition, the
acceptance of which would complete the contract.

HEAD

& Amosm
TE

Paovz.

DENCE kNsuRAICE Cob.

P

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
It is also very questionable, wlether the unsigned
note delivered by the secretary is such an acceptance as

HIERAD

Amony
V.

THn PROVI- to
zz~cn

form, when taken with the letter of the 3d of Septem-

Ivsu. ber, an absolute agreement obligatory on the company..

nA-scE CoMtPA~y.

N

It is a gener rulethat
a corporation can only act in
the manner prescribed by law. When its agents do not
clothe their proceedings with those solemnities which
are required by the incorporating act, to enable them to
bind the coipany, the informality of the transaction as
has been very properly urged at the bar, is itself conducive to the opinion, that such act was rather considered
as manifesting the terms on which they were willing to
bind the company, as negotiations preparatory to a conclusive agreement, than as a contract obligatory on both
parties.
The communications stated in'the record, lead to an
event which might have been: so readily completed, that
it imight have been, and probably was, supposed unnecessary to pass through the previous solemnities of a
contract binding themselves to do that which, if really
the wish of both parties, might so speedily be accomplished; so short a space of time was requisite to
ave the policy delivered up and cancelled, that the
forms of completing a contract to cancel it might have
been deemed useless. On this account, and on account
of the known incipacities of a body corporate to act or
speak but in the manner prescribed by law, it may well
be doubted, whether communications which between individuals would really constitute an agreement, were
viewed by the parties before the court in any other light,
thdn as ascertaining the terms on which a contract
might be formed.
This course of reasoniing relative to the intent of the
parties, is plainly founded on the idea. that the note of
the 6th of September, is in its legal operation a mere informal paper, which may perhaps amount to -notice of
an act, if such act was really performed, but which" is
not in itself an act of any legal obligation on the company. That if the proposition contained in-the letter
of the 3d of September, had been regularly accepted,
this note might possibly have been considered as notice

FEBRUARY, 1804.

167

. HEAD
of that acceptance, but is not in itself an acceptance.
If this idea be incorrect, so is the Teasoning founded on & Axowy
it. If it be correct; then it'follows that no contract was Tun Paovimade, because the prop6sition of the 3d of September, DEHCO I~sgif it really was one, was not accepted by the company RANCEN.CoX.
was withdrawn by Head & Amory. This
before
leads usitto inquire,.

Whether the unsigned note of the 6th of-Setember,
be a corporate act obligatory on the company.
Without ascribing to this body, which in its corporate capacity, is the mere 'reature of the act to which
it owes its existence, all the qualities and disabilities
annexed by the common law to ancient institutions of
this sort, it may correctly be said to be-precisely what
.the incorporating act has made it, to derive all its powers from that act, .and to be capable of exerting its fa.
culties only in the manner'which that act authorises.
To this source of its being, then, we must ricur to
ascertain its powers, and to determine whether it can
complete a contract by such communications as are in
this record.
The act after incorporating the stockholders, by the
name of the Providence Insurance Company, and enabling.them to perform by that name, those things which
are- necessary for a corporate body, proceeds to define
the manner in which those things are to be performed.
Their manner of acting is thus defined. "Be it fui* ther enacted, that all policies of assurance and other instruments, made and signed by the president of the
said company, or any other officer thereof, according to
the ordinances, bye-laws and regulations of the said-company, or of their board of directors shall be good and effectual in law, to bind and oblige the said company to the
perforniance thereof, in manner a- set forth in the constitution of 'the said company, herein after recited and
ratified."".
'An instrument then to bind the company, must be
signed by the president or some other officer, according
to the ordinances, bye-laws and regulations of the company, or board of directors.

SUPREM
LE COURT U. S.
A contract varying a policy, is as much an instrument
as the policy itself, and therefore can only be executeAd
The force of the ipoTim PaovI- in the manner prescribed by law.
DElCE INsu- licy might indeed have been terminated by actually cankA.CE
P ANY.Co-. celling it, but a contract to cancel it is as solemn an' act
AN
as a contract to make it, and to become the act of the
-company, must- be executed accdrding to the forms. in
which by law they are enabled to act.
HEA,
& AmORY
V.

The original constitution of the company, which is
engrafted into the act of incorporation, does not aid the
defendants. That agreement does not appear to'dispense with the solemnities which'the law is supposed to
require. Ii demands the additional circumstance that
a policy should be cointersigned by the secretary.
It appears to the court, that an act not performed according to the requisites of the law, cannot be considered as the act of the company, in a case relating to the
formation or dissolution of a policy.
If the testimony of Mr. Jackson is to be understood,
as stating that an assent to the formation or dissolution
of a policy, if manifested according to the forms required by law, is as binding as the actual performance of
the act agreed to be done, it is probable that the practice
he alludes to is correct. But if he means to say, that
this assent may be manifested by parol, the. practice
cannot receive the sanction of this court. It would be
to dispense with the formalities required by law for
valuable purposes, and to enable these artificial bodies to
act and to contract in a manner, essentially different"
from that prescribed for them by the legislature.
Nor do the cases which have been cited by the gentlemen of the bar appear to the court to apply in principle to this.
An individual has An original capacity to. contract
and bind himself in such manner as he pleases. For
the general security. of society, however, froni frauds
and perjuries, this general power is restricted, and he
is disabled from making certain contracts by parol.
This disabling act has received constructions which take

FEBRUARY, 1804.

i69

•outof its operation, sev-eral 'cases not within the' miso- " 11
Axowr
chief, but which might very possibly be deemed within
the strict letter of the law. He who acts- by another TsZ Pnovx.
acts for himself. Hevwho authbrises another to .make DiC': lxsva writing forihim,. makes it himself; but v ith these -bo. RANcE -Cox
dies which have only a legal existence, it is, 6thdrwise.
The act of incorporation is to them an enabling act;, it
*gives them all the power they possess ; it 'nables them
to contfact, and when it prescribes to them a-mode of.
contracting, tliey.nIust observi that mode, or te instrtUment no morre *creates a contract than if the body had
never heepi incorporated.
It is then 'th. opinion "of this court, that the circuit
court erred ii-directing the .jury. that the communica.
tions contained in the record, in this case, amounted to
a contract bbligatory on the parties, and therefore.'the
'judgmeht must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
a new trial..
Chase, .7ustice.-Icondur with my brethren, as to the
opertion of the testimony 'given by the ProvidenceInsurance Company in evidence to .the jury, and that it
created no legal obligatibn on the company; but I am
also'of opinion that the- testimony given by them in'"
evidence Was inadmissible, and that the circuit courtought not-to'have permitted the'same to have been given
in evidence to, thu jury.
The judgment of reversal was as follows, viz.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record, of the circuit' court, and was argued by.
counsel ; on consideration whereof, the 5ourt is of opinion, that there is error in the proceedings and judgment
of the said circuit court in this, that the court gave it
in charge to the jury, that'the several written papers in
the record contained, and the testimony of Richard
Yackson, in-the said record also 'stated, did in law
amount to full proof of a contract entered into betweea
the plaintiffs aid defendants, which was obligatory on
both parties, whereas it is the opinjodi of. this court,'that
the instruments of writing and testimojiy aforesaid, do
not in law amount to a contract. It is therefore conY

SUPREME" COURT U. S4
HEAD

& AMoaY
V.

sidered by the court that the judgment aforesaid be, for
this cause, reversed, and annulled, and that the cause be
remanded to the said circuit court to be again tried,

THE PRovyjDENcE ..xsu- with direction that the testimony, in the said record con-

IZANCE Coa- tamined, does not amount to evidence of a contract conPY
cluded between the parties, and that the defendants do
pay to the plaintiffs their costs.
LITTLE
ET AL.

LITTLE ET AL. v. BARREME ET AL.

V.
BARRI ME
,T AL.
SON

the 2d of December, 1799, the Danish brigantine

A commander FlyingFish, was capture.d, near the island of Hispaniola,
of a ship of by the United States frigates Boston and General Greene,
w~r of the Uusuially

upon suspicion of violating the act of Congress,
termed the non-intercourse lash, passed on the 9th of
February 1799, Vol. 4. p. 244 ; by the 1st section of
which it is enacted, "That from and after the first day
sident of the
of lfarch next no ship or vessel owned, hired or emUnitedStates,
acts at his pe- "ployed, wholly or in part, by any person resident
Ifthose " within the United States,-and which shall depart thereril.
" from, shall be allowed to proceed directly, or from
instructions
o lc
al' not strictly
warranted by "any intermediate port or place, to. aiy port or place
law he is an- 1,within the territory of the French republic, or the de" pendencies thereof, or to any place in the West-Indies,
swerable in
damages to
or elsewhere under the acknowledged government of
any person innited States, in
obeying his in.
structions
fromthe Pre-

jured by their " France, or shall be employed in any trafc or corn"4merce with or for any person, resident within the
execution.
The act of the "jurisdiction or under the authority of the French re9th of Febrja.
ry, 1799, did

public. And if any ship or vessel, in any voyage
not authorise "thereafter commencing, and before her return within'
the seizure up- " the UnitedStates, shall be voluntarily carried or sufon the high
seas of any

fered to proceed to any French port or place, as afore-

-essel sailing "said, or shall be employed as aforesaid, contrary to
from a French " the intent hereof, every such ship or vessel, together
port; and the "with her cargo, shall be forfeited; and shall accrue,
orders of the

President of "1the one half to the use of the United States, and the
" other half to the use of any person or persons, citizens
the United
for
"lof the-UnitedStates, who will inform and prosecute
State:
could
a
n
not ""S4besie,
s
suc a
." the same ; and shall be liable to be seized,
and may
uere, wheth. "be prosecuted and condemned, in any circuit or district
"court of the United States, which shall be holden wither probable
caue will - "in orffr the districtwhere the seizure shall be made."
cuse from
damages ?

