FEBRUARY, 1804.

187

-CHURCH v. HUBBART.

Cin
1-.
H-IUDBAIT.

ERROR from the Circuit Court for the district of Huar
JIfassachusetts, in an action on the case, upon two policies If it be insertof assuranbe whereby 7ohn Barker Church, junior, ed in a policy,
caused to be insured twenty thousand dollars upon the that "the incargo of the brigantine _4uiora, Nathaniel Shaler, mas-. liable for seiz.
ter, at and from New-Torl to one or two Portuguese urebythe Arfor Mni.
ports on the coast of Brazil, and at and from thence tugueze
eit trade," and
back to" ew-Tork. At the foot of one of the policies the vessel be
was the following clause ; " The insurers are not liable seizedandcon.
trade -" and Bin denned
tooban
a~t
"for seizure by the Portutiesefor
T illicit
the body of the other was inserted the following, "NN. .trade illicitly.
The insurers do not take the risk of illicit trade with the underwriters are not hla" the. Portuguese."
blefq--thp"
The vessel was cleared outfor the Cape of Good Hfope, The .f
and Mr. Church N ent out in -her as supercargo. On nation to.sem
atthe 18th of April she arrived at Rio Yaneiro, where she vessels,
tempting an iA
obtained a permit to remain fifteen days, and where Mr. lieit.trad; is
Church sold goods to the amount of about 7.00 dollars, notconfined t. .
which were delivered in open day, and in the prdsence their harbous
of the guard which had been previously put on board, or
of totherange
their battearid to all appearance with the approbation of the officers ries.
6f the customs. On the 6th of Afay she sailed from Foreign laws
Rio _7aneiro bound to the .port of Para on thetoast of mustbeproved like other
Brazil, and on the 12th, fell in with the schooner Four facts. They
Sisters of New-Tork, Telek Barker, master, bound to xnust be verithe same port, who agreed to keep company, and on the fled by oath,
tither such
12th of lune they came to anchor about four or five orbysoce
leagues from the land, off the mouth of the river Para, highauthority
in the bay of Para, about west and by north from Cape.that the law
Baxos and about two miles to the northward of the respects not
eath ofan n.Cape "on a neifidian line drawn from east to west
The land to the westward could not be. observed from dividualThe certilicate
the deck, but might be seen from the mast-head.
-loss.

The destination of the vessel after her departure from
Rio 7aneiro, was by the master kept secret trom the
crew, at the request of Mr. Church, and the master
assigned as a reason why they came to anchor off the
river Para, that they were in want of water and wood,
whi h was truly the case, the greater part of the water
on board having been caught a night or two before, and
the crew had been on an allowance of water fer ten days.

of a Consul of
the U. States,

under his seal,
is not sucieut. A cer.
tificate of the
proeednigs of
a court under
the seal of a
person who
states himself
to be the see.

SUPREME- COURT U; S.
CHVIcI

After the vessels had come to anchor, Mr. Church

with two of the seamen of the brig, and the mate of the

v.

H UABART.

with two of her seamen, went off in the schooretary of for. ner's long boat to speak a boat seen in shore, to endeavSschooner

eign aff irs in our to obtain a pilot to carry the vessels up the river
.Portugal,isnot that they might procure a supply of wood and water,
eviddnce.
If the decrees and', if permitted, sell their cargo.

of the' Portu-

guele colonies
are transmit.
ted to the seat
of government
and registered
inthe depart-

Shortly after the long boat had left the schooner, the

latter got under way, (the master of the brig having first

gone on board of her,) proceeding towards shore; and

observing a schooner-rigged vessel coming from the
westward, from whom they expected to get a pilot, they
fired a shot ahead of her to bring her to, but not re-

ment of State,
a oI'ficate of garding the first shot, a second was fired,

when she
that fact under came to, and her master came on board apparently
the great seal, much alarmed, as if he supposed the schooner and brig
with a copy of
the decree au- to be French. The persons in the Portugueseboat got
thenticatedin off in a squall of wind and rain, leaving their captain on
the same man- board the FourSisters.
ner,
would be
sufliecent
pri-

snafacie evi.

dence.

Mr. Church, and the others who went on shore with.
him, as well as the second mate of the schooner, who was
sent on shore with the master of the Portuguese vessel,
and in'search of Mr. Church, were seized and imprisoned ; and on the 14th of 7une, both the brig and schooner
were taken possession of by a body of armed men, on
board of three armed boats, and carried into Para., The
masters and crews were imprisoned, and underwent several examinations, the principal object of which seemed
to be to ascertain whether they were not employed by
some of the belligerent powers, to examine the toast,
&c.-whether they had not come with intention to trade
-- whether they had not traded at Rio Janciro, and why
they had kept so close along the coast. They denied the
intention to trade, but alleged that they were ohliged to
put in for wood and water, and to refit. On the 28th of
Yuly, the master of the brig was put on board a vessel
for Lisbon, but was taken on the passage by a Spanish
vessel, and sent'to Porto-Rico, from whence he obtained
a passage to the United States. The brig Aurora waE
armed with two carriage guns mounted, and about one
hundred weight of powder.
It was in evidence also, that when vessels belonging to
foreigners go into Rio Yaneiro., they allege a pretence of

FIEBRUARY, 18%4.

189

want of repairs, want of water, or something of that CHuRCS
kind, on representing which, they obtain leave to sell part H.3BBARk.
of the cargo for repairs, and 'to remain a certain time, k
usually twenty days, and then, by making presents to the
officers, they are not prevented from selling the whole ;
but without those presents, they would probably be informed against. Such trade is a prohibited trade, bat it
is frequently done without a bribe. The defendant, to prolre that the trade was illicit, offered
a copy of a lhw of Portugal, intitled, "A law by which
". foreign vessels are prohibited from entering the ports of
' India, Brazil, Guinea, and Islands, and other provinces of Portugal," which, after ieciting a prior, law. of
1591, prohibiting foreign vessels, and foreigners. of whatever station or quality, to go, either from the ports of
Portugal, or from anw other ports whatever, to the conquests of Brazil, without special license of the king, ordains, " That from the day of the publication hereof, no
" vessel whaiever, of any foreign -nation, shall be permitted to go to India, Brazil, Guinea, or IKland, nor
" to any other prbvince or islands of my conquests, either
already discovered, or that may be discovered hereafter."' (The Azores and lfadeira are excepted.) ," And
" I am further pleased to order, that no stranger vhatever
" shall be permitted to go in any vessels belonging to my
subjects, even though he be an inhabitant of 'my king1" doms." " And any foreign vessel that shall hereafter
" go to any of the said ultramarine ports, against the
" contents of this my law, I am pleased to order, that it
49 shall be'seized with all the cargo, as well that of the
" master* and proprietors of the said. vessel, as of any
" other persons ; and further,.thatall those who, on board
" of said foreign vessels; shall load, any goods or mer" chandize, shall lose all whatever else they possess, and
they shall be banished for life to Africa, without remission, and no petition for.,pardon shall be received
" from them, nor shall it be valid even if dispatched ; and
any foreigner who, in any ship of his own, or any other,
or in any ship or vessel of my subjects, shall go to said
" ports contrary to this my law, besides incurring the
" loss of all his property, shall likewise incur the penalty
" of death, which shall be put in execution against him
-- without appeal, by order of any governor, captain or
"judge before whom they are accused, even if such exe-

190
CiUaca
HUDSAIT.

SUPREME COU']RT U. S.

cution in other cases should not come within their au-

"

" thority ; and the same penalty df death shall be incurfed
" by any of my subjects who shall freight said vessels, brby any other manner send them either on their own ac-'
" count, or on any other person's account, to said ultra" marine possessons, which shall be put into exccution
" against them in the manner above mentioned, without
appeal. And all those who in any manner shall go
against this my law, ma be denounced by arfy person
whatever, and the denouncer shall be enitled to and re' ceive one half of the goods appertaining to the accused,
" ind the other half shall be forfeited to my treasury.
And I am fturther pleased to order, that all those who
" from henceforth shallin any manner act against the
said law made by the king my father, whom God
-" keeps, or shall chaige their voyage, or cause the same
to 'be done, shall be accused in the manner Above" mentioned by any person whatever. And I hold as
4 strong 'and valid all the contents of this my law, and
& order that it should be fully complied with and observ4 ed, notwithstanding any contrary laws, orders, gifts,
49 privileges, contracts, or any grants either general or
particular, beifng all, hereby repealed, as if each one
in particular was herein mentioned. And .this law
shall be gs valid as any letter made in my name, signed by myself, and passed through chancery, notwithC standing the ordinance of book the second, title the
And that the
" 40th, whicb orders the conti ary.
knowledge of the contents hereof should be rhade manifest to all, I order the high chancellor to cause it to
be published in chancery, and to pass a certificate of
" the same on the back hereof, and have' it registered in
" the books of my exchequer court, India house, custom" house of this city of Lisbon, and in all other parts of
•',the kingdom of Portugal; for which purpose the
comptroller of my exchequer shall send copies hereof
" to the said ports, and similar ones to all the ports in
India, Brazil, Guinea, and Islands, to the end that
" this my law be therc" published and registered, and
" reach to the knowledge .uf all. Made in Valladoid,
" the 18th of March, 1605.
"

The secretary Luis de Figueiredo had it written.

(Signed

11 KINCO

FEBRUARY, 1804.

191

" I, WILLIAM JARVIS, consul of the United States
" of America, in this city of Lisbon, &c. do hereby
" certify to all whom it may" or doth 'concern, that the
" law- in the Portuguese.language, hereunto annexed,
" dated the 18th .. &rch, 1605, is a tfue and literal
" copy from the original law of this realm of that date,
prohibiting the entry of foreign vessels into the colofnies of this kingdom, and as such, full faith and credit ought to be given it ii courts of judicature or elsewhere. I further certify, that the foregoing is a just
and true translation of the aforesaid law.
In testimony wliereof, I h ave hereunto set my hand
and affixed my seal of officei at Lisbon, this 12th day
U of April, 1803.
(Signed)

"

WILLIAM. JARVIS."

Another law was produced, said'to" be made at Lisboi, on the 8th of February', 1711, certified in the same
manner, entitled, " A law, in which is determizied the
" non-admission of foreigii vessels into the ports of the
6 conquests of this kingdom," which directs, "That
4, orders should be given to the governors of the con" quests, not to admit into any of their ports, the vessels of any foreign nation, unless they wvexr in with
" the fleets of this kingdom, and returned with the
same, in conformity to treaties, or obliged by tem" pestuous weather, or for want of provisions ; in
"which cases, providing them with the necessaries
' be ordered out again,
6 they require, they ought
"-without permitting them to do any business ; and, as
" this cannot be done without the consent and tolerance
" of the governors, which requires a speedy and effica.
94 cious remedy on account of the consequences which
" may result from a toleration, and overlooking of this
" -traffic, and the equity of justice requiring that so
great an injury should be avoided, and the iflicting
a punishment on those who should in any waybe con" cerned in such an illicit trade with foreigners"; I am
" pleased to order that the persons who shall traffic
" with them,: or shall consent that such traffic shall be
carried on, or, knowing it, shall not hinder it, such person, being a governor of any 6f my ultramarine con-

CauRct
HuB A1T.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHuRCI
v.

"
"

quests, shall incur the penalty of paying to my treasury the three doubles of ihe salary which he receives,

or may have received by such office of governor, besides losing all the gifts he holds from the crown,
and remaining inhibited from ever being employed in
" any other offices,'or 'governments for the future :
" such person being an officer in the army, or of jus" tice, or any other private person, being a Portuguese
and a subject of this kingdom, shall incur the penalty
" of confiscation of all his goods and possessions, one
" half for the denouncer, and the other half for my
-royal treasury." Then follow other provisions for
the detection and punishment of offenders against the
law ; and an order to all governors of the ultramarine
conquests to carry it into execution, and that it should
be published and registered in all necessiiy, places.
To prove that the vessel was seizedfor illicit trade,
the defendant produced the following paper, purporting
to be a copy of -"the sentence of the governor of the
capital of Para, on the brig Aurora."
"In consequence of the acts of examir .on made on
"board the brig Aurora, jutes,'ins puc to .Nathaniel
"Shaler, who it is said is the captain of her, and to those
"said to-ce the officers and crew, and according to the
"act of examination, 'made in the.journal annexed,
"which they present as such passport and dispatches,
"together with other papers ; I think the motives here"by allged for having put into a port of this establish"ment, are unprecedented and inadmissible, and the
"6causes assigned cannot be proved. I therefore believe
"1it to be all affected for the purpose of introducing here
"'commercial and contraband articles of which'the cargo
"is composed; (if there are not other motives besides
"these, of which there is the greatest presumption;)
"1st. Because it cannot be supposed that an involuntary
"want of water and wood would take place in thirty"four days voyage fiom Rio 7aneiro,where the said
"vessel was provided with every necessary, until she
"passed the Salinas without alleging and proving an
"unforeseen accident when there was none in sixty-four
"days passage from New-Tor to said port of Rio .7a"neiro, and it appears by these papers and by the infor-

FEBRUARY, 1804

193

"mation 'from the. commanders of Registyy or Guard at Cmatcx
V.
"lthe Salinas, and it is not to be believed that they did
"not see that land at the hour of the morning which H
"they passed'it on the 9th da of the present month, as
"well as they were.seen; and .whbhit ought to be-sup.
"po.sed that they shbiald have soliciied immediately the
"remedy for such urgent necessity'as they wish to make
it. 2d. Because, after they were in sight and opposite
"to the village of Vigia on the 12tlh 5f the said month,
"having also got clear and passed safely by the 'shoals,
"and after by violent means having boarded and obliged
"diferent vesseh to board him, it does not appear that
"any of those that were brought to the village as pris.
"oners, alleged the want of water as a motive for corn"ing in, nor that they had made the least endeaours,
or demanded to be supplied with such want ; it being
"very well known on the contrary, that all their endeav"ours were to obtain Pratic, and to' proceed to this
"capital, alleging the pretext of being !eaky,. but whichi
"from the examination made on board by the masters of
"the arsenal, did faot appear to be true. 3d. And finally:
"because in the space of eight or ten days from the time
"they passed the cape of St. Agostinho till they passed
"by the Salinas, should their want of water be true,
they might have stipplied themselves with it, in any of"
' the numerous ports on the northeri coast of he Bra.
" zils til
that of Pernambuco, or they would have direct.
ed thir course directly. for the destined port of Mar.
"tinico and Antilles' as they say ; it appearing .very
"strange they should come to sound all -the coast, .the
"excuse of the winds not being admissible. But'by the*
"same informer's journal it appears that from the 28th
"of M1fay, when by observatiowthey were northward of
"St. Agostinho, they had'constantly the trade winds up.
on the quarter until the 3d instant, with which they
"*steered always along the coast, when they ought only
"to have gone"to this. latitude to have continued the
"same winds to the said islands, and to have got clear
"of the calms and currents of the coast ; if it had not
'been their only intention to look 'for the same coast
"and to this portfor business and smuggling, which he
"could not perform at the Rio Janeirofor the reason
'c which is specified inthe letters annexedto folio-; it
" bing presumed that the master of this brigantine
Bb

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHVRCH

V.

IUBhBART.

"ought tobe understood as having the same dispositiob
" as that of the schooner Four Brothers, with which he
Csailed

and fell into conversation.

"Therefore I coimand ,that in conformity to the law
"made on the 5th October, 1715, the observance of which
"has been so repeatedly rec6mmended and revived to
"me by government, .let their papers be brought to the
"house ofjustice to be continued as prescribed in the
"same law and laws of the kingdom, (they remaining
"in prison until the final decision) for -whichthey gave
It cause by the hostile mean. -which they practised.
"Palace of Pira,the 27th 91une, 1801.
"D. Franciscode Souza Coutinho.
"On the 27th Yune 1801, these deeds were given to
me by his Excellency the Governor and Captain-General of State, D. Franciscode Souza Coutinho, with his
"seiltence ut supra, of which I made this term ; and I
"Yoseph Damazo Alvares Bandiera wrote and finished
"the same.
"It is hereby determined by the Court, &c. that in the
" ertainty of it being affected and unprecedented that
"the brig Aurora captain Nathaniel Shaler putting into
" this port as in the decision fol. 43 ; as it is justly de"dared and adopted for the same incontestible causes
"there specified, that in consequence thereof, and of the
"respecti'e laws thereto applying, she. ought to be con"demned, they concurring to convince that it was the
"pioject of the said Captain (if he had no other reason
"'beside these, of which the~re is suspicion) to look-for a
" market for the merchandize whiich were found, not
"only as it appears by the letters hereto annexed, but in
it the society and conversation in which he sailed with
"the schooner Four Brothers, which Captain is con"victed, by very clear proofs, of such an intention, and
"the same specious pretext with %aich he pretends to
"colour the cause for putting into this port, manifesting"in this manner that he was nor ignorant of the law.-of
"the state concerhing coming in and doing business
"

therein.

FEBRUARY, 1804..

195.

" Therefore they declare him to have incurred the

"transgression of the order fo. 1. to 107, and- decree of
the 18th MAarch, 1605, and they order that after pro"ceeding in the sequester on th vessel and cargo, to
,send the Captain as prisoner, with the necessaiy in"formation by the competent Secretary, that his Royal
'- Highness may be pleased to determine about him, as
"maybe his royal pleasure.
"2ara, 27th 7une, 1801. D. 7ono de Almeida de
"fello de Castro, of the Council of State of the Prince
"Regent our Lord and his Minister and Secretary of
"State of the foreign affairs and war departments, &c.
"do hereby certify that the present is a faithful copy
,takeii from the original deeds relative to the brig Au.
"rora. In witness whereof I order this attestation to
"be passed and goes by me signed and sealed with the
"seal of my arms. Lisbon the 27th Vanuary, 1803.
"Signed,

D. 7ono de Ahneida de Mello de Castro."

"I Wlliam Yarvis, Consul of the United States of
"America in this city of Lisbon, &c. do hereby certify
unto all whom it may concern that the foregoing is a
"true and just translation of a copy from the proceedings
"against the brig Aurora, -NathanielShaler, uiiaster, at
"Para in the Brazils which is hereto annexed and at,.
"tested by his Excellency Don .ino de Almeida de Mello
"de Castro, whose attestation -is dated tle" 27th Vanua.
" ry, 1803,
"In testimony whereof, ' have - hereunto set .my
"hand and affixed my seal of 9ffice, in Lisbon this 16th
"day of April, one thousand eight hundred and three."
"WILLIAM JARVIS."
The bill of exceptions, besides the foregoing, stated
a variety 'of depositions, papers and other evidence,
which it is deemed unnecessary here to insert, and -then
proceeded as follows:
"Wher6upon the said plaintiff,'did then and there in" sist before the said court, that the said paper writings
,.' offeredin evidence as aforesaid, by the defendant, ought

C-auca
H

v.

HART.

SUPREMr, COURT U. S.
Cnuau

"nriot to be admitted and allowed to be given in evi-

v

on the said trial, in behalf of said
to the jury
" deace
defendants;
but the
taidjudges did then, declare and
deliv'er their opiniqon, that the same paper writings
"ought to be admitte in evidence to the jury."

H.P.A-'

"Whereupon the said counsel for the said defendai,
did then and there insist before the saidjudges, that the
"said seeral matters so produced, and given in evi"dence on the part of the said defendant as -afdresaid
"were sujficient, and ought to be admitted anil all6ved
"as sufficient evidence, to prove that the los of the
14 said brig and cargo, was by a peril within the exception
"nmade in the aforesaid policies respecting seizure by
" the Portuguesefor illicit trade, and therefore that the
" said Church ought to be barred of his aforesaid action,
"and thie said defendant acquitted thereof. And there.
"updn the said defendant, by his counsel, did then and
"there pray the siidjudges to admit and allow the said
"matters and proof, so produced and'given in evidence
"for the defendant aforesaid, to be sutficient evidence
"to bar the said Church of his action aforesaid.
"

" But to this the counsel of said 7ohn Barker Church,
"~jun. on behalf of said Church, did insist before the said
" court that the matters and evidence aforesaid, so produc.
"Cced and proved on the parto t the said defendant were not.
"sufficient, nor ought to be admitted or allowed to bar the
plaintiff of his action, and that it did not prove the lbss of
"the said brig and cargo, to be by a peril within the excep"tion contained in said policies, respecting seizure by
"the Portuguesefor illicit trade, but that the vidence
"on the part of the plaintiff, did prove the same loss
,to have happened through a peril for which the underwriters on said policies were liable, by the terms
"thereof.
11 And the said William Cushing, Esquire, did then
51 and there deliver his opinion to the jury aforesaid, in
" the words following, to wit:
"1 The first objection to this action is, that it is brought
"in the name of 7hn B. Church,jun. when the contract
"was not made with him, but with his father, Y7ohn R.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
c'Church. But from the evidence of Mr. Saamuil
Blage, it is plain the policy wai made for the son, in
pursuance of the express application and direction of
"the witness.. The liroperty of .-ship and cargo is
,proved to be in the plaintiff.
"The principal question is, whether the brig Aurora
c"and cargo (insured by these policies) Were seized by
1thf Portuguese for (or on account of) illicit trade ?
"'If-so seized, the insurer is not liable; if not seized
for illicit trade, tHe defeidant ihust- answer for the
"sums by him insured.
"The brig went to Brazil for the purpose of trade;
"firsi to 7aneiro, where, with leave, part of the cargo
"'was sold; then proceeded to Para. It is pretty well
" understood, that a trade there is illicit and prohibited,
"unless particular licence can be obtained; sometimes
"it is obtained, sometimes not; and in want of leave
"seizures have been made.
"It seems that the seizure and sequestration which
"9took place at Para,were on account of attempting to
"trade there. The sentence of the governor of Para
" appears to mre decisive as to this point, that there
"was an attempt to trade, and that was against the ef" fect of the Portuguese law referred to in the decree.
"It ig contended that this vessel was not within ihe
"Portuguese dominions, and therefore not in violation
"' of. any of their laws.
" It appears the vessel was ioVering on the coast of
", Para, and anchored upon that coast, and that the
" platitiff, with others from the vesseli-went on shpre in
" the boat among the inhabitants.
" It is said that this sentefice has no appearance of
"an admiralty decree; but there does not appear any
"other authority at Para,to condemn for illicit trade than
"that of the goVernor. The governor does undertake
"to decide, and I do not know that he had not authority,
" according to their modes of colony government, so to
"do. One things seems certain, that is, that the pro"perty was seized and sequestered and taken away, by

CHupca
V

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHURCH

v.

11UB33ART.

"the

governor's sentence, on account of prohibited

" trade; in part at least.

"AAs to a design against the country, it is said there
"were suspicions. lIt
does not seem probable that the
"government of Para,,could seriously think the coun"try endangered, 'y a few Americans coming with
"cargo for trade.
"I am therefore of opinion, that it falls within the
" meaning and true intent of the exceptions in the pol' licies, viz. " that the insurers should not be'liable
"for seizure by the Portuguese for illicit trade," and
"that you ought to find for the defendant."
" Whereupon the said counsel for the plaintiff, did
"then and there in behalf of the plaintiff, except as
"well to the said opinion of the said judges in relation
"to the said paper writings; as to the opinion of the
"said Cushing. delivered to the said jury," &c.
Stochton, for plaintiff in error, contended that the circuit court haderred, -st, on the general merits of the case ;
and-2d, in admitting improper evidence to go to the jurr.
1st. As to the merits. The exception in the policies is
of thd case of seizure for illicit trade, not of seizure for an
attehmptto trade. The latter case is within the policy and
is one of the risks which the underwriters have taken upon
themselves. Actual trade, and a consequent seizure th'erefor, must both concur, in order to protect the underwriters. The evidence stated in the record, if it proves any
thing, does not show that the seizure was for any act of
illicit trade. To make the most of it would be to say, that
it was a seizure on suspicion. But it, rather seems to be.
an act of violence, a marine trespass, not warranted even
by the law which the defendant has produced. It appears
in the record that the trade has been, generally speaking,
interdicted ever since the year 1591, and that thisfact was
known, to both -parties. E.vcry general history of the
country proves the general prohibition of the trade, hut
that it is sometimes permitted. The intent to trade is
not an'illicit trade. The real irport of the policy is this,
"we know the general prohibition of the trade, but that
-permission is sometimes granted. Go on with the voyage,

FEBRUARY, 180o4
try to get p~rmaission, but see thatyou do not trade without
leave ; if you do, it is not at our risk. Underwriters are
always presumed to know the nature of the voyage, and
the course of the trade. " In general," says Lord Mansfield, in Pelly v. Royal -Ex. Insurance Co. Park.42, 43,
(47.) "what is usually done. by such a ship in such a
" voyage, is understood to beirefeted to by every .policy,
" and to make a part df it, as milch as if it were express( ed." The same principle is recognized in Noble v.
Kennoway, Parh. (49.) 44.-Doug. 512..
No objection can be taken to the policy because it was
upon a voyage for a trade illicit by the laws of Portugal,
althiough a policy upon a trading voyage made illegal by
our own laws, might be vacated.-Park.268. (236.) Delenadav. l"Motteux.-Planchev. Fletcher,and Lever v. Fletcher.
The intention"to trade can neier be construed an actual
trading. The difference between the intent and the act, in
the case of deviation , is taken in Park. 359. (314.) Foster v. Wilmer, and Carterv. Royal Ex. Insurance Co.
If the intention could be taken for the act, the vessel
might have been seized by the Portuguese6n the very day
she left New-21orh, and the underwritef would be discharged.
The sentence does. not go on the grouna of illicit trade.
At most it only expresses a suspicion. Besides the vessel;'
was seized five leagues from the land, at anchor on the
high seas. The seizure was not justified by their own
laws. She was not within their territorial jurisdiction.
By the law of nations territorial jurisdiction cAn extend
only to the distance of cannon-shot firom the shore. Vattel,
B. 1, c. 23, §280. 289.-A vessel has a right to hover
on the coast. It is no cause o condemnation. It can, at
most, justify a seizure for the purpose of obtaining security that she willnot violate the laws of the country. The
law which is produced forbids the vessel to enter a port,
but does not uthorise a -seizure up n the open-4ea.Great-Britain,te greatest comfierciatnation in the wbrld,
has extended her r enue laws the whole length of the
law of nations, to preVent smuggling. But she authorise"
seizures of vessels, on y within the limits of her ports, oi

CHunox
H

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
C-uaca within two leagues of the coast; and then only for the purV.BBART.
pose of obtaining security; 4.qac. Ab. 543."
The reason thatj ,.sup'ercargo went on shore yas the
want of water ; and the evidence proves that the want was
real. For this purpose he had a right to go on shore, and
although he thereby placed-his person in fheir power, yet
that did not bring tle vessel into port.
The sentence is not evidence of the facts which it recites. It is conclusive only as to the very point .of the
judgment. Pake's Law of Evidence, 46, 47. It shows
on its . face that the seizure was made, not for an actual
trading, but on suspicion of an intention to trade.
2d. The circuit court erred in admitting the evidence
which was objected to.
1. It did not appear to be the sentence of a court having c6mpeteritjurisdiction. 4 Rob. 55. The Henrich and
Maria. "A legal sentence must be the result of legal
" proceedings, in a legitimate court, armed with compe"tent authority upon the subject matter; and upon the par"ties concerned ; a court which has the means of pursu"ing the proper inquiry and of enforcing its decisions."
The court may perhaps take judicial notice of the lroceedings of a court of admiralty, but this cannot apply to
the sentence of a governor. The circuit judge declared
the sentence to be evidence, because he did not know that
there was any other tribunal. But the jurisdiction of the
court oight to appear. The laws which are produced do
not show the authority of the governor to condemn.Peake, L. E. 47, 48.
2. But the laws themselves are not sufficientty authenticated. They are only certified by a secretary of state
with his sign manual and private seal. They ought at
least to be certified under the great seal. A private act of
this country must be proved by a sworn copy compared
with the roll. So of foreign laws. They must be proved
as facts, b -testimony in court. 1 P. Williams, 431.
Freenioultv. Dedire. Cowp. 174. _Mostyn v. Pabrigaq.
2 East. 260, 272. 273. Collet v. Lord Keith.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

201

It appears by the testimony in the record that the vessel
was not seized for an attempt to trade, but captured on
suspicion of being an enemy, or as a spy sent by the
French,
3. The sentence is not duly authenticated. Is asecretary
of state a proper certifying officer'of a ju4gment of a court
in the colonies ? To ascertain what ig a sufficient mode of
authentication, the principles of the common law must be
our guide., By that law there are only three modes. .1.'
Exemplification under the greai seal. 2. A sworn copy
provedc.b'ri person who has compared the copy with the
original . The certificate of an officer specially. uthorised adhoc,
It has not even the seal of the court. If the court had
,no seal, that fact ought to have been proved. Why was
it not certified under the great seal? One nation will take
notice of the national seal of another.- Why was n6t the
American cofisul sworn? Of what vydidity is the certifi.
cate, or the seal ofa consul ? Why have they not produced a sworn copy of the proceedings? An American consul is iot a certifying officer. The court can take no more
notice of his certificate, than of that of a private person.
There is no case to be found in a court of common law
where it has ever been received as evidence. Buller, N. P.
226, 227, 228, 229. 10 Co. 93, LeyfiekPs case. 9 Mod.
66, Anon. 1 Mod. I1', Greene v. Proude, 2 Show. 232.
Hug94s.v. Qornelius, 2 Lord Ragm, 893. Green v; Walker; Peake, L. E. 48.
Adams, for defendant.
From the papers which have been read to the court, and
from the statement of the case made by the gentleman who
opened the cause in behalf of the plaintiff in error, it becomes unnecessary to make any preliminary observations
to possess the court of the questions between -the parties
now to be decided. The verdict of the jury, and the sentence of thd court being in favour of the defendant, the
underwriter on the two policies, thejudgment, it is pre.;
sumed, will of course be affirmed, unless the objections
stated against it by the plaintiff in error should be deemed
"by this court sufficiently substantiated, and of such a condusive character as necessarily to requre a reversal. It
.'CC

Cauncs
V.

HuSBART.

202
CHunCH
v.
HUBBAxRT,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

is.therefore incumbent on us, only to meet the exceptions

taken by the'plaintiff's counsel against the judgment of the
circuit court ; which exceptions are two : 1st, against
the

constructi6ft given by the'circuit judge to the policies;
and 2d, against the evidence admitted for the defendant;
the one ofsubstaoce, the other of form. Theone involving the merits of the only question upon which the issue

of this litigation can depend, and the other only pointed
at the weight and authenticity of the evidence admitted
by the circuit court. The one founded on the position,
that the defendant has no good bar to the claim of the
plaintiff against him; the other resting on the basis, that
strong and unanswerable as his defence may be, the proof.
that suppoi-ts it was not clothed with that official solemnity which could alone entitle it to credit, and that it wanted
that most powerful of all tests of truth-a bit of sealingwax.
I shall ask the liberty of inverting the course of argugument adopted by the gentleman who opened the cause,
because in point of time the objection against the admission of the evidence naturally precedes the discussion on
its legal operation. He certainly was aware of this, and it
is presumable that he himself inverted the natural order of
his argument, only because he wished to reserve for the
last, the point upon which he placed his principal, perhaps
his only reliance for success. A similar motive however
must produce the contrary effect upon me, and induce me
to return into that direct road, that broad high-way, from
which lie deviated, only because the winding path gave
him a shorter passage to the term at which he was desirous
to arrive. For my own. part, though confident, as before
the decision of this court I ought to be, that the objectiolis against the evidence are not sd powerful as that gentleman's eloquence represented them, though persuaded
that this court will concur rather with the opinion of the
circuit court, than with that of the plaintiff's counsel,
even upon this point4 yet I will candidly confess that I
feel more sanguine upon the question to the merits, than
upon the question to the forms; for if the evidence can
but shew its face in the cause, we think it fmust require the
utmogt refinements of ingenuity to raise the shadow of a
doubt upon its operation.
The objection aginst the evidence divides itself into
two branches :

FEBRUARY, 1804.

203

1. Against the two Portugueselaws.
2. Against the sentence of condemnation by tha governor at Para.
Before I examine the reasons and authorities upon
which these papers are respectively 4ueitioned, I. must
make one remark, which will be alike applicable to the attacks upon both. All the argumenis by which they are
assailed, rest only upon the rules and not upon the principles of evidence. I do not mean to say that the rules of
evidence are not founded upon principles. I know them
to be founded upon the soundest principles ; but the operation of the rule which is positive, and, in some sort,
arbitrary, . is not always conformable to the principles
upon which it is founded. Thus written evidence is'in
its nature of superior weight to mere parol testimony,'for
verba volant, litera scriptainanet; words barely spoken
are fleeting, but when written become permanent. From
this principle isderived the rule that parol testimony shall
not controul the operation of a written instrument: yet it
often happens from various causes, that parol testimony is
stronger than written e'videfice, and in such cases it is the
practice of all courts to receive it in coutradicti6n to.the
general, rule. *Thus, as all the positive rules of evidence
are derived from some principle, so in their operation
they are always governed by this principle at once of reason and of humanity, that no man can be requiredto perform impossibilities. Hence all the positive rules and
gradations of evidence are subject to this exception, and
both in courts of law and of equity no party can be required to produce evidence of a higher order than he can
obtin." It cannot possibly be necessary to produce the
authiorities, with which the books teem, of cases in which
evidence of a lower order has been admitted, when the
higher evidence, appropriate to the cause, 'Was not accessible to the party. But if the principle itelf be recognized, I trust it will be in our power to shew that the
defendant comes within the rule of its application, and
that this testimony was the best which it was in his power
to obtain.
These observations will furnish an answer to the rules
and authorities which the gentleman adduced in support

C-URCAH
V.
HUBBART.

SUPREME -COURT 'IT. S.
Ckrunct
V.

of his objecti6ns, both against the laws, and against the
senitence of condemnation.

IJUDRART.

First as' to the laws.
We are told that foreign laws must be proved ; and
what ,the foreigri law"is; and the authorities alleged in
suliport of this assertion, .are, Cowp. 174. and 2 East,
260, 273.
This we are not at all disposed to deny; though reasons might be given why the rile ought not to be admitted, in its fullest latitude, in this country.
This -question is, however, quite immaterial to us in
the'present case; because we did adduce proof of these
foreign laWs, mad the only, point to settle is, whether it
was good and sufficient proof.
It is said that foeiga laws must be put on the footing
of private laws, and must be "duth-riticated, 1st, by an
exemplification under the great, seal; or, 2d, by a sworn
copy from the rolls..
To this we answer,
•'irst, That the rules for the proof of foreign laws,
ought not "tobe put upon 'he footing of private laws'; for
this plain reason, that every subject'can obtain, of right,
an exemplification under the great seal, or a s.yorn copy,
from the rolls, of a private act'of parliament. But it is
iot the practice of all foreign governments to issue exemplifications iider the great seal; or to keep their laws in
rolls of-parchment. It'is not the practice, for instance,
in Portugal, as is apparent frbm'these laws themselves..
The practice appears to be to register the laws in sundry
public offices, and one of them, the comptroller of the exchequer, 'is required to tend copies to the possessions
abroad ; but it does not appear that any subject, much less
any foreigner, can obtain copies of them by application to
any officer whatsoever. The first law is dated at Valladold, was made by a Aing of Spain, while Portugal was
iinder the dominion of that kingdom, and was a public
law. , To require, 'therefore, an exemplfi cdtion, or a copy from the rolls of this, would be as if. a party, in tlese

FEBRUARY, 18.04.

205

United States,'shouldl be called upon to produce an exemplification, under the great 'seal of England, or a copy
from the rolls of parliament, of a public act of parliament,
passed inthe reign of queen Elizab'eth, inorder to prove
it a law inthis country. A copy fom the rolls, therefore,
where there*are no rolls to copy ; an exemplification under the great seal of Portugal, of iecords in the chancery
of Spain, are. impossible things; a party can never be required to produce them. and the authentication of these
foreign laws, at least, cannot be put on a footing with that
of private statutes in GreatBritain.
Yet even: if the rules relative to private statutes were
applicable to the case, we should certainly come within the
exceptions which.have been allowed in the British courts.
The rule itself is founded rather on a quaint and artificial
process of reasoning, than upon a fair and liberal principle ; and when the object of a private statute is in any degree public, or is of a nature to be notorious, the English
judges do relax from the rigid muscle of the common law,
and receive the printed statute-book as evidence. 2 Bac.
Ab. 609, Gwillim's Edition, and the authorities .there
cited.
If the principles recognized in these authorities are just,
they apply eminently to this case. Here is a law, public
in its nature, known to all the world for these two centuries, and confessedly knowvn to both the parties in the present action. On principle, therefore, a printed copy
would be admissible; and if,by the reasoning of the En-.
glish judges, the printed statute-book derives authenticity
from the types of the king's printer, surely this copy of a
foreign law must be allowed to derive more authenticity
from the official certificate of so respectable an officer as a
consul.
But with all submission to the opiniofi of the court, I
contend, that under the circumstances of this case, the
certificate of the consul was the best evidende, which ii
the nature of the thing could be produced, of these laws.
To whom else couild the parties have applied? Even n
England, a copy -of public acts of parliament, from the
rolls, would not be furnished to individual applicants. In
Portugalthere is every reason to presume no such copy
could be obtaine.d. As it respects the first la, made by

CHURca
T.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHDRCn

V.

a king of Spain. two hundred years ago, it may be considered as demonstrated.

The jealousy of the country

with regard to any intercourse between foreigners and
their colonies, might, and probably would, have made it
dangerous for any foreigner to apply for a copy, under the
great seal, or with any extraordinary authentication, of
these laws. And after all, when obtained, would the
great seal of Portugal,or the signature of the chancellor
of Portugal,'have been so well known to this court as
the seal and signature of an officer of our own goverment residing there?
We are asked for an offce copy,. certified by an officer
entrusted ad hoc. But 1why is credit given to o ce copies ? Because the officer is publicly known; because
his business to keep the records is equally notorious, and
courts of justice will take notice' of it. . Surely this can
give no credit to the office copy of a Portuguese clerk or
secretary. Surely neither the name, nor office, nor trust,
nor duty of a scribe in the chancery at Lisbon, can be so
well known.to this court, as the consul, commissioned by
the'exacutive government of our own country,
'We are called upon for a sworn copy; but by whom
should the affidavit be. made? By the consul, said the
gentleman ;-And before whom " This he did not say,
but -it could be only before a Portuguese magistrate ;And who is to authenticate the magistrate's certificate of'
the oath? The consul. So that in he end the authenticity of the whole transaction must depend upon the consul's certificate. The magistrate, who administers oaths,
is a person of notoriety to his own government ; but to
make him equally known to the tribunals of foreign nations, requires, in general practice, the attestation of
some officer -ecognized by the law of nations. Such an
officer is a consul ; and where no public agent of a higher
rank from the same nation is resident, I. 6annot imagine
any attestation of the laws of one country, to the courts of
another, so well entitled to credit, as that of tht consul
from the nation to whose courts the attestation is to be
made.
I have observed that by the Portuguesepractice the
laws axe registered, and not enrolled. There is an express authority that a copy, attested by a notary public,

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
of an agreement registeredin Holland, may be given in
certificate is sufficient
evidence ; and• if a public notary's
.
to authenticate a registered agreement,' I see not why a
consul's certificate should not be equally well adapted
to authenticate a registered law. .. 12 Viner, 123.
Let me add, thht inthis country there are peculiar
reasons for unscrewing the most rigorous positive rules
for the forms of evidence, in these cases where transactions beyond seas are to be ascertained. The- intercourse-of European nations with one another is carried
on by a continual and almost daily interchange of mails.
In six weeks a communication and its return may be
accomplished from one extremity of Europeto the other.
Defect of forms in obtaining evideince may be repaired
within the term of a court in session, or at most from
one q6arterly term to another. An accident by the-loss
of papers transmitted by the post-offices seldom happens; and happening, can speedily be remedied.. The
delay and expense to the party is not necessarily of material importance to him, even if he is compelled to
renew an experiment to obtain papers properly authenticated. The same inflexibility of rule mustinthe nature
of things, much more powerfully check. and retard the
pace ofjustice in this country. There is no regular and
periodical communication of mails ; 'for instance, between the United States and Portugal. Instructions to
get evidence can be sent, and answers received only by
the occasional conveyance of commercial navigation.Six months, on an average, is the shortest period of
time within which answers to letters can be received.
If any of the accidents of the seas happen to the orders
transmitted, or to the documents returned, the time requisite to receive them is more than doubled. This
court, the court of final retort.for most cases iii which
these rules of evidence can apply to the matter in dispute, sits but once a year. It is remote from many of
the cities where. causes requiring evidence from abroad
must in general arise. ,If an end oflitigation is an object
of importance to the public welfare ; if it be of *the
greatest interest to all individual suitors, every induce-.
ment, public and private, must combine to prescribe
rules offacility, and not rules of rigour for the merefor-malities of evidence to be brought from beyond the At-

Cnuaon
V.

HUBBAR'T-

208
CauncV.

HA

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

lantic. If then the. unbending maxims of the commxonaw really required for foreign laws a-different authenti.
cation than the certificate of a c6nsul, there would still
be the most cogent reasons for admitting it as sufficient
in this country.
The same reasons apply still more forcibly to the'
sentence of the Governor of Para.
How is it possible to require that a suitor should pro.
duce,,an exemplification, a sworn copy, or an offce copy,
of a document, *hen he is forbidden, on pain of death
and confiscation, to set his foot in the country where
alone those modes of authentication could be obtained?
The practice of the Portuguesegovernment appears. upon
the face of these papers. The Gove'rnor transmits to
the Secretary of State at Lisbon the original sentence of
condemnation, with the proceedings upon which it was
founded.. And the Secretary of State, who remains in
possession of these original papers, furnishes, under his
hand and seal, a copy of them to the public agent 6f the
nation to which the condemned vessel and cargo belong.
ed. If this evidence is not of so high a nature as an
.exemplification under the broad seal, it derives, from "
the high and important station of the attesting officer,
a higher credit than a mere'office'copy, or even than a
copy attested by the affidavit of an obscure individual.
3 Dallas, 19 to 42. Bingham v. Cabot.
the laws, therefore, and the sentence of the Governor,
are authenticated by the best evidence which, in the
nature of things, was attainable by the party ; and if
this Court should be of opinion that it 'ought to have
been rejected, I should be altogether at-a loss t6 instruct
my .client, where or how to apply for better, unless
the Court would themselves condescend to give their
directions ; the methods suggested by the plaintiff's
counsel being altogether impracticable.
'But it is said the sentence was not of a court of competent jurisdiction upon the subject matter; and we are
called upon to prove the jurisdiction of the court.
This objection was made by the gentleman before he
questioned the evidence as to the laws; and he appealed

FEBRUARY, 1804.
to the laws themselves to support it. He said the laws
themselves speak of judges ; that this court will not
presume the jurisdiction of the governor of a province ;
and that it -is not like a court of admiralty, which is a
court for all the world.
But, first. The laws do, in many places give, by necessary implication, and in express words, jurisdiction
to the governor.
Secondly. The second law does speak of otherjudges;
but they are appointed for the trial of the governors
themselves, and of Portuguesesubjects offending against
the laws, and not of foreigners. Indeed most of the
penalties of the second law are pointed against the subjects of Portugalengaging in or conniving at the forbidden traffic, as those of thefii-st law are chiefly directed
against the foreigner. And,
Thirdly. The comparison between the .governor's
court and a court of admiralty, is inapplicable, for the
very reason which the gentleman suggests. A court of
admiralty is a court for all nations; and no such court
can exist, where all nations but one are excluded upon
the most vindictive *penalties. The gentleman's arguments against the colonial jurisdiction of a governor
might be of weight, addressed to the court of Lisbon,
to persuade them to open the ports of their colonies to all
the world, and establish courts of admiralty in the
ports of Brazil; but they cannot take from the governor
the jurisdiction given by the laws, and further recognized by the attestation of the Portuguese secretary of
state to the papers transmitted by him.
2. Ishall now return to the first point of the gentle.
man's argument, and considering the evidence as duly
authenticated, examine his objections against the opin.
ion of the cirouit judge, relative to the construction of
the policies.
The opinion of the judge was, that the loss came
within the exceptions in the policies, 'and therefore that
the underwriter was not liable.

Cmuncit
v

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHurnc
v.

HURSART.

The plaintiff by his counsel, says that the loss was
not within the exceptions, and that therefore the underwriter was liable.
The question, therefore, is a question of construction
pon-the true intent and meaning of the exceptions contained in the policies ; and" it will be proper to state the
words in which the exceptions are couched, and then
apply to them the facts in evidence, and the proper rules
of construction adopted in similar cases.
* The words in one policy are,
"

1. " The insurers are not liable for seizure by the
Portuguese for Illicit trade."
In the other,

2. "NN. B. The insurers do not take the ris of illi"cit trade with the Pbrtuguese."
In both instances the words are within the body of
the policy, and in their effect are in the nature of a warranty quoadhoc. The meaning appears to be exactly
the same in both instances, and had the words been,
" warrantedagainstseizure by the Portuguesefor illicit
" trade," their force and meaning would have been exactly the same.
If there can be a reasonable doubt as to the construction of these words, we must recur to the ordinary
rules of construction, which govern the cases of warranties and exceptions. There is no rule more universally known than that, as for what the underwriter
takes upon him in the policy, a large and liberal construction must be given to his words, to favour the assured, so for what is excepted out of the policy, or
warranted by the assured, a rigorous and strict construction must be given, to favour the underwriter;
upon the reasonable and reciprocal principle, that words
introduced for the benefit of either party shall receive
the construction most favourable to the interest of that
party. Hence, if the meaning of these words were in
either case equivocal, that construction which would be

FEBRUARY, 1804.

211

most favourable to the underwriter, for whose benefit
they were introduced, ought to prevail.

C-wufteu
V.

Hubs,&ILT.

I apprehend, however, that there will be no occasion
for resorting to this rule of construction. To me the
meaning of the parties appears so obvious in the expressions used, that they 'are susceptible only of one
construction.

It -must be remembered, that this was professed a
voyage for the purpose of illicit trade.' The v6yage
itself was illegal, according to the Portugueselaws, aid
known to be so by both parties. The vessel, thodgh
bound to two Portugueseports, was cleared odt for the
ape of Good Hope, a deception iot intended t6 be
practised on the underwriters, bdt on the Portuguee,
and proving, to demonstratio'n, the full knowledge on
the part of the plaintiff, that the mere. act of 'going to
Brazil, was a violation of the Portuguese -trade laws,
subjecting his vessel and cargo -toseizure and confiscation. Indeed, the gentleman who opened the cause-for
the plaintiff, in one part of his argument admitted, and
strenuously urged this knowledge of the illegalityof the
voyage, and most' ingeniously .attempted to draw froni
it a deduction in favour of Mr. Church's claim. I shall
notice this hereafter;' at present I shall only remtr ,
that the directly opposite inference appears to .me "the
true one. It appears by the papers that the instructions
to Mr. Blagge, in Boston, the agent who effected the
insurance, were to obtain it 'at the Marine Insurance
O0ce in preference. Yet the insurance was not effected
ere, nor at the other incorporated offie then existing
in'Boston. They never make insurance-of any kind on
voyages known to be illegal. Mr. Church's agent therefore, could obtain insurance only at the private offices of
individual underwriters, and that on the express condi.
tion that they would take no risk for illicit trade, nor answer for seizure on that account.
The- exception therefore, is not, and cou4 not be
against illicit trade; for this was intended; and it would
have been absurd to warrant against what was the sole
object of the voyage. But this was a risque which the
would not assume ; and their language in

-mderwiters

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Csutol

the policy is, we will insure you against the usual risks

HUBBART

the Cape of Good Hope, you shall go to one or two ports

v.

u

of an ordinary voyage, and although you clear out for

of Brazil; but as your voyage, by the laws of that
country is illegal, we will bear none of the perils which
this circumstance may lead you into with the Portuguese. Your profits from the voyage may be enormous;
but you may get into trouble, and those chances you
must take entirely upon yourself.
The language in the exceptions is conformable to this
idea. It refers entirely, not to the act of the party,
but to the acts of the Portuguese. It excepts, not
against the illicit trade itself, but against seizure on that
account; and against the ris4i with which it must be
,attended,
So that if there had been no sentence of condemnation, but merely an order for seizure, on account of illicit trade, by the governor of Para, the underwriters
would have been discharged. There is some analogy
between. this exception and an ordinary warranty of
neutrality; but this is a much stronger case. To falsify,
a warranty of neutrality, the sentence of a court or admiralty is necessary, because that alone can decide the
question of neutral or not. But a warranty against de.
"tentionfor not being neutral, or against capture as enemy's property, would resemble this; and such a warranty would undoubtedly discharge the underWriters, from
the moment of the detention or capture on that account,
without needing the sentence of a court of admiralty
on the question of prize or not.
The gentleman, in the principal part of his argument
on this point, urged, however, that the exception was
not against the risk of illicit trade, not against seizure
for illicit trade, but against illicit trade itself; that is,
against the sole object of the voyage. He says the
language of the underwriters is, go and get permission
to trade if you c.m ; but take care not to trade without
permission, and he has laid great stress upon the depositions, to shew that all nations do trade there with permission. But the whol. weight of this reasoning rests
upon the idea, that the permission to trade, by the gov-

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

213

ernorwould have made the trade legal, and that the
plaintig did not intend to trade illegally.
This contradicts the whole tenor of the gentleman's
argument, founded upon the known illegality of the
trade. It contradicts the words of both exceptions
which explicitly refer, not to the trade, but to its perils,
and it contradicts the whole tenor of the testimony, as
well as what is known, and what I shall prove, thatpermission could not make the trade legitimate.
We are told, however, that the voyage alone could not
be within the policy, because it was at and from Newror to one or two Portugueseports in Brazil; 'and authorities have been cited to shew that underwriters are
bound to know the course of the trade.

-

The voyage alone was not without the policy, in respect
to 'all the perils undertaken ; but it was without the policy
ii respect to the perils excluded by the exception. Thus
although the vessel was cleared out for the Cape of Good
Hope, and the course from Rio Yajeiro to Parawas as
wide as possible from that of such a destination, -yet it was
within the policy, and the underwriters could nothave discharged themselves on the ground of deviation. Thus far
they were bound to know the course of the trade; and
they did know it, for they expressly declared they would
take no risk arising from the peculiar character of the trade
on which the vessel was bound. As to the authorities
which the gentleman has read to shew that no nation takes
notice of the revenue laws of another, and that underwriters may be bound by insurance on a trade illicit by the
laws of the country where it is carriea on, I shall not disr
pute them ; but they seem altogether inapplicable. The
diff..rence between the case of Lever v. Fletcher and ours,
is, that there the underwriters had not thrown the risk-of
illicit trade out of the policy by an express exception. In
ours they have. Had our policies been without this exception, undoubtedly the underwriters must, and would,
have paid far this loss. But can any one imagine that if
in that case of Lever v. Fletcher the words of our exception had been in the policy, LordMansfleld would ha-e
told thejury that the underwriter might be liable for arisk
of illicit trade, which they had, in so many words, excluded?

Ciwaca
v.

HUBBART.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHU~cH
HUBAT.

It is said that all nations do trade with permission; and
to this I have replied that even such permission does not
legitimate the trade. This is proved by the deposition of
one of the plaintiff's witnesses, who testifies "that Wihen
vessels go into Rio aneiro, belonging to foreigners, they
allege a pretence of want of repairs, want of water, or
something of that kind, on representing whichthey obtain
leave to sell part of the cargo for repairs, and to remain a
c"rtain time, usually 20 days, -and then by mahingfresents to the ofcers they are not prevented from selling the
whole, but without those presents they would probably be
informed against. Such trade is a prohibifWd trade, but it
is frequently done without a bribe."
From this process, which is confirmed by historical testimony, it is apparent that the Portuguese governors have
no authority to license the trade. The same thing is equally clear from the most ancient of these laws.
The principles of the Spanish and Portuguese governments have alWayo, from the earliest periods of their colonial establishments, been founded on this total exclusion
of strangers. In the autumn of the year 1604, a treaty of
peace was concluded between Philip the 3d of Spain, and
fames the 1st of England. These two nations had, before that time, been, for many years at war, and just then
their political interests attracted them towards a close alliance together. In the negotiations' for the peace this
jealousy of the Spaniards against any commercial intercourse between foreigners andtheir colonies formed one of
the points upon which the greatest difficulties occurred.Spain insisted, not only that British subjects should be excluded from all trade to the Indies, but that lames should
expressly prohibit them from engaging in such trade by his
royal proclamation. This the British government peremptorily refused. The parties were for some time on the point
of breaking off at this very knot; and they finally could
meet on no other terms than those of total silence on the
subject. Spain therefore, as a substitute for negotiation,
immediately afterwar's issued this decree, which has never
since been repealed; and when Portugal,some forty years
afterwards, asserted and maintained her independence, she
adopted, and has ever since practised on, the same law.
But in times when the mother country has been at war,
and unable to §uperintend, with the usual keenness of ob-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

215

C~uuc,
servation, the conduct of the colonial governors; when
she islunable from the obstructions in her navigation, to Hun.
furnish the colonies with the supplies they are accustomed
to receive from her in peaceable times; when the demand
for these suppfies swells the prices of articles to exorbitant
rates, and the governors are at once assailed by the impulse of opportunity, of necessity, and of temptation, they
have always occasionfilly yielded to the force of those inducements, and in various modes have sacrificed the severity of official duty to the sweets of profitable corruption. They shut their eyes and open their palms. They
connive atthe trade, and secure to themselves a large portion '6f its advantages. But the modes of transacting this
business are themselves the most decisive proofs of its illegality. To shew this, ,nd as a comment upon the depositions which have been read in this case, I must ask permission to read a -short passage from 6 Raynal, Riet. of
the Indies, 326.
"The illicit trade of )famaica was carried on in a very
"simple manner. An English vessel pretended to be in
"want of water, wood or provisions; that her mast was
"broken, or that she had sprung a leak which could not be
"discovered or stopped without unloading. Th e govern"or permitted the ship to come into the harbour to refit.
But for form's sake, and to exculpate himself to his cour,
"he ordered a seal to be affixed to the door of the ware"house where the goods were deposited; while another
"door was left unsealed, through which the merchandize
"that was exchanged in this trade was carried in and out
"by stealth. When the whole transaction was ended, the
" stranger, who was always in want of money, requested
" that he might be permitted to sell as much as would pay
" his charges, and it would have been too cruel to refuse
"this permission. It was necessary that the governor, or
-" his agents, might safely dispose in public of what they
"had previously bought in secret; as it would always be
"taken for granted that what they sold could be no other
"than the goods that were allowed to be bought.
"1In this manner were the greatest cargoes diposed of."
Thus we see that the modes ofproc'edure in these cases
are uniform, and hence we may duly estimate the real secret both of Mr. Church's, and Captain Barher'swant of

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHURCG

V.

HURZART.

water and of wood. The fuel, of which they stood in
need, was the produce, not of the forests, but of the
mines. The thirst they suffered was the thirst of gold;
and as the clown in the play says that Carolus must be the
latin for one and twenty shillings, so here, as from time
immemorial, want of wood and water, on the coast of
Brazil, is the Portuguescfor want of money.
. The fact therefore that foreigners do sometimes trade in
Brazil can be of little avail to the plaintiff's cause. Truly
they do trade; at grieat hazard, and sometimes with great
success. But as Mr. Church took the chance ofthis success upon himself, so he must be" content to beqr the con'sequences of its hazards, it being expressly so stipulated
in the contract with the underwriters.
His counsel, however, has endeavoured to assist him
with another distinction between trade, and an attempt to
trade. There is, says he, no exception in the policies against an attempt to trade; now here was no actual trading; for the seizure and confiscation took place before
that could be accomplished.
If this be a solid distinction, and can bear at ail upon
this cause, it is very certain that the words of the exceptions in both the policies were very insignificant and immaterial, both to Mr. Church and to the nderwriters.
If the perils which they so cautiously excluded from the
policy were only such as could arise after actual trading,
after bargain and sale of the cargo, the exceptions themselves were not worth the ink with which they were written. The only risk of the trade, the only peril of seizure for the trade, to which Mr. Church could possibly be
exposed, was before he could effect his sales. Could he
once have got over the danger of going to the port, and
of landing his goods, there was no danger of any subse,
quent seizure for illicit trade. To say, therefore, that an
attempt' to trade is not within the exceptions, is to say that
the exceptions meant nothing at all ; that they were precautions against misfortunes which could never happen ;
anxious guards against impossible contingencies ; it is to
remove the railing of security from the borders of the
precipice which needs it, to the middle of a plain where it
can have no use. Strange indeed must be the construction which supposes parties so keen to penetrate, and

FEBRUARY, 1804.

217

fence themselves against a peril which couldnot befall, and
so blind to the foresight of the very thing that did happen.
and was most likely to happen. It is the attempt to trade,
which constitutes the offence punishable with seizure and
confiscation. When the trade is once effected, the danger
is removed ; the governor's connivance is secured ; the
laws are soundly slumbering under the specific opiate of
corruption, and the governor, instead of s.eizing the property, is satisfied with partaking of its proceeds.
It is then manifest that the- voyage itself, especially
when accompanied with the actual landing of persons from
the vessel, constitutes the illicit trade. So it is there understood, and so it is understood by the trade laws of our
own, and of all other countries. The gentleman has taken the definition of smuggling from the English law-*
books, and has argued as if all illicit trade were synonimous with it. Smuggling is indeed said to be the landing
the British
or running of goods contrary to law; but iii
revenue laws, and our own, there are many acts of illicit
trade which subject to seizure and confiscation without the
landing of the goods. Laws U. S. vol. 4.p. 425. § 84.,.
p. *439. § 103.
The gentleman, to illustrate his distinction between an
attem,t to trade, and actualtrade, compared it to the case
of deviation, and has read an authority, Park 359, 361.
) to shew that an intended deviation, never
(
carried into effect, does not vacate a policy, though an actual deviation does. But deviation consists of a single
fact and the intent can never be taken for the thing..Trading consists of a great variety of acts, each of which
constitutes part of the thing. Navigation is trade; fishery
is trade; bargain and sale of goods is trade, and the attempt to accomplish this, in the revenue and colonial laws
of all countries, is equivalent to the last act of bargain
and sale.
The intent to deviate is so. totally distinct from its accomplishment, that there can be no such thing as an attempt at deviation. As to trade, carrying goods from one
place to another, is as much an act of trade as selling the
goods carried. We say of a ship that she is a London or
an 1zdian trader. An important branch of our business
is the carrying trade. The word itself, like many others,
r'e

cHulC,

AT.
.Ru

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CiuRcH

V.

HUS AI'.

has various meanings, and must be understood in the sense

dictated by tie subject matter to which it relates. Thus,
by the Portuguese laws, going to Brazil for the purpose'
of trade, is'itself illicit trade ; as by our collection laws, a
false entry of goods for the benefit*of a drawback, or an
linportation of beer or spirits in casks or vessels different
from those prescribed by law, would be acts of illicit trade
in o'ur own country.
The second ground, upon which the gentleman alleges
that the loss. was. within the policy, is, that this was not a
legalseizure for illicit trade ; but a mere marine trespasi ;
a violentou'trageous trespass committed by the governor.
This,.he s'ays, appears, 1. From the testimony, and 2.
Upon the face Of the sentence.
If the meaning of the exceptions be such as I have contended, and as their express words import, this question
might fairly be laid out of the case. If the exceptions'
were meant against seizure, and the rish of illicit trade,
the only fact the underwriters cai be required to establish,
is, that the property was seized for illicit trade. Whether the seziure was legal cr not, is not for them to prove,
as Mr. Chureh reserved that peril for himself. Let us,
however, examine whether, either from the testimony or
from the sentence, it was so outrageous a proceeding on
the part of the governor of Para. That it was, on the
contrary, conformable both to the law of nations niid to
the Portugueselawg, will, I think, not be very difficult to
prove.

It is said that the testimony proves that the vessel was
at anchor five leagues from the shore. That by the law of
nations, cannon shot is the boundary of territorial jurisdiction. And therefore, that the governor of Para
had no authority to seize and condemn the vessel and
cargo.

First as to the fact. It will be found upon examining
and comparing the depositions, that they were manifestly
d rnu n up with a view to taking this ground. The distance and de bearings from Cape Baxos, the extreme
south and east point of land at which the Bay of Para
pours into the Atlantic, is laid down in all the depositions
with most minute attention, and three depositios re-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

219

peat not only the distance at which the vessels lay from Cimmcu
.
that Cape, but als9 the exact distance northward of it
by a meridian lini drawn due east and west. "Captain k
Shaler,. h6wever, only undertakes to say the distance
from Cape Baxos was.four or five leagues, and he can.
didly confesses that, at the time, both he and captain
Barher did tall the place where they were anchored the
Bay of Para. Now it ii very apparent from their geographical bearing, so precisely laid down,which was west
and by north, about four or five leagues distant, and only
two miles north, that they called it.by its right name, or
that they were at least within a Bay.
Thus then stands the fact. They were about four or
five leagues from Cape Baxos, and within the Bay.
Secondly, as to the law. The gentleman read a passage from Vattel, to shew that cannon shot from the
coast is by the law of nations the utmost hound of territorial jurisdiction. B. 1..§ 289.
This passage is evidently restricted to the extent to
which the rights of a-neutral territory extend in time of
war. The rule is apparently laid down for the sake of
the inference from it, that a belligerent vessel cannot be
taken under the cannon of a neutral fortress. It is a
very indefinite rule indeed, even for the purpose to which
it extends, for it makes the extent of a nation's territory
depend upon the weight of metal, or projectile force of
her cannon. It is a right which must resolve itself into
power; and comes to this, that territory extends as far
as it can be made to be respected.
But this principle does not apply to the right of a nation to cause her revenue and colonial laws to be respected. Here all nations do assume at least a greater extent
than cannon shot ; and other passages from Vattel shew
the distinctions which are acknowledged on this point.
B. 1. §287, 288. It will also be remarked, that the territorial rights of a nation are extended in the utmost latitude to Bays. Thus then Mr. Church's vessel "vas
completely within the territorial jurisdiction of Brazil.
But the gentleman read an authority from 4 Bac.
Ab.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHuRcH
HUBRART.

543, upon smuggling.

The British revenue laws, says

he, go as far as the law of nations will, permit, and they

extend tho right of boarding smugglers only to two
leagues.
Instead of appealing to Bacon's Abridgement, and
British laws, I prefer looking into our own statute-book,
and tike there the measure which our own government
has asserted for the extent of our jurisdiction. Laws U.
S. vol. 4. p. 320. § 25, 26, 27. & p. 437. § 99. Here we
see the principles are assumed of exercising this jurisdictionfour leagues from the coast, and at indefinite distances within Bays. All this is perfectly conformable
to the law ,f nations. But it proves that the Aurora,
when at anchor within the Bay of Para,and four or five
leagues from Ca-e Baxos, was completely within the territorial jurisdiction of the governor of Para.
I have here said nothing of Mr. Church's going on
shore for purposes of trade, nor of the imprudent conduct of the people with whom he was associated, which
probably occasioned the exercise of the governor's authority.

Either of these facts, however, would have warranted the governor in seizing the vessels, even if they had
not been within his territorial jurisdiction. Mr. Church's
going on shore was, under these laws, an a.tct of hostility, which undoubtedly gave the governor a right to
seize the vessel in which he came, as well as his person.
But a much more offensive act of hostility was conimitted by the vessel, in company with which Mr. Church's
vessel was. For it appears from the testimony that they
had forced a Portuguese schooner, in the Bay, to board
them, by firing two guns successively to bring her to ;
and.had detained the master of that schooner on board
their own vessel, because they wanted a pilot. The
people in the Portuguese schooner were excessively
alarmed; nor is it surprising they should be. 'They
immediately went into port, and doutless complained
of the usage they had received. Now I ask what sort
of laws they would be which, under such circumstances,
should deny to the government of a country the right
to touch a vessel thus conducting, because she is an-

FEBRUARY, 1804.
chored four or five leagues distant from the shore.
cannot dwell upon this argument.

221

I

The governor of

Para knew of no sxich laws. The next day he sent
three armed gun-boats, which took possession of both
the. vessels. And far from seeing any thing outrageous
in'this procedure, I think the governor would have been
guilty of a high breach of duty had he done otherwise.
But Mr. Church really wanted water and had a right
to go on shore to procure it.. After the deposition of
Van Voorhies, with the commentary of Raynal, it is
scarcely possible to hear this allegation without a smile.
It is, however, very conclusively answered by the
governor's "sentence, and I shall notice it in examining
the objections to that. The court will need no argu.
ment to shew that if Mr. Church wanted water, it was
his own fault,' and in consequence of his own purpose.
But further, the testimony is express that he went for
trade as well as for water, and this alone made him
liable to the loss of his vessel and cargo.
But the testimony shews the seizure was on account
of their being French spies.
When these vressels and their force was known there
could be very little occasion to fear them as enemies.But I have no doubt questioiis of the kind were put to
the witnesses as they state in their depositions; and the
reason for those questions is explained by that imprudent
firing and forcing of the Portuguese schooner to boar&
them, which I have before noticed. It was very natural
that the people of the Portuguese gchooner should be
alarmed; and, on going ashore, that they should communicate their alarms, whi6h would of course be immediately spread with exaggeration. Such acts of direct
and violent hostility within the bay, might, and in all
probability would, be imputed to French cruizers, and
not to American traders; to a nation with which Portu.
gal was at war, and not to a people with whom she was
at peace. Hence suspicions probably at first existed
which led to the examination of the witnesses on those
questions. But when the truth was discovered, the
governor gives the real reasons for his decision.

CHURCH
.H
!2DAv"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CRUCH
V.
H1r8BAUT.

Thus much, to justify the governor's sentence, from
the testimony ; upon which I shall conclude with -one
more observation. It is extremely probable that this
firitig of guns, and the violence done to a Portuguese
schooner was the foundation of all the severity used towards Mr. Church, his companions and their, property.
When he landed in the evening, most probably the people of the Portuguese schooner had got in before him.
They had doubtless entered their complaint, and represented the detention of their captain on board the American vessel. The offence was irritating to the highest
degree. It must,- in any civilized country, have alarmed the sympathies and roused the resentments of the
people. It was one of those cases which call in a voice
of thunder upon the ruling power of a country to exercise with firmness and rigour, all its force for the protection of the laws, and the personal sedurity of the subject.
Let us, but for a moment, suppose one of our own coasting vessels to go into a harbour of Chesapeake or Delaware
bay with intelligence that she had been forcibly brought
to, and her master taken from her, by a vessel at anchor
within four or five leagues of the shore. Is there a
gVvernor of one of these states, who, upon such a representation made to him, would not feel it his duty to
use the strongest arm of the law to protect his fellowcitizens, and to punish the outrage ? Surely not. He
would immediately send an armed force and take possession of the vessel; nd if upon the examination it
should appear that the vessel itself came for the purpose
of prohibited trade, in the name of common sense and
common justice, what indulgence could the supercargo
or crew of such a vessel expect at the hands of the public officers of the country. If
In the corrupted curr~nts of this world
Offence's gilded hand can shove by justice,
she must, in truth, gild her hand, and not arm it with
steel. Had the Governor of Parabeen ever so much
disposed to grant Mr. Church the permission to'trade,
he could not have iiidulged his inclination after what had
taken place.
The sentence itself seems also to carry its own justi-

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
fication with it. The order and sentence condemn the
property on account of their having ]ut into a port of
the establishment ; and of their having incurred the
transgression of the decree of the 18th March, 1605.
When we apply the facts in evidence to the law of
18th MAfarch, 1605, we find that Mr. Church and its
property had actually incurred these penalties. They
certainly had put into a port of Brazil; and for trading
purposes. They had even traded at Rio yaneiro; and
although that was to a small amount, and with permission, the governor of Para,comparing their traffic there
under pretence of distress wtth their conduct afterwards
in coming within his own pro~ince, might justly recur
to that former act as connedted'with the present one in
constituting the offence against the law.
But the sentence goes further. It states the reasons
upon which it is founded. It- recites the allegations of
the captain -in his defence, and assigns the reasons of
the court for disbelieving them. It notices in a special
manner the pretence of wanting water, and very conclusively disproves it.
First, because they were only 34 days from Rio
_faneiro ; and had suffered no want of water, in a voyage
of double that time from New-York to that place. The
reason is certainly logical in substance, if not in form.
If they were supplied with water for more than 60 days
from New-21orh, why were they not supplied for an equal
length of time from Rio Vaneiro P No accident being
even pretended for the failure of their supply.
Secondly, because they had neglected to supply themselves, as they might have done, at various places along
the coast.
Thirdly, because they had, at their first landing, alleged a wish to traffic and not to obtain water.
.Fourthly, because they had alleged that the vessel had
sprung a leak, which upon regular examination of the
ship had proved not to be the case.

cHniurC
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CRcwC i
HUBAuT.

Fifthly, because they were steering their course wide
from the pretended destination of their voyage, and had
to sail for the trade winds, which they would
have wanted for that destination.

Sneglected

Sixtly, because they must be considered as accessary
to the hostile acts of tle vessel with which they were in
comnany ; against which vessel the proofs were deci-

sive.

And,

Seventhly, because these false allegations were themselves a proof that the person who made them was not
ignorant of the laws he had violated.
Far from considering this sentence, therefore, as an
outrageous act, I cannot avoid expressing the opinion,
that it indicates a sound judgment, a sincere respect for
the rights of humanity and of innocence, and a punctilious adherence to the law of nations, and the duties of
hospitality. Certain it is that th6 governor's reasoning
led him to a conclusion which was just in fact; for captain Shaler tells us that on his examination he denied
that trade was intended, and he also tells us that trade
was intended. The governor, therefore, had not learnt
the truth from him ; but he had discovered it by just
deductions from fair premises, though in direct opposition to Shaler'r declaration.
The regard for the rights of humanity and the duties
of hospitality is apparent from the anxious care with
which the governor details his reasons for believing
that the want of water was falsely alleged-mere pretence-mere affectation ; for this solicitude to disprove
thefact, is the strongest implication that had he believed
the want of water real, and unintentional, he would not
have seized the vessel. The variance between the professed destination of the vessel and the course of her navigation, would be strong presumptive proof in any judicial court. The company kept by the two vessels together, and the landing of the two parties from them in
the same boat, and at one and the same time, would,
upon the principles of the common law itselfi have made
each party a principal to the hostile and illegal acts of
the other. And what r a'soning can be better founded

FEBRUARY, 1804.
than thit the allegation of falsehood proves the knowledge, #ie consciousness of illegal conduct in the persona
guilty of it. The order of seizure therefore contains
charge, of unlawful acts, hnowing them to be unlawfjui)
and even in our own country, wher the freedom of our
citizens requires that every accusation should be direc;
precise, and pointed, I know of no one essential.ingrc
dient of indictment which is not contained in this order
of seizure by the governor of Para. The sentence of
condemnation is founded upon it, and adopts its conclusions. It has therefore all the material characteristics of a legal condemnation for iicitrade; and must
be a decisive bar against Mr. Church's claim of indemnity upon these policies.
I have now gone through" thd examination of the
grounds upon which the exceptions of the plaintiff against
the judgment of the Circuit Court were attempted to L~e
supported by his counsel. It has been my endeavour
to shew that the evidence was properly admitted, an.
that its operation -was justly held conclusive against his
demand in this action. I shall not detain the court with
any further argument, but leave the remainder of my
client's ddfence to the management of abler hands.
lason, on the same side.
It is objected that this is the sentence of the governor, and it does not appear that he had admiralty ju.
risdiction. But the record produced does not state the
condemnation of the vessel to have been made by the
governor, but by a court. The governor only ordered
the vessel to be seized, the captain and crew imprisoned,'
and their papers to be sent to the House of Juatice.,
But the condemnation begins with these words-" It is
"hereby determined by the Court," &c. and goes on,
"Therefore THEY declare him to Yiave incurred" &c.
Itis admitted that the trade is illegal. A permission
obtained by bribery and corruption cannot make it lawful.'
But it is said that two things must concur to bring
the case within the exception to the policy-an act.Of.
and a seizure for that cause.
trading,
t

Cuunca
H,.ART

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ncuaea
V.

HU

T.

Why should the utiderwriters insure against the risk
te
to trade, and yet refuse to insure bgafnst
f attempting
a seizure for actual. trade, when the whole risk of tihe
insured was in the attempt. For after the wated and the
wood are gone, and the vessel, in due form, sprung
a ak ; when the goods are landed, and one of the doors
ot he warehouse sealed, and the other left open, allirisk"
is past; for although the trade does not become lawful,
yet a security is gained against.prosecution."
o

It is objected that the Portuguese had no right, by
the law of nations, to legislate respecting vessels in the
situation in which this vessel was seized.
But every nation has a right to appropriate to her
own use, a portion of the sea about her shores ; and to
legislate respecting vessels coming within that line. A
vessel, coming within the line, contrary (o the municipal
laws of the country, may lawfully be seized. Vattel. B.
1. § 287,
The- insurers did not take the risk of illicit trade;
that is, of the unlawfulness of the trade. The word
trade cannot be confined to the act of landing, or of selling the goods, but must mean the general course of the
trade. And if any risk attefided the attempt toand,
or sell the goods, it was certainly one of the _risks of
the trade, and clearly within the letter of the exception.
But'if the evidence respexthbg the laws of Portugal,
and the sentence ought fo have been rejected, still
enough remains to shew that'the loss is within the ex'Ception. For it is admitted that the trade. which the
voyage was intended to effect, was illicit; the testimony
shews that the. vessel was seized by the Portuguese, and
the jury had right to infer, that the seizure was on accolpnt bf such illicit traJe.
Martin;
M
in reply, made two points.
Ist. TFhat the evidence was not admissible.
.2d. That, if admissible, it did .not warrant the in*strU-bon given by the judge to the jury.
1st. As to the admissibility of the evidence.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

2-27"

Foreign laws must be proved as friyate acts of parmmei . Public laws are• permitted to be read from
"ihe statute-bo6k, not because that is evidence, for no
evidence is necessary, as the judges are presumed to
know the law, but the statute-book is permitted wo be
read, 'to refresh their memory. Our courts are not
bound to n6tice the laws of Portugal; they must there.-

fore be proved by evidence, And in this, as in every
other case, the best evidence which the nature of the
case will admit, must be produced; that is the :vidence produced must be such, as does not shew better.
evidence in the power of the party producing it.
The customs and usages of a foreign country, may
be proved by testimony -of persons acquainted with
them, by a public history, or.oy c ses decided. But an
edict, registered in any partidular office, must be proved
by a copy, authenticated in one of three modes.
1st. By an exemplification under the national'seal;
and this is admitted as evidence, because one hation is
presumed to know the public seal of az.other,-Peahe.
L. of.&i. 48.

2d. Under the seal of. the court, which seal must be
proved, if it be of a municipal court, or
3d. By a sworn copy collated by a witness,
An exception has been allowed, as to. the seal of
courts of admiralty, in cases. under thi law of nations,
because they are courts of the whole 4vilized world,
and every person interested is a party. 1 Rob. 296;W
The Maria.
A copy certified by a. person authorlsed ad 4oc, is
good in his own, but not in aforeign eutry; without t,
evidence of his being such an officer.
Why is not a copy of the law produced, certified iin."
der the great seal of Portugld -In excuse for not p*roducing such a 'copy, they ought at least to shew that
they have demanded it, and that it has been refuried.
They might have applied to the officer who kept the

Cuunu
I ".

HUBBAR T.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
original, for a certified copy. If the have done so,
Hr.BBART. and have been refused, where is their evidence of that
\
/fact ?
CHaRa
V.

They might have got a witness to compare a copy
with the original, and proved it.
The laws themselves, if authentic, shew that there is
a place where they are registered, and where the defendant might have applied.
The certificate of. the consul, is no authentication.
He was not an officer authorised by the laws of this
country, to certify that the magistrate of the -foreign
country, before whom an oath has been taken, was a
magistrate a'uthorised to administer such an oath. He
was not authorised ad hoc; and his certificate is not
better than that of any other person. England, a great
commercial nation, has many consuls in foreign countries, yet there is no case decided in England, in which
the certificate of one of her consuls,, has been held to
be evidence in the courts of common law.
As to the case of the notarial certificate, cited from
12 Viner, a notary public is an officer of the law of nations. In the case cited he was an officer of Holland,
not of England; and the reason why the court allowed
his certificate to be evidence, seems to have been, that
the 'opposite party had also taken a like copy from the
same notary.
The common mode of obtaining evidence was open
for the defendant, and he ought to have availed himself
of it, by taking a commission to Portugal to examine
witnesses there.
The case of Binghan v. Cabot, from 3d Dallas, 19.
is not in point. The question was not made as to the
validity of the certificate of the register of the court of
admiralty, respecting the order given by the Mkarquis de
Bouille, n6r was the decision of the court given upon,
that point.
There is no proof that the law of 1605; was ever

FEBRUARY, 1804.
adopted by Portugal; but if it was, yet that is not the
law u-ion which the governor proceeded, for he him-

self says he proceeded upon the law of 15th of Octoker, 1715.
The sentence of the governor was not a sentence of
a court of admiralty. It was not conclusive. The decrees of courts of admiralty are only conclusive when
deciding upon questions of the law of nations; Pea&e'
L. E. 47. When deciding upon, other questions, they
are to be considered as mere municipal courts. This
was not a question of the law of nationsl Jbut of their
own municipal law.
Even if it was 'a court of admiralty, deciding fpon
a question of the law of nations, no evidence could be
admitted of its decree, but a copy under the seal of the
court. But the judgment of a municipal court, upon a
municipal law, must be proved like any other fact.
Even the seal of the court would not be sufficient, without other evidence that there was such a court having
such a seal.
Another objection to the evidence is, that the proceedings at large aught to have been set forth, not the
seitence alone, and even the sentence is not complete,
for it refers to other pages of the proceedings which are
not produced. PeahleL. E. 26.-ofts
Gilbert, 24. s.
Buller N. P. 228.
It has been said that in this country the rule of evidence ought to be relaxed, on account of the distance from
Europe.and the difficulties in procuring testimony.
* This might bea good argument before a legislature, but
it cannot alter the law in this court.
The rules of evidence already established ought to be
strictly guarded. To break in upon them would be to
strike out every star and every constellation which can
guide us through the tempestuous sea of legal litigation.
There is no evidence that thxe original proceedings were
-ent to the secretary of state in Portugal. There is no

Cnacvx,

V.
HUBBART.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHURCU

HVB.
H

A

certificate of the clerk of any court. If it is a copy of the
original proceedings, theT, appear to have all taken place
on the same day. The judgment is only an interlocutory
decree, id is not signed by any body. The officer who
certifies that it is a true copy resided at Lisbon, and not at
Para. There is no evidence that he was authorised ad
hoc, and he has affixed only his private seal.
IIn order to make a legal sentence, there must be legal
peoceedings, in a legitimate court, armed with com.petent
authority upon the subject matter, and upon the parties.
concerned. 4 Rob. 55. The Henrick and Maria.
The defendant must shew the law which gives the court
of Para jurisdiction, and that the authority has been
pursued.
The authority of the court does not appear; and it is
contrary to the natural principles of justice to condemn
the vessel without giving the owner an opportunity to be
heard. In this case there w¢as no monition issued. No
forms were pursued either against the vessel or the owner,
afid the evidence shews that he had no notice. The sentence, if it proves any thing, does not shew that the condemnation was for illicit trade, or even for an attempt to
trade; and it cannot be evidence of any collateral fact.
As to the pretended act of hostility, it was by another
person, not the owner or master of this vessel.* It was
in its nature equivocal and is explained away by the testimony.
2d. The instruction of the judge to the jury ought not
to have gone further than that if they were of opinion that

the vessel was seized for illicit trade the insurers were discharged; but if for any other cause, they were liable.

If any ground of ccfndemnation can be gathered from
the sentence, it is that of being an enemy, and not illicit
trade. Although the trade is generally prohibited, yet it
is a well known fact that foreign ships do trade there, and
have done so for a centaiy. It is not illegal to insure
smuggling voyages against the risk of seizure by a foreign
government. There is no instance of a vessel being seized
for going along shore..or into the ports of the colonies of

FEBRUARY, 1o4.
Spain.or Portugalfor the purpose of trading if they could
gain peirmission, provided they did not actually trade
without permissibn. There must be some act done more
than going into port. This must be the construction of
the aw.
Such is the construction given to the Englishlaw wlicii•
prohibits foreign vessels from goinginto their ports. They
are not liable to seizure unless they go .malafide. Reeves'
Law of Shipping, 203.
The premium is 20 per cent, which implies extraordinary risks. In the case of Graves againstthe Boston Ma1rine Insurance Company, now pending in this court, the
premium was only 20 per cent,.. and yet no such exception
was made.
The exception is not a warranty. Policies are to be
construed in favour of the insured. The exception is the
language of the insurers, and to be taken most strongly
against them. It means only legal seizkres. A warranty
against all claims, means all legal claims. -The general
clause of the policy is against allseizures, the.exception
therefore must mean all legal seizures.
No act of trading is proved. If the intention makes
the offence, a Portuguese vessel might have seized the
Aurora on the day after her leaving the port of New-rork,
and carried her to Portugaland condemned her. If then
her sailing with the intention to trade was not an act of
illicit trade, something further was necessary to constitute
the offence.
The policy does not except the risk of seizure for suspicion of illicit trade. It-is a general nile that words are
to b6 construed most strongly against the person u~ing
them, and who ought to have explained himself.
If the"evidence respecting the laws and the sentence be
rejected, the remaining evidence will only shew that a
seizure was made, but not that it was lawful; and for all
unlawful seizures the underwriters are liable. Legal
seizures only are excepted. To make it a lawful seizure
it must be for some act done-not merely upon suspicion.
The underwriters meant that the plaintiff should o and

Cuhnci
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHURCH

V.

try to get permission to trade-but if he attempted to trade
without leave they would not take the risk.

HUBBA IT.

Afarch 5th.-S--MARSHALL,
of the court.

C. J. -delivered the opinion

If in this case the court had been of opinion, that the
circuit court had erred in its construction of the policies,
which constitute the ground of action; that is, if we had
conceived that the defence set up, would have been insufficient, admitting it to have been clearly made out
in point of fact, we should have deemed it right to
have declared that opinion, although the case might
have gone off on other points; because it is desirable
to terminate every cause upon its real merits, if those
merits are fairly before the court, and to put an end to
litigation where it is in the power of the court to do so.
But no error is perceived in the opinion given on the
construction of the policies. If the proof is sufficient
to shew that the loss of the vessel and cargo, was occasioned by attempting an illicit, trade with the Portuguese; that an offence was actually committed against the
laws of that nation, and that they were condemned by the
government on that account, the case comes fairly within
the exception of the policies, and the risk was one not intended to be insured against.
The words of the exception in the first policy are,

"The insurers are not liable for seizure by the Portu"guese for illicit trade."
In the second policy, the words are "The insurers do
not take the risk of illicit trade with the Portuguese."
The coufisel on both sides, insist that these words
ought to receive the,.same construction, and thAt each
exception is substantially the same.
The court is of the same opinion. The words themselves are not essentially variant from each other, and
no reason is perceived for supposing any intention in
the.contracting parties to vary the risk.
For'the plaintiff it is contended, that the terms used
require an actual traffic between the vessel and inhabi-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

233

tants, and a seizure in consequence of that traffic, or at
least that the vessel should havp been brought into port,
in order to constitute a case which comes within the ex.ception of the policy. But such does not seem to be
the necessary import of the words. The more enlarged and liberal construction given to them fby the
defendants, is certainly warranted by common usage;
and wherever words admit of a more extensive or
more restricted signification, they must be taken. in that
sense which is required by the subject matter, and
which will best effectuate what it is reasonable to sup-pose, was the real intention of the parties.

CuUcH

.
HB ART.

In this case, the unlawfulness of the voyage was perfectly understood by both parties. That the -crown of
Portugalexcluded, with the most jealous watchfulness,
the commercial intercourse of foreigners with their colonies, was probably a fact of as much notoriety as that
foreigners had devised means to elude this watchfulness, and to carry on a gainful but very hazardous trade
with those colonies. If the attempt should succeed it
would be very profitable, but the risk attending it was
necessarily great. It was this risk which the underwriters, on a fair consiruction of their words, did not
mean to take upon themselves. "1They are not liable,"
they say, "1for seizxure by the Portuguese for illicit
trade." "They do not take the risk of illicit trade with
the Portuguese," now this-illicit trade was the sole and
avowed object of the voyage, and the vessel Was engaged in it from the time of her leaving the port of NewTork. The risk of this illicit trade, is separated from
the various -other perils to which vessels are exposed at..
sea, and excluded from the policy. Whenever the risk
commences the exception commences also, for it is apparent that the underwriters meant to take upon themselves
no portion of that hazard which was occasioned by the
unlawfulness of the voyage.

-

If it could have been presumed by the parties to this
,contract, that the laws of Portugal,prohibiting commercial intercourse between their colonies and foreign merchants, permitted vessels to enter their ports, or to hover
off their coasts for the purposes of trad. , with impunity,
and only subjected them to seizure and condemnation

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Cruaci,
V.

after the very act had been committed, or if such are
really their laws, then indeed the exception might rea-

Ssonably
s
to have been intended to be as limsoalbeesupposedtohvbenitddtoeaslr

ited in its construction as is contended for by the plaintiff. If the danger did not commence till the vessel
was in port, or till the act of bargain and sale, without
a permit from the governor, had been committed, then
it would be reasonable to consider the exception as only
contemplating that event. But this presumption is too
extravagant to have been made. If indeed the fact itself
should be so, then there is an end of presumption, and
the contract will be expounded by the law; but as a
general principle, the nation which prohibits comnercial intercourse with its colonies, must be supposed to
adopt measures to make that prohibition effectud.
They must therefore, he supposed to seize vessels coming into their harbours or hovering on their coasts,
in a condition to trade, and to be afterwards governed
in their proceedings with respect to 'those vessels, by
the circuinstances which shall appear in evidence. That
the officers of that nation are induced occasionally to
dispense with their laws, does not alter them, or' legalize the irade they prohibit. As they may be executed
at the will of the governor, there is always danger
that they will be executed, and that daiger the insurers
have not chosen to take upon thems, Ives.
That the law of nations prohibits the exercise of any
act of authority over a vessel in the situation of
the Aurora, and that this seizure is, on that account, a
mere maine t:'espass, not within the exception, cannot
be admitted. To reason from. the extent 6f protection
a nation will afford to foreigners to the extent of the
means it may use for its own security does not seem
to be perfectly correct. It is opposed by principles
which are universally acknowledged. The authority of
a -.ation within its own territory is absolute and exclusive. The seizure of a vessel within the range of its
cannon by a foreign force is an invasion of that territory,
and is a hostile act which it is its duty to repel. But its
power to secure itself from injury, may certainly be exercised beyond the limits, of its territory. Upon this
principle the right -of a belligerent to search a neutral
vessel on the high seas for contraband of war, is uni.

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

235

versally admitted, because the belligerent has a right
to prevent .the injury done to himself by the assistance
intended foi" his enemy: so too a na: - has a right to
prohibit any commerce with its colonies. Any attempt
to violate the laws made to protect .this right, is an injury to itself which it may prevent, aid it has.'a right
to use the means necessary for its prevention. These
means do not appear to be limited within any certain
marked boundaries, which remain the same at all times
and in all situations. If they are such as unnece'ssarily
to vex and harrass foreign lawful commerce, foreign na.
tions' will- resist their exercise. If they are such as
are reasonable and necessary to secure their laws from
violation, they will.be subaitted to.
In different seas and on different coasts, a wider or
more contracted range, in which to exercise the vigilancd of the government, will be. assented to. Thus in
the channel, where a very great part" of the commerce
to and from all the north of Europe, passes through a
wry narrow sea, the seizure of ve-sels on suspicion of
attempting an illicit trade, must necessarily be restricted
to very narrbw limitsi but on the coast of South America,
seldom frequented by vessels but for the purpose of illicit trade, the vigilance of the government may be extended somewhat further; and foreign nations submit
to such regulations as are reasonable in themselves, and
are really necessary to secure that monopoly of colo.
nial commerce, which is claimed by all nations holding
distant possessions.
If this rigrit be extended too far, the exercise, of it
will be resisted. It has occasioned long and frequent
contests, which have sometimes ended in open war.
The B glish, it will be well recollected, .complained of
the right claimed by Spain to search their vessels-on
the high seas, which was carried so far that the guarda
eostas of that nation, seized vessels not in the neighbourhood of their coasts. This practice was the subject of
long and fruitless negotiations, and at length of o-en,
war. The right of the Spaniards was supposed to be
exercised unreasonably and vexatiously, but it never
was contended that it could only be cxerdised withit.the
range of the cannon from their I t eries. Indeed the

Caulce
.

236

SUPREME COURT U. S.

CnuicH

right given to our own revenue cutters,, to visit vessels

V.

four-leagues from our coast, is a declaration that in the
. opinion of the American government, no such principle
as that contended for, has a real existence.
Nothing ti-'e, is to be.dran from the laws or usages
of nations, -which gives to this part of the contract
before the court the very limited construction which
the plaintiff insists ohn, or which proves that the.seizure
of the Aurora, by the Portuguese governor, was an Act
of lawless violence.
The argument that suit.act would be within the poli.
cy, and not dithin the exception, is admitted to-be well
founded. That the exclusion from the insurance of
"-the risk (f illicit trade with the Portukuese," is an
exclusion only of that risk, to which such trade is by
law exposed, will be readily conceded.
It is unquestionably limited and restrafied by the
terms "illicit trade." No seizure, not justifiableunder
the laws and regulations estAblished by the crown of
Portugqal,for the restriction of foreign commerce with
its dependencies, can come within this part of the con.
tract, and every- seizure which is justifiable by those
laws and 'regulations, must be deemed within it.
To prove that the Aurora and.her-cargo were seques.
tered at Para, in conformity with the laws of Portugal,
-two edicts and the judgment of sequcstration have been
produced.by the defendants in the Circuit Court. These
documents were. objected to on the principle that they
were not properly authenticated, but the objection was
overruled, and" the judges permitted them to go to the
jury.
The edicts-of the crown are certified by the American
consul at Lisbon to be copies from the original law 6f the
realm, and this certificate is granted under his official
seal.Foreign laws are well unders~tood to be racts which
must,. like other facts, . be proved to exist before they
can he received in a court of justice. The principle

FEBRJARY, 1804.
Cuu-cx
that the best testimony shall be required which the na.
ture of the thing admits of; or, in other words, that no HVsDAf!.
testimony shall be received which presupposes better
testimony attainable by the party who offers it, applies
to foreign laws as it does to all other facts. The sanc.
tion ot an oath is required for their establishment, unless
they can be verified by some other such high authority
that the law respects it not less than the oath of an individual.
In this case the edicts produced are not verified by an
oath. The consul has not sworn; he has only certified
that they are truly copied from the originals. -To give
to this certificate the force of testimony it will be necessary to shew that this is one of those consular functions
to which,' to use its own language, the laws of this
country attach full faith and credit.
Consuls, it is said, are officers known to the law of
nations, and are entrusted with high powers. This is
very true, but they do not appear to be entrusted wiih
the power'of authenticating the laws of foreign nations.
They are not the keepers of those laws. They can grant
no official copies of them. There appears no reason for
assigning to their certificate respecting a foreign law
any higher or different degree of credit, than would be
assigned to their certificates of any other fact.
It is very truly stated that to require respecting laws,
or other transacticns, in foreign countries that species
of testimony which their institutions and usages do not
admit of .would be unjust and unreasonable.
The
court will never require such testimony. In this, as in
all other cases, no testimony will be required which is
shewn to be unattainable. But no civilized nation will
be presumed to refuse those acts for authenticating instruments which are usual, and which are deemed necessary for the purposes of justice. It cannot be presumt-d that an application to authenticate an edict by the
seal of the nation would be rejected, unless the fact
should appear to the court. Nor can it be presumed
that any difficulty exists in obtaining a copy. Indeed
in this very case the very testimony offered would contradict such a presumption. The paper offered to the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Guuacu
. v.

court is certified to be a c6py compared with thi orginal. It is impossible to suppose that this copy might
not have bedn authenticated by the oath of the consul as
well as by his certificate,
It is asked in what manner this oath should itself have
been authenticated, and it is supposed that the consular
seal must ultimately have been resorted to for this purpose. But no-such necessity exists. 'Commissions are
always. granted for taking testimony abroad, and the
commissioners have authority to administer oaths and
to certify the depositions by them taken.
The edicts of Portugal,then, not having beenproved,
ought not to have been laid before the jury.
The paper offered as a true copy from the 6riginaL
proceedings against the 4urora, is certified undertbe
seal of his arms by D. [fono de Alnwida de Mello de Castro, who states himself to be the secretary of state for
foreign affairss and the consul certifies the English copy
which'accompanies it to be a true translation of the Por'
tuuese original.
"Foreign judnents'are authenticated,
1. By an exemplification under the great seal.
2. By a copy'proved to be a true copy.
3. By the certificate of an officer auth6rised by law,
which certificate must itself be properly authenticated.
These are the usual and appear to be the most proper,
if not the only modes of verifying foreign judgments.
If they be all beyond the reach ofthe party, other testimony inferior in its nature might be received. But it
does not appear that there was any insuperable impedi.
ment to the 'use of eithei" of these modes, and the court
cannot presume such impediment to have existed. Nor
is the certificate which has been obtained an admissible
substitute for either of them.
If it be true that the decrees of thb colonies are trans-

FEBRUARY, 184.

239

mitted to the seat of government, and registered in the Cauicx
depardni-nt of state, a certificate of that fact under the H5A Tgreat seal, wihh a copy of the decree authenticated in the
samt manner,, would be sufficient prima facie evidence
of the verity *ofwhat was so certified; but the certificate offered to the court is under the private seal of the
person giving it4 which cannot be known to this court,
and of consequence can authenticate nothing. The
paper, therefore, purporting to be a sequestration of
the Aurora and her cargo in IPara ought not to have
been laid before the jury
Admitting the originals" in the Portugueselanguage
to have been authenticated properly, yet there was' error
in admitting the translation to have heen read on the
certificate of the consul. Interpteters are-always sworn,
and the translation of a consul not oi' oath can have no
greater -validity than that of any other respectable man.
If the court erred in admitting as testimony papers
which ought not to have been received, the judgment is
of course to be reversed and a new trial awarded. It is
urged that there is enough in the record to induce ajury
to find a verdict for the defendants, independent of the
testimony objected to, and that, in saying what judg-.
ment the court below ought to have reifdered, a 'direction io that effect might be given, If this was even true
in point of fact, the inference is not correctly drawn.There must be a new trial, and at that new trial each
party is at liberty to produce new evidence. Of consequence this court can give no instr~ictions respecting
that evidence.
The judgment must be reversed with costs and the
cause remanded to be again tried in the circuit court,
with instructions not to permit the copies 'of the edicts
of Portugal and the sentence in the proceedings mentioned, to go to the jury, unless they be authenticated
according to law.*
. In the argument of this case, a question was suggested by CHASE,
j. 'Vhether a bill of exceptions would lay to a charge given by the judge
to the jury, unless it be upon a point on which the opinion of the curt
was prayed ; and doubted whether it would within the statute of West.
mninster.
MARSHALL,

C. J.thought that it would, and observed that in England

the correctness of the instruction of the judge tothejury at 2ikjPrius,

usually came before the couft on a motion for a new trial, and if in this
couqtry, the question could not come up by a bill of exceptions, the party

would be without remedy.

