SUPREME COURT, U. S.
PENNING;TON
V.
COXE.

In addition to this circumstance, it ought to be observed, that the repeal takes effect at the close of the
30th of 7une, and the law has no existence on the 1st
of Yuly. Yet the duties on sugars sent out during the
last quartcr are to be secured or paid on the 1st of Yuly.
All admit that there was no disposition to relinquish
these duties. Of consequence, if the proviso could be
necsary in any possible construction of the law, it was
necessary in this case.
After the most attentive consideration of the acts of
Congress and the itrguments-of counsel, the court is of
opinion, that the duties on refined sugars remaining in
the building on the 1st of 7uly, 1802, had not then accrued and were not then outstanding. Thejuidgment of
the circuit court, which was in favour of the plaintiff
elow, must therefore be reversed, and judgment rendered for the plaintiff in error.

ALEXAsDt. ALEXANDER MURRAY, Esq. v. SCHOONER
MURRAY,

CHARMING BETSY.

SCHOONER
CH RmiNG

THE facts of this case, are thus stated by the district judge in his decree.

Esq.

BETSY.

in this cause, is founded on the act eiiA
t " The libel,
An American
vessel sold na " titled 1 An act further to suspend the commercial in.
Danish island, "tercourse between the United States and France, and
"the dependencies thereof;" (Vol. 5. c. 10. p. 15.Passto a person
who was born
ed February 21, 1800) and states that the Schooner
in the United
" sailed from Baltimore, after the passing of that act,
States, but
who had bona " owned, hired or employed, by persons resident within
become
*fide
burgher
of" a "the United States, or by citizens thereof resident else"where, bound to Guadaloupe, and was taken on the
that island,
" high seas, on the 1st of 7une 1800, by the libellant,
and sailing
from thence to " then commander of the public armed ship the Cona French

46 stellation, in pursuance 9 f instructions given to the
island, inz
1800, with a "libellant, by the President of the United States, there
newcargopur- .being reason to suspect her to be engaged in a traffic,
chased by her "or commerce contrary to the said act, &c.
nlew owner,
and under the

"The claim aid answer, replication and rejoinder,
JjDish flag,
was not liable (c are referred to for a firther statemnent of the Ticto seizure un-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

65

"ceedings in this case, on all of which I ground my

"decree.

Mu.arVHooNER

S

CHARMING

nOn a careful attention to th exhibits and testimony
BETSY.
in this cause, -and after hearing of counsel, I am of 1.'*
.
opinion, that the following facts -are either acknow- der thfe non.in.
tercourse law
ledg'ed in the proceedings, or satisfactorily proved.

of 27th of Fe.

"That on or about the loth of April 1800, the th

wa1800.
"schooner, now called the 'Mrming "Betsy, but then frCe asno
called the 7ane, sailed from Baltimore in the.district ground ofsus.
"of .- ,laryland,
an American bottom, duly registered piconfthat she
"according to law, belonging to citizens of, and resiwas a vesse
rs-tradingcontra.
"dent in, the Unlted states, and regulirly documented ry to that law,
"with American papers; that she was laden with Ser
a theofcommanda UMhed
"cargo belonging to citizens of the United -Stale*;State ship of
" that her destination was first to -St. Bartholomew $., war, whofs.
" where the captain had orders to effect a sale of both zes and sends"'vessel and cargo; .but if a sald of the schooner her in, is liai
fordaima.
"could not be64
effected at St. Bartholomiew's, which was ble
leo.
"to be considered the "primary object" of. the voyage, The report of
assesors
"the daptain was to proceed to St. Thomas's, with the the
appointed
by
"'vessel and such part of the flour as should be unsold, the court of
"where he was to accomplish the sale. That although admiralty to
"a sale of the cargo, consisting chiefly of flour was assess the daought
"effected at St. Bartholomew's, yet the vesel could not toroages,
state the
there be advantageously disposed of, Ond the captain principles on
"proceeded, according to his insttuctions to 5*'. Tho- which it is
" may's where a bonqftde sale was accomplished, by founded, and
gross
ccaptain
ames P4iips, on *behalf of the American not
sumawithout
"9owners, for a valuable consideration,'to a certain f/a. explanation.
"red
Shattuc, a resident merchant in the island of. St. Anr-er'

citizen
resid.
inginaforeign

" Thati although it is Conneticutacquire
grantetl* that" fared Shattuck country the
may
was born in Connecticut before the American revolu- commercial

"tion, yet he had removed long before any differences privilges at"with France,in his early youth, to the island of St. tschedtohis
and
dmil'
d
"Tomas, where he served his apprenticeship, iiterte-by making
!"married, opened a house of trade, owned sundry yes- himself the
"sels, and as it is said, lands; which none but Dani.h subject of a fo,
he
"subjects were competent to hold and possess. About reign
placespower
hilrsel
"the year. 1798, he became a Danish burger, invested out of thepro.
with the privileges of a Danish subject, and owing tection of the
Stae,
"allegiaaio to hia:Dani, h majesty. The evidence on Uited
while within

66

SUPREME COURT U. S,

" this head-is sufficient 'to satisfy me of these facts;
V.
t
g~o~za'.'though
some of themn might be'more fully proved.
" It does not appear that .7fr'dShattuck ever returned
CHA5I
BTSY.
".t the United Statcs to resume citizdnship, but con'' "stantly resided,' and had his domicil,.both before and
MuauAy

tt le Sovereign
L'tox df 4
' at the time of the purehas6 of ihe schooner 7ane, at
to whom he " St. 7 hom-as's. That although -the schooner was arm-.
has sWorn ale- ." ed and furnished, with ammunition, on her sailing
and stores, were
0-vere, wi,~e "froi Baltimore, and the cannon, arms
9"'ne
-atspraefo
theracitizenof "sold to Yared Shattuck, by .a contract separate fron
,the United - ." that of the vessel, she was chiefly dismantled 6f ihese
States, can di.- articles at St. 7hwnas', a small part of the ammani-.
vesi himself

*absolutely or

a
o
"tiorl, and a trifling part of the small arms excepted.

that char'acter "That the name of the said schooner was at St. Tho.

otherwise'than

mjaS's. changed to that of the Chuirining Betsy,- and
was -docurihented with Dani . papers,. as the"
neras, may be
prescribed by property of a'redS/attuok. . That so being the bona
1a'~,"
bqfde property of' -yaredShattuck, she took in a cargo
.Whether, by "belonging-to hijn, and no othev', as appears by .the pa.
"*

-in such man. -cshe

ecomin te

Mubject-of a

,pers fouid on board and delivered to this court.

foregn power,

"That she sailed, with"the said cargo, from St. tho"mas' on or about the 25th day of Yune 1800, cornment for a
crime against ." manded by a certain Thomas .Wright,. a Dani-sh
he
'ted " burgher, and navigated acdording to the laws of DenS;tates.
" n,arh; for aught, that appears to the contrarybound-to
he is reucd

from unish-

Whatiro'e
..of Guadalo:rpe.
of armin- con- " theis±land
st'tntesau

armedvessel?

" That on or about the first of .Julylast, -1800, she
".was captured on her passage o Guadaloupe, by a
"'French privateer, and a prize-master and seven or
"eight han~Js put on board. The Danish 'crew (exce p
captain Wright, an old man and two boys,) being
"- taken off by the French privateer.
That on the 3d
" of the same July, sht was boarded and takeit pos" srssion of, by some of the officers and crew of the
" Constellation, under the orders of captain Murray,
".and snt into the port of St. Pierre, in Itfartiniqud,
"where she arrived on the 5th of the same month of
""-uly. I do not state the contents of a paper called a
"procee verbal, which however will appear among the
"exhibits, -because in my opinion it contains state"ments, either cbntrary to the real facts, or illusory ;
"and calculated to serve the purposes of the French

FEBRUA°RY, 1804.
*' captors. Nor. do I detail the ntmber of cutla,sses,
a musket and a small quantity of ammunition found
on" board whei the schooner was boarded by captain
Murray'" orders. Tie Danishpaperswere on board,
"and.except the proces verbal formed by the French
ILcaptors, no othership's papers. The instructions to
captain iVurray from the President of the Unijed
"States 6omprehend the case of a vessel foufid in.
"the posessior of French captors, bultthen it should.
"seem ivnust be-a vessel belonging.to citizens of the
"United States. It does not appear that captain. ZfRur"ray had any -knowledge of )ared Shdttuck being a
"native of Connecticut, or of any of the UnitedStates,
." until he was informed by captain Wright'at Mar" tini'ue.
.
.

It is unnecessary to go into any disquisition about
the instructions to the commanders'of public armed
"ships, whether- they were 'directory *to'captain ilfur.
" ray in the case in question; "And if so,'whether they
"1were, or notj strictly conformable- to- law does not
" finally justify an.act which on investigation turns out
" to be illegal, iither as -it respects the municipal laws
"of our' country% 'or the- laws of.- nations. Captaiii
"Murray's respectable-. charadter, both- as. a , officei
"and a citizen, foribids'ank idea of hi intention to do.
"a wanton, act of violence towards" either a citizen af
"the United States, or- a subject of another nation.
"He, no. dodbt, thought it his duty to send the vessel
" iti uestion, to the United States for adjudication.
"He had also res'ons prevailing - with him, to- sll
"faredShattuci's'cargo in fartiniqite. His seiding
"the schooner to' 'Martimquie was' evidently -proper,
" and serviceable to the owner as she had not a s.ufficient
"number of.the crew-on board to niavigate her. But
"the further proceedi13g 'turns out; in my opini6h
"wrong.
Whatever probable cause might appear to
" captain Murrgy, to jdstify his conduct; or excite
" suspicion at thi6 time, he runs the risk of, and is altie- "
"nable for consequences.
"
"
OA a full'consideration of the facts and circum'stances of thi.--case, I am of opinion, that the schoon"er. Yane, bain the jsame ii the libel mentioned, did
"

MvlyS..
SCHOON"0t
CUAR)f$II

BE

64

SUPREME C.OURT U. S.

MU.1tu&
" not sail from the United States with an intent to vioV.
" late the act, for a breach whereof the libel is filed.
S CIoON ER
"That.she did not belong, when she sailed from St.
CHARMING
1.JT'sY.

"

"

Thomas for Guadaloupe, to a citizen of the United

States, but to a Danish 'subject.
7ared Shattuch
either never was.a citizen of the United States under
" our present national arrangement, or if he should at
¢'any time have been so considered, he had lawfully
' expatriated.himself, "andbecame a subject of a friend" ly nation. No fraudulent intent appears in his case,
" either of eluding the laws of the United States in
49carrying on a covered trade by'such expatriation. cr
Pthat he became a Danish burgher for any purposes
•
which are considered as exceptions to the general
"rule which seems established on the subject of thfe
5Cright of expatriation. -That, being a Danish iurgher"
"and subject, he had a lawful right to trade to the
i~land of Guadaloupe, any law of the United States
"notwithstandink, in a vessel bonafide purchased, either
.' fror citizens of the United States or any 9ther yes"sel documented and adopted by'the Danish laws. I
do not rely more than it deserves, on the circumstance
I of Vared Shattuck's burghership, of which the best
."evidence, to wit, the brief, or an -authenticated copy,
" has not been produced. I know well' that this •brief
"ialone,. unaccompanied by the strong ingredients in
"his case, mightbe fallacious. I take the whole com." bination to satisfy me'of his being bonafide a Danish
"adopted subject ; and altogether it amounts, in my
"mind, to proof of expatriation. The captain (Wright)
"produces his Danish burghers brief. He is a native
'.' of &otland.
But even the British cas e of Pollard v.
" Bell, 8. T. R. 435. to which I have been referred,
"shews that, with all the inflexibility evidenced in the
"British code, on the point of expatriation, a vessel
"was held to be Danish property, if documented ac"cording to the Danish laws, though .the captain, who
"had obtained a Danish burgher's brief, was a Scotch" man. It shews too, that in the opinion of the British
".jdxdes (who agree, on this point, with the general
-' current of opinions of civilians and writers on general.
f' law,) the "mtaicipal laws or ordinances of a country
°fdo tiot contp, the laws of nations.. The British
V i~~st~hat g~ ~ge~tlengths to -mod-if their-anciepT.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

69

'feujal law of allegiance, so as to modbrate its rigor, MuRRAY
"an4 adapt it to the state of the modern world, which
V.
"has',become.most generally commercial. They hold Co
"it to be clearly settled, that although a natural born sub.
BzTsY,
"ject cannot'throw off his allegiance to the king,. but
"is always amenable fLir criminal acts against it, yet for
" commer'al purposes, he may acquire the rights of a
"citizen of another country. Com. Rep. 677. 689. "I
'cite British authorities, because they have been pecu"liarly tenacious on this subject. Naturalization in
"this country may sometim'es be a mere cover, so may,
"and, no doubt, frequently are burgher's briefs. But
"the ca.e of Shattuck is accompanied witho .many
"corrobating 'circumstances, added to his brief; as to
"render-it, if not incontrovertibly certain,. at least an
"unfortunate case on which to rest a .dispute*as to the
"general subject of expatriation. I am not disposed
"to treat lightly the attachment a .citizen'of the United
"States ought to bear to his country. There are circumtsthnces in which-a citzen ought not to expatriate
him"self. He never should be considered as having
"changed his allegiance,- if mere temporry, objects,
"fraudulent de signs, or incomplete change of- domicil,"appear in proof. If there are any-such in Shattuck's
"case, they do'not appear, and therefore I "Must take
"it for granted that they do not exist. Thatherefore
"the ultimate destruction of his voyage, and sale of liis, :
"cargo, are illegal.'
. .
"
" The vessei must be restored, and .the ambunt of
"sales of-* the cargo paid to the claimhrt, or his lawful
"agent, together with costs, and -such dimages as
"shall be assessed by thz clerk of this codrt,..who'is
"hereby directed to inquire into and report the amount
"thereof.
And for. this purpose the.clerlE is directed
"to associate with himself two intelligent merchaiti of
"this district and duly- inquire what dam,
".7ared
"Shattuck, the owner-of the schooner CharmingBetsy
"andher cargo, hath'sustained by reason of the premi.
"ses.
,Should it be the opinion of the clerk, and the as"sessors associatedwith h;m,- that the officers and -crew
"of the Constellation benefted the ozbner ofthe Charming
B.Metsy, by the rescue from the French captors, they

SUPREME COURT. U.

-0
MuR.Ay
SC1iO0MR
CHAUMZNG

FA

" should allow in the adjustment, reasonablecompensation
'for this service.
" RICHARD PETERS.
(Signed.)
" 28th
1I.pril, 1801."1

BETSY

On the 15th of Jlfay following, upon the report.of
the clerk and assessors, a final decree was- entered, for
20,594 dollars and 16 cents damages, with costs.
. From this decree the libellant appealed to.-the Circuit
Court, who adjudged, " that the decree pf the District
" Court be affirmed so far-as it directs.restitution of the
" vessel, and payment to the claimant, of the- net pro-" ceeds of the sale of the cargo in Mlartiniyue, deduct"ing the costs and clrarges there; according to the ac"count eihibited by captain Murray's agcnt,, being one
"- of the exhibits in t::is cause ; and that the said decree

"be reversed for the residue, each party'to pay his owlcosts,:and one moiety of the.custody and wharfagL- bill'for keeping the vessel until restitution to the clai"

Smant

-

From this decree both parties Appealed to The supreme
court.

-

The cause was arged at last terh, by Afartin, Key,
and Mason for the claimant.
No counsel -%as present for the libellanti
For the claimant it was contended, that the sile ot
the schooner to Shattuck was bonande, and that he was
a Danish subject. That although she was in possts3on of French mariners, she was- not an armed Frvnch
vessel within the acts of congress, Which authorised dhe
capture of such vessels. That neutrals are not bouiid
to take notice of hostilities between tw nations, urde!s
war has been declared.
That the right of search and seizure is incident only
to a state of war. That neutrals are not bound to take
notice of our municipal regulations. That the non-intercourse act was simply a tnunic;pal regulation, binding
qnly upon our own citizens) and had nothing to do with

FEBRUARY, 1804.
the lawy of Oations ; it could give no right-to-search a MuRRAY
neut al. That in all cases where-a seizure is made u-n- ScnooEr.
der a municipal law, probable, cause ij nojustijfcation, CuA.iRMI
unle s it is made so bk the municipal law uider which " BFsv-.
the seizure is made.
. As to the positiQn, that the sale was bonafde,
the.
counsel for the claimant relied on the evidence, which
came up with the transcript of the ,record, -which was
very strong and satisfactory. Upon the question Whether Shattuck was a Danish:subject or 4 citizen 'of the
United States, it was said, that.ahh6ugh he was born in
Connecticut, yet there was no evidence that he had ever
resided in the United-States, since their separation from.
Great Britain.. But it appears by.the testimony'that he
resided in St. Thomas's during his minority, and served
'his apprenticeship there; That he had married into'a
family in that island, had resided there ever since the
year 1789, had complied with thelaws W.hich enabled
him to become, a burgher, and had carried on business
as such, and had for some years been-the owner-f vessels and lands. Even if by birth he had-been.a citizen
of the UnitedSthte', he had a right to expatriate him-;
self. He had at least the whole tiiae of his minority,-"
in which to niake his election of what counti'he would
become a citizen. Every citizen of the United States,
has a right to expatriate himself and become a. citizen
of any other country w¢hich he may prefer, if it b6 done
with a bonafide and honest 4$01tton, :at a proper time, "
and in a public manner. While we are inviting al.the•
people of the ea-th 'to becolne'citizens, of the United
States, it sukly,does not become us to. hbld a contrary'
doctrine, and deny a similar choice to our own citizens.
Citcumstances -may indeed shevi -the intention to be
fraudulent and collusive, and-merely for thepurpose of
illicit trade ,.&c. But such circumintahces do not appear'in the present case. Shattuck Was'fairly and bonajfde
domiciPated ai Sr. Thohnas's before, our disputes
arose witb;France. The act of Congress, "further to
suspend,". &c. cannot, therefore, be considered as ope"
rating upon such, a person. The first act to suspend
the intercourse w~xs passed on the 13th'of June; .1798,
vol. .p. 129,'and expired. with the end of the next session of Congress. The next act, "further to s4spend2'

7"2

SUPREME COURT U. S.

&c.wgs passed on the 9th of February, 1799, vol. 4.5.
?44, and expired on the 3d of &farch, 1800. "Theact
CxA.uImo upon which the present libel is founded, and which has
Bil'sy. the same title.with the last, wat passed on the 27th of
"February, 1800, vol. 5. p. 15. All the acts are confine in their operations to persons resident within the
United States, or under theirtrotection.
SC
iooER

She-was rot, such. aiarmed French vessel as comes
within the description of thos& acts of Congress, which
authorised the hostilities with France. She had only
one musket,- twelve ounces of powder, and tvielve.ounces of le~d. The only evidence of further arms arises
from the depo ition of one J'Farlan. But he did not
go on board of her tilLsome days after the capture, and
his deposition' is in.dmissible testimoy, because he
was entitleil to a share of the prize money if the vessel
should be condqemnd; and although a release from
him to captain AZurray appears among the papersi yet
that release ,wasnot made. until after the deposition was
taken ; - and the fact is expressly contradicted by other
testimony. The mere possessior by nine Frenchmen
*did not constitute her an armed vessel. She was una- ble'to annoy the commerce of the United States, which
,was the reason of tho adjudication of this court; in the
case of the Amelia, (See I Cra. Rep. 1. Talbot v. Seeman.) , The proces verbal is no evidence of aay fact but
its own existence. If she had arms they ought to have
been brought in, as the only competent evidence of that
fact. No arms are libelled, and none appear, by the
account of sales, to have been sold in Msartinique.
It being then a iieutral unarmed vessel, captain Alur-ray had no right to seize and send her. in. A right to
search a neutral a:ises only from a state of public
known war, and not from a mtnicipal regulation. In
time of peace the flag is to be respected. Until war is
declared, neutrals are not bound to iake notice of it.
The decrees of both the courts below have decided,
that the vessel was not liable to capture. The only'
question is, whether the claimant is efititled to damapes P Captain _tiurray has libelled her upon the nonIntercourse act." He does not state that he seized her
because she was a Frehch armed vessel, although ne

FEBRUIAIry, 18.04.
sates her to be rmed at the time of capture. It has mu- T
also been decided by both the courti that she is Danish s, V. V
property. If an American vessel hiad been illegally cap- CHiRM'ZN
tdred by captain Murray,he would have been liable for BgT51t.
damages; afortioriin the case of a foreign vessel, where,
from motives bf public policy, our conduct ought not
only to bejust but libeial
In cases 4f personsl arrest, if nb criiiae has in fact
been commi'tted, probable cduse. is not a justificatioii,
unless it b made- so by municipal law. As in the
case of Ht da'dCr,, he who raises it is'liabl if it be
false.

"

* If the sl eriff has a writ against -A, 4nd Bis shewn to
him as thq person, and he arrests B instead of A, he is
liable to ah adion of trespass at the suit of B. .+1 Bu..
149. Wale v. Hill. .So.if he repleyies wrong goods, or
fakes the goods of one'upon a fifa,.against another. In'
thes'e'cased it is nojustification to te officer that he was
informed, or bilieved he was *right.- He must "in all
cases seize at his peril. So it is.with alL.ther officers,
such as thdse, of the revenue, &c. probablecause is not

sufficient to justify, unless the law makes .it a justification. If the informlation is at common law for the thipg
seized andthe seizure is found to have been illegallymade,
the injured party must bing his action -oftrespass; but
by the course of the admiralty,, the captor, -being in
coirt, is lIble to a decree against him for damages.
2 "Rob.202.. (.The Fabu6.) The case of Wale v..1111,
in 1.Bulstrode 149, shews that where a cringe has not
been committed, .there probable cause can be no justifi/cation. But where a crimeI has been committed, the
party arresting cannot justify'by the suspicion of others;
it must be upon his own suspicion.
In fJe case of Pllon v. Buchner, Hardr, 478, although the gw.s seized had' been condemned by the
c6mmissi6niff of excise,. -yet it was not held to be a
good Jusifitation. In 1 Dall. 182. Purviance v. An.
8, it was held that ad error in judgment would not
excuse an illegal capture; and ia Legk.e y. Pt~mpante,

-

r4
uaa,&Y
CN4S:M; ro
B tsx.
h

SUPREME COURT U. S.

-

2 Str. R20, it is adjudged that probable cause of seizure
will notjustify the officer.*
.In 3d Afistruther 896, is a cgse-of seizure of hides,
where no provision was made in the law that probable cause

should be a justification.
Pickeringv. Triuste.

This case cites 7 T. R. 53,

For what ieasori do the revenue

laws pr6.vide that probable Cause shall be ajustification, if it
would be so without such a provision ? In these cases the
i.iiry by improper seizures can be but sitiall, compared
-%ith those which might arise under the non-intercour.e
laiv. "GreatBritain has never mafe probable cause, an
excuse for seizing a neutral vessel for violating her mumicipal laws. A neutral vessel is only liable to your rmumicipal regulation. while in your territorial jurisdiction.
But as soon as she gets to sea, you have lost your remedy. You cannot seize her' on the high seas. Eyefi in
Ureit Britain,"if a vessel gets out of the jurisdiction of
owe court of admiralty, "she cannot be seized in another.
t is-admitted that a law may be passed authorising si:ch
a sevztxre, but then it becomes a question between ihetwo
iatlons." If the present circumstances are sufficient to
raise a prohable cause for the seizure, and if such pr~bable cause is ajustificadion, it will destroy the trade. of the
Danish islands. The -inhabitatits speak our language,
thdy- buy our ships, &c." It wlhl be hig)ly injuiious to
the interests, of the United States; and this court will
consider what cause of complaint it would furnish to the
Danishnation. If arivate armed vessel had made this
seizure, the captain and owners would have been clearly
liable on their bond, which the law obliges them to give.
Te objbct of this act of Congress, was more to prevent
our vessels falling into the hands of the*French, than to
make it a war measure by starving&he French islands.
The Ch. J observed, that this case was overruled two years after.
wards, in a case-cited in a note to Guiuim'a edition of Bac. ab.t The
case cited in tile note-is from 12. Vin. 173. Tit. evidence. P. b. 6. in .Aich
it is said "that Lord Ch. Baron Bury, Montague and Page, against
Price, held ttiat where an officer hadmade a seizumv" and there was an
"information upon it, &c. which wenf-In favour of Tbe party who after.
' waIrs brinjp trespass; the shewing these proceedings was sufficient tn
"eaumse the officer: It was'competentto make out a urobable cause for
,hii doirv the act. ,Mach. 6 Geb

t The case of Leglise v. C(hamAste was in "2Geo. 2. That cited in the
note to Bac. ab. referred to by the Ch. J. was in 6 Geo. 1. The mistake
arises from the note in Gwillim'e dition not mentioning the date of the
tase cited from Finer.

FEBRUARY-, io4.

75

Even if a Danishvesgel should carry.-American papers MviRA-T
V.*
¢z.
:a.d Amrridan colours, it would be no justification. In Scsoo4
I
:g stateof peace we have iio right to say they shall not se
-thein if they*please.- In'timie of war, double papdrs, or. Bg-nY.•
throwing over papers, are probable causes of seizure;'
but.this does not alter 'the property; it is no cause of
'condemnation.- The vessel is' to be rest6red; but without damags..
Then.mod e .6f asdertaining the "daiiiagesadopted, by-de.
district court, is conformable to,,the usual practice i"
*courtA of admiralty. See Marribtt4ARPortm; and'in.the
same book, p. 184, in the case of the Vdnderke, "liberi1
damages were given.
In the revenueJaws of the UnitedStatesi vol 4.P. 391,
probable cause is mrn. axi expcuse for the seizure; but no
such.provision is, or.ought t6 have been made in the 'nonintercourse law. The: powers given were so -iable to
isd,
that the rommander ouglt to act-at his peril.
The Ch. J. mentioned the case of the Sally, capt. i.oy,.
In 2 Rob. 185. (Amer. Ed.) where a vice-admiralty had
probable
decreed, in a revenue cse, " that there wasi,
cause of seizure.
This cause camie on again to be argued at this term by
.DdZs for the libellant, and'Nartinand Key for the clh.
,mant.
Dallas,, as- a-prelimnary rehmark, bbserved, that thi
Judge of the district court had referred to the clerk and
his associates to ascertain, whether any and What salvage
should be allowed. 'This was an impioper .delegationof his authority, not warranted by.the practice of "courts
of admiralty, or by the nature of his office. Although they
had not reported upon this point, yet he submitted it to
the court for thpir consideration.
After statmg.Lhe facts which appeared upon;the record,
and such as were either admitted or proved, he divided
his argument into three general points.
1. That yared Shattucl was a.citizen of the United
't.tes, at the tiime of igapi.re an4 recapture; and there-

76
MuRRAY

V.
C.ARMZNG"

SUPREME COURT U. S.

fore the vessel was, subject to seizure and condemnation,
under the act of Congress usually called the non-intercourse,act.

BETSY.

Y2.

That she was in danger of condemnation by the
French, and therefore, if not liable to condemnation under the act of Congress, capt. Murray was at least entitled to salvage.
3. That if neither of the two former positions car be
maintained, yet captain Murray had probable rause to
seize and bring her in, and therefore he ought not to be
decreed to pay damages.
""
1. The vessel was liable to seizure and condenination"
under the non-intercourscact ; Shattuak being a citizen of
the United States, at the time of recapture.
Captain Murray's authority to capture the Chaizning
Betsy, depends upon the municipal laws of the United.
States' expounded by his instructions, and the law of nations.
Before the non-intercourse act, measures had been taken by Congress. to prevent and repel the injuries to our
commerce whichwere daily perpetratedby Frenchcruizers.
By the act of 28 oIay, 1798, vol. 4. p. 120, ailthority was given to capture " armed- vessels sailing under
authority or pretence of authority from the republic of
France,"&c.'and to retake any captured American vessel.
The act of 28 Yune, 1798, vol. 4. p. 153, regulates the
proceedingslagainst such vestels when captured, ascertains the rate of salvage for vessels recaptured, and provides for the confinement of prisoners, &c.
The act of Yuly'9, 1798, vol. 4. p. 163, authorises the
capture of armed French ressej&any wherepon the high
seas-and provides for the granting cominsions to private armed vessels, &c.
The right to retahe an armed, or unarmed neutral vessel in the hands of the French, is no where expressly
given ; but is an incident growing out of the state of war ;-

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
and is implied in several acts of Congress. This was decided In the case of Talbot v. Seeman in this court, at
AUg. term, 1801. t

MflRAX
CHARXING

BETSY.
The right of recapture, carrying with it the right of

salvage, gave the right of bringing into port; and that
port must be a port of the captor.
The first non-intercourse act was passed 7une 13, 1798,
vol. 4. p. 129.-*A similar act was pashed Feb. 9, 1799,
vol. 4. p. 244.
The act upqn which the present libel is founded was
passed Feb. 27, 1800. Vol; 5..p. 15.
These are not to be considered as mere municipal laws
for the regulation of our own commerce, but as part of
the war measures which it was found necessary at that
time to adopt. It was quoad hoc tantamount to a-declaration of war.
Happily there is not, and has not been, in the practke
of our government, an established form of declaring war.
Congress havethe'power, and niay by one general act,
or by a variety of acts, place the' nation in a state of war.
As far as Cbngress have thought proper to legislate us
into a state of war, the law of nations in war is to apply.
By the general laws of war, a belligerent ha a right
not only to search for her enemy, but for her citizens
trading with her enemy. If authorities, for this position
were necessary, -a variety of cases decided .by Sir William Scott might be cited.
As to the present case, France was to be considered as.
our enemy. The non-intercourseact of 1800, prohibits all
commercial intercourse "between any person orpersons re"sident within the UnitedSta.s, or under ther protection,
" "and anyperson or persons resident within the terrkories of
"the Frenchrepublic, or any of the dependencies thei'eof,"
"And declares that" any ship or vessel ow'ned,hired, or
"employed, in whole, or in part, by any person or per"sons resident within the United.States or any citizen
t 4n Vol, i. p. 33.

.'yu

SUPREME COURT-U. S.
MumtRY

V.

CHARXYNO

BZTsi.

"or citizens thereof risidenji elsewhere," 'c. k, shall-be
"forfeited and may.be seized and cond-inred."'
A. citizen of the United Statet, resident " ' elsew here,"
must mean a citizen resident in a. tneutral countty. If
Shattuek was such a citizen, the caseis clearly within the
statute. It is not iecessary that the vessel-should be registered as an American vessel; it is sufficient ijf owned by
aritizen'of the United States Registering-is-oinly necessary to give the vessel the privileges of an American botton . Nor is it it necessary. that she should have been
built in the United States.
By the 8th suctionof the act of 27th Feb. 1800, vol. 5.
.p. 20, reasonae'suspicion is made a justiicatioli of seizure, and sending in for .adjudication. The officqr is
bound to act upon suspicion-and that suspicion applies
both to-the character 6f. the vessel, and to the nature of
the voyage.
Although the act of congress menlions only vessels of
the United States, still from the natnie df the case, the
right to seize and send in must extend to apparent as,
well as real American vessels.
Such is the cotemporaneous exposition given by the instructions of the executive.t
The'words of these instructions are "you are not only
"to do allthat inyou lies, toprevent all intercourse whether
"direct o&circuitous, between the ports of the United
"States, and those of France and her dependencies, in
"cases where the vessels or cargoes are apparritly, as
"well as really American, and protected by American
"papers only, but you are to be vigilant that vessels or
t Upon Mk Dailas's offering to read the instructionk:
Chase J; said, he was always against reading.the instructions of the
executive; becausz if they go no futher
than th J~i±hey re-unnecessa
r; if they exceed it, they are not= -Mrranted.Marsho, Ch. J. I understand itto be admitted &j both parties, that
the instructions are part of the recprd. The construction, or the effect
they are to have, will be the subject of further consideration. They may

ke read.

Chae, J. I can only day, I am against it, and' I wish it to be gene.
iy known. I think it a bad practice, and shall always give my voice

ainst it.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
"cargoes really American, but covered by Danisi or othr
"forqigh papers, and bound to orfrom French pots, do
"not escape you."

MyaRAY
V.

SCHOO2fr

caoo~z.
-

The law and th6 instructions having thus made it his
duty to act on reasonable- suspicion, he must be safe
though the ground of. suspicion should eventually be removed.
Udder our municipal law, therefdre, the folloWing propositions are maintainable.
1. That a vesiel captured by* the French, sails.under.
Freozch authority.; and if armed, is, quoad hoc, a Frenclh
armed vessel. The degree of arming is to ,be tested by
the. capacity to annoy the unarmed conimerce of the
United States.
2. The right to recapture an unarmed neutral, is an mci-den t ofthe war, and implied in theregusltions of congress.
4.- The non-intercourse law justifies 'the seizure-of apparent, as well 'as of real American vessels..
Nor does this doctrine militate'with the law of nations.
A war in fact existed 6ei#een the' United itates, and
France. An army was raised, a navy equipped, treaties
were annulled, the intercourse was prohibited, and commissions were granted to "private armed vessels. Every
instrument of war Wias employed; but its oper.ation" was
confined to the vessels of war of France upon the high.
seas.
So far as the war was allowed, the laws of war attached.
That it was a public wzr; was decided in the case of
Boas v. Tingey, in this court, Feb. Term, 1800.
No authorities afe necessely to shew that a state of
war may exist- without a public declaration. And the
right to search fcllows the state of war. Vattel, B. S. c. 7.
§ 114-1. Rob. 304. (The .M2aria,) 8 Term. Rep. 234.
Garre&v. KensingtoT. Whether the vessel was Americam
or Danish, she was taken out of the hands of our enemy.

Br.TSY'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MURaAY

The law'of nations in war, gives not only the right to
ihe. enemy.
On this point the case of TalTot v, Seenan is decisive,
both as to the law of ntions, and as to the acts of Congress, and that the rule applies as well to a partial -to a
generalwar.

v.
searcha neutral, but.a right to recapture from
SOHOONE'R
CIAR71NG

BTft.

\ W

-

Captain Murray'sauthority, then, was derived not only
from our municipal law, and his instractions ; biit from
the law of nations. If he has pursued his authority in an
honest and reasonable marnner, .although he may not be
entitled to reward, yet he cannot deserve punishment.
It remains to consigIer" whether the vessel was, in-fact,
-liable to seirureand condevmrition.
What where the generalfacts to create suspicion at
the time P
1. The vessel was originally American. The transfer
was recent and'since the non-intercourse law. The vov2 e was to a dependency of the French republic and
erefore prohibited, if she was really an Amerlican vessel.
2. The owner wa&an American by birth. The captain
*ds a Scotchman. The crew were not Danes, but chiefly Americans, who came,from Baltimore.
3 The proces verbal calls het an Arherican, vessel;
which was corroborated by the declafati6ns.of some of
the crew.
4. The practice of the inhabitants of the Danish
Wands, to cover American property in such voyages.
--What Was there then to dispel the- cloud of suspicion,
raised by these circumstances.
1. The declarations of Wlright, theqapptain, whose testimony was interested, inconsistent wo itself, and contradficed by others.
SIs The documents found on board.
Thee were no other than would have been found,. if
fraud had been intended. T
were

FEBRUARY, 1804,

81

1. The sea letter or pass from the governor-general of Midil,&
the Dani8h islandsi who, did not- reside at 'St."Thom , S,
but at St. Croix. It .states only by way of recital that CEAIMION
-the.vessel was the property of .ared Shattuck'a burgher BZTSY.
andinhabitantof St. Thomas's. It does not'state that he
was natuializ.ed.or i subje~t of Denmarl.
2. the muster roll, which
the names and trumber"
ofthe'captain and crew, who states
were ten besides the captain,
-.

viz. Win. Wright, c'aptain, DavidWeems, .ohn Robinson,
,a~ob Davidso, -_7ohn Lampey; Vohn Mholas, Frederick
Y.nsfy, George Williamsoh,"William George, Prudentio,
-a Corsican,"and Davy Vohnson, a Norwegian. . There is
b4t on foreign name in the whole. Wright in his de-"
position says, that three were Americans, one a-NorweSgian and the rest were Danes,.Dutch and Spaniards.
The muster'roll was not on oath, but was the mere
declarationof the owner..
3- The invoice, which only says that Slattuck was the

owner of the cargo.
4. The bill of lading, which says that he was the shipper.
5. The certificate of the oath of property of the Cargo,
istates- 6nly by way of recital, that Shattuck,: a.burgher,
inhabitant and subject &C." was the owner. of the Cargo,
but says nothing of the property in the vessel.
By ,:comparing this certificate *with the oath itself, it

appears that the Word "sbject" has been inserted by the
Qicer and was not in the original oath.
6. ".Shattuch'sinstructions to captain Wright.
7. The bill of sale by Phillips, the agent of the American owners, to Shattuck--but his authority to make tho
dale was not ofi oard.- To, shew what little credit such
documents are-.V'titled to, he cited the opinioni of Sir W.
Sfcott, in the cas of the igilantia, 1 Rob. 6, 7, and 8.
.Amer. ed. 'andin the.case of the Odin 1. Rob. 208, 21t
The whole evidence on board was a merd custom-house
affair, all depending upon his own oath of property. His

82

SUPREM)E COURT U. S.

MaAV"
mbrgher's brief was not on board, nor did it appear even
Scuoo
by his own oath,. tha6t Shattcck Was a burgher. Andno.
l1:&X11qp document is yet produced in which he undertakes-to swear
BETSY-.
that he is a Danish subject.
"Such documents could, not remove a reasonable suspi¢ion founded upon such strong facts.
'There could never be a seizureupon"suspicioni If this
was not warrantable at the time.
What has appeared since. to.remoye the suspicion, and.
to prove Shattuck to be a Danish subject ?
All the original facts remain, and the case rests on Shattuch'.s expatriation, whence prise two inquiries.
l. As -to the right, in point of law,' to expatriate.2. As to the exercise of the right, infact.
1. ,Asto the right of expatriation.
He was a native of Connecticut, and, for 'aught that
.appears in the record, remained here until the year 1189,
when we first hear- of him in the islalid of St. Thomas's.
This was after the revolution, and therefore there can be
no question as to electon, at leasf there'is.no proof of-his
electiori to become a subject of Denmark.
'Ifthe account of the case of Isaac Williams, (1. Tucker's
Black tone, part 1, appendix,p. 436) * is eorrect, it was
'The state of the case and the opinion of

. Ecorth,
El.
as eit'act.

ed by Judge Tucker, from" The Yational Magazine,*2No 3, p. 254. are

as follow.
On thetrial of Isaac Williamuin the Diitrct (qu. Circuit7 ) Court of

Connecticut, Feb. -7, 1797, for accepting a commisilon under the Frehch
republic, and under the authority thereof committg acts of-hostility
against GreatBritain, the defendant alleged, and offered to prove, that
he'had eapatriated himself from the Tnited Statee ikd become a French
citizen before the commencement of the war between .tance and England.
This produced a question as to the right of expairiation, when Judge
Elswnorth, then chiefJustice of the United State:, is said to have delivered
an opinion to the following effect."
. .
"The'conmon law of this country remains the saine as it was before
"theevolution. The present question, is to be"decided by two great
"principles ;'one is, that all
thc mcq er of a dvi omgxnity are bound.

FEBRUARY,,i'84.

83

the opinion 6f Ch.Y. El,worth, that Otitizen of the Uni- MWvxm
V..
ted States c6uld-'iot 'ixpatriate himself. That learned
Judge'iS reported to have said in that ca'e, that th coin- sCHoRoMz
mon kaw of this -country remains the same as it was bfore
the revolution.
But in the case of Yanon v. Talbot, 3. DlZ 133, this
Court inclined to the opinion that the right exists, but the'
difficulty 'was i iat the law •had.not pointed out the mode of
election ind ofprof.
"
It
s
ad
ed-iha the right does exist,
its
exercise must be accoinpaiiddby three c ircunistances.
1,. Fitness inpoint of time.
S. Fairness of intent.
to
each other
by compact ; the other is, that oneof the Pares to this
4ompac
cannot
dissolve it by his own act. The compact between our

"community and its members .is, that the com unft 'shall protect its
* "members; and on the part of the members, that they will at all times
'' be obedient tthe laws of the community and fai-tful to its defence. It
c necessarilV results that the member cannot.dissolve the compact without
" the consent, or default of the communit.
There has beenn'io cbisen4,
no default Express consent is not claimed'; but it is argued that the
- "consent
ofthe-community is implied, by its policy, its condition, and
1It*
acts In countries so crowded with inhabitants that the m ans of
" subsistence are difficult to be c6lned, it is reason asd polic. to pernit"
emigiation; ;but our plicy is different, for our countryis b4t scarcely
"settled, and we haveno inhabitants to spare. Consent has been argued.
from the condition ofthe country, because we ire in a state of peace.
:' But though we were inpeace, the"war had commenced in Europe: we'

"wished to hive nting to do with the war-b4ut the 'war would hive
sometbingto do with u. It has been difficult for uito kee'o'it ofthe

"war-the progress ofit has threatened to involve us. It has been ne.
"cessary for our government-to be vigilant in re-trainifig our own citizens .
"from those acts which would involve us in hostilities.
-"
"The" most visionary writers on this subject do not contend for thie
principle in the unlimited extent, that a citizen may at any, and at all
times, renouncehis own, andjoin himselfto a foreign country.
"Consent has been argued fromthe actacofoultovernim.nepermitti"the naturalizatm. of foreigners. When a foreigner presents himself
"here, we dQ tiiLquire wha..bis relation is to his own country; we.
haveot the mris of knowing, and the inquiry wuuld be indelicate

"weleavehimto judge of that. If he-embarrasses himself .by contract.-.
contradictory.obligations, the fault and folly are hisown : but this
iteplfes no consent of the government that our own citizens should also
"expatriate themselves. It is therefore my opinion, that these facts
"which the prisoner offiers to prove in his deece,1e totall irrelei'ant"
Stc.: The prisonez wa4 accorditigly fouild guiWty fned:and imprisoned.
.ing

SUPREME COURT U. S.
NvRRAY
V.

SCHooNER
CHAOMnG
BETSY.

3, .Publicittr of the act.

But the .right of expatriation, has certain characteristicks, which distinguish it from a locomotive right, or a
right to change the domicil.
By expatriation the parts' ceasesto be a citizen and becomes an alien. If he would again become a citizen, lie
must comply with the terms of the law of naturalization of
the country, although he was a native.
But by a mere removal to another country for purposes
of trade, whatever privileges be may acquire in that country, he does not cease to be a citizen of this.
With respect to other parties at war, the place of domicil
determines his character, enemy, or neutral, as to trade.
But With respect to his own country, the change ofplace
alone does not ji stify his trading with her enemy ; and he
is still subject t( such of her laws as apply to ciizens residing abrqad. i Rob. 165, (The Hoop.) 1 Term Rep.'84.
Gist v. Mason, and particularly 8 Term Rep. 548. Potts.
v. Bell, where this pririciple is advanced by Doct. Nicholl,
the king's advocate, in p. 555, admitted by D6ct. Swabey
inp. 561, and decided by the court.
This principle of 'general law is fortified by the positive prohibition of the act of conress,
In France the 'character of French citizen remains
Until a naturalization in a foreign country. In the Uhited
States we require an oath of abjuration, before we admit
a person to be naturalized,
If he was naturalized,' he ha ,done an act disclaiming
the protection of the United $tates, and is rio longer
-bound to his allegiance. But if he has acquired only a
special privilege to trftde, it must be subject to the laws
of his country.
"
2. But has he in fact exercised the right of expatriation ? And is it proved by legal evidence?
His birth is prima fade evidence that he is a citizen

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

85

of the UnitedStates and throws th' burden of proof upon MURRAY
V.
him. No law has been shewn by which he,could be a
nmaturalized subject of Denmark, nor has he himself ever CHARING
pretended- to be more than a burgher Qf St. Thomass.
BETSYWhat is'the.character of burgher, and what is-ihe nhtuire of a burgherabrief?
It is said that to entitle a person to own ships, there
must have been.a previous'-residence ; but no residence
is necessary to enable a man to be -a captain of a Danish
vessel
It is a mere licence to trade-a permit t6 bear the flag of
Denmark-likethe freedom of a corporation. It implies
neither expatriation, an oath of allegiance, nor residence.
1 Rob. 133. 7The.Argo, 8 Term Rep. 434, Pollardv. Bell.
These cases shqw with what facility a man may become a
burgher; that it isa mere matter of purchase, and that it is
a.character which may be taken up and' laid aside at pleasure, to ahswer the purposes of trade.
Bit there is no evidence that he ever obtained even this
burgher'sbrief. He went'fi-om Connecticut,a lad, an apprentice or clerk in 1788 or 1789. He was riot seenin
business there until 1795 or 1196. In gQing in 1789, he had
no motive to expatriate himself, as there was then no war.
We find him first trading in 1796, after the war, and the
law of Denmarh fo.rbids anaturalization in time of war.At what time then did he become a burgherP If he
ever did become such in fact, and it was in time, he can
prove it by the record. Wright's burgher's brief is prdduced and shews that they are matters of record. The
brief, itself then, or a copy from the record duly authenticated, is the best.evidence of the fact, and is in the power
of the party to produce.
-Why is it withheld, and other exparte evidence picked
up there, and wfiesses exaiined here ? All the evidence
they have produced is merely matter of inference.. They
have examined witnesses to prove that he tarried on trade
at St. Thomas'*s, owned ships arid land, marri.d and resided there. By the depositions they prove that a man is
not by law permitted' to do these things without being a
krgher ; and hence they infer his -birghership,
""

SUPREME'.COURT U. S.
MulatY

S

V.

ZrITSY.

\..

m

These facts are equivocal.in themselves, and not well
prov&d.
Certificates of citizenship are easily obtained, but arenot
always true. This is rloticed by Sir W. Scott in the cases
before cited.. A case happened iii this country, 2 -Dal,
370, U. Si v. Gallato, where a pers6n having taken the
oath"of allegiance to Pennsylvania; agreeably to-the- atralization act of that state, obtained a certifcate fr~i a magistrate confirmed by -the attestatior bf the stpieme executive of thestate, iat he was a -citizen of the .U. States.
Biit upon a trial in the circuit court of Pennsylvania,itwa"s
adjudged that he was uot a citizen. Captaini Barney also
went to Franee, became a citizen, took- command. of a
Frenchship of war, returned to this country, and is now
certtied'tobe'acitizen of the U. S. So irfthe case of the
information .against the ship Yohn and Alice, Captain
WMitesides, he was generally supposed to be -a-citizfn-of
.the 1. S.
Onthe triab evidence of. his citizenship was call&d: far,
when it appeared that hi' father, brought him into .this
country in the year 1784, .andremained herd- untll792,
when the father died.- Neither he nor his father were natuialized, and theviessel-was condemned. These instwA-'
ces shew the danger of crediting such custom-house cer-.
tificates..All these certificates, in the present case do not form
'the best evidence, because better is stll'in the posission
of the party, and he ought to produce it.
Th6 genera-and fundamental rules of evidence are'the
same i courts of admiralty as in courts of conimoniw.
If they appear to relax, it is only in that stage of the business where they are obliged to act upon suspicion.
In the present case the opinion of merchants only 'is
taken s to the laws of Denmar .-- NofJ icial character,
not even a laoyer was applied to. Certificates of merchants are no evidence of the law. 1 Rob. 58. (The Santa Crux.)
The evid~nce offered, is both exparte, and expost fact.
Fraud is nottobe presumed but why wads not the, burg-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

87

her's brief.produced, as.well as the other papers, such as Mua*Av
the oath of property, &c. when it-was ce1tainly tle most SczV.
important paper in the case ?
CRARMINQ
The only reason which can be given, is, that it did wot
exist. Itwas a case like that of Captain Writesidea,-where
people .were led into a mistake from the length of his resi"denced and fromrniavijag seen him there frof the tline-f
his youth.
Upon the whole then We have a right to conclude that
ared Shattuch was not -a Danish subject---or that ifhe
was, the fact is not proved, and. therefore he remains a
citizen of the'U. S. in the words of the act of congress,
" residing elsewhere."
-The "consequiize must be a- condemnation of the
vessel"
IL She was in danger of condemnation inthe French
courts of admiralty, and therefoie Captain _virray is
intitled to salvage.
This 'depends 1. on the right to retake-2; on the de-.
gree of danger-and"3. the service rendered.
1. He had a right to'retake, on the ground. of suspicion of illicit trade, in violation of the non-ntercourse
azb,. as well as on the"ground of her being a vessel sailing under French authority, and so armed as to be able
to annoy unarmed
vessels. He had also a
right to.bring her in for salvage' if a service was rendered.
-American

If his right to retake depends upon the suspicion ofi
illicit trade, or upon her being a-French armed vessel,
he could take her only into a port of the U. .
The point o'f.icit trade has already been discussed.
That the* vessel was sailing tinder French authority is
certain; the only question is whether she was.capable
of annoying our commerce.
-

She had port-holes, a musket -powder anidballs, and

88
tvi-A-Y

H.
CKARMING

.BETSY.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

eight Frenchmen, who probably, as is usual,-had each a
cutlass. Vessels have been captured.without a single
musket. Three or four cutlasses are often found sufficient.

The vessel was sufficiently armed to justify, Captain
Murray under his instructions in bringing her.in.
If then the taking was lawful, has she been saired from
such danger as to entitle Captain Murray to salvage?
There is evidence that Captain Wright requested
Captain Murray to take the vessel to prevent her falling
into the hands of the English. He consented to be carried
into Mfartinique. He protested only againot the
privateer,
not against Captain Murray. . His letter to
Captain Murraydoes not complain of the recapture,
but of the detention. The taking was an act of hum'anity, for if Captaita Murray had taken out the Frenchmen,
and left he vessel with onl Captain Wright and the boy,
they could not have navigated her into port, and she
must have been lost at sea, or fallen a prey to the brigands of the islands. This alone was ar-service which
ought to be rewarded with salvage.
But she was in danger of condemnation iu the French
courts of admiralty.
The case of Talbot v. Seeman has, confirmed the
principle adopted by Sir W. Scott in the case of the War
u Ian, 2 Rob. 246. that the departure of France from
the general principles" of the law of nations,, varied the
rule that salvage is not due for the recapture of a neutral out of the hands of her friend ; and that the general
conduct of France was such as to render the recapture
of a neutral out of her hands, an essential service which
would intitle the recaptors to salvage. If she had been
carried into aFrench.port,how unequal w.ould have been
the 'conflict? Who would have been believed, the pri.
vateer or the claimant? The Danish papers would have
been cofisidered only as, a cover for Ainerican property.,
The danger is shewn by the apprehensions of Captain
Wright and his crew; by the declarations of the privateer; by the proces verbal; anid by the actual imprisont
iment of the crew

FEBRUARY, 1804.

89

But independent of the general misconduct of France,
there are several French ordinances under which she
might have been condemned. The case of Polardv.
Bell, 8 Term Rep. 444 shews that such ordinances may
justify the condemnation. The case of Bernardiv.
Motieaux, Doug. 575, shews that the Frenchcourts actually do proceed to condemnation upon them, as in the
case of throwing over papers, &c. So in the case of
fayne' v. Walter, Parh dn Insurance, 414, (363) the
condemnation was because the vessel had an: English
supercargo on board.
By'the ordinances of France, Code des prises, vol.. 1,.
p. 306' § 9, "all foreign vessels shall be good prize in
which-there shall be a supercargo, commissary, or chiefoffier of an enemy's country; or the crew of which shall
be composed of one third sailors of an enemy's state ;
or which shall'not have on board the roles d'equipage
certified by the public officers of the neutral places from
whence the vessels shall have sailed."
And by another ordinance, 1 Code desprises, 303, § 6i
"No regard is to be. paid to the passpqits granted by
neuiral or allied powers to the owners or masters of vessels, subjects of the enemy, if they have not been naturalized, or if they shall not have transferred their domi-,
cil to the states of the said powers three months before
the 1st of September in the present year ; nor shall the
said owners and masters of vessels, subjects of the eneniy, who shall have- obtained such letters of naturaliza.
tion, enjoy their effect, if, after they shall have obtained -them, they- shall return to the states of the enemy,
for the purpose of there continuing their commerce;"
and by the next article, "vessels, enemy built, or which
shall have been owned by an enemy, shall not be reputed neutral or allied, if there is not found on board au.
thentic documents, executed before public officers who
can certify their .date, and prove that the sale or transfer
thereof had been made to some of the subjects of an allied or neutral power, before the commencement of hos.
tilities ; and if the said deed or transfer of the property
of an enemy to the.subject of the neutral or ally, shall
not have been duly enregistered before the principalofficer of the place of departure, and -signed by the owner.
or the person by him authorised."

MuARAY

V.

CHARMI

BETSY.

G

90

SUPREME- COURT U. S.

MURRY

In violation of these ordinances, the chief oficer, Cap-

ScHONR

tam Wright, was a Scot, an eliemy to France; for al-

CHARMING
BETSY.

though he had a burgher's briejy yet it did not appear that
he had resided three months before he obtained it; and
we have before seen thata previ~us residencewas not necessary by the laws of Denmark to entitle him to a burgher's brief for the purpose of being master of a vessel.
In ile next place, the whole number of the crew, with
the Caotain, being eltven, and three of the crew being
Americans and the captain a Scot, more than one third
of the crew were enemies of F'rance. The muster roll
did not describe the place of nativity of the crew. The
vessel was purchased after the commencement of hostilities between France and the U. S.-And there w- s no
*auth6rity on board from theAmerican owners to Phillips,
the agent who made the sale, in violation of the regulation of 17th February1694, Art. 4. 2 Code des prises,p.
14, which declares "the vessel to be good prize, if being enemy built, or belonging originally to the enemy,
the neutral, the allied, or the ,French propietor, shall
not be able to shew, by authentic documents found on
board, that he had acquired his right to her before the
declarati6n of war."-See also 2 Valin. 249, § 9--251 §
12 and 244.
What chance of escape had this vessel, under all these
ordinances which the French courts were bound to en* force? The case of Pollardv.Bell, 8 Term, 4,34, is precisely in point. The vessel in that case was Danish,
and had all the papers usually carried by Danish vessels. But she was condemned in the highest cuit *of
appeal in France because the captain was a Scot who
hd obtained a Danishburgher's brief subsequent to the
hostilities.
Has there, then, been no service rendered ?
It is no objection to the claim of salvage that it is not
made in the libel. Salvage is a condemnation of part
of the thing saved. The prayer for condemnation of.
the whole includes the part. It may be made by petition, or even ore tenus.
The means used for savingneed not be used with that
sole view. Talbot v. Secman.

FEBRUARY, J.804.

91

As to the quantumof salvage, he referred to the opin.
ion of Sir W. Scott, in the case of the Sarah. 1 Rob.
263.

Mustiy
v.
CEAEMXOlq
BETSY-

III. But if the Charming Betsey is noi liable to condemnation under thfe non-intercourselaw,and if Captain
Mfurray is not entitled to salvage, yet the restitution
ought to be -made of the net proceeds of the sale only,
and not with damages and costs.
In maritime cases probable cause is always ajustifica.
tion... The grounds of suspicion in the present instance
hiave been already mentioned; and when to these are
added' the circumstances.that it was at Captain Wright's
request that Captain Xurray took possession. of the vessel-that he consented to be carried into M"Iartinique-.
that if he had taken out the Frenchmen and.left the vessel in the midst of the ocean .with only Captain Wright
and his boy, thdy would have been left to destructionthat part of the cargo was damaged, part rifled, nd all
perishable-and that Captain Murray offered to release
the vessel and cargo, on security, there can hardly be a
stronger case to save him from a decree for damages.
In the case of the Two Susannahs, 2 Rob. 110, it is by
Sir I. Scott, taken as a principle thAt a seizure is justified
by an order for further proof, and he dec'eed a restitution of the proceeds only, it not being shewn that the
captors conducted themselves otherwise than with fair
intentions.
In the present case there is no pretence that Captain
Murray did not act from the purest motives, and from
a wish faithfully to execute his instructions.
Key, contra.
1. The schooner CharmingBetsey and her cargo were
neutral property, and not liable to capture under the
non-inter(purselaw.
2, When recaptured she was not an armed Frencti
vasel capable of anmloying our commerce, and therefore
not liable under the acts of congress authorising the
capture of such vessels.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MuSmy
SC11O.SEr
CHARMIZNG

Bprsy.

~'~d"

3. She was not inimminent danger when recaptured,
and therefore Captain Murray is not entitled to salvage.
4. Under all the circumstances of the case, he acted
illegally, and isliable for dmages 'vhich have been properly assessed.
I. As to the neutral character of the vessel and cargo,
he contended,
1. That fared Shattuck never was an American citi.
zen.
2. That if he was, he had expatriated himself, and
had become a Danish subject.
S. That if not a Danish stibject, yet he was not a citizen of the U. S.
The evidence is that he was born in Connecticut, but'
before the declarationof independence, and was therefore
a natural born subject of Great-Britain. He was in trade
for himself in St. Thomas's in 1794.-This he could not
do until he was 21 years of age, which will carry back
the date of his birth to the year 11V3. -He was an ap.
prentice at St. Thomas's in the year 1788 or 1789.There is no evidence of his being in the U. S. since the
declaration of independence. But if he hadf been, yet
he went away while a minor, and he could not make his
election during his minority. There is no evidence that
,his parents were citizens of the UnitedStates. Being a
natural born subject of Great-Britain, he could not become a citizen of the U. S. unless he was here at the
time of the revolution-or his parents were citizens, or
unless he became naturalized according to law.
It is incumbent upon Captain iurrayto prove him to
be a citizen of the U. S. -It is sufficient for us to shev
that he was born a subject of Great-Britain..-Theymust
shew how he became a citizen. This is a highly penal
law, and every thing must be proved which is necessary
to bring the case within the penalty.
2. But if he ever was a citizen of the U. S. he had expatriated himself.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
That every man has a right to expatriate himself, is Mrn~r
V.
admitted by all the writers upon general law ; and it is a
principle peculiarly congenial to those upon which our C .ARINr
constitutions are founded.
BzTsx.
Some of the states of the Union have expressly recognized the right, and even prescribel the form of expatriation. But where the form is not prescribed, nothing more is necessary that that it be accompanied with
fairness of intention-ftness of time-andpublicity of
election.
In the present instance, all these circumstances conrur.
No time could have been more fit, than the year 1788
or 1789, when all Europe.and America were in a stateof
profound peace. His country had then no claim to his
service.
The.fairness of intention, is evidenced by its. having
been carried into effect by an actual bona fide residence
of 10 or 11 years-by serving an apprenticeship-by actual domicilitin-bymarriage-by becoming a burgher-by acquiring lands-and by owning'ships.
The publicity of election, is witnessed by the. same
acts, and by taking the oath of allegiance to Denmark.
The United States have prescribed no f6rm of expatriation. All that he could do to render the act public*
and notorious.has been done.
It is said a man cannot .cease to be a citizen of one
state, until he has become a citizen or subject of another.
But a man may become a citizen of the world--analien
to all the governments on earth.* It is in evidence'that
by the laws of Denmarh, aman cannot become a subject
and carry on trade, without being naturalized-that an
oath of allegiance, and an actual domicil are necessary
to naturalization--but thaL domicil is not necessary to
C11 I-.There can be no doubt of that
Dadai, said he had been misunderstood. He only said that.the act of
becoming a citizen of another state was the most public act of expxat.
tiQ4 a d tIe best evidence of the fact.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MURRAY

V.

SCHOONER

CHARMING
BETSY.

become a burgher for the purpose of navigating a Danish
vessel.
In the two cases cited from,1 Rob. 133, the Argo, and
8 Term Rep. 434, Pollardv. Bell. the question was only as to the national character of the master of the vessel,
not of theowner; and therefore they do.not apply to the
present case.
The burgher's brief of Captain Wright is dated 19th
ay, 1794, and certifies that he had taken the oath of.
fidelity to his Danishmajesty, and was entitled to all the
privileges of asubject.
2

3. But if the facts stated in the recordare not sufficient
to prove Shattuck to be a Danish subject, -yet they do
not prove him to be a citizen of the U. S. and if he is
not a citizen of the U. S. it is immaterial of what country he is a subject.
By the law of nature and nations a min may, by a bon
fde domicil, and long continued residence in a country,
acquire the character of a neutral, or even of an enemy.
in the case of Scott v. Schawrtz, Comyns' Rep. 677, it
was decided that residence in, and sailing from Russia,
gave the mariners of a Russian ship, the character of
Russian mariners, within the meaning of the British
navigation act: and in the case of the Harmony, 2 Rob.
264, Sir W. Scott condemned the goods of an American
citizen, becaue by a residence in Francefor four years
he had acquired a domicil in that country which hid given his property the character of thi goods -ofan enemy.
In the case pf WiLon v. Marryat, 8 Term Rep. 31, it
was adjudged that a natural born British subject might
acquire the character of a citizen of the US. for commercial purposes.

II. The CharmingBetsey was not a French armed
vessel, capable of ann6ying our commerce, and therefore
not liable to capture or condemnation, by* virtue'of the
limited war which existed between the UnitedStatesand
France.
In supporting this proposition it is not intended to in.

'FEBRUARY, 1804.

95

terfere withthe'decision of this court in the case of 'Ta- Mui"T
bot v. Seeman.. ,There is a great difference between the S oa'
force of the Amefia, in that case, and that of the Charm- cix.&
in.Betey.-The Amelia bad eight cannon, was man.- B3Tsy
ned by twelve Frenchmen, andhad been in possession of
the Frenih ten days,. and must be admittedto have been
such an armed French vessel as came within the meah.
ing of the acts of congress
But in the present case, the vessel was built at. Baltimore, and owned by citizens of .the United States.When she sailed from Baltimore she had four cannon,
a number of muskets, &c. which Shattuck was obliged
to urchase with the vessel, and which he afterwards
so at a considerable*loss.
"Ihe.captain swears that at the time of recapture
she
had only.'ohe musket, a few balld, and twelve ounces of
powder; and although _ Farrian leposes to a greater
quantity of arms, yet it appears that he did not go on
board of her until eight days after the recapture.
It.arms. were on board, they ought -to have been
brought in with thd vesseL This is particularly requir-

eid by the act of congress.. No armi are mentioned in
the account of sales. It is to be presumed, as none were
brought in, that none were on board. - The captain ix.
piessly swears that the Fienchpiut no force or arms on
board when they took her.
$.he could not, therefore, be such an armed vessel as
was intended by the acts of congres!.
III. She was not in imminent danger when recaptured, and therefore the recaptors are not entitled td salvage.
It is a general principle that the recapture of a neuiral

does not entitle to salvage.
It is not intended to question the correctness of the
decision of this court in the case of Talbot v. Seemim,
fior that of Sir W. Scott, in the case of the War Outahn.
Those cases were exceptions th the general rule, because the conduct of Francewas in violation of the law

96
MuRRAY
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

of nations, and because neutral vessels had nochance of.

SCH0ONR escaping the rapacity of the French prize courts. This
cH&RmIxo system of depredation upon neutral commerce continued
BzTSY.
during the years 1798 and 199. The Amelia- was re'captured

by Captain Talbot inSeptember, 1799, while

the arret of 18th Yanuary 1798, so injurious to neutral
commerce, and the violences of the prize courts were
in full operation.
The Charming Betsey was recaptured by Captain
.Murray on the 3d of Yuly 1800. During this interval great events had occurred in France.
On the qth of November 1799, Bonaparte was placed
at the head of the government, anda new order of things
commenced.
On the 24th of December 1799, the arretofthe council of five hundred of 18th Vanuary 1798, which made
the character of neutral vessels dependent upon the quality of the cargo, and declared good prize all those laden
inzwhole or in part with the productions of Englandor her
possessions, was repealed, and by a new decree the-ordinance of 1778 was re-established. The government
adopted a more enlightened and liberal policy towards
neutrals.
On the 26th of March 1800, a new tribunal of prizes
was erected, at the head of which was placed the cele-.
brated Portalis, author of the Civil Code.
On the 29th of MAay 1800, their principles were tested in the case of the Pigou, an American ship belonging
to Philadelphia. This case was a public declaration to
all the world that ihey began to entertain a proper respect for the law of nations, and from this time the rule
of-slvage;as established in the case of the.War Ou&an,
ceased.
The Pigou had been condemned in an inferior tribunaL
On an appeal to, the council of prizes, Portalis,with
a degree of liberality and correctness which would confor honour upon any court' in the world, declared that

X2t TARY, 1804.

17

"excepting the cas6 whena prize is •evidently andnactually enemy's property, all questions about the valid"ity or invalidity of prizes, come to the examinationof

."

a fact of neutrality." A.d in discussing the question
as to the necessity of a role dequipage,he says, "I will

"begin with the principle tiat all questions about
"neutrality, are-what are called in law; questions bona
"fide, in which due regard is to be-had to facts, -and
•"weigh them.propely without adhering t6-ifing ap.
inbe
error
i
gross
be
"pearances. -,".Bat it would
"liev.ing that.the want of, or the least irreglaty nm;
"' one of these papers, could operate so far-as t9 CAUse.
.
4 the vessel to be adjudged go'od prize.."-

regular paierscoyer an eteyspro erSometimes
,

" ty, which'other circumstances unmask. In other.,Fr1.cumstances the stamps 6f : ne.utrali.t! bre6k thrqugh-" omissions and irregularities in .he forms," proceeding
"from mere negrigbnce, ,oi grpunde'd on motives free
•
"from fraud.
"We must speak to the point; and in these matters
Ac as iell as in.those Which .are to be determined, we
' must decde not by mere strict forms, buiby tNierm.
" cipkle of good fatit; we must say with.thejaw, that
"mere omissions or mere irregularities in the forks,
"cannot. prejudice the truth,, if-it is stated by.Any _other
'"4ways : and si dli'quldxe oemntibu de ,ciat,cum equitas"
"Poscit, 8ubveniendumn est."-" The main point in lve"ry case is, that the judge may be satisfied that.tht

"9property is neutral or not." He then cited a case deci-

ded upof the 6th article of the regulation of the 21st of
October 1744 ; by ihich article the act'of throwing over
papers is-made a substantive ground of condemnation..
'But it was decided that the papersought to be of such-a
nature as to prove:the property to be enmy's.
The two gpounds upon which the Pigouwas.condemned in the inferior tribunal .were, that she was armed
for war, withdit any commission or guthority fromnthe
U. S1'. and that there was on board m? role d'equipage
attesied by the public officers of the port of departure.
She mounted ten guns,*and was provided with muskets
and 'other warlike store's.

Mux.&A
"

StkoozR
BETSY.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MURRAY

Upon the first point it was decided in the council of

ScHOOEa

prizes that she was not armed for war, but for lawful
defence ; and on the second that a role d'equipage was

4ING
CH
BETSY.

not absolutely necessary, if the property appeared othclearly to be neutral.*

Serwise

* There is so much'reason, justice and good sense appearingthrough
a bad translation of probably, not a very accurate account of this case,
that it is with pleasure tr-anscribed as it has been published in this eountry from the London public prints.
Opinion of Portalis.-After having read the opinion of commissioners
of the government, left in writing on the table, which is as follows :
It appears that a judgment of the tribunal of commerce at l'Orient,had
.granted Captain Green the replevy of his vessel and part of the goods ;nd
specie vhich composed the cargo ; and that on the appeal entered by the
comptroller of marine at l'Orient against that judgment, the tribunal of
the department of Morbihandeclared the vessel and cargo a gold prize.
The grounds on which rested the decision ofthe tribunal of Morbihan
were, that the Vessel was armed for war without any commission or authorization from the dmerican government; and tha there was on board
no role d'equipage .attested by the public officers of the port of his de.
partue.
The capturedclaim the nullity of the prize, and that the vessel e rein.
stated in the situation she was in when captured, and that she bedelivered
up as well as her cargo, and the dollars which were on board, and also
the papers, with damages and interest adequate to the losses they had
sustained.
To be able to determine on the respective demands, we must'first fix
upon the validity or invalidity of the-prize, excepting the 4aoe -when a
prize'is evi ntly andactually enemy'*property, all question&about the validity or invalidity c prizes come to the examination of a fact of neu.
trality.
In this case, was the tribunal of Morbihanauthorised to determine
that the ship Pigou was in such circumstances as to beprevented from being acknowledged and respected as neutral ?
It is said the vessel was armed fof war, and without any authorization
from her government; that she mounted 10 guns of dflerent rates, and
that muskets and warlike stores have been found in her.
The captured reply, that the vessel being biund to India,was armed
for her own defence, and that the warlike a-munit'in, the muskets and
guns, did not exceed what is usual to have on board for long voyages ;.
for my part, I think it is not for havi.g arwns on board only, that a veseel
can hesaid to be armedfor war. The warlike anmament is merelv efan
offensive nature ; it is decmed so when there is no other end than attacking, or at least wbeh every thing shows that attack is the main 'point of
the armamqnt: then a vessel is reputed inlm;cal, or pirate if she has no
commission or papers which may remove the suspicion. *Butdetianrc is
of natural right, and every mens of defence is Lawful in voyages at sea,
as in evu-y other dangerous occurrence of life.
A vessel consisting but of a small crew, and whcse cargo in goods a.
mounted to a considerable svmn, tas evidentl- intended for trade, and not
forwar. The arms found on board were not to commit plunder and hos:
tility, but to avoid them ; not for attack, but fir defence. The pretence
of arnament for war, in my opinion, cannot be founded.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

99

in another case. (the Statira) which was decided very shortly after that of the Pigou, by the same. council

MUMMAT

.

-CHAMNGE

BTiSy.

I am noir t6 discuss ihe second &rument agaList :he captors on the
want of a role d'equipage, attestegby the public officers of th place of
her departure.
To support "thevalidity of the prize. -they allege the regilation of the
21st October 1774, ofthe 26th of fuly 178, and the decree.of the directory of the l12th ;entose, 5tlyear, which require a role d'equipage.
The captured, ontheir parr e:aim the executof the treaty of commerce, between .Franceandthe Unied States 6f .dmerica, of the 6th Feb-"
rarj 1778; they contend' that general regulations coid n6t derogate
from a special treaty, and thtthe directory cofd nt infiigc'the treaty
by an arbitrary decree.
It is a fact that th; regulations of 1774 and .1778; and the decree of the
dietory require a role a'equipage asserted by the pvblic officers of the
place of departure. It is also a fact; that the role'd'equifage is not
mentioned in the treaty of the 6th Februdy, as one of the papers requisite zoestablish neut.-ality, but I believe I am not under the necessity of
discussing whether the treaty is superior to the regulations, or whether
the regulations are superior to the treaty.
I"ill begin .with tMi principle that alt quesion: about neutrality, are
what are calledin law, questions Bo.& r2cz, in which due rrd is to
ering.to
be had to facts which are to be properly weighed, without
.
trifling appeaxrnces.
Neutrality is to be.proved ; for this reason, the regulation omar'neof
1681, aricl 9, on'prizes, states, .that vesscls with their cargoes, which
shall not have on'board charter pa,es, bills of lading, nor invoices, shall
be considered as good prize.
From the same motives, the regulations of '1774 and 1778, put the
commanders of neuu-.a vessels tnder obligation of proving at sea their
property beingneutral, by passports, bills of lading, imvoices and vessels'
papers.
of 1774, whose enacting parts have been renewed by
The regu _tion
..the directory, literally expresses, among the papers requisite to prove
neutral property, that there must be a role d'equiage in dueform.
But it would be a gross error to suppose that the wantof, or the least
ireulrty in, one of these papers, couldl operate so far as to cauxe tte
vessel to be adjudged good prize.
Sometimes regular papers cover an enem;'s property, which other cir.
cumstances unmask. Intother circumstances the stamps of neutrality'
break through omissions and irregulrities in the forms, rocding from
g
mere n6gligence, or.grounded on motives free from fraud
We must speak to the point, and in these m.atters as well as in those
which are to be determined, we must decide not by njere strict forms,
but by the principles of good faith ; we must say with the law, that mere
omissions, or mere irregularities in the forms, cannot prejudice the truth,
if itis stated by pny other ways : and "zialiquid ex aomnibus ' efi'at,
cam equita, pdocit, ubveniendum est.
Therefore, the regulationof the 26th uly, 1778, art. , after having
stated that the masters of neutral vessels sha, prove at seatheir property
being netrAl by passports, bills of lading, ivoices and other ves.gIlpa.
pers, adds, one of which at least shall establish the pi~pety beng neitrA_ or shall contain an exact description of ii
It is notthen necsayi vr case to prove: , he piroperty neutral. by
the multane6us concrrenceof all the papers-r-merated m teregula
ctimst-nces, that one of
ion&. But it is suffibient accordin, to th;

-

100

SUPREME COURT U. S.

of prizes, two questions arose-ist, whether the Statira,
V. , being an American vessel captured by a British ship and

MURRAY

SCHOONER

CHARMING
BETSY.

these papers establish the property, if it is not opposed or destroyed
more peremptory circumstances.
The main poh.! i,.very case is, tkat thej dge may be satisfiedthat'the
property is neutra" or .jot.
We have a precedent of what I assert in art. 6, of the regulation of the
21st October 1774; by that article every vessel belonging to what nation
soever, neutral; enemy or ally, from which papers shall be'proved to have
been thrown overboard, shall be adjudged good prize, on the proof only
of the papers having been thrown over oard; nothing can be more explicit.
Some difficulties arose on the execution of that severe clauseof the law,
which has been renewed by the regulation of 1778.
On the 13th NYrovember 1779, the king wrote to the admiral, that heleft entirely to him and to the commissioners of the council of prizes to
apply the rigidity ofthe decree, and of the regulation of the '6th Ady,
or to moderate their clauses as peculiar circumstances would require it i
their opinion.
A judgment of the council of the 27th Decemher, in the said year,
rendered between Pierre .Brandebourg,master of the Swedish ship Fortune and M. de la Rogredouiden, captain of the king's xebec the Yok,
liberated the said vessel notwithstanding some papers had been thrown
overboard.- It was determined that to ground an adjudication of the vessel on the papers bei g thrown overboard, they ought to be of uch nature
as to prove thepropery enemy's, and that the captain ought to have had
a concern in throwing his papers overboard; which was not the case
with the Swedish captain.
In this case without discussing whether American captains are obliged,
or not to exhibit a role d'equipage, attested by the public officers of. the
place of their departure, I observe that this role is supplied by thepass.
port, and that the captured allege the impossibility for them to havetheii
roled'equipageattested by public officers in Philadelphia, since theintercourse was foridden, under pain of death, with Philadelphia, where a
most tremendous epidemic was raging: I must add, that the passport,
the invoice, and 4lithe vessel's papers, establish evidently theproperty of the
vessel andcargo being neutral; none of these papers have ever been disputed. Thus the invalidity of the capture is obvious; wheice it follows
that every thing which has been taken from them, ought to be restored
in kind or by a jxiut indemnification.
As to their cl.%iW°for damages and interest, I must observe, that such
a claim is not in eiey case the sequel of the invalidity of the capture.
Suspicious proceedings.of the captured, may occasion the mistake of
the captors. But when the injustice on the part of the captors cannotbe
excused, the captured have a right to damages and interest.
Let us apply these principles to the cause, Could the captors entertain any grounded suspicions against the captain of the ship Pigou . was
not the neutrality of the s*p proved by her being an American built ship,
by her flag, by her destinition, by the crew being composed of'dmeri.
cant, by her cargo consis .tdrofAmerican goods, without any contraband
articles, blrhe name and thv chairof Captain Green, very wellknown
by services he rendkred to the Frenchnationby theregister, thepassport,
the invoice, by the papers.fa board, finaly, by the place wWc she was
captured, which w.as far f'*i any. .upicious distination.P It was then
impossible for the ,captors ,o snke any'rmstake ; the vessel struck her
ors at the first supmnons, the officers and crew made faithful declar.

Sby

-

FEBRUARY,

804.

recaptred by-a French privateer, was liable to confisca.
tion cn the ground of her being in the hands of an enemy; and 2d, whether her cargo was ground of condem-

CrAEMI*G

Br.sr..

nation ?

On the frstpoint it was held, that the mere capture
does not before condemnation, vest the property in the
captor, so as to inake it transferable to the recaptor, and
therefore no ground of confiscation.
On the 9d there were two inquiries. 1st, whether, in
point of law, the character of the vessel, neutral or not,
should be determined by the nature of the cargo ? 2d.
whether.he cargo consisted of contraband ?
As to the first, the commissary (Portalis,) reviews the
laws upon this subject prior to the arret of the council of
500, of the 29th Nivose, yeai-6, (.anuary 18, 1798,)
-

6=4, they ar~swered plainly in their examination; no pretence whatever
ivas left to the captors ; they don't appear to have observed the forfts
prescribed by.the rgula tion. Some very heavy .chargea are uttered a..
ast thern ; but thinkit is not time yet to take noticeofthem; they
wil be discussed whin thi articles captured are restored. In these circumstances I am of opinion, that a more absolute and full
replevy be gFanted to Captain Green of the American ship JPigou, and her
cargo, as well as the papers found on board; as to the claim of damages
and interest, made by Captain Green, that the former be granted to him,
and they shall be settled 4y arbitrators in the usual form.'
(Signed)
PORTALIS.
-

Munu.A&

ScHoVoE

Paris, 6 .Prairial,8th year.

The council declaie that the capture of the ship Pigou and her cargo,
is null andof n~o effect'; therefore, grant a full and absolute replevy of
the #essel, rigging and kppard, together with the papers and cargo, to
C aptain lohn
Green; as to the damages and interest'claimed by Captain
Green, the council grint them to him, and they shall be settled by arbi.
trators in the usual forms.
DoN at Paris on the 9th Prairhl,8th year of the Republic.

Preaent,
Citizen - RznoN,
Presidcnte Nxou CANTz;
MOREAU,

MONTIGNY,
MONPLACID,
]BARENZIES,
IJUSAUB,'
PAREVAL,
9RANDMAISON,
TOURNACHFM.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RurzAYr
V.

the severity of which, he. condemns; but as the Statira
was captured whife.it was in force, the captor was entitled
tried by it. H observes that such
Scaoo.
CHARMIZG, to have the capture
BS.

t ar-.r-%*

regulations are improperly styled laws, and they. are essentially variable pro tbmporibus et causis ; that they
should always be tempered by 'iisdom and'equity. He
,adverts to the words in whole, or in part,. by which he
says ought to.. be understood a 'greatpart, according to
.the judicial maxim parum pro nihilo habetur. Upon this
prnciple he is of opinion, that a ship ought not to be Aubject to confiscation, even under the law of the 29th Nivose,
'unless such a part-of the cargo comes under the description of what is there made c9 ntraband, as ought to excite
"
a presumption offraud againstall the rest.
The question of contraband, related to 40 barrels of
pitch, part of the cargo of the Statira. He observed that
pitch was n6t made contraband by the treaty of 17V8,'but
ds Francewas by that treaty, entitled to all the advantages of the most favored nation, and as by a subsequent
treaty between the UnitedStates and Great Britain,pitch
was among the enumerated articles of .contraband, it necessarily became such in regard to France.
He however decides the quantity to be too small to
justify cbndemnation, even upon the principle of the law
of 24th, (quere 29th) Nivose. And the ship was re"I
stored.*
* The following account of the case of the Statirais extracted from London papers of JNne 1700. ,
We stated to our readers some time ago the principles up6n
which the new council of prizes at Paris proceeded with respect to neutral vessels, and we gave the decision at length
upon the ./gricanship Pigou,which was ordered to be restored with costs. That decision shewed, that a greater .degree of
system had been established, and tfhat the loo~se and frequently
unjust p: inciples upon which the directory acted with respect
to captures of neutral ships, were meant tor be abandoned.
The following is the decision of the council on another case,
that of the Statira:
.The Statira, captain Seaward, an American ship, had been
captured by an English vessel, and recaptured by the French
privateer the Hazard.
The first point which the commissary considers is, the effect
Which the Statira having been in the possession of the .Eng.igh
ought tohaw

FEBRUARY, 1804,..
These cases are read to show that Francehad abstained
from tlose violations of the law of nations, which had
He observes, *at if the vessel captured and recovered had

MumRAy
V.

Sciloo-4EIL
CxTSY.

been French, and recaptured by a national vessel, there would \.ov..-m./

have been nothing due to the re-captor, because this is only the.exercise of that protection which the state owes to. all its subjects in all ci.rcumstances. If it had been recaptured by a privateer, the French regulation gives the property of the vessel
to the recaptor, on account of the risk and danger of privateering. It.rpightbe an act of generosity to restore the vessel
-to the original owficr but it is not of right that it should.
In the next place, he considers the case of 4 neutral recaptured from the enemy. If really neutral, he says the" vessel'
must be released. The ground of this higher degree of favor
for a neutral he states to be, that the French vessel must have
been lostin.the country. But it is not certain that the neutral captured by an enemy may not be released by the admiralty courts of the enemy. The mere capture does not vest
the property immediately.in the captor, so as to make it transferab1i to the recaptor. The commissary considers'the property not vested in the captor till sentence of condemnation.
We believe this is much milder, and more favorable for neu"frals than our practice. The being a certain time in the enemy's custody, or intra mania,trarisfers the property to the captor. This was held in the late well known case of the 8.tzaniah
prize, captured by the French, and recaptured by the .Engieh
It is to be observed, however, that a principle of reciprocity is
pursued, and .that we give the same indulgence to the neutral
which they would have given us in a similar case.
Having proved that the Statira was not'liable to confiscation,
on the ground of her being in the hands of an enemy, the
commissary considers whether her cargo was ground of confiscation.
Upofi this point he considers two questions, Ist, whether in
point of law, the character of the vessel, neutral or not, should
be determined by the nature of the cargo? 2d, whether the
cargo consisted of contraband?
He then reviews all the laws upon this head.. He shews
that till the decree of the 29th erivose, (year 6) Jantua?:y 18,
1798, the regulation states, "His majesty prohibits all privateers to stop and bring into the ports of the kingdom the ships
of' neutral powers, even though coming from or bound to the
ports of the enemy, with the exception of those carrying supplies to places blockaded, invested or besieged. With regard:
to the ships of neutral states laden with contraband commodities for the enemy, they may be stopped and the said commodities shall be seized and confiscated, but the vessels vnd the

104
musamv
V.

CHjAnNG
BETSY.

\residue

SUPREME COURT U, S.

caused the rule in the case of the War, Ou&an; and t6
bring the present case within the princisles established by
the court in the case of Talbotv. Seeman.
of their cargo shall be restored, unless the said tontra-

band commodities constituted three-fourths of the value of the
cargo, in which case'the ship and cargo shall be wholly confiscated. His majesty however reserves the right of revpking the
Rrivileges above grantedif the enemy do not grant a reciprocal
ifidu1'ence in the course of six months from the date hereof.
T ,elaw ofthe 29th .Mrvoae, (year 6)overturned all this sys*tem, and enacted, "That th6 state of ships in regard to their
being neutral or hostile, should be determined by their cargo,;
that accordingly every vessel found at sea, lalen inwhole or in
part with crmnuodiies coming from England or its possessions,
should be declared good prize, whoever might be owners of
their articles and commodities."
The severity of this regulation the -commissary cqndemns,
'but as jhe Statire was captured while it was in forde, the cap,
tor was entitled to have the capture tried by it.
. He examines next how the regulation applies, premising his
opInion that such regulations are improperly stiled !aite, and
"lniy are essentially variable pro'tempo bue et caumi ; that they
should always be tempered by wisdom and equity. He adverts
to iewords inwhole or in part. By the whole, he says, ought
Sto
leunderstobdp great part, according to the judicial Viaxim
tarum pro nihilo'habetur. Upon this principle then, he is of

opinion that a ship ought not to be subject t6 confiscation even
" inder"the law of the 29th .rvoe unless such a part ofthe cargo comes under the description of what is there made 6ontrabarid, as ought to excite a presumption of fraud against all the
rest. What that part should be is not capable of definition, but
,ah6uldbe* left to the inlightened equity anidsound discretion of.
the judge.
The Statira bad on board sixty barrels of turpentine and forAy barrels of pit-ch. The captor contended that these were contraband ; the captured §ul, that by the treaty of 1778 with the
Americans, they were noL enumerated as contraband.
But the co'mmissary %hews,that the Americans by the,treaty
were bound to admit the Frepch.to all the advantages of the
most fvourite nations; that having, in a subaequdiittreaty with
England, rrmade pitch contraband, with respect to the latter, necessarily it. became contraband withregard to France.
The: learned commissary, however, thinks that'even upon the
principle, of the law' of the 24th .lrvose, the quantity of pitch
was too small tojustify -confis~ation.
In t.te nextplace the ciptor alleged, that 2911 pieces of Cam-

FEBRtTA.RY-,0

o.

'The- geheral conduct of France havihg beei changed,
it is to be preiumed, she would -have been released with
damages and.costs ; if not upon the principles of justice,
good i th, and the law of nations, vet upi ., se of policy.
Fracewas at war wiih GreatBritain; partial hostilities
existed with the United States. The ron4ntercourse
law prevented our vessels from trading with Franceor
lier dependencies ; and the French Vest-Indies could only
be supplied from the.Danish'islands. It is not to be believed, therefore, thit they would, by condemningthjs v'essel, (coming to them vith those very supplies -which' ther
wanted,) erbarrass a trade. necessary to their very existence.
But independent of the general Tnisconduct of France
towards neutrals, the captbrs rely upon three points arising under French ordinances.
1. That the Rd dEquipaee wants the place of natvity of thd crew. But according i0 the opinion of -'orA$ f/s, this is not a fataldefect, nor is it, of itself, a ,ufficien-t
ground of condemnation.
peachy wdd, part cargo of the Statira, was thd liroduce of
-Engilz
possessions. h
-This point
however bad not been regularly ascertained, as
the report on-the subject. Was made without the captured being
called as a party. ,
.
.
The commissary states, Anowever, itrotig circumst .ces of'
Mnspicion on this head. The captured had not appealed against
the confiscation of the 'cargo. The point came under 6e con- •
sideration of the court on the appeal of ihe'capt6r, who wanted
to get both ship and cargo.
The commissary therefore: sawF no reason for .ondemning
the ship, which was clearly "neutral ; but on 4cecount of the
duspicions a-ainst the character of the cargo, .:he thought no
indemnification whatever was due to the captired. ".J
Judgment
was pronounced accordingly.
-"
The piratical decree of the 29th Nfifose, (year 6) m dioned
above with so much Eeverity by Porta&s has be n'rejealed,
and things have been placed upon the footing of the regulation
of 1778; that is, the French are to treat neutrals in regai'dto
contraband in the same way in which they are treated by us;
they will not allow the .dme_.can to carry into £ng/and a cominodity which the Englishwould seize as contraband oing inti
theports of France.
-

MuakfeV.
SCAOR
UTSY.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MuRray
SCH VaF.t

Cf.,tR.Nfl
Bwrsy.

2. That more than one third of the crew were enemies
of France. The word rnatelot in the ordinance of 1778,
means a sazdor, in contradistinctioii to the captain or mas-

ter. ExAude the captain and there were only 10 persons
on board, and o ly three of those are pretended to be
enemies; so ".nat one third were 'not enemies within the
meaning of the ordinance.
But these three pretended enemies were A'mericans.
The hostilities which existed between France and the
UnitedStates, 'amounted at most to a partial, limited war,
according to the decision of this court in the case of Boas
v. Tingey. It was only a war against French armed
force found on the high seas.

It did not*authorise private hostilities between the citi-zens of the two countries. Individuals are only enemies
to each other in a generalwar. The war extended only to
thse objects ppinited out in the acts of Congress ; as to
every thing else, the state of the two nations was to be
considered as a state of peace. It was a war only uoad
hoc. The individuals of the two nations were aways
neutral to each other. A citizen of the United States
could only be con~idered an enemy of France ivfile in
arms against her; the neutrality was the counterpart, or
(to; use a-mathematical expression) the complement of the
war. A citizcn of the UnitedStates, peaceably navigating a neutral vessel, could not be burthened with the
character of enemy.
S. The captain was a Scot by birth.
The ordinance cited from 1 Code des prises, S03. §6.
in support of this objection, is in the alternative. The
master of the vessel must be naturalized in a neutral
country, or must have transferred his domicil to the
neutral country three months before the first of September in that year. Naturalization is not necessary, if
there be such a transfer of the domicil ; and the domicil
is not necessary if the party be natturalized.
]gut the authority of Portalisshows that these decrees
aie noi to be considered as laws but sub hodo.

FEBRUARY, 180 .

107

They are only regulations made at.particular times,
for particular purposes.
if the same evidence had been produced at Guadaloupe
which has been brought here, (and the same would have
been more easily obtained there) there can be no doubt
the vessel would have been restored.
. It is in evidence that other vessels of Mr. Shattuck
had been released.*No salvage catl.be allowed unless the dafiger was imminent, not problematical.
IV. Under all the circumstances of th6 case, Captain.
Mirray acted illegally, and is.liable for damages ; whiclh
have been propeily assessed.
His suBsequent conduct rendered tl'e transaction tortious ab initio- If hi was justiked iinrescuihgthe v-.ssel
froiia the hands of the French, his subsequent detention
'of tle vessel, and the sale of the cargo at Plartinique
by,his own agent, without condemnation' Were unanthorised acts in violation of the rights 6fnetitrelity.
.The libel says nothing of the cargo. It is first men-.
tioned in the re.plicatioh. The libel only prays co..demnation of the vessel, on .the ground of violation of the'.
non-intercourse law.
By lavr he was bound to bring the vessel and cargo
into a port of the UndtedStates for-adjudication, and had
no authority to sell the cargo before condemnation.As to the lretenee of her being an armed French vessel,
he ought to have sent the arms into port with the vessel
as the only evidence of their existence.
The commander of the French privater, in his commissioj to the prize-master, calls her the Danish schooner Charming.Betsy, William Wright master.
There was no evidence to impeach the credenice due
to the papers found on board of her, and which at that

KURRAY

V.

SCH00SEP
CHARMING

BFr.Ty.

108 .
MUERAY

V.

SCHOONER
CHARMI ' G

BErsy.

SUPREME COURT U. S,.

tim had every appearance of fairness, and which have
since been icontestibly proved to be genuine.
The facts sated ip the piroces verbal, are that sle had
no log-boo'k.-,-that the mate declared himself to be an
Anerican-that the flag and pendant were Americanthat the Danish . flag had been made during the chase,
which was confirmed by the two boys-and that she had
no pass from the French consul. Whatever weight
might be, given to thcse facts, iftrue, yet the outrageous
and disorderly conduct of the crew of the privateer, entirely destroys the credit of the proces verbal, and at
best it would be only the declaration of interested plun;
derers.
But it is- said that, by the law of nations, probable
kAuse is a suflicient excuse ; and that" this law operates
as the law of nations.
. In revenue laws, probable cause is no justification,
imless it is made so by the laws themselves.
This is not a war measure. If the UnitedStates were
at war it was unnecessary, because the' act of trading
with an enemy ig itself a ground of condemnation. This
law was passed because the- United States were not at
war, and wished to avoid it; by shewing their power
over the French colonies in the West-Indles. It is a
mdnicipal regulation, rs well suited to a state ofpeace as
of war. Itaffects our own citizens only. It is no part
of the law of nations. What would other nations call it,
were they bound to notice it ? It cap. give no right to
search and seize neutrals. It could not affect their rights.
He who takes must take at his peril. The law only
gives authority to seize vessels of the United States. If
he takes the vessel of another nation, he must answer it.
As to the damages. Nothing can justify Captain
Murray ; but it was a mistake of the head, not of the
heart. His intentions were honest. and correct, but hi
suffered his suspicions to carry'him too far. If it was
n error in judgmenit, shall he*have salvage ? If an injiiry has been done to the'innocent and unfortupate:

FEBRUARY, 18Q4.

109

owner, shall he have no redress? The consequences to mz.ai
" v.
hi A'
iere the same, whatever might have beenthe mo- S CHONERX
him
tive. The damages have been properly assessed in the c.~nleDistrict Court. If damages are to be giaen they ought BETSY.
not to be less than the original cost of vessel and.,cargo,
with the outfit, insurance, interest and expenfses ; and
upon calculation it will be found that the damages ass's-,x
sed do not exceed the amount ofthese.*
Dallas. It is said that Mr. AShattucl never was a citizen'of the United States.
What is averred.and admittdd need not be proved.
Mr.Soderstrom, in his rejoinder, expressly admits that
he was once a citizen of the United States by alleging
that.he had transferred his allegiance from the.gover.
ment of the UnitedStatesto his Danish majesty.
Mr. Sbattuch'sburgher's brief, is at length, for the
first time, produced and admitted to be made a part of
the record. It bears date on the 10h of April; 1797.
It may here be remarkedthat some of the wit*ne.ses have
testified thathe became a burgher in 1795; This shews
how little reliance ought to be placed upon 'their testimony. If then Mr. -Shattuck did expatriate himself, it
was not until 'April.1797. It has been- conceded, that a
man cannot expatriate himself unless it be done in a fit
time, with fairness of intention, and publicity of act.'.
AS to the fitness of the time. What was the situation
of this country.and Prance in the year 1797.
In 1795 the British treaty had excited thejealousy of
Praice. In 1796 she passed several edicts highly injurious to our commerce. Mr. Pinckney had been 'sdntas
an Envoy extraordinary, and was refused. Prance had
gone orn in a longcourse of injury and insult, which at
-Marhal,Ch.

. What would have been the law as to probable

catae, if there -had been a public general war between France and the
Ujpited States, and the vessel had been taken on suspicion of being a vessel ofthe United States, trading with the enemy, contrar4 to the laws of
war
ould probable cauie excuse, in such a ca , if"it should turn ofut

that she was a neutral ?

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MURRAY

SCHOONER
CHAAMING

BETSY

length roused the spirit of the nation.

On the 14th of

7une 1797, the act of Congress was passed, prohibiting

the exportation of arms-On the 23d, the act for the
defence of the.ports and harbours of the UnitedSatesSOn the 24th the act for raising 80,000 militia-On the
1st of Yuly, the ac providing a naval armament-On
the 13th of rune 1798, the first non-intercourse bill was
passed, and on the 7th of .uly the treaties with France
were annulled.
Thiese facts shew that the time when Mr. Shattuck
chose to expatriate himself, was a time of approacling
hostilities, and when everything indicated war.
*As to the fairness of his intention. The game facts
shew what that intention was. It .was to carry on that
tade which every thing tended to shew would sopn become criminal by the laws of war, and from the exercise
of which the oth6 citizens of the United States were
about to be interdicted.
The act of. Congess points to this very case.. It was
to prevent transagions of this nature, that the word
" elsewhere" was inserted.
But why was not this burgher's brief, or a copy of it,
put on board the vessel ? The answer is obvious-because
it would have discovered the time of expatriation, which
would have.increased the suspicions excited by the origin
of the vessel, by the recent transfer, by the nature of the
cargo, arid by the character of the crew.
Domicii in a neutral country gives a man only the rights
of trade: it will not justify him in a violation of the laws
of his country.
If then Mr. Shattuce could not expatriate himself, or if
he has not expatriated himself, he is bound to qjey the
laws of the United States. A nation has a right to bind,
by her laws, her own citizens residing in a foreign country; as the UnitedStates have done in the act of Congress
respecting the slave trade, and in the non-intercourselaw.
The question, whether the vessel was capable of annoying our commerce, depends upon matter of fact, of which

FEBRUARY, 1804.
the court willjudge. The number of men was sufficient;
the, te~timony respecting the cutlasses is supported by the
nature of the transaction and by the usage in such cases.
Some arms were necessary to prevent Capt. Wright and
his boys from- rising and rescuing the vessel. Circumstances are as strong as oaths, and are generally more saAisfactory.
The vessel, having port-holes, was constructed for war.
and in an hour after her arrival at Guadaloupe might have
been completely equipped. Upon the principles of the*
case of Talbot v. Seeman, Captain Murray was bound to
guard against this, and he would have been culpable if h6"
had suffered her to escape.
But it is sid that she was not in danger.of condemnation by the French, because Francehad ceased from hcer
violation of the-laws of nations, because she had repealed
the obnoxious arret of 18th Yanuary 1798, and because
one third of the crew were not her enemies.. Admitting
all this, yet if one ground of condemnation remained, she
would have been condemned. The vessel was transferred
from an enemy, to a neutral, during the heat of hostilities. This alone was a sufficient ground of condemnaton under the ordinance already cited from. 1. Code des
pri me, 304. Art. 7. In the case of Talbot v. Seeman,
the ground of salvage was, that the vessel was liable to
condemnation under a French arret-And that the courts
of France were bound to carry the arret into effect.'
The conduct of Captain utrray was not illegal. He
was bound ly law, as well as by his instructions, to take
the vesel out of the hands of the French. It was with
the consent, if not at' the request, of Captain Wright ;
and it was in itself an act of humanity. His conduct was
fair, upright and honorable in the whole transaction. H&
offered to take securitY" for the vessel and cargo. The
cargo ws.perishable ; if it'hadlbeen brought to the United
States it would not have been in a merchantable condition;
or if it hid been, it would, not have sold so high here
(being chiefly articles of American produce) as at Marti-.
nique. . The sale was fair and the proceeds brought to the
United States to wait the event of the trial.
Probable cause is a thing of maritime jurisdiction ; and
-authorities in point may be found even at common law.

MURXAr

v.
Scioolmit
CHARMIN.
BETrsr.

i1"2

iUPRMF,

.COtJRT U.'S.

If it is a municipal regulation, it is one which affects tht
ScHoNEa whole world. It is engrafted upon the law of nations.
It is municipal only as it emanates from the municipal
CHARMINO
authority of the nation. But the whole wbrld is bound to
BETSY.
%--Yi*y " iotice a law which affecis the intei sts of all nations in the
world.
Mt?-AY

As to the damages ; the principles uppn which they'are
4ssessed do not appear from the report of the assessors,
but the probability. is that they were founded upon the"
estiniates of the probable profits of the voyage, as stated
in the lestimony of some of the witnessbs. In a c'ase of
this kind, where the pufitr of intention is.admitted, it can
never be proper to give speculative or vindictivedamages.,t
,Martin, in reply.
1. s to the national character of Shattzick;
He was born before the revolution ; probably in 1 '79 or
1774; at least 21 vears befoie *.April 10th 1797, which
iull bring it befoe the declaratibn of independence.
In Duanc's case, it was .ecided that even if it had seen
proved that he was b6rn in New-rork, yet hs'birth being
before the reyolution, and having been carried t6 Ireland
during tis mifiority, he w" an alien.
The rejbinder of Mr. Soderstrom does not admiit the
fact, that Shattuch was a citizen of the United ;States';
but if it did, itis coupled writ an express allegation, that
he had duly expatriated himself ; and if part is taken,
the whsle must be taken. The words of the rejoi'nder
are, "and this party expressly alleges and avers that
" the said 7areaShttuch, at the several times and pe"n iods above mentioned, and long before, and in
"4the intermediate times which elapsed between the
".said several times. or periods, had been, then was,
"ever since hath been, and now is, a subject of his
majesty the king of Denmark,, owing allegianxce to his
4t In answer to an inquiry by the Chief futice for authorities to sup..
,port the position that probable cause is always ajustictioin in rharitinme
cases, Mr.. Dallasreferred generally to Brovn's Civil and Admirao"
I
Law, and to the dqcisiow- of Sir Win. Scott. ' ,

FEBRUARY, 1804.

113

99 said majesty, and to no other prince, potentate, state M-iUL-y
"9or sovereignty .whatever;. and that he the said Vared SCHOONER
v.
Shattuck had, long before his said purchase of the said CEAEMING
"schooner, duly expatriated himself from the domin- B TSY.
"ions of the United States, to those of his said Iftajesty ,
"and transferred his allegiance and subjection from the
"said United States and their government, to his said
"majesty and his government." ,The whoh,purport
of which is, that if he was. ever a citizen of-the Urited
States he had expatriated himself.
Even "ifit was an admission of the fact, yet it could
not prejudice Mr. Shattuck, as the rejoinder is by.Mr.
Soderstrom. in character of. Consul of Denmark, and as
the representative of the nation.
If he was born before the revolution he never owed
natural allegiance to the United States ;'and if he re-.
mained here after the revolution, during part of his minority, he owed only a temporary and local allegiance;
during the existence of which, if he had taken up arms
against the UnitedStates, he would have been. guilty of
treason; but that allegiance continued only while he was
a resident of the country; he had a right to transfer
such'temporary allegiance whenever he pleased. Poster
Law, 183. 185.
Lr.
That'he acted with a fair and honest intention is pro.
ved by his bonafldi residence and domicil for 10 or 11
years. . Brown's Civil and Adniralty Law, 328.
The navigation act of Great Britain is a municipal
law, and yet a'bonafide domicil and residence of for'eigners were held sufficient to bring the persons within
its provisiQns. Comyns' Rep. 677. Scott Jui tam v.
Schwartz.*
Thevage of'Sco v. Schwoartz, was an information against the Russian

ship The Const nz because the master and three fourths of the mariners
werenot of that country orplace, according to the .Satuteof 12. Car.2.
a..18.- § 8. The ship was built in Russia, and the carge wus the product.
of that country. T-he master was born out of the Russian dominions,

bui in 1733 wds admitted, and ever since continued a burgher of Riga ;
aind had been a residerit there, when not engaged inforeign voyages, and
traded from thence, 9 years before the seizure. There were only 11 mar-

ners 6ri-board, ofwhom 4were bornin .Rmaia; Morgan a fifth was bornP

114
Murt-.AY

S V.
CHIARMING
RTSY.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

But a stronger case than that is found in 1 Bos. V
Pul. 430. Marryattv. Wilsqn, in the Exchequer chainber, on a writ of error from the King's bench.
In that case a natural born British subject, naturalized
in the United States since the peace, was adjudged to bp
a citizen of the United States within the treaty, and navigation acts of Great Britain, so as to carry on a direct
trade from England to the British East-Indies.
Thet opinion of Eyre Ch.
very strong in our favour.

begining
e.
in p. 439,.- is

There is no probability that the vessel w'ould have been
condemned at Guadaloupe. Mr. Shattuck, and his course
of irade, were well known there, and they had aheady
released some 9 f his vessels. Another reason is, that
Bonaparte was at that time negotiating with the northern
powers of Europe, to form a coalition to support the
principle-that free ships should make free goods ; and he
would have succeeded, but for t.he qble negotiations of
Lord Nelson at Copenhagen.
'

In Park on Insurance, 363, it is said, "tIf the ground
of decision appear to be, not on the. want of neutrality,
C but upon a foreign ordinance manifestly unjust, and
" contrary to the law of nations, and tht insured has
Sonly infringed stich a partial laxi ; as the condemnation
did not proceed on the point of neutrality, it cannot
apply to the warranty, so as to discharge the insurer."
And in support of this position he cites the case of .Mayne
v. Walter.
cc

There is no ordinance of France, which, upon the
principles established in the case of the Pig ou, would
have been a sufficient ground of condemnation.
in Irelandand there bound apprentice to the master, and as suchwentwith
him to Riga, and for three or four years before the seizure, served on
board thesame ship and sailed therein from .Riga, on this and fornen
voyages. The other 6 were born out of the dominions of.Rusia, but
Stephen Hanson, one of theni, had resided t R.iga 8 years next before the
seizure-Hans Tasper 5 years.-Rein Steingrave 4 years, and Derrick An.
drews, thd cook, 7 years, and these 4, during thoseyears had sailed from.
Rigain that and other vessels.
I
It was adjudged that thesepeople were of that cou.n*orplacl, withiat

the meaning of the Statute, and-the vessel properly manned and navigated;

FEBRUARY, 1104.
The circumstances required by those ordinances are MURRAY
only evidence of uijeutrality,. which is always a question ScuoET.
of hona fide. A condemnation upon either of these CUARMING
BnTsY.
ordinances alone wo.uld have been contrary to the-laW, of
nations ; but if they are considered as only requiring
certain circumstances tending.to establish the fact of neutrality, lhey are perfectly consistent with that law. This
-i. the . light in which they have been considered by
Portalis.
The French 'have 'never considered our vessels ds the
vessels-of an enemy. Otir -vessels have-not been condemn'd by them as enemy-property.; but their sentences
have always been groupded'upon a pretended violation of
some particular ordinance of France. Hence it appears
that they would not, havte considered an American vessel,
sold to a Dane, as an -enemy's vessel- .transferred,to a'
iheutral during a state, of Va.But the daim -of salvage is .an after-thought. It was
not necessary to bring her to the United State to"6btai "
salvage. Salvage is a question of the laW , of nationsi
decided by the :courts of anr civilized nation...
and may
Instead 6f rendering'a service, he has. done a tenfold
injury. Captain Murray's hitentios were undoubtedly
.correct and honourable, and we- do -not wish. vindictive
damages , but Mr. Shattuckwill be a loser, even if he.
gains his' cause, and recovers .the.'damages alreadyassessed.
Probable cause cannot justify the taking and bringimg
in aneutral; but it may prevent vindictive damages.
Feb. 22d. Tarshall, Chief Justice, delivered the opinion of the court ;--The CharmingBetsy was aft American built vessel, belonging to citizens of the Up2itedStates,"
-and sailed from Baltimore, under the -name of the tane,
on the Toth of April, 1800, Vith a cargo of flour for St.
Bartholomew's; she was sent out for the'purpose of being
sold. The'cargo was disposed of at St. Bar.tholomew'W
but finding it impossible to sell the vessel at that place, the
captain proceeded with her 'to the island of St. Thomas,
where she was disposed of to Vared Shattuck, who
.changed her name to that of the Chfrming Betsy,. a4

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MURRAY

V.

having put on board her a cargo consisting of American
produce, cleared her out as a Danish.vessel for the island

SCHOONER

CHARMING of Guadaloupe.
BETSY.

On her voyage she was captured by a Frenchprivateer,
and eight hands were put on board her for the purpose of
taking her into Guadaloupe as a prize. She was afterwards recaptured by captain M1urray, commander of the
Constellation frigate, and carried into Martinique. It
appears that the captain of the Charming Betsy was not
willing to be taken into that island; but when there, he
claimed.to have'his vessel and cargo restored, as being
the property'of ,tared Shattuck, a Danish burgher.
fared Shattuck was.born in the United Stqtes, but had
rerioved to the islrad of St. Thomas while an infant, and
-was proired'to have resided th.ere ever since the year 189
or 1790. He had been accustomed to carry on trade as
a Danish subject, had married a wife and acquired real
property in the island, and also taken the oath of allegiance
to the crown of Denmark in 170;.,'
Considering him as *an American citi.zen who was violating'the law prohibiting all intercourse between the United
States and France or its dependencies, or the sale of the
vessel as a mere.cover to evade that law, captain Murray
sold the cargo of the Cha.rming Betsy, which consisted
of American produce, in Nartifique,'and brought the
vessel into the port of Philadelphia,where she was libelled
under what'is termed the non-intercourse law. The
vessel and cargo were claimed by the'consl of Denmark
as being the bonaf'7de property of a Danish subject.
This cause came on to be heard before the judge for the
district of Pennsylvania, who declared the seizure to be.
illegal], and that the vessel ought to be restored "and the
proceeds of the cargo paid to the claimant or his lawful
agent, together with costs and such damages as ihould be
assessed by the clerk of the court, who was directed to
inquire into and report the amount thereof; for which
purpose he was also directed to associate with himself two
intelligent merchants of the district, .and duly inquire
.what damage .7aredShattuckhad sustained by reason of
the premises. If they should be of opinion that the

FEBRUARY, 1804.

117

officers of the Constellationhad conferred any benefit on
the owner of the Charming Betsy by rescuing her out of
the hands of the French captori, they were in the adjustmenit to allow reasoni.ble compensation for'the service.
In pursuance of this order the clerk associated with
himself two merchants, and reported, that having examined the proofs and vouchers' exhibited-in the cause,
they were' of opinion s..bat -the owner of the vessel and
cargo had sustained dainage to the amount of 20,594
dollars and 16 cents, frorh which is to be deducted the
sum of 4,363 dollirs and 86 cents, the amoint of monies
paid into court arising from the sales -ofthe cargo, and the
further sum of 1,300 dollars, being the residue of the
proceeds of the said sales remaining to be brought into
court, 5,663 dollars and 86 cents. This estimate is exclusive, of the value of the vessel, which. was fixed at
3,000 dollars..
To this report an account is annexed, in which the damages, without pirticularizing the items on which the
estimate was formed, were stated at 14,930 dollars and 30
cents.
No exceptions having been taken to this report, it was
confirmed, and by the final sentence of the court captai4
Murray was ordered to pay the amount thereof.
From this decree an appeal was prayed to the circuit
court, where the decree was affirmed so far as it directed:
restitution of the vessel and payment to the claimant of
the net proceeds of the sale of the cargo in Martiniqiue,
and reversed for the residue.
From this decree eachparty has appealed to this court.
It is contended on the part of the captors in substance,
1st. That the vessel Charming Betsy and cargo are
coxfiscable under the laws of-the United States. If not so,
2d. That the captors are entitled to salvage. If this is
against them,
3'd. That they ,ought to be excused'from damages,

MURRAY
V.
CHARMING

BETSY.

118
MURRAY

V.

CHARM

BETSY.

NG

SUPREME COURT U. S.

because there was probable cause for seizing the vessel
and bringing her into port.
Ist. Is the Chzming Betsy subject to seizure and
for having violated a law of the United
States P

-condemnation

The libel claims this forfeiture under the act passed in
.February,1800, further to suspend the commercial intercourse between, the United States and France and the
dependencies ther'eof.
That act declares " that all commercial intercourse,"
&c. It has been very properly dbserved, in argument,
that the building of vessels in the United States for sale
to neutrals, in the islands, is, during war, a profitable
business, which Congress cannot be intended, to have
prohibited, unless that intent. be manifested by exprest"
words or, a very plain and necessary implication..
It has also been observed that an act of Congress ought
never to be construed to violate the law of nations if any
other possible construction remains, and consequently
can never be construed to violate neutral rights, or to
affect neutral commerce, further than is warranted by the
law of. nations as understood in this .country.
These principles are believed to be correct, and they
ought to be kept in vieW.in construing the act now under.
consideration.
The first sentence of the act whic' describes the persons whose commercial intercourse with Frqnce or her
dependencies is to be pr6hibited, names any person or
persons, resident within the UnitedStates or under their
protection. Commerce carried on by persons within
this description is declared to beeillicit.
From persons the act prbieeeds to things, and "declares
e~plicitly the cases in which the vrssels employed in
Any vessel
this illicit commerce shall be forfeited.
Qwned, hired or employed wholly or in part by any person residing witfiin the United States, or by any citizen
therebf residing elsewhere, which shall perrorm certin

. FEBRUARY, i804.
acts recited in the law, becomes liable to forfeiture. It
seems to the court to be a correct construction of these
words to say, that the vessel 'must be of this description, r4ot at the time of the passage of the law, but at
the time when the act of forfeiture shall be committed.
The cases bf forfeiture are, 1st. A vessel of the description mentioned, which shall be voluntarily carried,
or shall be destined, or permittedto proceed to any port
within the French Republic.. She must, when carried,
or destined, or pdrmitted to proceed to, such. port, be a
vessel within the de'scription of the ace. . .
The second class oC' ases are .those where vessels
shall be sold, bartered,. entrusted, or transferred, for
the purpose that the/ may prodeed to such port or place.
This part of the- section makes the crime of the sale
dependent oh the purpose for which it was made. If it
was Intended that any American vessel sold to.a neutral
should, in the possessibn of that neutral, 'be liable, to
the commeroal disabilities imposed "onher while she
belonged to citizens of the UnitedStates, such extfaordinary intent ought to have been plainly expressed;
and if it was designed to prohibit tre sale._of. American
vessels io neutrals, the words placing. the forfeiture on
the intent With which the sale was made ought "not to
have been inserted.
The third class of cases are those vessels which shall
be employed in abv tmffic by or' for any person resident
within the terrItoriesof the French Republic, or any of:
its dependencies.
In these cases tco the vessels must be within the description of the act at the time the fact producing the
forfeiture was committed.
The 7a, -having been coirpletely transferred in the
island of . " Thomas, by a boafide sale to fared Shat-.
tuck,. and the forfeiture alleged to have accrued on- a
fact subsequent to that transfer, the liability of the vessel
to forfeiture must depend on the inquiry whether the
purchase was within the descriptiori of the act.
'ared Shattuck having been born within the United

MURRAY-

v.
CHARMING

Erry.

120
MuRtRAY
V.

ScaooKEP.
CHARMXNG

BFr-sy.

Y

SUPREME COURT U. S.

States, and not being proved to have expatriated himself according to any form prescribed by law, is said to
remain a citizen, '4ntitled to the benefit and subject to
the disabilities imlbsed upon American citizens ; and,
therefore, to come expressly Within the description of
the act which comprehends American citizens residing
elsewhere.
Whether a person born within the Unit'd States, or
becoming a citizen according to the established laws of
the country; can4divest himself absolutely of that character otherwise than in such manner as may be prescribed
by law, is a question which it is.Jot necessary at present
to decide. The cases cited- at bar and the arguments
drawn from the general conduct of the United States
on this interesting subject, seem completely to establish
the principle that an American citizen may acquire in a
foreign country, the 'commercial privileges attached to
his domicil, and be exempted from the operation of an
act expressed in such general terms as that now under
consideration. Indeed the very expressions of th6 act"
would seem to exclude a person under the circumstances of 7aredShattuck. He is not "a person under the
protection of the UnitedStates. The American citizen
who goes into a foreign country, although h e owes local
and temporary allegiance to that country, is yet, if he
performs no other act changing his condition, entitled
to. the protection of our government ; and if, withovt
the violation of any inunicipal law, he should be oppressed unjustly, he would have a. right to claim that
protection, and the interposition bf the. American government in his favour, would be considered ajustifiable
interposition. But his situation is completely changed,
where by his own act he has made himself the subject
of a foreign power. Although this act may not be sufficient to rescue him from punishment for any crime
committed against the Uvited States, a point not intend.
ed to be decided, yet it eartainly places, him out of the
protection of the United States while within the territory of the sovereign to whom he has sworn allegiance,
and consequently takes him out of the description of
the act.
It is theJefore the opinion of the court, that the

FEBRUARY, 1804,
y.nr
Charming Betsy, with her'crgo, being at the time of'- *.
her recaptixi the bonafide property of a Danishburghet, S -"
j~d
GROONZ*
is not forfeitable in ctnsequenee
of ier being emloyed' Ca
zG
-in carrying on trade .and, commerce with a tF~ench §aZT$i.

island.

The vessel not. being liable to confiscation, the cows
is 6r6ught tp the second question, which is - "
2.

Are. the recaptors entitled to .salvage?-

In The case of the Amelia* it wis dicided, on "mature
onsiderition' that a etrutral armed vessel in possession.
of the Prench might, in the then existing state of hos.
tilities between'the two' nations, be lawfully captured;
and" if theie were well founded reasons for the opinion
that'sh-e was in imminent hazard of being cbndemned
*p ,ahprize, the recaptors would be entitled to salvage.
The court is well satisfied with the decision given in
'that case,. and "consideis Wt'as a precedent not to be deP6arted from' in othe- cases attended with"circumstances
substantially similar to those of the Amelia. One of
these circumstances ib, that the vessel should be in a
conditioh to annoy Americancommerc'p.
The degree of arming which sh'ould bring a vessel
Vwithin this .description has not been agcertainbd, and
p-whaps it would be difficult precisely to mrk the limits,
fh passing of which would bring a capture4 vessel
within'the. des'crip.'an uf the acts of Congress
t&.'*s
subjeet. But althoigh there may be difcuiyiome
cas's, there'appears to be none in this. According td
the testimony of the case, there was on boa 4 but one
musket, a few ouices -of powder, 'and a' few balls.
*The testimony respcting the cutlasses i' not co~iiidd
as shewing that they were ii the' Vessel at the time o
her recap e. The capacil r of this vessel for offence
*appears not sufficient to wanant the capture of her as
an armed vessel. 'Neither is it proved to the satisfa&'
tion of the court, that, the Charming Bets'y'was i4 such
imminent hazard of being condemned as to entitle the
recaptors to salvage.

0 .ntevol.

.P. 1.

122
MURRAY

v.
CARMING
BETSY.

SUPREME-'COURT U. S.

It remains to inquire whether there was in this case
such probable cause for sending in the CharmingKetsy
for adjudication as:.'iU justify captain 2liurrayfor~having
broken up*fer voy~ge, and-excuse him from the damages
iustained thereby.
To effect this there must have been stbstantial reason
for believing her to have been at the 'time wholly or in
att an 4nericanvessel, within the description of the act,
or hiredA.r employed by Americans, or sold, bartered, or
trusted for the g r.pose of carrying on trade to som, port
or place belongiW to the French.Republic.
The crcumstances relied upon are prlncipall:,
1st. -The proces-verbalof the French captors.
"zd. That'she was a'Americanbuilt vessel.

S

Tha the sale was recent.

4th. That'the'captain was a Scotchman, and'the mpstir
roll shewed that the crewr were not Danes.
5th.. The general praaice in'the Danishislands of cov5
ering neutral property.

".'1st.Theproces verbal contains 'an assertion that the
mate declar6d thabt he was hn American, ana'tlat their fla'g
had been -American, and had. beensehanged during the
cruise td Danish; whic4' delartiol Was confirmed- by
s.veral-of the crew.
If the mate had really been an American, the vessel
-Would not on..that account have been liable to forfeiture,
nor should that fact have furnished any conclusive testirn'ony of the character of the vessel. The proces verbal
hbwever ought for several reasons to have been suspected.
The general conduct of the French West-India cruisers
and the very circumstance of declaring that the Danish
colors were made during the chase, were'sufficieht to destroy the- credibility of the proces verbal. Captain .Miurray ought not to have believed that an America'n'vessel
trading to a French port in the assumed character of
a Danish bottom, would have been withoit Danish colors.

PEBRUARY, 1804.

103

-.That ihe was an-.American vessef'and that the sale was MtRn-Y
v.
recent, cannot be admitted to fdrnish just cause of suspi-,
cion.,unless the sale of Anerican buili vessels had been an CHARzoMG
illegal or-an unusual act.
BET-SY.

-

That .the captain -was' a Scotclman and that the names
of the ,rew were not g~nerally Dainish,are circumstances
of"small import, when it is recollected that a very great
proportion of the inhabitants of St. Thomas6. areBritish
and Americans.
SThe praciie of cdvering American, property in'.the
islands might and wouidtjustity captain Murray in giving
to other causes of "su§picion more weight than they woul4
Qtherwise be entitled to, but cannot be itself a motive'foi
seizure.. If it was, no neutral vessel could: es'pe,
for this g'ound of suspicion would be applicable to them
These causes bf suspicion taken together .ought not to
have been deemed sufficient to counterbalance the evidence
"of fairness with which they were opposed- - Th6 ship's
papers appear to have been perfectlyr correct, and the inforTnation of the captain uicont'adicted by those belonging to
the vessel who were taken. with him, corroborated their
verity. No circumstance existed,, which ought to have.
discredited them. That a certified copy.of Shattuck'.s
oath, as a -Danishsulfject, was not -on board, is immate-rial; because, being apparently' on all'the papers a burgher
*and it being .tnknQu.n that he -(vas- born in. the Unied"
States, the question" vhether he had ceased.to bL-a citizen
of the.UnitedStates could not present itself.
•-- •

-

-

Nor was. it material that the power given by the owners
of th e vessel, to'thei captain to sell her in the West-Indie',
was not exhibited. It certainly was not necessary toe4-hibit the instructions under'whichthe yessel was acqub
ed, when the fact of acquisition was fully proved by tb "
documents on board and byotner testinny, Although there does. itioappear te- have-I cem~uch
'cause to suspect. the Chainziig Betsy and bhe .csro to'.
have been Anierican, ai would Justify:jgapI87h iAwray in
bringing her in for avjadication,-yet man' o.txle.rcumstances- coitbinr lyitkihe fairusi Qf his r
c.f"to pro-

-

124

SUPREME COURT U. S

duce a coixviction that he acted upon correct motives,
from a sense of dut4; for which reason this hard case

MultAv
SOUO0lNER
v.R

.i;ARX KG
Bm'rsv.

ought not to be reindered still 'more so by a 4epision in
any respect oppressive.

His orders were such as- might well have ind.ued him
to consider this as an armed vessel within.the law, sailing
under authority-from the French republic; aid such too
as might well have induced him to trust to very light suspicions respecting the real character of a vessel appearing
to -belong to on -of the neutral islands. A public officer

-

entrusted on the tngh seas to perform, a duty deemed fiecessary by his- country, and executing according to the
best of his judgment the!:qrders he has received, if he is a
victim of any misfake he commits, 'ought certainly never
to be assessed with 'viidictive or speculative damages. It
is fiot only ihe duty of the court'to relieve him from'such
when they plainly appear to have been imposed on him,
but no sentence .against him ought to'be affirmed. where,
from the nature of the proceedings, the whole case appears
upon the record, unless those pr6ceedings are such-as to

shew on *hafthe'decree'has been foundedi and to sup6ort
that decree.
-

* Inthea e at bardamages re'assess.ed'as theywoild be by
the -verdic of.tlejur,, without any specifications iff items
whi h ca "shewhow.the account was niade up, or on what
.principlesfhe'sum given, as'dimaes ias assessed. This
-,Wdde b proceeding.would 'not.be approved of if it was.
Sererr orobable from the testimony cotained in the record
thatfie sti. rgpoited by the commissioners of the dis,trict court was ielly tie- sum due. The district couft.
,ought.not to hl.'e been satisfied with a report giv ing a
grossim in idamages uilaceompanied by any explanation,
,of th6 principles bit which -that 'sum was given. It is
trueiapthin,Narray ough to h'aie excepted to this:report.
4is-:not htving done so hokvever does not cuie an error
pparent upor! it4 and the o9rission to shew how the damages which were given hd accrued, so as tq enable the
udge to decide on the. propriety of the assessment of
"iicommissioners,.is such ai error.
Although the court would-in any case disapprove of
jjtisn ode of proceediig, yet.in order to save.the parties
- ie co.ts of further prosecuting-this b.siness in the. circuit

FEBRUARY, 1804.

1:25

'court, the error which has been sftted might have been )zrRAY
passed over, had it not appeared probable. that the sum, SCROONER
for which the. decree of the "distridtcourt was render- C.,,oING
BETsY.
-ed, is really greater than it o'ught to have been according
',vs-'
to the principles:by whih the claim should be adjugted.
This tourt is not therefore satisfied with. eitherithe decree
of the district or circuit court, and has directed me to report the following decree:Decree of-the 6~urt.
THIS cause came oD to be-heard on.the transckipt of
•th-er.ecord of th circuit court,. arid was argued by coun-.
sel; oA.consideration whereof, it isadjudged, ordered,'
and decreed, as follows, to wit: -That'thq decree of the
circuit court,. so far as it affirms the decree of the district court, which directed restitution of the vessel, and
payment to the claimafit of the net proceeds of the sale
of the -cargo in Martinique,- deducting the costs and
charges" there, according, to amount exhibited br capt.
furray'&agent, .being one of the exhibits in the cause,
andto far as it directs the parties to bear their own costs,
be affirmed; .and that the residue of the said decree,
whereby the claim of the, owner to darnges for the sei.
zure and detention of his vessel was rejected,be reversed.
And the court, proceeding to give such further decree
as'the 'circuit court ought to have given; 'doth further
adjudge, order, aniidecree, that so much of tlie-decree:
of the district court as adjudges the libellant to pay costs
and. damages, be affirmed; but that the iesidue thereof,
by which the said damages are estimated at'20,594 dollas, 16 cents, and by which -the libellant was directed
to pay that sum, be reversed and annulled. And this
court does further order and decree, that the cause be
remanded to the circuit court; with directions to refer it
to commissioners, to ascertain the damages sustained
bythe claimants, in consequence of the refusal of the
libellant to testore the vessel and cargo at Martinique,
and in consequence of his sending her into a port of thit
United State's for adjudication ; and that the si4 commissioners be' instructaed to take the actual prime. cost Oek
the cargo and vessel, with interest thereon, including

SUPREME COURT U. S.

126
MURRAY

V.

S CHO01q]R
CHARMING

BE'TrY.

Y

the insurance .actuallUypaid,. and such expenses as were

necessarily
sustained
in 'consequence
-- of bringing " the
.
, %
vessl 'into the United States, as the standard by which
the damages ought to be measured. Each party to pay
his own costs in this court and iii the circuit court.All which is ordered and decreed accordingly.
A true -copy.
-E.B. CALDWELL, Clerk
Sup.*Couri U. States.
'Cajthin XMi2rray was reimbursed his damagers, interest and charges.

out of the Treasry of th* Unted Staews,1y an act of CongrA,.Yanuary

31st, 1805.

CPRON v. VAN NOORDEN;

CAPRoV.

).

'

o-

"

ERROR to the Circuit Court of North-Carolina. The

proeeedings stated Van Noorden to be late of Pittcounty,
1

A plintiff- -but did not allege Capron, th6 plaintiff, to be an alien,
any'state; nor the place ofhis residence.
may assign for nor a citizen of-n
error the
want of juris-

Upon the general issue, in an action of trespass on
diction in that
court to which the case, a verdict was .found for the defendant, Van
Noorden, upon~which judgment was rendered.
to resct.
A party may
The writ of'Error was sued out oy Capron, the
take adva..
below, who assigfied. for error, among other
plaintiff
a
t' farot in his
VOr. ifit be an things, first" That the ciicuit court aforesaid is a court
"of limited jurisdiction, 'and that by the record aforeerror of the
"said itdoth not appear, as itought to have done, that
Courtdonertat
o a r, asroit o the
itrth
The Courts of cc
the U. S. havw either the said Gorge Capron, or the said Hadrianus
VarNoorden was an alien at the time of the commencenot jurifsdicthe "ment of said suit, or at any other time, or that one of
tion
recordnless
slievs
t e
parties was at that or any other time, a Eitithatteparties "the'said
are eitizes-of
differcnt
states' or tbat
oneis an alien,
.

1"zen of the state of' North-Carolinawhere the suit .vas
"'brought, -and the other a citizen of another state ; or
"that they the said George and Hadrianus were for
of
"
causepersons
within thejurisdiction
any causewhatever,
" the said court, and capable of suing and being sued
"there."'

