"280

SUPREME COURT U. S.

MWILVAlvz

Coxs
Lzs.M'ILVAINE

Coxr's Lrs.L

Quere
thern

v. CtOXE'S LESSEE.t'

SS Et

SERROR
from the circuit court for the district of
V1 he- NA.Jersey, to reverse a judgmdnt given for the plaintiff
n e below, upon a special verdict in ejectment.

colony of Ar.
Yersey
The material facts of the
with
the warbefore
te.r
ith &ment of TV. Tilghnan.
who resided
there until the
year 1777, but
who then join.
ed the British

T.

case are stated in the argu.-

Tilghman, for plaintiff in error.

The question which arises in this case is of great imarmy in Pli. portance, and has never been decided in this court, nor
la-*dphia, and in the State of New-Versey.
aftervards.
went to En.
gland, where
he has ever

It is, in substance, whether a person born"ini the U.
S. *-ile they were British colonies, and .who took no
cones
since r'esided,thyrs
part in favoai of the revolution but joined the- British
and whde,
always claim, army in an early stage of the war, and from that time
ed to be a
to this, by the whole tenor of his actions'and-decarations,
British subhas shewn his electiofl not to'be a citizen of the U. S.
ject, can now

take and hold but to adhere to the British empire, was capable of
lands in the taking land in Newv-tersey by'descent in the year 1802.
New.
stateey,ofby
ffer,
de.
scent ftom a

There is no occasion to dwell minutely. on 'the title.
citizen of the The lessor of the plaintiff had good title if Daniel Coxe,
the yoanger,.was capable'of- taking by descent, from his
U. S.
Whether, by aunt Rebecca Coxe who died in 1802, that is to say, he
the act of the
state of New.

has title to a certain' undivided part; according to the

Oct. 1776 he

is no question.

yers of 4th law of descents in-New-.7ersey, concerning which there
became a
member ofthe

new govern.

-mentagaInhis
will.
Whetherhe

Family disputes .are always unpleasant; yet as laws
regulating descent, are merely of municipal creation, no
one has a right to complain if, by a change of the law,

could expatri. he now receives a less portion than formerly, or even if
ate him;If af. he receives no portion at all.
ter te peace .
Whethei by
Present, Ctshing, Paterso;,Washington, and YoAnton, Justices.o
atby
expath
man
becomes
manabecomesaThe
Chief Justice did
not sit in this cause,
having formedcr'
a d-cided opi.
1U
iineetwsc
:in alien to SM nion on the principal question, whie his interest was conceried.
The importance and interesting nature of fhe questions involved in this
intents and
case, it is hopid, will apologize for publishing the arguments of counsd
pu
,cion
"
"
of the cause

FEBRUARY, 1804.
By the law of New-,ersey before the revolution, Daniel
Coxe would have taken all the estate of his aunt Rebecca,

not only to the entire exclusion of his cousins, the children of his uncle Villiam Coxe, deceased, but of his own
sistei, Mrs. Kempe. As the law. now stands, we sup.
pose he is entirely excluded.
In tracing the conduct of DanielCoxe, from the commencement of the Revolution to the year 1802, which it
is necessary to do in order to decide the cause, nothing
more is intended than to briig into view those facts
from which the law must arise. It is far from our
minds in doing this, to pass any censure on his conduct.
In revolutions, every man has a right to take his part.
He is excusable, if not bound in duty to take that part
which in his conscience he approves.
I will now proceed to state the facts necessary to be
attended to, in order to decide the cause.
The ejectment is* brought for a messi,.,ge and 200
acres of land situated'in Trenton in 2,ew-er.ey.
DanielCoxe, the son, conveyed to 7ohn.Re4fnan Coxe,
lessor of the plaintiff, who had previous notice of the defendant's claim.
The premises are part of the estate of Rebecca Coxe,
deceased, and are of the value of 5000 dollars.
Rebecca Coxe died at Trenton in 1802, seized in fee
of the premises, intestate and without issue.
In the year 1'83, and before that time, she was a citizen of N. Jersey, and so continued until-her death.She left no brother or sister, but there were children of
her two brothers, Daniel and William, as follows, viz.
1. Her brother Daniel, who died about 47 years ago,
had issue Daniel Coxe, (under whom the lessor of the
plaintiff claims) and Grace, Kempe (widow of .7ohn Tabor Kempe, dtceased) both now living.

4M'1Lv.,.

V

zL

COIL 2; Les.

282

SUPREME COURT U. S.

2. Her brother William who died in 1801 left issue, 5
V.
children, viz. Yohr, Tench, William, Daniel William, and
ColE's L'cildesvz.o
Tnh ilaDailWlim
n
a daughte;- Mary, all
now living; also the following
.grandchildren, viz. children bf his daughter Sarah deceased, (late Wife of And-ew Allei) that is to say, MHargaret, wife of George Hammond, Ann, Andrew, ElizaLeth, Maria, Yohn, and Thomas; and of his daughter
Rebecca X)'lvaine, deceased, named Rebecca Coxe .M"
ilvaine.
M'ILvIx

DanieiCox, who conveyed to the'less6r of the plaintiff,
was born in New- 7ersey, where he resided from his biitbh
until some time in the year 1777, when he removed to
the city of Philadelphia while'or shortly before it was in
the possession of the British troops.
-'From the time they took possession of the city in 1 V77
he has never resided in any place within the jurisdiction of
the United States, but has resided in places under the
actual jurisdiction and government of the king of Great
Britain, and at the time of Rebecca Coxes death he was
residing and domiciliated'with his wife and four children
at London.
In the year 1775, and long before, he was more than
twenty-one years of age, was a member of the king's council of Ne'w-Yerseyj, and a colonel of the provincial militia.
In the years 1778 and 1779 hd exercised a civil office
in Philadelphiaunder the authority of the king of Great
Britain.
When th.%.rmy evacuated Philadelphia he followed
it to Nerv-21rk, where he remabied exercising a civil
office under the king, until the fihal evacuation of that
city by the British troops in 1783 ; until which time he
remained possessed of his commissions and offices of member of the counsel and colonel of the militia, nor does it
appear that he has since resigned either of them. He has
never taken an oath of allegiance to the United States or
either of them, or of abjurationof the king of Great Britain, nor has he by any overt act ever exhibited himself
as a citiz n of tht. United States or either of them. But
bet%,ween the signing of the definitive treaty of peace, and
the death of Rebecca Coxe he has done the following acts,
viz.

FEBRUARY, 18.04.

283

1. He has executed diverse writings stating himself to
be of Great Britain or of some other place in the British
dominions.

2. He has for several years carried on trade and commerce as a British and not a9 an alien merchant, with all
-the rights and privileges belonging to .a British merchant
by the laws of Great Britain.
3. He has held lands in England as a trustee.
4. Before and since the death of Rebecca Coxe, he has
received a pension from the king of Great Britain,in consideration of his loyalty and attadhment to the British king
andgovernment, and of his losses by reason thereof.
5. He did, soon after the treaty-of peace, apply by petition to the commissioners to enquire into the losses by
loyalists, &c. under certain statutes, viz. 23 Geo. 3, c. 80.
25 Geo. 3, c. 76. 27 Geo. 3, c. 29. 28 Geo. 3, c.40. 29
-OGeo. 3, c.62. or some or one of them, and by the same
petition he did set forth that he was aBritishsubject who
had suffered for'his adherence to. the British government,
and prayed compensation therefor, &c. And he did receive compensation for his losses and sufferings, and for
his estates and possessions', as a loyalist of the 1st and 3d
titles or classes of the statutes, or some or one of them.
6th. He did in 1795, or afterwards, and before .the
death of the said Rebecca Coxe, apply as a British subject
•o the commissioners under the 6th article of the treaty of
amity, &c. of 19th November, 1794, and in his petition
styled himself "Daniel Coxe of London, in the kingdony
"of Great Britain," and stated that ,"hethen was and
"from his birth ever had been, a subject of the king of
"Great Britain,and under the allegiance of the said kng."1
An inquisition was taken in the county of Hunterdon,
and state of N. _fersey,. August 1, 1778, by which it was
found that he did, about the 9th of April, 1778, join the
arms of the king of Great Britain, and did aid a'ud abet
them by acting as a magistrate of police,. &c. against the
form of his allegiance to the state of Newt-ersey, and
against the peace ofthe same. Final judgment was entered onthe said inquisitionat Octobcr term, 1778, where-

MqLvAiva

' V.

s2.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
M'IhvAx;
CoE .S LES
SEE.

.

I

by all his real and personal estate in the county of -ux.
terdon was forfeited and vested in the state of Niew- ersey. And at Februaryterm, 1779, process was ordered
to be issued to the commissioners of said county for the
sale of the said real estate.

Y

Some time in l77'<or 1779 he was attainted of treason'against the state of Pennsylvania in consequence of
iot surrendering pursuant to a proclamation issued by
the supreme executive council of that state, dated 21st.
.uly 1778, and of the said treason and attainder was
pardoned on the 6th of December 1802, by the governor
of Pennsylvania.
.
.v virtue of the said inquisitqn, judgment, and process in New-Jersei, his real estate in the county of
Hunterdon was seized and sold, and is no* held by the
purchasers thereof under that state.
This case presents three subjects for consideration.
1. What was the situation of Daniel Coxe, with respect to his citizenship or alienage, from the commencement of the Revolution to the d.-finitive treaty of peace
between the United States and Great-Britain?
2. What was his situaton from the time of the tigeaty
to the death of Rebecca Coxe in 1802 ?

3. Supposing him to be an alien in 1802, is there any
thing particularin his case to exempt him from the general incapacity of aliens to inherit land ?
First. What was his situation between the commence.
ment of the Revolution and the treaty of peace ?•
He was an officer of the king's government, a member of the council, and colonel of the militia, and without doubt under a positive oath of allegiance.
He never owed naturalallegiance to the state of NewJersey. When the Revolution was proposed, he had a
right to chuse his side. 1 Dall. 53, Chapman's case,
which was decided even in the very heat of the Revolution.

FEBRUARY, 1804

285

He d;d chuse to adhere to the British. The record M'ILVAINE
states that he •removed to Philadelphia before or while Coxz'sI. Lzs.
sE.
it was in possession of the British, and has adh" red to
them ever since. He never took the oath of abjviration,
of the king of Great-Britain, or of allegiance to the United States, or any of them ; nor has he by.any overt act
exhibited himself a citizen of the United States or of either of them. His remaining in New-Jersey until he
found a safe upportunity of joining the British, ought
not, on general principles, to have bound him to any
thing more than that local allegiance to which even foroigners are subject.
But it may be objected that in as much as he remained in New-Jersey till the. year 1777, and the act of 4th
of October,. 1776, (2 Wil.on's :.'ersey laws, 4.) declares
that all persons then abiding there, not only owe alle.
giance, but are members of the then government, it- must
be concluded that he was a citizen.
I shall not deny the right of the state of New-Jersey
to take such precautions as they thought proper for the
public safety; but at all events their object was nQ more
than to deter persons from joining the enemy during the
war, under fear of death, and loss of pr'operty.
They who joined the enemy were a class- of people
whom they did not wish to receive again, as citizens.
They could have no objection to their being aliens after
the war. All such persons (provided they were convicted of treason, or had forftited thvir estates,) were
forever excluded from offices of trust or profit, civil and
military, and from voting at elections of representatives, &c. by the at of 1Ith of December 1778, 2 l2Vilson's N. 7. laws, 75, § 23.
All these objects are answered by preventing Daniel
Coxe from chusing his side after the 4th of October, 1776.
Accordingly Daniel Coxe was proceeded against with a
view to the conflscation of his property, but he was never
attainted. T3he same proceedings might have been had
against an inhabitant of New-Jtrsey who joined thr British between the 19th of April, 1775 and 4th of October,
1776 ; or even against an inhabitant of anzother state who

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1WILVAi2Z
Coxe).z LESL
SEE.
\.

.

owned property in New-Jersey. Act of 1 th December
1778, 2 Wilson's N. )f. .lauis, p. 67, § :. andp. 68, § 3.
Granting, then, the most that can be asked, that Daniel Coxe could not divest himself of his allegiance diiring the war, we cannot infer that the same impediment
existed after tMhwar.
This brings us to the 2d consideration.
2. What was the situation of Daniel Coxe from the
peace to the year 1802 ?
The act of 4th October 1776 only declares those persons to be subjects who were then abiding there. All
danger being over by the treaty of 1783, a new zra began, when every man had a right to leave the country
and transfer his allegiance where he pleased. This is a
most important right; and although Daniel Coxe now
disclaims it, he would then have thought its denial cruel and unjust.
Of all people the Americans are the last who ought
to call in question the right of expatriation. They have
derived infinite advantage from its exercise by others
who have left Europe and settled here. It is denied by
the constitution of no state, nor of the United States.
It is positively affirmed by the constitutions of some
of the states, viz. Pennsylvania,Kentuihy and Vermont,
and by an act of assembly of Virginia.

The right is also asserted- by ne best writers on the
laws of nature and nations. Vattel, b. 1, c. 19, § 218,
223, 224, 225, &c.; I Wychefort, (L'Embassadeur et
sesfonctions) 117," 119.
The same right is also asserted by our own authors,
1 Yudge Wilson's worls, 311 to 317. 1 Tucler's B.
appendix, 426, (in a note) id. Vol. 1,, part 2, appen.dix, 96.
It is also recognized by our courts of justice. 3 Dall.
153, Talbot v. 7anson. And the case of the Charm-

FEBRUARY, 1804.
2a Betsy, in the circuit court of Pennsylvania, 26th MILvAzz
V.
Ma
S1802.*
Coxr's Ls.
It has also been recognized by our government who k..u-y-w.sJ

have received and accredited in public charactersfrom
England,many persons who resided in the UnitedStates,
at the time of the revolution, viz. Sir 7ohn Temple of
Mkfassachusetts, Phineas Bond, esq. of lennsylvania,
T. W. Moore, esq. and Col. T. H. Barclay of New-ork.
In the commissions of all these persons, they are said
to be of London, or some other place in the Eniglish territories.
It has been also recognized by our legislature, who
in their act of naturalization insist on persons coming
from Europe renouncing their former sovereign.
It is recognized by England where other nations are
concerned. They formerly allowed naturalization in
their colonies after seven years residence. They allowed it to officers serving four years in the royal American
regiments, and they now allow it to persons serving three
years in their navy.
Stipposing then that DanielCoxe possessed this right of
expatriation, does it appear by the record that- he exercised it ?
If he did not, it is impossible that any person ever can.
To prove that he did, lis conduct during the war is very natural.
The offices he held at P2hiladelphiaand New-rorh shew
that he risked his life and fortune with the British. If he
was not then a British subject it was because the act of
JAe-u-yersey of 4th October 1776 estopped him from that
right. Nothing on his part was wanting. After the
peace he removed with his family, and has remained in
England, openLy avowing himself a British subject crr
since.

*S C. in this crt

see antep.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WAILVAx!
V.
06x.1s
Lzss z1.

But to be more particular.
. He has carried on trade and commerce as a British,
not an alien merchant. On this head the British are extremelv jealous ; none but .bona fide British subjects enjoy this privilege. No American post-natus is allowed
to hold a ship under the British navigation act; nor to
tride to the British colonies, except under great restrictiuns ; nor to be exempt from alien duties; nor to hold
.East-Indiastock.
2. He has been -pensionednot only for his losses, but
for his loyalty andattachment to the British government.
3. He did in 11795, or afterwards, apply as a British sub•ject -to the commissioners under the 6th article of the
treaty of 19th November, 1794, and in his petition asserted that he then "was, and frora his birth ever had been d
srubject of the king of Great-Britain,under the allegiance
of the saidkihg.
T! is "reaty agrees to make compensation on the part of
the Unued States.to British subjects who have lost their
debts by legal impediments.
Daniel Coxe might have returned to .eic-,Versey'after
the peace and become a citizen by taking th'e oaths, &c.
The attainder in Pennsylvania was no hindrance, for the
,treaty of peace protected him from prosecution.
Thirdly. Let us now examine whether the alienage of
Daniel Coxe is attended with any particular circumstances
enabling him to take land by descent, contrary to the general principle of alienage.
On the execution of the definitive treaty of peace, the
United States and Great-Britain were separate, independent governments. In that tieaty ought to have been inserted any stipulation which the two nations wished to
make touching the right of property to be held by individuals. And they have made some stipulations touching
debts, and property both real and personal,. but they were
all confined to the security of property then held.

FEBRUARY, 1804.-

. 280

With regard to lands there was to be no restitution;
but Congress were to recommend restitution without condition. 1st. To real British subjects. 2d. To persons
resident in districts'held 6y the king, and who had n~t
borne arms against the United States. As to all other
per ons, they were allowed to go to the United States and
remain 12 months to endeavour to get back their property, and Congress were to recommend- restitution, they
paying the possessors the bona flde-cost. - There were to
be no future confiscation, nor. was any persou to suffer
any future loss or damage, in his person, liberty or property.

MiALVATSZ
V.

By the treaty of 1794, Britih subjects who then held
lands in the UnitedStatei, -were, so far as- egardedsuck
land, not to be considered as alieni ;. but they, theiriheirs
and assigns, "were permitted to hold, enjoy and dispose
of the same, in like mannerffis if they were natives.
The general principle, that aliens cannot lbld lands,
has been adopted by 'eu ersey; but by an act of assembly of 14th November, 1785, they have made. ah exccption in favour of niortgagees.
But it is objected that the constitution -ofNe'w-.Yersey,
having adopted the comnnion law of Englaid, has adopted .
also the doctrine of antenati.
The adoption of the common law was to secure the liberty and property of the citizens of New-,ersey, withbut
regard to foreign nations, and not with a view of enaling
British subjects to hold lands in that state. It was not
meant to adopt those parts which were inconvenient, or
inconsistent with our situation--such as that the king can
do no wrong-personal and perpetnd allegiance, &e.
Besides, the constitution of AX.-v-,ersey expressly excepts such partsas are inconsistent with the rights and privileges, contained in that charter.
Now that charter is 'at variance with the .principle of
antenati, which is founded on the basis that naturalallegiance cannot be shaken of; whereas the constitution of
New-yersey declares thatprotectionand allgianceare reciprocal.

' LV.
U.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MiILVAMzEz
This doctritne of antenati is founded on Calvin's case,
Coxzs LE. which was determined 6 7ar. 1. when the ideas of the
royal prerogative were extravagant and absurd. The auSEEz.
thority of that case is much shaken by the many absurdities it contains. Some of its principles are ridiculous,
some contrary to the present law of England, and some
contrarv to our own constitutions. As instances of the
ridicu/ovs, may be cited his 4th union, which is of the three
lions of Englanrl and that of Scotland quartered in one
escutchton-that MIoses was the first reporter-that all
infidels are devils and perpetual enemies of christians Ono
of the doctrines contrary-to the present law of Enelandis,
"thatnatural allegiance cannot be altered by the law or constitution of man, but is something celestal--dejuredivino.- Witness the English revoldtion of 1688. The same
doctrine is also contrary to our constitutions. Witness
bur own revolution ;--he preamble to the congtitution of
Nsew-ersey ;-and the natural'zation law whieh requires
an oath of abjuration.

Woodeson, vol. 1, lect. 1.4; p. 382, says, " when the
"king by treaty, ratified by act of parliament, ceds
"country to another state, the inhabitants, though born,
"under hi protection, become efectually aliens, or liable
"to the disabilities of alienage in respect to their future
"concerns with this country ; and.imilarto this I take
"to be the condition of the revolted Americans, since the
"recognition of their independent commonwealth."
An alien may take by purcha-se or devise, but not by
de,cent; and this is the case even" with a denizen.
Paughan.278, Craw v. Ramsay.
What is the situation of the people of Louisiana?
They have been transferred from England to Spainfrom Spain to France-andfrom France to the United
States.-To whom do they owe allegiance ?
The incapacity of aliens to hold lands is founded in
public good and convenience. By suffering them to hold
lands, the revenues will be transferred to strangers; population is prevented-and the state is deprived of the
personal services of the landholders.

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
But it is said we should act upon principles of reei- M7LvA&x
v.
procity. That the British allow us to hold lands in EnCoxs's Lms.
gland upqn the principles of curtesy. If their decisions
have proceeded upon those principles, it is no reason
why we should allow the British to hold lands here.- It
may be their policy to maintain the principle, but it is
not ours. They had fifteen millions of inhabitants, we
h:ti only three. It was their interest to secure their
claims on this country by mortgages and purchases of
lands. But our courts cannot decide upon such principles. But if their decisions are founded in law, there
was no use in the stipulation of the treaty respecting the
right to hold lands. It is only by admitting that the inhabitants of the two countries were aliens to each other,
that any effect can be given to the treaty.
The principle of naturalallegiance does not apply as
to this country. N3 antenatus ever owed naturalallegiance to the United States. -There can be-but one natural allegiance, and that was die to the king of GreatBritain. American antenati theref6re may hold lands
in England, because they were born under the allegiance
of the king of England; but English antenaticannot hold
lands in America, because they were not born under theallegiance of the United States,
It id- said in Tucker's Blackstone, vol 2, appendix,
note C. p 54, that after the declaration of independence,
according to the principles of the laws of England,whic.
we still retained, the natives of both countries, born 'before the separation, retained all the rights of birth, i. e.
of inheriting lands, &c. yet the preamble of the Virgin.
ia act concerning escheats, &c. passed MAfay 1779, 2
Tuck. BI. append.p. 54, asserts that on the separatiorm
of the United States from the British empire, the inhabitants of the other parts of the empire became aliens
and enemies to the said states, and as such incapable of
holding the realor personalproperty which they had before acquired in the United States.
We say then upon the whole, 1st. That Daniel Coxe.
was always a subject of the king of Great-Britain,and
never was a subject or citizen of the state of .ew-Jer
se,I; and, 2dly, that if he was by force a subject of
New-yersey, he had a right, when that force ceased to

292
W1LVAfNr.

v. -

SEE.
\

yr.ways

SUPREME COURT U. S.

operate, -to return to his natural allegiance, and shake
off the compuleoryj allegiance which had been forced upon him by the state of New-)ersey, and uhich he al.
refused to 4vknowledge-and that he has done so.

And lastly, that 'whether he was always an alien as to
the state of New.,Versey, or whether he is to be considered as an expatriated citizen, he is still an alien, and
therefore incapable of taking lands by descent..
Patersonj J. Suppose he expatriated himself since
the peace, what is the consequence? Does he thereby
become a complete alien, so as not to be capable of tak.
ing lands by descent afterwards.
W. .Tilghman.

So I contend.

Rawle, contra.
The title of John Rodman Coxe is
good, unless Daniel Coxe his fither, was disabledto take
by.descent from his aunt Rebecca Coxe.
But he was iicapable of taking unless,
1.. He was an alien

or

2. Attainted of treason.
Tke latter is.not found by the jury. He was, therefore,
not attainted, nor incapableby reason of any crime.
That he was not an alien, I shall endeavour to demonstrate.
1. Every inhabitant of a state became, at the declarationi'of independence, a citizen *ofsuch state; so far 9t
least as relates to the right of holding real estate.
2. He thereby owed allegiance to such state, and acquired capacity to take and hold lands in it.
3. Of this allegiance he could not divest himself. Of
this capacity he cannot be deprived, except in the course
of punishment for crimes.
If allegiance be cbnsidered as a contract, which requires
the consent of both parties to make, it cannot be dissolved but by the consent of both.

FEBRUARY, .1804.

293

1. The first position is laid down in a qualified manner,
because, it.is. unnecessary to take a wider scope than the
nature of the question requires. It is unnecessary to consider the entire doctrine of allegian'e, .and its incident,
treason.
The fullest extent to which I shall press this first position, is, that prior to the declaration of independence 'we
were all British subject, "and as such had tie capacity to
take and hold lands throughout the British empire. That
the renunciation of allegiance, the change-of government,
did not divest of that right, even *those individuals who
in no shape recognized or adheredtothe new government.
1. Because it was not implied froi the nature of th
revolution, and 2, because it- was necessary to its safety
or success.
In the forination of a new government or society, the
acts of the majority (what Rutherford, Irol; 2, p. 18, calls
4he naturalmajority,) bind the whole.
The *members comprising the major-part,are citiens
by choice-The minority by force. It did not authorise
the majority, to seize the property of 'the minority.
They were all members of the new state.
Bt by the opposite argument, .the immediate effect of
the revolution was, to commit the grossest injustice oi,
the minority; to deprive them -of their.possessions because they differed in opinion: to render them aliews, and
divest them of.their lands.
Such intentions were not declared.
The independence of America was a. national act.
The avowed object was to throw off the power of a distant country; to destroy the politicalsubjection ; to elevate ourselves from a provincial,to an equal state in the
great community of nations.
It was therefore a politicalrevolutioninvolving in the
change all the inhabitants of America; rendering themi
all members of the new societ -- citizcns of .the new
states.

MILvA19rz

C

V'Lzs.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The declaration of independence was not an unanimous act. It was the act of the majority. But the gtnCox'sss-eral sentiment of the day, was that it bound the minority.
M'ILVAI E

T.

~ They were all equally considered as citizens of the United
States. This principle was never questioned. The minority were never considered as aliens. Hence the plenal
laws of that time made by the states, consider some of
that minority as traitors.
Such intentions were not implied.
The people of the colonies were absolved from allegiVance to the British crozwn. "The political connection
between the people of America and the state of Great
Britain was dissoived; and in the language of the declaration of -independence, the right "*to levy war, condude peaO, contract alliances, establish commerce, and
do all- other acts which independent states may of right
do,"I was solemnly asserted, and -publidy established.
. To this distinguished act in the history of man, the
assenit of the people was essential. That assent was implied from the assent of the majority. The assent of
the people. could only. be known by the assent of the
states. Not a statedissented.
New-yersey was first. Her independent form of government, was adopted on the 2d of 9uly 1776. 'But the
diVision of the people who composed the states, and the
disfranchisementof any part of them, were not necessary
consequences of that assent. Every inhabitant continoied.
a member of the society. Every'inhabitant, therefore,

continued to retain his property, whetbe.i real or personal.
But -each individual state had to form its own government, and establish its own rules. We must, therefore,
seek for those rules 'in the Constitution'of .Xew-ersey.
The 1st, 2d, and 3d artides'organize the legislature,
(which by the 7th, is to chobse the governor,) the '4th and
13th, expressly vest the power of choosing officers in the
inhaitants,who have resided in the county for 12 months,
and who have propeity to a certain value. Thus the inhabitants without distinction, are made members of the

society, citizens of the stati.

being citizens, all tho

FEBRUARY, 1804.

295

rights of acquiring and enjoying property, attsched to
them.
But Daniel Coxe was then an inhabitaht. Will it be
denied that he thei was a member of the societ ? that
he *could then hold lands P
The legislature of New-Jfersey, assembled on the 27th
of Auguot, 1776, and on the 4th of October, passed a law
which must remove all doubt on this part of the subject.
Every person - abiding" within the state, and deriving
protection from its taws, is declared to owe allegiance
to it, and to be a-member of it.
But every man who abode within the state, received
protection from its laws. It is found by the special
verdict, that Daniel Coxe did at that time ablde within
the state; he therefore owed allegianceto it, and was a
member of itThe inquisitions found by the jury, were founded on
two, acts of assembly of New- ersey. By those -acts it
will appear, that the objects of such proce.edings were,
mid only could be, persons owing allegiance to the state.
The act of 5th 7une 1777. (WIlson s Edition of Neiwyersey Laws, appendix p. 5,) offers a pardon to" such
"subjects" of the state, as had been seduced from.their
allegiance to it, and had joined the enemy; and enacts
that if they did not return by the first of Augizst; their
personalestate should be forfited, and that if perishable, or likely to fall into the hands of the enemy, it
should be sold. The alienation of it by such persons,
was declared to be void. But it did not forfeit the real
estate.
This law speaks of their returning.to their allegiance,
not as alien enemies, but as ojfending subjects.
The first of the two oaths, required by that act, is in
these words. "I A. B. do sincerely profess and swear,
" that I do not hold myself bound to bear, allegian'ce
" to the King of Great Britgin. So help me God' The second oath is " I A. B. do sincerely profess and
" swear, that I do and will beattrue faith and allegiance

MILvAI,.
V.

Coxz's Lzs.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
M'qLvaIN2 "4to the government established in this state, under tlW
Coxx Lo, "authority of the people. So help me God."
effect of taking these oaths was a pardon, and
restorationto the rights of a subject ; not a naturalization as new subjects, but restoration" to all the tights of
.uther the good subjects of this state."

SThe

The. subsequent acts, prescribing the form of inquest,
&c. refer to.this act, and aie foanded upon the delin.
quency or treason of the offenders.
Many of the objects of that law, having faileil to
avail them'sblves of its offered clemency, the act of 18th
of April 1.778,'-was passed. (Wilson's Laws of Newfrersey, p. 43.) This law was founded on the last, and
expressly refers to it. By thisact the real and person91 estates of such persons, are to be taken into posses.
sion; the'personal to be sold, and-the real to be rented
out.
The preamble is in these words:
".Whereas many of 'he offenders mentioned and de"scribed in an act of free and general pardon, and for
"other purposes therein mentioned, have neglected to'a"vail themselves of the benefit thereof. Therefore be it
'enacted," &c.
Thdnext act of assembly is thatof 11th December, 1778.
By this'act the estates of such "fugitives and offenders"
as,are in the other acts descfibed, 'are forfeited.
The ,rst section relates to such fugitives and offenders,
i.e. to znhabitants owihg allegiance, &c.
The second section that every inhabitant of the .tate,
who between the f9th of April, 1775, and the 4th of October, 1776, *oined the enemy's army, or took refuge, or
continu&d wih them,. or endeavoured to aid .ihem by
counsel-or otherwise, aid hath not since returned and become a.ubject in allegiance to the present government,
by takiing the oaths. &ic. of allegiance, is declared guilty
of high treason.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

297

This, however, does not reach the case of DanielCoxe, M'ILvANZ
who did not join the British army until the year 1777.

V. LE.
Coxi's
S£EE

By the third section every person, not an inhabitant of
this state, but of some other of the United States, seized
of real estate, who since the 19th of April, 1775, aided or assisted, &c. as before stated, is declared guilty of
high treason against the state of New-,Versey.
In both cases an inquisition finding the facts is declared
to amount to a forfeiture of the offender's real and personal estate ; and in both cases it is declared that such conviction shall not in any instance affect the person of any such
offender.
It is therefore only and uniforgily in respect to allegiance, to a breach of the duties of a citizen, to the state
of New-,ersey or other of the UnitedStates, that the'real
estates are forfeited; and no.authoritiy can be collected
from any of the laws, to proceed against real estate held
by an alien; at least it is obvious that no such proceedings
as are directed by these laws could be supported against an
alien, merely as such.
2. That as a recognized inhabitant, as a member of the
civil society, and a person owing (and permanently owing)
allegiance to the state, he could hold lands within it, is a
position too plain to be disputed.
The rule of the common law is that all persons may
hold lands, except aliens. 1 BI. Com. 371.-2 B. Com.
249. But DanielCoxe was not an alien. Daniel Coxe,
therefore, may hold lands.
These two positions are supported by the collateral effect of the treaty of 1783. The 5th article recognizes
the capacity of all persons, who have been the subject of
judicialproceedings, to hold lands. Congress are to recommend to the legislatures of the several states, to pass
laws authorising those persons who had adhered to the
British cause to returnto America, and there remain for
12 months, to obtain restitution of their estates.
In each case, therefore, the right to receive, and with
it the right to retain and hold lands, are recognized i for
p

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
M'ILvAzrS% it would be absurd to suppose that he who is to receive it
v.
by virtue of the treqty, is immediately afterwards to have
itwrested from him, as an alien.
'sM
On "the subject of restitution, Congress weie only to
recommend, but on another, the treaty is peremptory.By the 6th article there were to be no future confiscations.
As a part of the former proceedings, or connected with
the m,,the treaty removes that obptacle to the-plaintiff's recovery; for the iniquisition could only operate on what
Daniel Coxe was then seized of or entitledto.
. It is contended by. the opposite counsel
that the treaty
authorises to hold only such lands- as could be r.estored
not to hold new acquisitions.
But if-our own laws could recognize a person as-a citizen in part, and an alien in part, yet the 6th article gives
them the right to hold new acquisitions as well as to retain
what they held before. But the effect of the 9th article of
the treaty of 1794, is still more ektebsive. It goes to exclude escheats pro defectu sanguinis. Neither they, nr
their heirs, or assigns shai! !" considered as aliens. If
Rebecca Coxe had been a British subject,'the plaintiff below could have claimed under her by virtue of the treaty.
Shall he rot then inherit because she was a citizen of
the UnitedStates P By the treaty of 1783, antenaticould
retain lands in both countries. That of 1794 provides
also for postnati. Antenati may not only hold, but pass.
lands to postnati.
3. The third position embraces two divisions.
1. Allegiance.
2. Capacity to hold and transmit laws.
1. DanielCoxe could not by his oion act get rid of the
allegiance he owed to.New-fersey.
2. He could not, except in the case of punishment
for crim'es, be deprived of 'his capacity to hold.
This.point might be carried still further; and it may be
cqntended that if he had expressly endeavoured to divest

FEBRUARY, 1804.

299

himself of a capacity to take anhold land, yet his heir, M'ILVAUIm
being ,itizerns of the United States, might claim under him. .
But this is not now- necessary. If is sufficiett to shew Coxi's Lzs.
that as he denies any' disclaimer of his capacity, so he cannot, by the -interested views of his present opponents, be
deprived of. it; for the opposition is not now made by the
state, but by private individuals who efideavour to blot
him out of legal existence that they may double their portion of the inheritance.
It it a principle of the common law-(which law is expressly adopted by the 22d section of the c6nstitution of
New-fersey) that no man can put off his allegiance.Hale, H. P. C. '68. 1.B1. Com. 369. .orster's cr. law, 59.
MDonald'scase.
It is true-that Blacistone.speaks"of that allegiance which
is coeval with birth; distinguishing it from local allegiance,
arising from temporary residence.
But the allegiancd due from DanielCoxe was not of the
latterkind; it did iiot arise and terminate with his resi,
dence in New-J7ersey. It sprung from his inhabitancy in
.Wew-yersey,*when it created itself a state; from his being then, in common with all around him, a subject of the
king;'from the change which those around him, in the
cout e of successful resistance, made in the form of their
political society, by acts in which the majority must compel the acquiescence of the smaller number. That the
minority were bound by the acts of the majority, was decided by Ch. J. lliworth i' the circuit court in NorthCarolina, in the mse of Hamilton v. Eden.
Birth is but evidence of allegiancp. At the time of a
revolution residence is equally evidence of allegiance to
the ndw government. Indeed it is stronger if the person
be of mature age. It may at least be considered as a new
birth.
It was naturalallegiance; as sqciety is naturalto man,
and allegianceis naturalto society.
But without playing on the word, it may be characterized aspermanent allegiance; the opoite of -temporary

SUPREME COURT U. Si,
MI LVAI[E
Coxz'sV.
LEs-

N.iuy-../

It is said that he never was to be considered as a citizerr
of New-,ersey, or if he was, that he expatriated hi-nself.
1. That like Chapman.he made his election before any
new government was formed, and on the dissolution of the
old one; and therefore never was a subject of the state of
2New-yersey. But the distinctionbetweeril~ese two cases
will be wide andglaring.
Chapman left Pennsylvaniathe 26th of December, 1776 ;
Coxe not till *September, 1777. Chapman Was acquitted
because he had left the state before the 1 th of February,
1777, on which day the laws of the then late. province
were to'be revived, according to an act passed on the 28th
of Yanuary, 1777; and on which day the act passed dedaring what-should be treason, and that all persons now
"inhabiting, &c. within th limits of the state of Penn"sylvania, do owe allegiance," &c. It was therefore'decared that he was not a subject at the time of his quitting
the state of Pennsylvania;'and the attorney-generalhaving averred that'he was a subject and inhabitant of the
commonwealth, it was held that the issue was not maintained on his part. If Chapman-hadresided in the state
on the11th .of February, 1777; he would on the very
priociple. of his own defence, have been been liable to
inlictment.
But*Coxe was an inhabitant of the state of New-,7ersey
or 'he 4th of October, 1776, when a declaratory law, similar to that of Pennsylvaniawas passed. After which it
was too late for him to attempt to change sides. He was
then fixed. as a subject, and liable to indictment for treason. Being thus, on the one hand, subject to the p'enalties resulting fioni his civil relation to the commonwealth,
he is, on the btheit , entitled by natural and equal justice to
the benefits of that relation.
[W. Tilghman kdmittea-tat -by the law of New-7ersey, DanielCoxe wag to be,cunsidered as a svIject of New.ersey by force; and thai tle state had a right to make
such a law. He had argil d only ipon the general ground,
independent of the law o- Nev-.frsey.]
Rawe. It ii.
admitted then that he'could not make his
election until the peace of 1783. It Y'a; the first time he

FEBRUARY, 1804.

301

ever eard that after an arduous conflict has successfully M "ILvAINX
terminated by means of the energy and exertions of a ma- Coxs LESjority of the people, each individual of the minority had
a right of election which should look back and give a new
-aspect to his condudt through the period of the struggle.
[W. Tilghman stated that he did not contend for such an
election, but that all the citizens of the United States,
after the peace of 1783, had a right of expatriation, and
Daniel Coxe among the rest.]
Rawle. Let us then consider this supposed expatria.
tion, this imaginary dereliction of his country and hisrights, this abjuration not only of allegiance, but capacity
to inherit, which is to operate Pgainst him as a political
estoppel; or like the ancient confession of villenage, is to
deprive him at once of all power to take by descent or
purc ase.
It is perhaps a sufficient answer to say that expatriation
is afact which ought to be found.
Our opponents have piled together a confused and shapeless mass of evidence, on which this court cannot act.Since even if expatriation bad been allowed by the constitution or laws of New-_ersey, all the different facts put
together would not amount to the technical fact of expatriation ; and since if expatriationbe not allowed, they are
of no more importance than finding whether Mr. Coxe
wore a blue coat or a brown one.
The circumstance most relied upon to prove Daniel
Coxe's expatriation, is his carrying on commerce as a
British subject. In this respect there has been a liberal
construction of the rights of citizens of the UnitedStates
in the British courts, even as to their navigation act.They have, for the purposes of commerce, held that a
person might be a British subject as to his duty of allegiance, and a citizen of the UnitedStates as to his commercial character. Thus in the case of .Afarryatv. Wilson, 1
Bos. and Pul. 430, 444, it was held that "both characters
may stand tQgether," and so in all cases so far as there are
no conflicting duties, a man may be a subject of many
different governments, and may enjoythe benefits conferre4
upon him by all. The right of Daniel Coxe to hold land

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILvJ

v.

NZ in New-.ersey does not conflict with any' duty which he
owes as a Britibh subject, His becoming, a subject of
- Great-Britaintherefore, as to purposes of commerce, is
Snot evidence that he had xenounced his rights as a citizen
or subject of _ew-7ersey. Nor does it follow, because
he is a Br'tish subject that he is not also an American
citizen. 1 B . Corn. 369,_ 376.-3 Dali. 169, Talbot v.
Yanson.
What then is expatriation It is said to- be-an opera.'
tion by which a-citizen is made an alien. And it is contended that although DanielCoxe was once a citizen of
New--ersey, it was agahist his will, and that the moment
he had it inhis power by the peace to throw off that character, he did it,. and by becoming a subject of the king of
Great-Britain, he became an alien to New-- ersey, and
therefore not capable of taking land by descent, in that
stat .
Many of the writers upon this subject have confounded expatriatio 'with emigration ; and hence has resulted
great confusion. But the ideas are v&y different and
distinct.
Expatriationis a matter of municipalregulation"
Emigrationis ofright. It cannot be restrained without injustice- and even violence. Expatriationcannot'be
effiected without public consent.
Exp.atriation dissolves the original obligation of the
citizen.,
£ rzigrationonly suspends its activity,
Expatriationicapacitates fTom taking lands in future.
Emigrationretain that capacityExpatriationrenders the future issue aliens. Emigra.
ian does not impair the right to be received.as citizens,
Expatriationis an inconveqient and i4&lxible deprive.Uon.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

303 •

Emigration destroys no rights, but facilitates the cornmierce and improvement of man.

MqLVAXw l

s

COXZ's Lzs$-

Hence in no states, not depressed by the severest des- %
potism, is emikration prevented. In very few- is expatriationeven known.
Of the 17 United States, one only (Virginia) has recognized or provided for it by law. In the constitutions
of the other states, which have been cited, it is the right
of emigration only which is protected, and not a word is
said of expatriation. In the laws of Great-Britain there
is no such term, or idea, as expatriation. It is altogether
*unknown.
As soon as a man -has expatriated himfelf, his lands
would escheat, and he would be divested of all the rights
of a citizen. There has been yet no case in practice
where the lands, of an expatriated citizen have been escheated.
It is inconsistent with the nature of expatriation, that
the party be permitted to retire from the community for
purposes hostile to its welfare. No citizen can expatiiate himself for the purpose of committing an act which
would be treason, without such expatriation.
There ought also to be some municipal regulati6n defining the evidence and the'mode, and declaring the assent of the government. 3 Dal. 133, Talbot v. Yanson.
If Daniel Coxe had set up this defence on an indeictment
for treason, it would iot have availed him.
If then his liabilities, on the one hand, and his rights
on the other remained in full force at the time of his departure ; if he took with him the capacity, as well as the
responsibility of a citizen ; are the subsequent events of
his life to act retrospectivelyon his departure, and tear asunder the ties which bound him in 1777?
If such an effect can arise from these causes, the quo
animo, the intention, ought to have beenfound, especially as it is a recognized principle that a man may owe allegiance to two countries at the same timne, and therefore

-

SEP.

SUPREME COURT U. Su
I'ILvA~nz. may lawfully have the intention ofowing allegiance to bod
Great3:Britain
Ne'w-yersey. The court cannot deCoSE.
cLde that it wasand
with intent to expatriate. 7 Co" Calvin'ls

~ case, 27, (aand b.'). 2 Tucer's Blackstone, appendix, 53.
Kirby's.Reports of cases SuP. Court, Connecticut, p. 407.
Apthotp v.. Baclus.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error have. divided theif
case ifito three questions, according to three periods of
time, in the solution 'of which they have employed much
ingenuity..
1. From the begirining of the revolutibn to the peace
of 1783.
This perioa seems to be nearly conceded; at least it is
admitted that the state had a right to compel the inhabitants to become members of the new state or society. It
seems to be admitted also that there is a sufficient finding
of his residence in New-yersey till 1777, to bring him
within all the laws of that state. The test laws of 1778
could not have influeniced his departure in 1777 ; nor did
they give him, any right to dissolve the connection ; because the penalties imposed were the consequences of political offence ; the punishment of treasonable flight. And
to suppose ihat a man, by staying away, to avoid the punishment. of the law, nad a right to dissolve the obligations
of the citizen, is to lay down a principle tending to slhelter
every fugitive from justice.
It may be noticed that incapacity to hold lands is not
among the penalties annexed to his disaffection. There
are- two legislative declar ations :-I1. By making him a
citizen and thereby giving him the capacity. 2. By imposing other penalties on the offence, but reserving this
capacity.
It has been said that the object of the .ew-7ersey
laws was merely fiscal. But the citizenship of Daniel
Coxe does not depend on the inquisition, but on the act
of 1776 ; i. e. he would have been a.citizen by virtue of
that law, although no inquest had beeli taken against
him.

VEBRUJARY, 18041

305

It has also been said that the act of 1778 includes MqLVXx
those who had offended against other states, and had Coxz'sV. Lz6.
never been inhabitants of New.9terey, and therefore the
sES.
legislature did not mean to compel them to become citi-.

zens. The answer to this objection is found in the case
of Canip v. Lochwood, 1 Dall. 393, in which the offenice
was decided to be an offence not only against the parti.
cular state, but against all the states.
2. The 2d period is from the peace to the time of
the descent cast in 1802. Arid it is contended that in,
1783 Coxe had a right to make his election and choose
his country.
But this position is attempted to be supported on a
false basis. No such right is mentioned in the treaty;
On the contrary the 5th and 6th articles manifest a mnutual understanding that the loyalists were to-returnho7he,
to obtain restitution of their estates, intimating plainly
that if they could obtain restitution they would'be entitled to hold.
,8. The provislori of the treaty, "that there shall be
no future confiscations," settles the point of a capacity
to take at present, and not in future. It was the uni.versal understanding that a sale after the treaty, of property before confiscated, Was no breach of the treaty.
How then can there be a future confiscation but in consequence of a future taking? And he who can take in
future is not an alien.
Daniel Coxe, who ought to know the quo animo of all
the acts charged against him, declares by his counsel,
that le never meant to give up his capacity to take and
hold lands by descent or purchase : and his counsel declare that if such was his intention, he could not do it.
These are two distinct propositions, both of which must
be establishec by our opponents. They must prove not
only the wvill but the power.
But it is said to be a hardship to deny the right of
expatriation.

SUPREME. COURT

U. S.

The observations made upon this point apply only to
emigration,*and the right to emigrate is not denied.

M'ILvAISE

V.

ColE's LZ.e
SEE.

~

But when a man turns his -arms aganst his native
country and ungratefully endeavoiirs to destroy the hand
which fostered and fed him, the arm of justice, though
severe, is not misdirected.

And if in the decline of life he wishes to return to the
bosom of his surviving friends, and be buried in the
tomb of his ancestors, is he to be received only as an
ali6en and an ozitcast-asa modern citizen of the worlda detached, rotatory, irresponsible and useless being ?
Inconsistency runs through the whole of the argument
for the plaintiff in error. The counsel contend for the
rigid doctrine, peculiar to feudal tenures, that an alien
cannot hold land, and yet discard the more rational con.
comitant feudal, principle, which has been engrafted in.
to the comr on law, thaf nemo potest exuere patriam.
The authorities which have been cited do not-support
the principles contended for by the plaintiff's counsel.
All the American constitutions which have been referred to, speak only of emigration.
irginiaalone has
provided by law for the case of expatriation; but that
law cannot affect lands ifi New-yersey.
Vattel speaks only of emigration.
Judge Wilson uses only the same expression, and
gives his opinion of -what the law ought to be, not what
it is. -It is said too that he decided a case in Virginia,
of a claim under Lord Fairfax, upon principles contrary to those contended for by our opponents.* So in the
case of Apthorp v. Backus, Kirby's Reports 407, the
'WASUUNGTOS J. said that there was an appeal in that case to the
supreme court, which was not decided, the state of VIrginia haiing com-

promised the cause.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

307

plaintiff was a Britiih subject before the revolution, M'ILv,&1Rz.
and yet recovered the land in the year 1788.t
Coix'sV. Lzs.
SEE.

W•jycefort, reasons upon general principles, on the ku;
subject of expatriation; but expressly recognizes the
law to be otherwise in England.
f This case was decided by the Supreme Court 6f Connecticut, before
.Richard Law, Ch. Y. Oliver Elmsorth, Roger Sherman, .and William.
Pithin, Justices, and was as follow-.
An estate was mortgaged by Fitch to Stephen Apthorp, then of Briatol
in .England,who died .anuary 1st, 1773, leaving the plaintiff his' only
hei. It was moved in arrest of judgment, that it appears by the de.
claration that the plaintiff is an alien, and therefore, cannotby law, hold'
any real estate
.By the Court.
A state may exclude aliens from acquiring pro
,within it of any
kind, as its safety or policy may direct,- as England has done with regard
to real property, saving, that -infavour of commerce, alien merchants"
may hold leases of houses and storei, and may, for recovery of their debts.
extend lands, and hold them, and upon oucter have an assize. -Dyer2. d.
Bac..db. 84.. But it would be against right that a division of a state or
kingdom, should work a forfeiture 9f property previously acquired under
its laws, and that by its owfi citizens; 'Which is the case here.
The plaintiff's title to the land accrued while she was not an alien, nor
could she be affected by the disablility of 'an alien, but was as much a citi.
zn of the now state of Connecticut, as any person at present within it,
and her destent.was cast under, its lawa.
Her title is also secured by'the treaty of peace, which stipulates that
there shall be .no further forfeitures or confiscations on account of the
war, upon either side. The subscquent statute of this state, declaring
aliens incapable of purchasing or holding lands in this state, does no%
affect the plaintiff's title, otherwise than by recognizing and enforcing it,
for it hath a proviso that "the act shall not be co~nstrued to work a
"forfeiture of any lands, which belonged to any subjects of the king of
"Great Britain before the late war, or to prevent propriletrirs of such
"lands, from selling and
disposing of the same to any inhabitant of any'
"of the United States '." It is not indeed expressly said, that the propri.
etors of such lands may maintain actions for thepossession of them, but
this is clearly implied; for lands without the possession are of no use;
and whenever the law gives or admits a right, it gives or admits also
every thing incident thereto, as necessary.to the enjoy,ment and exercise
of that right; and besides, they cannot selltheir lands till they first get pos.
session of them ; for all sales of land in this state, whereof the grantor is
dispossessed, except to the person in possession, are, by express statute,
void: so that the plaintiff is not barred of her fitle, or right of action.,
¢ither at common law o by statt

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MqLvA.!

V.

CoxeYs

s

S

LEs-

. In the case of Talbot U Yanson, the court was ofopin.
*on that the'right could not be exercised witout an act
of the legislature.
The case of the CharmingBets/, in this court at the
last term, did not decide the present question. For the
question now is, whether, by becoming a subject of another sovereign, he is to all intents and purposes an alien.
Woodeson, probably means only postnatiof America,
if he had any clear idea at all upon the subject.
February 18.

Stockton on the same side.

There is but a single objection to the title of the lessor of
the plaintiff, which is that D. C.under whom be claims, Was,
before and at the time of the descent and conveyance, an
alien, and therefore could neither receive nor transmit any
estate in the premises in question.-This I shall deny: 1st.
Because D. C. was born under the same ligeance with the
other subjects of. fersey.. 2dly. Because the legislature of N . Yersey, ifter the organization of their independent government in the exercise of constitutional powers,
derived from the people, by statute declared him a subject of the new government; exacted from him the duty
and submission of a subject, and punished him for a
breach of his allegiance-but never deprived him of his
capacity to inherit real estate. qdly. Being thus once-a
subject of MN.ersey, by the constitution and law of that
state it was not in his power to make himself an alien.;
and if it had been in his nower he did not exercise the
right.
1. Lit. sec. 198, defines an alien to be "one born out of
the ligeance of the king," and he adds, " if he sues an
action real, the tenant may say that that he was born in a
country out of the king's ligeance." This is the universal
form of pleading alienage. The defendant must shew that
the plaintiff was born out of the king's ligeance andwhere.
The definition of Littleton, taken from writers still
plder than himself, has been adopted by Vaughan, Hale,
Foster, and Blackstone, indeed by all the English lawyern, -and has never been questioned. The form of
pleading is equally ancient, and both.together, present
a. complew criterion of the law. That the place of

FEBRUTARY, 1804.

so;

birth should determine the condition of the subject, is MqLvAZ.nz
both reasonable and natural. It is reasonable, because Co.E's Lzs.
he there receives the protection necessary to the preser-.
vation of life, during the Ifelpless years of infancy-an
obligation which can be conferred on him by no other
country -because, there it is that he is immediately invested with all the privileges derived from society and
government--giving him the force'of the community to
protect him in his rights of personal liberty, reputation
and property, and at a time when he could make no return. How reasonable is it then that he should owe to
such a country, the corresponiding duty of allegiance ?
It is natural, because there exists in every good man, a
virtuous principle of preference for that country, nay,
for that spot, where he first drew his breath-where he
passed his childhood-where his mind first opened to the
endearing relationships of life, which'nothing but the
hand Pf death can extinguish-an amor patrie, which
remains in spite of rejection, persecution and punish.
nent, and which, even amidst the conflict of the passidns produced by a sense of injury, still secretly leads
him to his native country as his resting place. The common law, founded in reason and nature, therefore, proclaims that no m n born a subject can be an alien. But
it is said, that D. C. was not at the time of his birth, a
subject of the state of New-.7ersey, and therefore may
be an alien.-Answer. At the time of his birtD, the
king of-Englandwas the common sovereign of D. C.
and the other citizens of New-,ersey; and by the, principles and express rule of the common law, suchpersons
never can be' aliens, though 'a change of sovereigns
should take place, and distinct governments be formed;
for as on the one hand, the duty of natural allegiance
accruing at birth, adheres to him through life-so on
the other, the corresponding privileges, among which is
the capacity to take and hold lands, must remain, unless forfeited by crime. The very point of Calvin's
case, independently of the reasoning of Lord Coke 1roves
this. There the antenati of Scotland were held aliens
in England, though 7ames was sovereign of both countries, because, at the time of their birththey were aliens.
So on the other hand, the postnati were declared subjects, and it'was held that they always must be considered eubjects, because they were subjects at the time of

SUPREmm

COb]T uf. S.

A'ILVAfI2
. V.

their tirth. In ? Coke, 2?, .b. Lord Cohc .puts the very.
case: " Wherefore, to conclude this point (and io ex-

SEP.

clude all that hath been or could 'be objected aganst it)
the obedience and ligeance- of the suibject to his sovereign, be due by the law of nature, if that law be parcel of the laws as well 6f England; as of "all other nations, and is immutable, and that postnati and we -6f
Englandare united by birth-right, in obedience and ligeance (which is the true cause of -fiatural subjection)
by the law of nature; it followeth, that Cakin, the plahi
tiff, being born under'one ligeance to .ine king, cannot
be an alien born."".

yinif

This is not then to be considered as one of the extrajudicial and fanciful reasons bf Lord Coke; of which
so. much has been said, but a consequence not only:
clearly flowing from undoubted principles, but adopted
by ancient practice, 'and proved by the history and law
of Engliznd.: Such. 'was the coddition of those provinces, of France, claimed. and held by the kibgs of
England. "Th'se were subject to continual revolufiofis
and chage of sovercigns, as 'the arms of either king
prevailed; but Frenchmen, born while the kinks of England werie in possession, were held not to be alienk
-when that possession ceased, and mighb' hold" lands in
England. 7 Coke 20: b, is express to this purpose, and
in 2 Finer. 261,jpl. 11, it will be seen, that this doctrine
was considered as law by Qther judges; It has indeed
been said, that Calvin's case is not'law., and his reasoning has been stated to be servile and ridiculous. That
it partakes largely of the quaint pedantry of tHe times,
is not to be denied; but that my Lord Coke wuld lay
down, and take such pains t'o" prove afalseposition of
cornmon law, comports not with his character, either as
alawyer or a man.;" and the case of the commendams
is of iWelf enough, to rescue his character from the imputation of undue servility. Besides, the determination in Calvin's.case, has never been overruled or questioned ; it is supported by the names of the venerable
Fleta, Bracton, &. Britton. It received the sanction of
Lord Chief Justice Vaughan, (Vaughan's Rep. 285,)
of Lord Hale, as may be seen in his history of the
Oleas of the Crown ; and in 4 Term Rep. 308, the same
doctrine isqaid down as the modern lawi of Wcstmirster

FEBRUARY, 1804,

$11

.Ha1l by Lord Kenyo7,. This doctrine that the ante. Wi'IL.V. XXZ
nati should be capable of inheritifig is founded in jus- Co3z's Lzf
tice; a right .once vested, ought never to be divested,
unless it be for. a crime. An einpire is rent asunder
by a revolution ; the individuals of each territory may
be innocent; if guilty, they can only suffer the punishment, annexed by law to the crime; it was impossible
for Daniel Coxe to commit a crime against New-Jersy,
which could destroy his inheritable blood,- that being
saved even on conviction of treaf'on.
The opinion of the most celebrated jurist of our
country, is, expressly in favour of my position. Judge
TucAer, in his notes on Blackstone, not only 'considers
the ,ule in Calvin's case to be law,,but applies it to the
antenati Americans, who he says may hold lands in both
countries. 2 Tucker's Black. Appen.. 53, Note c. But
it is again said by oiur learned adversary,, that'this doctrine of the common law, is derogato'ry to the feelings
and character of freemen, and altogether inconsistent
with our present forms of governrient, and political institutions ; it is, however, conceived that this doctrine
contains in it no prificiple of the nature ascribed to it,
and that its results are especially applicable to*our politi
Edl system. What is the ifijun'ction of the common
law ? not that a man shall, like'the trees of our forests,
be planted and affixed to the place where he .was born;
ftot that he shall be prohibited from bettering his condition
elsewhere ; it restrains not the right of.emigration under.proper restraints and limitations:. on the contrary,the subjects of this law, enjoy more liberty in this respect
than all the rest of Europe. It only says* to them," ii
you do emigrate,, you shall still retain the privileges and
be under the restraints of your natural allegiance.What can be discovered in this derogatory to a freeman ? No ; it should rather be considered as an invaluable privilege; the price of a reasonable and prudeht restraint. In it is only heard the voice of exalted Patriotism saying to her "children,' go gain your support, seek
your happiness in fairer fields, in a more genial dime ;.but
remember (and it is the only restraint I place you under)
raise not a parricidal hand against your native land. The.
results of this doctrine appear to me peculiarly applicable
to our political po.sition. 'We "arenot a confederated re-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
public.-Our general government is composed of a numV.
ber of distinct and independefit states, uniting under one
Coxes LUs.
head by mutual consent for common benefit. But an event
Smay happen (which every good man should join with my
Lord Coke in his devout prayer, "that God of his infinite
goodness and mercy may prevent,")-time may come
when this bond of union may be broken, this confederacy
dissolved, and these sovereignties become altogether and
completely independent. In this event what security
would a citizen of one stte have for his lands held in another, but this much reprobated maxim of the common
law ? With it all would be safe-we were once fellowcitizens-we owed allegiance to a common head-we never can be aliens. Without it our lands held out of the
state in which we live, would be liable to escheat on the
ground of alienage.
M'ILVAZNZ

Let us not, affect to be wiser than the law. Let us not,
for idle theories, absurd as well as impracticable, depart
from those principles which have secured to our ancesturs
the complete enjoyment of their liberty and property.2. But supposing that this doctrine of the common law
that the pizce of birth does conclusively fix the character
of a subject, should be considered as not applicable to the
case ofarevolution by which one part of a nation is severed
from the other, becomes independent, and forms a separate government. We must then search ex necessitate for
some other principle, as a substitute for the common law
principle, and which shall denote who are and who are
not members of the new community. Now, the natural,
the only practicable substitute is this, that those residing,
at the time of the revolutirn in the territoryseparatingitsey
from the pprent country, are subject to the new government, and become members of the new community, on the
grounzd either of tacit consent, evidenced by their abiding
thnsuch territory;,or on the principlethatevery individual
is bound by the act of tle majority. Hence, as birth at
the- common law denotes the su-ject, so residenceat the
time of-tne revolution will draw with it the same consequence. The great men who conducted the revolution in
New-tersey were at no loss to discover this principle.They recognized it by their c.nstitution .1nd first acts of
legislative power. By law they claimed all men in the
situation of D. C. to be their subjects. This brings me

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

313

to the second point which was, that D. C. could bp no M'ILv,&I?
V.
alien because the legislature bf New-_ersey .proclaimed
him.a subject, claimed his allegiance as one,' and punishSZ
ed him as one for a breach of it, without, however, taking
s
kom him his inheritable rights. - The new constitution
was adopted- in New-Wrke , Jzly 2d, .1776. October
4th1 W oilon
N. 7. L.4. The legislature then first con"vened under it passed their treasoi act, in which it 'is
declared "th t .allpersoisabdindg within the state,-and
deriving piyotectionfromthe laws thereof,do owe allegiance
to the gov rnineht of this state, establishedunderthe authority of the'peopk, and are to be deemed members thereof'" Then they go on and. declare all such guilty of trea'on who shall adhere to the king of G. Britain---saving,
the cnrritption of blood. D. C.as the jury have'found, was
born in Ne'w-yersey, was living and abiding in'the state at
that time, and adhered to the &itish by joining their
arnmy more than one year afterivards.
This description of who wera subjects of the state of
_u- fe.rs'y," was always closely.. pursued by the 'legislature and ended in the seizing and forfeiting the estates
of all those who had withdrawn within the-Britishlines,
and sb,couldfnot be attainted on trial, accprding to the
course of the common law. Wilson,'N.
W
Y. L. Appen. 5, contains the iiext act--it is
an act of free andgeneralpardon. . The former act had
,declared who iwere subjects, who could offend--this offers
conditional pardon on their return to their'allegiance,and
forfeits the personal estate of those who did not accept
proffered grace. Then follow the several acts of Dec. 8th,
1778, Appendix 8 ; of April 18th, 1778,. Wilson, N. . .
43 ; of 11th Dee. 1778, in which the same description of
subjects given in"the first act is confiied.--provisions
made to punish them if they persist hi their rebellion to
the state, which ends, and in this case did end, in the en-.
tire confiscation of the real and personal estate of the offending subject. It was observed on these actsi that they
appeared to be -rather of a fiscal nature than anX other,and were not so much .designed to prescribe duties, and
punish transgressions, as to bring money into the treasury.
Such an object would have been unjust andpitiful, and
was never contemplatd at the time -they were enacted.
No ; the patriots-ofthat day had a more sublime object.
'Rr

314

SUPREME COURT U. S.

nlAvAtirz Their great QbJect was independence. Dy trimese acts they
V.
meant to legitimate the revolution :by the supreme power
Cox'.
te eople. The "rocaim their new and re
ublican
m they cnd replat
They pcla
- -ritenenl.
$Fr.
mverment. They ticlare whom tey onsider as the
tmembers composing this new ommunto. They prTceed
to i
nipose
the. duties arisiang out cif their new condition,

and io enforce the pinformance of these duties by the

sanction of adequate punishment for their violation. 7hey
"didnot, it is true, pass attainder acts affecing the per8mJr
of- the offender, because such acts were deemed intonsistent vith their avowed princples. Such acts go to take
the life of a man without trial by jury-to convict him
of personal offences in his absence, against a maxim of the
law. . These obstacles did not exist in so stronig a degree
inproceedingsin rcn,which ended in punishment byloss of
property. Fiscal considerations then had nothing more
to do with this subject than they haie 'with all other cases
o1 crimes punished by forfeiture 'or pecuniary multrThey are but.consequezice, of the crime, not objects of the
law, The 2d. section of thelast act which punishes treasonable aqs betoeen the 19th of April, 1775, when the civil
.war first broke Qut, *and the 4th of Oct. 1776, when the
treason act passed, it was said,.was pariticularly subject to
this objectioii ; for it was urged, as this related to a peri6d
Priorto the establishment of the new government; and
before there was - treason act, there could'be .no other
ground for the provision. I conceive the learned'gen-.
tleman -equly"mistaken in. this suggestion.. It is well
known in New-Yersey that government did not cease between these days. The people governed themselves in
their primitive capacity by committees of' safety in each
county; and by a provincial congress. This -congress did,
in fact, pass an ordinance of treason soon after the war
commenced, cont'ining the same provisions with the treason ict of 4th Oct. 1776; This section then referred to
this notorious fact, and wa designed to give the sanction
of the legislature to the provisions of that ordinance.And both this ordinance and this section of the act, contained iithem nothing more thato the principle acted on
throughout the war, that American.s could at'-no Period
legally act against this country, but were bound to'takeits part from the first hour the sword wis drawn. 'What
then is the fair result of all these provisions ? We see an
old government dissolved and a new one created. The
peoplelt first, and their representatives aftervards, de-

FEBRUARY, 1804.
6are by law all men abidingwithin their territory, subjects M'XLvmAUi
V.
government. They pass treasofi acts, define
the new and
of
allegiance,
enforce its duties by the accustomed aLz.
tions of the law. These laws operated on D. 'C. He wai
in abider vNithin their territory. They claim him as a
subject, and punish him for refusing to yield obedience.
Shall, then, this same government, which with a voice of
thunder proclaimed him a subject aiid punished him as
Qnd, .orshall an individual under its laws now say to him,
you are an alien? Shall he be declared a subject'to punish
him and an alien to punish him? A subject to .takeall. he
has, and an alien to prevent his acquiring any 'infuture .
Shall he'be made poor by citizenship, and be kept poorfor
want of it P No, r" apprehend not. The goernment,.
and all claiming through its laws, are estopped to say he is
an alien, and. no act of his, as I shall directly shew, would
alter his condition. The legislature never meant to adopt
such inconsisteni and repugnapt principles. They carried
through their work correctly on their bwn pIem, It is by
pursuing mow an opposite one on a -scheme of prikate interest that the incongruity is prodticed, They had aright
to declare the colonists members of the new government
on the clear republican principle that the minority must.
yieldto ithe majority. But they had no intention of going
further by'illegallytaking from them their birth-right-their
capacity to inherit lands. These laWs also destroy at once
the, fanciful doctrine of election in case *ofcivil wars. It
may, for aught I know, be just enough to give men a free
election in su'ch cases.to adhere to the 61d,-r t"bjoin the
new government. Rut then was the time 'to Dlavt acted
on this magnanimous principle. The legtdlhure abjured
it; they declared by their treason act that no, YffAeyman
had an election-to join against his country.
The learned counsel se6med to yield to the force of this
conclusion so far as respected the period fxom the commencement of the war to the treaty of peace ; but at the
*ra of the peace he-says, Mr. . had a right to continue a
British subject, which he did, and o nas become an alien.
But we have shewn him to have once been a.sUb)ecr of the
state of New-yersey by their own concession; that is to
say,' front the ecornmencemient of the war t6 the treaty of
1783. This, then, qpon. to me the last point I propose
to treat.

316

SUPIlEME COURT U. S.

3dly. D..C. having onde been.a subject of New-Jersey,
it was not in his power, without the concurrence of NewSE ." Jersey, expressed by legislative act, to become an alien.
-, And if he.possessed the pwe' h6 never exercised it.,

MILV.&I2
. V.
s~~m

Tfie modirn theory of expatriation has been relied onnay, our adversaries- seem to place their cause on it-a
narrowpoint indeed whereon, in acommnon law court, to defend an ejectment! tnd what becomes of it-when we.reflect that the common law expressly pr6hibits this supposed
right of exopatriation-thatthe constitution of New-.e sey expressly adopts this comimon law, and that the legislature have, -by partcu4lract, enacted and.incorporated into
their system the common law doctrine of allegianCe?..
L- 13y the common law, expatriation -is not bare!7 not
permitted, but it is distinctly pfohibited. The maximi of
thaf law is nemo fotest exuere atriam.. By the.com on
law, allegianceis perp.ettal. Bracton, Cole, ifale, Foster, andBlackstone consider this as.a fundamental principle of that-law. Mr. Swufft, I vol..L. C. 164, very proper. .
ly observes, that this is ithe law of such of iti -.United
States g ha e adopted the common law without altering
this principle.
2. The 22d section of the constitutioi- of. ew.-Jtrse r
adopts the common law of England generally, except such
parts as are inconsistent With the rights andpriviges of
that charter. The gentlemen have relied on this exception ; and the only question must be, whether this doctrine
of the common law is inconsistent with-the rights and privileges ofthat constitution. Now; I amat aloss to discover,
how perpetualallegiance to the government estabtished-ix
.New-_ersey under the authoiity of the people, can be in.
consistent with the rights of that charter 'which created
and set in motion that very gove;nment. What is the
true meaning of this exception, in the'22d section ? what
are the rights secured by tha charter .? The principal are,
-a republican form of government; legislative council and
-general assemblv; 'annual election; freedom of conscience
in matters of religion; trial by jury,.&c. These are the
rights alluded to ; and it is easy to hee that all those parts
of the -common law which grow out" of the monarchy of
England were inconsistent with these- rights. But not so
.is that principle which would -transfer the sacred. duty of

FEBRUARY,. 1lQ4.-

317

allegiance, formerly due to the 1ing, with equal fbrce and 9'ILvAz
Coxzs Li.s
effect to the new sovereign, the people themselves.
It was further stated that the preamble of the constitution asserts fundamental principles which are inconsistent
with this common law notion of allegi nce: Such as that
all power is derived from the people--that protection and

allegiance are reciprocal-that when a prince violates- the
fundamental laws he abdicates and dissolves the government, and remits the people to their' primitive rights.This is all very true; but it is equally true in England by
the common law as here: it leaves the doctrine of allegiance where it was; but on great occasic ns transfers the
duty of that allegiance from one man to another--or from
one form of government to another. These principles
were all recognized and acted upon in England m the revolution of 1688. But did that revolution change the doctrine of perpetual allegiance ? No! it transferred it from
James to William, but the law remained the same. The
same turn was* attempted -to be given to this event in
Zk2'DonalPs case, Poster, C. L. 60, but it was repelled by
the court, not only as unfounded in law, but even as bringng a reproachon that glorious revolution. Then not being vithin the exception, it stands 'on the broad basis of
the common law, which the people of New-Jersey.have
thought proper to adopt, and which, I trust, they wir not
be soon persuaded to throw away.
3. But the common law.doctrine of allegiance has been
expressly enacted into our code by th6 legislature of NewJerbey. Wilsons N. J. L. 4. The treason act adopts the'
common law definition and division of allegiance in its very -language and terms: " whereas, all persons abiding
within this state, &c. do owe allegiance to the government
of this state and are to be deemed members thereof," and
" all persons passing through, &c. owe temporary allegiance." Here then we have an exact common law description of permanent and local allegiance. Afterwards the
act proceeds to define.the crime of treason, in which it

pursues the provisions and uses the very words (mutatis
mutandis) of the statute of Edward 3d. Now, what is the
conclusion .'The people, in their very constitution, adopt
the common law-the legislature take up the common law
idea and division of allegiance, and pursue even the English, statute of treasons as far as itwas in. any manner ap-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
KIftVAXNES

zV.

'

plioable. The common law import of the term allegiance
being settled, it follows conclusively that the words must
. receive the same interpretation when introduced into the
statute. That common law expressions must receive the
common law exposition, is too clear to admit of doubt.
Hence, we find that the advocates of the doctrine of expatriation have endeavoured, by all means, to get rid of them.
It is iiatter of curiosity to look into 3 Dallas, 141, to see
the pains the learned gentlemeni who then first broached
this doctrine, took to get rid of expressions having a fixed
meaning by the common law. The terms allegiance and
subject were thought to contain sounds discordant to the
ears of a freeman: Obedience and citizenship were to be
substituted. Allegiance was feudal--it denoted only the
submission of a slave to his master. It was monarchicalunworthy a republican, who ought not to vwe allegiance
even to the people themselves-In short, it could not exist
in. a free country. The term subject was also disgrace.
flu: A subject must have a master; that master must.be
a tyrant, and of course the appellation was only ft for
slaves. But citizen was a name worthy of a freemany and
the true name by which a republicanwas to be knozwn. The
gentlemen shew their discretion in trying to get rid of
terms of known signification and import, and substitute
in their stead the most uncertain and vague. But, unfor.
tunately for the argument in this case, the plain men who
formed the constitution of New-Jersey were not carried
away by such refinements. They supposed (perhaps
weakly) that allegiance might be due to the people as well
as to the king, and that even a republicanmight be called,
without offence, a subject, provided his master was the:
law. Therefore, they adopted these terms of known signification; and these expressions must be explained according to'their known and established legal import at the
commonlaw. But even if the common law and the constitution and law of New-Jersey did admit this idea of expatriation, it might be safely contended that Daniel Coxe never exercised the supposed right. An act of this kind to
work such important consequences should be unequivocal
and certainly intended by the person to produce the effect.
If it might exist consistently with the continuance of his
former connections it shall not be construed to dissolve
them. Now, his removal to England and remaining there
ever since, is no act of expatriation. Having traded as a
British merchant is not inconsistent with our position.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
it has been determined in Westminster-Hall that a British MILVAZNZ
r.
subject naturalized here, is an American merchant within
the treaty of 1794, and may, as such, trade to the East-In. CoxE's Lzs.
dies against the charter to that company. Neither can
the fact of receiving compensation from the British government for losses during the war, be considered as'an expatriation. That was common to all the royalists; yet
those who returned have always been received as subjects
on taking the oaths of allegiance. Much less can the circumstance of his calling himself a British subject alter his
condition. If he had called himself an American citizen
without right it would not make him such; so if he is really a subject of New-Jersey in the contemplation of the
law of the state, his calling himself a subject of GreatBritain would not make him an alien to New-Jersey. But
Mr. Coxe was correct in calling himself so; he was born
such and is such ; but the state of New-Jersey, by declar.
ing him a subject, and punishing him as such, have also taken him as their subject; and by law have only done what
is commonly produced by the act of the party ; that is to
sa)r, created a kind of double allegiance; a matter which
happens here every day in the case of the naturalized En,glishmen.
The course I have pursued relieves me from the task of
following the gentlemen through the general research they
have made to support the right of expatriation. If the
common law prohibits it; if the people of New-Jersey
have adopted that common law, and the legislature enacted its provisions, it matters little what foreign jurists think
of this question.
I will make but a few very general remarks.
1st. If the known maxims of the common law are to be
disregarded and titles to land tested by the reasoning of
modern writers, and by general principles of abstract right,
the learned counsel against us have overlooked a very important point. They should have examined their own objection and tried-how that would comport with the theory
of modern times. The reasons on which the disability of
an alien to hold lands is founded may be truly said to be
more unsatisfactory than those on which the doctrine of
-allegiance is founded ; and the policy of the United States,
with such an immense wilderness to subdue, seems to

SUPREME COURT U; S.
XcqLVAim

,, v.

point out the proprietyof inviting'forigners, by all the inducements which a dear right to hold lands brings with
.it, to populate that wilderness. The reasons for the ex~ clusion were partly feudal, and all such have ceased to exist with that system; and partly olttia, -and those rendered by my lord Co.e are of little weight, and doubtful
policy, since the extension of trade and the increase of money; But the gentlemen afereducedto the necessity again
of being inconsistent; they adhere withinflexibility to one
maxim to exclude our. title, and repudiate "anothr.more
important, clear, and settled, to effect the same purpose.
2d. If this thing called expatriation really exists as a
right, it can only be founded on mutual consent. Not only the party who Oives up his allegiance but the state must
accede to it. This public consent can be expressed only.
in one way by law: Hence it follows that ifthe right,
strictly speaking, exists, it must be dormant until-put in
motion by a law. This-law will regulate the forms, settle the terms, and determine the consequences of expatriation. As it is now contended for, it is without any such
restrictions. A man may 'shake off his allegiance one
year and put it on again the next; it may go and come
as often as whim and caprice shall dictate. The state of
New-Jersey have never recognized by law this right ;
much less have they regulated it: until they have, it must
remain useless and inoperative. No state in the union
but Virginia has passed an act recognizing and regulating
the right of expatriation.
3d. and lastly. The treaties between the United States
and Great-Britain which have also been used against us,
so far from aiding the geitlemen are against them. That
of 1783, stipulates that no future loss shall happen on account of the part taken by those in the situation of Mr.
Coxe, during thewar. But if his right to inherit lands is
taken from him for that reason, he has sustainedafitture
loss. The only fair and liberal construction of this treaty
is, that the royalists were by it restored to all rights which
they posscssed before, not actually divested and gone at
the time of that treaty. The treaty of .1794 recognizes
the idea that the antenati might hold lands and stipulates
that their heirs may do the same. Both together, we appreh.nd, fully protect the right of Mr. Coxe. It could not
be denied but that if Ifiss Coxe, the intestate, had bcqn her-

FEBRUARY, 1804.

321

self a British subject, that Mr. Coxe inigh., withiti the M'ZW Ns.
v
very letter of that treaty, have claimed as her heir: It1Coxit'&.LE$
,rwould be harsh indeed, to put him ii2 a 'worse condition,
because ske was a subject. On the whol4 it is submitted
that the.iudgment below ought to be affirmed.

Ingersoll in reply.. The doctrines advanced *uponthe
present occasion are, to me, novel, strange, and alarming.
That the postnati, against whom we have no cause of
complaint, should be excluded, while the antenati are preferred who injured us. That the French who aided us are
called aliens, while the British 19yalist refugee may 1old
lands as a citizen, is a language I do -not understand. If
the law is so, it is strange, and I must abandon an idea I
have always cherished, that the rues of law were founded
in sound sense.
"DanielCoxe being mpre than twenty-one years of age.
at the commencement of the revblution, adheres uniformly to the British interest in attempting to reduce the United States to submission to British claims. The attempt
failing, at the conclusion, of the war he quits this country,
settles in England, claims to be a British subject, and is
so acknowledged by that government from 1777, to 1805.
In 1802, a relative dies in New-Jerseyto whom'Daniel Coxe is next of blood, and claims to succeed by right
of descent as an American citizen. The n~xt of blood,
who is a citizen of the United States, excepts to him as an
alien, and claims in her own right.
I make two questions in this cause.
1. Did DanielCoxe expatriate himself? This question.
is naturally subdivided into two others; vfz. Had he a
right so to do ? and has he exercised that right?
2. Did such expatriation incur the disability of afienage ? and is he thereby prevented from taking lands by
descent in the United States ?
I ask, (and it is a question of magnitude) could Danid
Coxee,.and has he expatriated himself and become.a subject
of the king of Great Britain ?

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Si'f1,vA12zT

v.

This is a new'case in the history of nations, to which
the little case of Calvin, the Scotchman, bears no propor-

Coxz'sL.s- tion.

The revolution which dismembered the mighty empire
of Britain, is a subject of curious, of interesting-and as
introductory- on this occasion-of profitable coritemplation. Its leading principle was the reverse of what has
been stated by the opposite counsel, or I am ignorant of
its origin and design.
I insist that when the authority of the mother country,
as it was called, was rejected, the inhabitants of the former colonies were so fir in a state of nature, that each
man was at liberty to choose his side-remain a subject,
or become a-citizen. This interval of election continued
untilnew systens of government were formed, adopted,
and organized, after which period, (not previously) residence was an implied assent to share the fortunes and
the destinies of the United States. In-Pennsylvania the
rulewas practically- exemplified in the memorable case of
Chapman, the British light-horseman, charged witli treason. 1 Dal. 53.
When gov.ernment is regularly established, a majority
with propriety governs the minority; to institute it'legally, individualassent is necessary, or it deserves the name
of usurpation, and ought to be execrated as tyranny. 1
Wilson's 'wor s, 316, 317.
New-Jersey proceeds in a temperate, mild and correct
course. The constitution of the 2d of July, 1776, offers
the right of suffrage without imposing its exercise on all
the inhabitants. Constitution of New- 7ersey, section 2,
3, 4, 18.
In perfect conformity to the principle for which I contend, tteason could not be committed, even by joining an
invadi g army, until after the 4th of October, 1776, Wilson's ,ew-yersey Laws, p. 4. The period is, in effect,
extended by the provisions of the act of the 5th of June,
1777, offering te i ,tre to the rights of freemen all who"
wou,!, returu and1 ,. -ply with certain conditions by the
1st"

.ust,

thei. iext.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
In 1777, DanielCoxe joins the enemy as a fugitive and .)d'LVAIWZ
V.
offender; and in Augast of the same year, an inquisition
is held to forfeit his real estate for treason supposed to be ¢oZ'S Lip
committed about the 9th of April prt -eding, and judg.
ment was rendered thereon in Februa"1 , .779.
The counsel opposed to us exultingly say DanielCoxc
is by this means recognized as a citizen', charged with
the crimes incident to that character only, and entitled
in return to the privilege of holding land, and cite authorities in support of the position..B1. Com. 371.
2 Bi. Com. 249. •
We admit that he could tahe lands;--so mighf an alien
-but he could not hold in either capacity. In high
treason the forfeiture of lands accrues not from the
time of conviction, but from'the date of the offence.
If the right of election had-passed, the right of expa.
triation succeeded.
I am told at the commencement of the argument that
I misunderstand and misapply terms, and consider as
synonimous, what are entirely distinct, if not of opposite
meaning, Expatriaiion and Emigration. That the last
is of natural right, the former of municipal regulation.
That emigration cannot be restrained, but expatriation
requires the consent of the government. Emigration only suspends the activity of allegiance ; expatriation dissolves it, precludes from taking lands, and renders the
issue aliens.
This suggestion accords perfectly well with the views
of my learned antagonist; but does he shew any authority in support of his explanation ? None-it is the
offspring of his own creative imagination.
Is it credible that the conventions of Pennsylvania,
Kentucky, and Vermont thought it necessary to restrain
their legislatures from preventing temporary absences
of their citizens retaining their political connections
within their respective states ?

SUPREME COURT U. S.
A train of reasoning is unnecessary on this point; -1
1 Wilson's
Coxz's Lzs.
2. Appenpart
1.
vol,
Blachstone,
ler's
Tuc
311.
worhs,
szr
F:a a ftate the right to prohibit the emdix, .96.
k
igra ion of its members-? May a citizen dissolve the
connectibn between him and his country? "Judge Tucker
considers expatriation and emigration of the same import; In Judge Wilson's works the word expatriation
is not used in the whole lecture. The 9th article and
25th section of the constitution of Pennsylvania is introduced, and the whole course of argument shows the
word emigrationis to be understood as co-extensive with
expatriation.
W4qLViNZ.

V.

find the text and the comment together.

Taking the word emigrationthen in its most extensive
sense, isthe right of expatriation, as has been repre.
sented, the mere Whim of modern, fanciful, theoretical writers ?-I say it is as ancient as the society of
man.
It is only by establishing the converse of the proposition,.the common law idea that the natural born subject
of one prince cannot, by sweating allegiance to another,
or by any other act, discharge himself from his allegian~e to the former, that the principle of emigration can
be made a matter of doubt. 1 Tuck. B!. part2d. Appendix, p. 90, I deny that this common law principle is foinded in, or consonant to the divine law, the
law of nature, the law of tiations, or the, constitution of
the state of New-Jersey, The bible is the most vene-.
rable book of antiquity; there we find expatriation practised, approved, and never 'estrained.- The family of
Yacob became subjects to the Egyptian monarch. Moses
abandoned Egypt, his native land, and David left Saul,
his prince.
The law of nature, abstractedly considered, knows
neither prince nor subject. From this source, therefore, the common law priniciple cannot be.derived..
Particular nations have prohibited their people from
migrating to another country, but the prohibition did
not arise from thd practice of nationis towards each
other. At Athens, after a man examined the laws of

FEBRUARY, 18o..
the republic, if he did not approve of them, he was at
libertt to quit the country with his effects. By the constitutibn of the Roman commonwealth, nro citizen could
be forced to leave it, or not to leave it, when made a
member of another which he preferred. Even under
the emperors, as long as any remains of liberty continued, it was a rule that each one might chuse the state
of which he wishedto be a subject or citizen. Where
did the Romans get their laws? From the Grecians.
Where did the Grecians get their laws? From the
eastern nations-the Aborigines' of the earth. The
right of expatriation, therefore, as far as we can trace
it, has been recognized in the most remote antiquity.
Among modern nations the practice is various; the
Muscovites forbid it; in Switzerland it is permitted:
some princes consider their subjects as riches-as flocks
and herds, and their edicts correspond to these false
notions. Vattel b. 1,- c. 19, §225. Consult jurists, Grotius, Pufendorjf, Burlamaqui, attel, they are.of, opin.
ion, that every man has a natural right to migrate, unless
restrained by laws, and that thesc" cannot restrain the
i ight but under special circumstances, and to a limited
degreei. The strong and masculine -understanding of
Mr. Loce revolted at the illiberal ideas of English jurisprudence in this particular; he examined the right
claimed to prohibit emigration, and declares that exampies of emigration are frequent in history profane and
sacred, and that it has been.the practice from the begining of the world to the time he wrote. Wychefort has
i section, the title of which is, the prince may employ
foreigners in his embassies, even in their own country.
Wyclefort, p. 116, 119. After a narrative ii which he
shows, that this had been the practice of Europe, he
proceeds to consider its propriety, which he infers from
the right of expatriation. Mr. Rawle has read as
cited, that pasgage to which Mr. Tilghman did not
refer, and omitted to answer what Mr. Tilghman did
zead.
Lastly the constitution of Ne'w.ersey, is founded on
sentiments which repel the idea of perpetual allegiance,
and imply and include the right of expatriation.
lkhatever diversity there may have been in the sen-

MILVA iN

v. Lis.
Coxz's
sL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
timents of writers, and in the laws and practices of
states on the subject of emigration in general, there
Coxr's LEs.
has been a doubt in this country, but that when a
never
S
Scivil war takes place, each member of the society has
a right to choose his side.
M'ILvAz -r

V.

The first view we have of Nerv-.Yersey and Daniel
Coxe, is in a state of enmity, the state treating him as
a'refugee; Daniel Coxe declaring himself a British sub.
ject, acting in concert with an invading army.
Trace the circumstances distinctly, and we shall find
the right of election between: the two governments restored to him, and that he expatriates himself with the
consent of, ifliot propelled thereto by the state of New7ersey.
On the 11th of December "17?8, the legislature of
Nr.w-Jeisey pased an act whereby they disfranchise
all persons who were of the character and had pursued
the conduct of Daniel Coxe.. At the treaty of peace,
his treasbo was .caiiielled, forgiven, buried in oblivion,
dr'at least remembered only to prevent restitution of
'his forfeited estates. The disfranchising act continued
in full operation, unrepealed, and unaffected by the restoration of harmony between-the two countries. Under these circumstances he had his choice-; he might
have "returned to New-Jersey, or to any other state.
The principles of the constitution justified him in becbming a British subject, within the rules of expatriation, as stated by the opposite counsel. That he made
his choice is proved by unequivocal evidence, that leaves
no room for doubt or controversy as to the fact.
Mr. kawle has'himself enumerated eight heads, under
whichthe evidence of his expatriatinghimself, and becoming a British subject may be classed. 1. Joining
the British army in 1777. 2.- Voluntary .residence
with them at Philadelphia and New-York. 3. Holding civil offices under the king, 4. Trading as a
British merchant.- 5. Holding liands as a trustee. 6.
Receiving pensions*and- rewards as a British subject.
7. D gsciibing himself as such. 8. Having never taken an oath of allegiance to the state of New-Jersey.

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
A gase was cited (Wilon v. -fNarryat, 1 Bos. & Pu.
430) to shew that the exercise of trade as a citizen of
one country, is compatible 'with-a continuance of alleglance to another. 1t. was the case of 7ohn Collet,
who ivas under the supposed tie not only of permanent,
but perpetual allegiance from birth. But Daniel Coxe
was not born in the allegiance of the state of NewYersey, nor ever voliantarily took upon himself that obligation. The principle of that decision is consonant
to British ideas, but in direct hostility with those which
led to the .Americat revolution, gave birth to our constitutions, and without which our brightest patriots
were rebels.
.It is impossible- to doubt from what appears on the
record, that he is under repeated positive oaths of allegiance to the king of Great Britain. According to the'
sound reasoning of Wyckefort, these were sufficient to
sever the strongest connection between the United
States and a citizen, much more such a relation as was
subsisting (if any) between the state of New-Jersey
and Daiiel"Coxe; involuntary, disclaimed, and- incon.
sistent with the duties imposed upon him by his engagements to another country.
%
The naturalizationlaw of congress is full proof that
in the estimation of the people of the United States,
an oath of allegiance to one country is an expatriation
from a former; and that whoever becomes a citizen
here, ceases ipsofacto, to be a subject elsewhere. If
this is not the meaning of our law, we encourage the.
unhappy victims to sacrifice themselves at the shrine of
perjury. Characters, such as Mr. Coxe are considered
by the same law, as expatriated,as aliens, and being no
longer citizens; he having been attainted of treason by
the state of Pennsylvania in the year 1778.
By the naturalization act of April 14th, 1802, 6 vol
Laws of United States, p. 74, 80, § 4, attainted loyalisi,
and such as have been legally. bnvicted of havingjoined the army of Great Britain during the late war,. cannot be naturalized without theiconsent of the legislature of the state, in which such persons were proscribed. All the courts of the United States, therefore.

M'ILvAi Z

T.

OOZs

LzP.

.825

SUPREME. COURT .U. S.

I'vA2--- codld not naturalize DanielCoxe, without the consent

coe se Ls
.

sZr_

of tho statps of New-Jersey and Pennsylvania, in both
of which he has been proocribed.
From all these considerations, it' is inferred ti..'.
Daniel Coxe did. expatriate himself; that he had. a right
s6 to do ;-that he has legally exercised that rigit, atid
."a'thereby become a Briiish subject, and is not .an
American citizen. .
. Did such expatriation induce the disability of alienage, and is DanielCoxe thereby incapacitated from taking lands in. the United .States by "descent?
W.e are charged with inconsistency, that while we
endeavour to exclide the liberal sentiments of the common law s applied to antenati, we insist on. the rigid
Siule.of the sa.9 law, in preyenting aliens from holding
landsinf the United States. •
This charge will be effectually repelled by a single
pagsage, fromiaii. ath6rity •it6d by the opposite coun.
el>for a different purp.oae. 1 Tuc er's .31. pBart 2d.
p. "Wi.. If an iliefcould acquire a permanent property in lands, he. must owe an allegiance, equally permanent with .that. property, -to the king of England, inconsist t- p ,haps with .former allegiance; ad productive"' Qther inconveniences. By the civil

law,. a contract for land by an alien is void. The. forfeiture to the prince is peculiar to England, or at
least to countries where the feudal system has prevailqd.
I Bi. Con. 371. Cod. 1. 11, tit. 55.
Was.it from deference to the common law, that the
objections urged against the treaty of London were,

that it paved the way for British influence, by enabling

aliens of that country to-hold lands in the United
States.?

.'If the natural and primitive allegiance may be put of
without the consent or concurrent act of the prince to
wfiom it was fist due, expatriation must induce alienage.
Virginia has recognized the right, and considers the

FEBRUARY, 18Q4s
p~rson who has exercised it; as no longer a citizen.
2'ich. B1. PartA2P. 360, 361.

329
1

If expatriation be a right when legally exercise'd, it
must induce alienage, and the revolution is a case i
point, to show that a man is not obliged to continue the
subject of that'prince under whose domnmi6n he: was
born; otherwise, contrary to a position contended for
by:Mr. Rawle, we must admit that America was not
independent until the kipgof Great 'Britain acknowv
ledged her inaependpce- an that-it Was-th
e consequence of, alid not antecedent. to, the tr.eat of peace.
Expatriation is substan.ially a putting off dr change
of allegiance. As ior the removal from on. dountry to
another, it is a mere immaterial, accidental circumstance; It will be agreed that if it can be done in the
country, it can by,going out of the, country.
Nations may shake off their allegiance, says. Mr.
Rawle, but individuals may not. Grotius said just the
contrary ; and surely, as Judge Tucher obserres, if al1
mi ghtj any one-might, with the same reason.
Granting for a'moment that the common law of England is as barbarous as the case of Z7f'Ifonald, ('Foster
59) w6uld induce us to suppose, how has it been tran.
slated to the United States, to be in active operation,
slandering the prlnciples of-our revolution. I consider
the case of Talhot v. 7anso .as estaJishing the propo.
sition that expatriation was iiAht, the fair exercise of
which produced alienage w'lhits respective rights and
clisabilities.-3 Dail. 133i 152, 164..
Of Hamilton.andEden I know nothing. Lord Fairfa-;: case ls.nt in print, but from what fell from his
honor Judge -Wahingion, I presume it went pon similar grounds to that of Calvin. I throw into -the opposite
scale, as at least aft equal weight, the decision in the
case of the 0thrining Amety, where expatriation was
expressly recognized, and as operating the extingush.
ment of.the previous character cf citizen of the United
States. It is in point as to both particulars.Tt

MILVAIN.-

Coitz's Lx&
SZE.

330
MNtVA1RZ

CoxiSDCo
%-iw
m
.'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

I conceive the general rule, at. least so -far as it is
necessary inthe instance of Daniel Coxe, is fully estab.
li.hed, an4 that expatiat'on is a right, which, when fair.

y exercised, changes.the allegiance; and that it has

been so exercised, by which he ceased to be an Ameri-

can .citizen, becanie an alien, and .as such incapable of
holding lands. by purchase, or takng by consent,
unless there- e an exception out of the rule in his favor,
as an antenatus.
The burdeli of the argument devolves upon our an.
tagonifts. Teet them show when, and by what means,
the exception in favor of the antenatus, derived from
the principle of perpetual allegiance by birth, has been
adopted among us.
Because, say he .counsel for the defendant in error,
the constitution of New;-Jersey adopted the common
law, of which this is a part,' therefore the rule is imperative on this occasion. What! all the common law of
England ? that. 'which respects the royal prerogativei
the hierarchy, the idea that allegiance is personal to
the king from the subject, not duty on the part of the
citizen to the state.
Thb common law of England, say Judge Tuche"
and judge Wikon, was only so far adopted in the states,
as it-as proper and appldable to the situatii' and the
circxilstances of the colonies; and was difterient in difM
fireik colonies.
-

Te adoption by New-Jersey is guardedly expressed.
"The commion, and statute law of EngLmnd, as have,
"been heretofore pritctised ij 'this colony," not repug.
"nant to the rights cbniai bn 1ii this charter, shall be
"in force."Two questionis arlse for the consideration of the op.
posit. counsel. Was the principle.for-which-they cont nd "inpreviods practice in New-jersey "Is it not
reDunant to the urivileges contained in that charter?.
A double task devolve's on our opponents. They
must shew that what they ask, was in practice in the

FEBRtUARY, 1So4.

331

colony of New-Jersey before the formation of the consti. MqLAum

tuioft.

This is impossible; the case could not occur;*Cokes Li.

it tould not, in the nature of things, be in cbntempla-.
tion of the convention. The expression had reference
to the mere detail of municipal law. Here then our
antagonist7s must fail.
Can they succeed bettei in the other part of the propo-

sition ? Is not a claim, founded on the idea of perpetual
allegiance by birth, repugnant to the rights and privileges
contained in that charter?

They say, on the contrary, that allegiance and protection are reciprocal ties, and claim, as a right and priVilege,
to refuse the former when the latter is withdfawn.:
Three, out of seventeen states, says Mr. Rawle, have
declared emigration a right not to be restrained-by the.
legislatures. I say' it -is the principle of the revolution ;
it pervades each and every constitution, without which the
whole proceeding is crime, rebellion, and treasoh.
If the common law, introduced through.the constitu.
tion, fails, what is the next prop by which it is attempted
to support a claim ii opposition to the language-of our revolution?
We hre told that the capacity, of British subjects to hold
lands in the United States is recognized by the.,treaties of
1783 and 194, and that surely -itwas not meutt to en.
courage them to purchase that we might escheat. This
part of the argument is introduced by a reference to Judge
Tucker for the distintion between aliens by birth and
aliens by election. 1 Tuck. B!. part 2, page 102, .s. 2.I acknowledge that Judge Tucker does state, that, by the
treaty of peace, the common-law principle that the antenad
of both countries wete natural born to both, and as suchp,
capable of holding, or inheriting, seems to be xevived.-As far as respects authority, I oppose to .Judge Tucker,
the Virginia assembl, who expressly declare that aiLpersons not being citizens of the United States are aliens. 1
Tuck. BI. part 2, page 55.

Judge Tucker founds him-

self, as to the common-law principle, upon Bracton and
Calvins case, not adverting to the difference in point f fact,
that the British who claim, as in tis instancet never were
in allegiance to our states.

332
M11 ,vAIS

V.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.*

Further, ho does not bbserve that the whole reasoning
isfounded upon the false hyp6thesis that allegiance by birth
is perpetual. He apknowledg.s that'by the declaration of
independeace the colonietsrbecbe a separate nation fr6m.
Great Britain ; yet, according to the laws of England
which we still retained,-thenatives of both couniries, 'bornbefore the separation, retained all the rights of birth. War
makes aliens enemies. They were 'enemies-then aliens.

With the New-Jersey convention I understand the mat,
ter differendy ; 'and that the law of England ceased until
revived; and was revived only as heretofore practised.
On this mistaken ground it is, as I shall ehdeavour to
shew, that he .infers 'that American natives were capable
of inheiiting lands inEngland, and the natives qf England
of iiherlting lands in America."
Ifthis doctrine is founded upon the idea of perpetual allegiance by birth, it must stand or fal 'with its principal.
Commentators, it is said,' often find in Homer, what
Hoiner never, thought.' It appears to me that the same
obsefvation applies to'the c6minientaries we have heard
upon the treaties-of-1783 and 1794.
Let it be recollected that congress on the 27th of November, 1777, earnestly tecommended it io'.the several
states to co?7lscate and rqake salt of "allthe real and personalfeite "ofsuch of their inhabitants, and'other pqrsofis,
4s had forfeited the same;
-The legislatures: did confiscate the Iands of entenatd as
escheated, and it was ,fever suggested to be a violation of
the conimoh-law'ofthe ld. ' order, however, to vest
the propettyin lafdsottan alien iri the commbn*ealth, of-,
ces of intitling, and' ibstructio werenrecessaiy in'some
states.

In some states acts of assembly declared that th estates of the persons proceeded against should be Vested
and adjudged to be in the atoal "possession of-the commonwialth without iny other office or-inquisition. .In
others, real property belonging to British subjects,. loy-lists, and others, had been only seque tered, not con.

FEBRUARY, 18o4r

83

£scated, -and the profits. appropriated duririg the war ;
the etate to wait the disposal of thelegislative provision
on the return of peace.- In some instance8 the lands of
loyalists and others had notbeen actually seizedand ta.
ken into the possession ofthe states'respecively where si¢!
tuated, and theref6re the forfeitures and confiscations"
were not considered as completed. In these several
ways real property remained to loyalists and "oth~rs
which was considered as not yet confiscated. This is
the ke y tO unlock the sedrets'of the provision in the
treaty.
I contend, therefore, that thej6th artile of .te treaty
of 3d September, 11183, as far as respects property, is
confined in its letter, spirii, and meaning, to the preservaion of estates owned antecedently to the war, which
had not been actually confiscated and seized*; and to
the consequences of an active part taken during that period.
This construction is perfectly warranted by the case
decided in Connecticut, (Xirby's'Reports) and by the
principles as laid down by that very eminent English
lawyer, Woodeson.
The distinction of antenatiand tostnati,the security
of future acquisition, or the operation of general princi.
ples arising from political situations not the penal conse.
quences of an active part taken in the war, were not then.
in contemplation.
Twelve millions of iich aliens allowed to purchase
lands in a country owned .by two or three millions of
people comparatively poor: would it rot have: been.
thought madness! I. conceive that this clause is precisely co-extensive asto its objects in.guardingagainst.injury,
to the person and to the property. It preserves from in-,
jury to their property the same persons who were to be
secured in their personal liberty.
In the first place, this comprehended many who were
considered as citizens of the United-States, but who had
committed crimes against their country.

MIvAiZn
v. Lis.
Cosa's

C

B

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILVAnT"

"L.

CQEz,

Was the property, to be restored to them at one mo,-

ment, says Mr. Rawle, ,for'the purpose of being taken
from them the next ?-By no means. The stipulations

k..y.'-..' extend to ptec!ude any.criminal proceedings for what
had been done during.the war. The effect of alienage
was left to considerations of policy. Our commission.
ers, I trust, would not have suffered any-interference by
the British on that head.
This article was intended to prevent punishment, not
tosectire reward. If the loyalist is put upon the same
footing as the ally in the war, he has io cause of con.

plaint.
. There must be no future loss ; no damage by reason
of 'the part which any have taken during the war. If is
not asked. If Daniel Coxe had fought under general
Washington and at the peace expatriated himself, and
become a British subject, the-rule for which we contend
would have been equally applicable. Many of thepeo.
ple came backl and were naturalized under acts of as.
sembly, aid of course hold their lands; such as Mr.
Gordqn'in Pennsylvania, and others.
The construction of the treaty attempted by our op.
ponents, can only be maintained by reference to the
common law doctrine, that natives of Great Britain
were constructively born in America.
The 5th article assists in the construction of the 6th,
and is recommendatory where the confiscation laws had
been actually carried into effeci. The 9th article, of the
treaty of the 19th of November, 1794'; is in perfect unison with the ideas I submitted to the consideration of
the court. Different ideas had been entertained in the
ilifferent states as to the policy of permitting aliens to
hold lands. It was always k matter of state regulation.
In Pennsylvania they might purchase ;-now ey may
take by descent.
The treaty, therefore, so far from looking to future
acquisitiowr by purchase, is confined to those who nown
hold.

FEBRUARY, -18I4.

3

It is observable that Judge Tucker does not express MILvA1Xz
himself decidedly. He uses the qualified and guarded Coxz's LE
r
expression that the treaty seems. to have revived the
sz".
common law principle that the antenatiof both countries were natural born to both. He qualifies his argument still further, by saying,, British subjects born.since
the separation are aliens ; but such of them as were borin
before the definitive' treaty of peace took place, seem to
be entitled to the benefits thereof, so far as they had, or
might be presumed to h ave, any interest in lands in the
United States. All others appear to be aliens in the
strictest sense of the word, except as their cases may
have been remedied by the late treaty of the 19th Nov.
1794.
DanielCoxe had no interest in lands in the United
States, and could not be presumed to have, on the.3d
of September, 1783.
It is curious to observe the unreasonable consequen-.
ces to which this doctrine of antenatus leads.
If the loyalist died and left an unoffending infant, his
lands escheat.
If he leaves an antenatus who had waged war against
us, he 'succeeds to the possession.
Say with Judge. Tucke" that under the equity of the
treaty of peace, giving it the most liberal construction,
all rights of British subjects, actually vested, not divested, were protected ; and that when such rightsrelate
to lands, the persons having such right, if not then citizens, had their whole life -time to become citizens;
which, if they neglected to do, their lands at their deaths
would be equally subject to escheat as those of any alien
naturalized, and dying without heirs other than aliens.
How is this reconcileable with his doctrine of antenati
being entitled to purchase, take by descent, and every
other mode of acquisition? Or, with his argument that
the common law principle from which this.doctrine of
antenati flows, that of perpetual allegiance by birth, has
never been translated as a part of the common law into
the United States ? How can he reconcile it to his zcn.

"

sse
WXLV.AiUrs

Cox'.L
\can

SUPREME: COURT U. S.

sure and strictures upon the deteimination of 7udge
E wsworth in. Wiliams's casee? He himself acknowledges
BL
that after the 28th of October, 1795, ng. British subject
purchase lands within the United States, so as to
be protected by that treaty.
If once this" whimsical doctrine of antenatus be admitted it will give rise to an infinity of. perpleking
questions.
An attainted loyalist, if he retains his citizenship may
ieturn and be immediately eligible as a member of the
hg'use .of representatives or the senate. After 14 years
residence, though he ,cannot be naturalized without the
consent of the state in *hich he was proscribed, .yet he
may be president of the-United States.
I inter from althesc'considerations that the expatriaton. of Daniel Qoxe induced the forfeiture of alienage,
and that he is thereby precluded from taking lands by
descent in the inited States of America.*
_
Cur. ad. vult.

ADAMS, qui tam, v. WOODS.
AnAS
V.

Woons.
Lopinions
The act of

THIS was a.case certified from the circuit court of the
United States for the Massachusetts district, in which the
of the judges of that court were opposed.

Soth JPr'
It'Was an action'of debt for the pen.alty of 2000 dollars,
90, limitug tinder the 2d section of the act ing
of congress of 22dof-March,
r4tecutioo
on the save trade from
tates, extends ,the United States to an.y foreign pace or country."
as
well created
to pen- ol.. 3,. p. 22.
altie
after, as before
that act, and to
The words of the' act are, " shall forfeit and pa3 the
actions of debt " sum of two thousand- dollars ; one moiety. thereof to the
as well as to n- use of the United States, and the other moiety thereof
fonations
and "to the use of him or her who who
shall sue for and proseindictments.
.
"cute the same."
-Thecase of ,M' lcaine v. Cox's Lesseeby mistake dated Febrary
1804, was the first case decided in February Term, 1805.

