242

Anis
"..

Woo-03.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"Thecase inCunanghami's
reported in I .alh. and 5 Nod.
and seetfts to be founded on the p.eculiar phraseology of
the statute ot The .21 of Vamea- 1. directing Informations
to be filed inthe coutity in which the offences were committed. That statute was expbunded to extend )nly to
oflnces, which at the time of its passage were punishaJIe by law. But the words of the act of congress plainly apply to all fines and forfeitures under any penal act,
whenever that act might pass. They are the stronger
because nt many Penal acts were at .that time in the

code,.

In expouiding this law, it deserves some considera.
tion, that if ft does not liinit actions of debt for penal.
ties, those actions might, in many cases, be biought at a'1y distance of time. This. would be utterly repugnant
to the genius of our laws. In'a c6uritry where not even
•treason can*be prosecuted after a lapse of three years, it
,oild scarc'ely be supposed that an individual.would re
-main.foreveir.liable to a pecupiary forfeiture.
Trhe court is of opinion that it be certiied to the circuit court for the district of Massachusetts, that the issue in law joined in thlo case, ought to be d&c.d in fayour of Ihe defendant.

TER
V..
HACKLY .

WINCHESTER v. HACKLEY,*
ERROR to the'circuit court forthe district of Virgi-

A creditoi up.
on open sc.

count who has .The dedaration was f6r monty paid and advancedtby.
assigned 144 the defendant in error for'the iase'ofthe plaintiff in error.
person, with
the assent of

Upon trial of the issue of noh assumpsit two hills of
the debtor; is exception were taken by the original defendant.- The
,Utoaptit verdict was, for kalntiff4155.dollars damazes.
action at law.

The first bill of exceptioft stated, thai the plaintiff bename against low bffered in evidence sundry "bthof exccange drawn
in his own

the debtor, for
theuse of the

assgnee; but

Present, MNar,ha, CZ4 &tudqg,-Patv.andWa:,ton,xWtic9.

FEBRUARY, -18o5

by to defendant upon the plaintift, to an amrunr. equat to WVIcHMs.
the bala ice demanded by the plaintif of the defendant.,-!
Aud ;o sevtra'accountscurrent between the defendant,
Hackley, and Cb. ,.k-w-.s q
and the mereatile firm of Rjihard 'S.
ofthe city of New-York ; of whkh the plaintiff and Seth -the debtor is
. the said
. .bills of e-change
. .setalloet
his
.sli
h clanm
B. Wiggiiitoi were .two; that
Were debited to the defendant in the sai accountss beig agait the asdue ;rom him to the gaid Richard S. Hackley, and Co. signee.
an that the said aceounts eon tained various other articles The defendant
cnnotosta
of debit a'nd credit to a considerable amount, commenced claim
for bad
day of debts made by
day of
and continued till theon the .
when 'the firm of RichardS. lachley was changed into the miscontrat of RichardS.. Hachley and Co. and concude4 on duct of the
-plaintiff'in
sell.
tn
.'day of
ing the defaa.
dant's goods as
* That in these accounts, the balance statea to be due factor-the
from the defendant, to the :said Richard S. Haciley, Iant1, t
is transferred, with the consent avggua"4an,
on the
day of
of the said RichardS. Hachley, to the said Richard S. debts. Bu.
llalcley and Co. and that the. account in which the sAid such miscon.
balance is so transferred to *the said RichardS. H chley, ductisproper.
and Co. and the formation of that firm, were co iiu- ed into, in a
nicated by the' said Richard S. ZacAley himself to the suit for that
defendant,. *befor- the institutioic of: this suit; amid purpose.
that the defendant thireafter, made to'the said RichardS. Hac/ley, and Co. several femittances in money
and commodities, towards the discharge (5f the said balance, and addressed to thein seVeral letters con~crning
the satne, which remittances and letters came to the hands
of ihe aid RichardS. Hacley, and Co. Whereupon the
defendant moved the court-to instruct the jury, that if the
balance aforesaid,' Was transferred as aforesid to Richard
S. Hlack ey and Co. it was not a subsisting debt from the
defendant to the plaintiff alone, at the commencemenit of
this suit. But the court (consisting of Marsiall,Ch.f. and
Griffit,district judge) overruled.the motion, being ofopinion that, though the debt was in equity transferred to
RichardS. Haclkyr andCo. yetthe suit was maintainable
fQr their benefit in the name of RichardS. Hachley. At
the same time the defendant was permitted to give m evidefice, any discounts which he might claim against Richard S. Ifack y, and Co.
-The second.bill of excepi is stated, that the plaintiff
to support his action, gavedn 4vidence suoWdy aceiunt.

z44
Wirevzs.
TEL

HACK-,E?.

SUPREME COURT V. S.

current between himself, and he defendant in which thoplainti hadcredited the defendant, as being in the plaintiff's hands for collectionfor the proceeds of a certain quanStity of~flour which he had sold for the defendant, but
had afterwards charged 'to the defendant several sums on
account of the alleged insolvency of some of the purchasers of -the'said flour. It also appeared, that in the ac.count current, and accounts of sales, the proceeds of sale
bf the said flour were stated to be outstanding, subject to
collection, and the plaintiff-did not undertake to guarantee
the debts.' Whereupon the defendant, in order to repel
that evidence, offered to prove that the sums so charged to
the defendant were lost by the inismanageinentandmisconduct,of the paintif in having made the sbles to persons
known by him to be unworthy of credit; but the court re.fusid to peinit'such proof to be made to the jury in this
action, being of opinion that such miscondu'ct was properly to be inquired into in a suit for that purpose.
This case1oeing submitted trithoutargument,4 he judvient Oas afirmed, with costs. "

R

v.

LAMAR
OTHRES.

.LY .RtILY; AtiPELLANT v. -LAMAR, BEALL,

AND SMITH, APPELLEES.

&

" THIS was an appeal by Reiy from a decree of.the cir-

Th inhabit. cuit court of'the district of -Columbia,' which dismissed
The
ant, of the cyis. his bill in equity with costs.
trict of Co.
umbia, by its . Th defendant, "Bea, sJme time in the year 1 '89 or
teates -790 had brought suit in the name of Lamar, for the use
of Virginia
of Beall, by *RobertSmith, his. attorney at law, against

and Mai7Iand, Reil, the appellant, upon a note for 400 dollars, and recesed to be coveredjudgment in the 'ener'al court of Maryland.
citizens of
thosie states

respectively. " The bill stated that during the pendency of that suit; the
By the insol, corpplainant Reily, supposing that. Smith was filly au-

ventlaw ofMa. th6rised to receive payrnent of the debt in any manner he
3d.
of
.theyshould think propert pold him a tract of 4600 acres of lidd
18a0,thechan. in the state of Georgia, for the sum of 1533 dollars, for
htdetadsm
ceflor of
Ma. the express purpose of discharging tht
debt and some
couian
ryiad
mot ald Chld others which Reily owed in ]3altifoiore.- That in settling
a Citizen of

with Smith for the purchase money of the land, the amount

