SUPREME" COURT U. S4
HEAD

& AMoaY
V.

sidered by the court that the judgment aforesaid be, for
this cause, reversed, and annulled, and that the cause be
remanded to the said circuit court to be again tried,

THE PRovyjDENcE ..xsu- with direction that the testimony, in the said record con-

IZANCE Coa- tamined, does not amount to evidence of a contract conPY
cluded between the parties, and that the defendants do
pay to the plaintiffs their costs.
LITTLE
ET AL.

LITTLE ET AL. v. BARREME ET AL.

V.
BARRI ME
,T AL.
SON

the 2d of December, 1799, the Danish brigantine

A commander FlyingFish, was capture.d, near the island of Hispaniola,
of a ship of by the United States frigates Boston and General Greene,
w~r of the Uusuially

upon suspicion of violating the act of Congress,
termed the non-intercourse lash, passed on the 9th of
February 1799, Vol. 4. p. 244 ; by the 1st section of
which it is enacted, "That from and after the first day
sident of the
of lfarch next no ship or vessel owned, hired or emUnitedStates,
acts at his pe- "ployed, wholly or in part, by any person resident
Ifthose " within the United States,-and which shall depart thereril.
" from, shall be allowed to proceed directly, or from
instructions
o lc
al' not strictly
warranted by "any intermediate port or place, to. aiy port or place
law he is an- 1,within the territory of the French republic, or the de" pendencies thereof, or to any place in the West-Indies,
swerable in
damages to
or elsewhere under the acknowledged government of
any person innited States, in
obeying his in.
structions
fromthe Pre-

jured by their " France, or shall be employed in any trafc or corn"4merce with or for any person, resident within the
execution.
The act of the "jurisdiction or under the authority of the French re9th of Febrja.
ry, 1799, did

public. And if any ship or vessel, in any voyage
not authorise "thereafter commencing, and before her return within'
the seizure up- " the UnitedStates, shall be voluntarily carried or sufon the high
seas of any

fered to proceed to any French port or place, as afore-

-essel sailing "said, or shall be employed as aforesaid, contrary to
from a French " the intent hereof, every such ship or vessel, together
port; and the "with her cargo, shall be forfeited; and shall accrue,
orders of the

President of "1the one half to the use of the United States, and the
" other half to the use of any person or persons, citizens
the United
for
"lof the-UnitedStates, who will inform and prosecute
State:
could
a
n
not ""S4besie,
s
suc a
." the same ; and shall be liable to be seized,
and may
uere, wheth. "be prosecuted and condemned, in any circuit or district
"court of the United States, which shall be holden wither probable
caue will - "in orffr the districtwhere the seizure shall be made."
cuse from
damages ?

FEBRUARY, 1804

171

And by the 5th gection it is enacted,,
T

hti

LITTLZ
ET AL.
V.

SThatit.shall be lawful for the P .-- lent of the Uni- BARFEME
" ted Stdtes, to give instructions to th, commanders of
T AL.
" the public armed ships of the United States, to -stop
CC And examine any ship or vessel of the United States
on the high sea, which there may be reason to susfect
"to be engaged in ai~y traffic or commerce contrary to
" the true tenor hereof'; and. if, upon'examination, it
'shall. appear tha t such ship or vessel is bound or sail"ing to any port or- place *vithin the territory of the
"Frenchrepubli'c, or her dependencies, contrary to the"intent of this act, it shall be the duty of the comman"der of such public armed vessel, to seize eVery such
"ship or vessel engaged in such. illicit commerce, and
"send the same to the nearest port in the United-States;
*"and every such ship or vessel, thus bound or sailing to
"any such port or place, shall, upon due proof -thereof,.
"be liable to the like penalties and forfeitures, as are
*"prov.ided in and by the first s-ction of this act."
The instructions given in consequence of this section,
-bear date the 12th of March, 1799, and are as foUow:
"Sin-Herewithyouwill receive an ctof Congress
"further to suspend the commercial intercourse betwey,
"the United States and France, and Wth dependencies
"thereof, the whole of which requires your attention.
"But it is -thle command of the President, that you con"sider particularly, the ffth section as pari of your.instructions, andgovern yourself accordingly.
A proper discharge of the important duties enjoined
"on you, arising out of this act,,will rbquire the exer"cise of a sound and impartialjudgmeni. You are not
"only to do all that in you lies to prevent all intercourse,.
"whether direct or circuitous, between' the ports of the
"United States and those of France and her dependencies, in cases where the vessels or cargoes are appa"rently, as.-well as really,*American, and-protected by
"American papers only; but y6u are to be vigilant that
"vessels or cargoes really Amerrican, but covered by
"Danish or other foreign papers, arid bound to, orfromt
'
ernch ports, do not escape y, U

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LITTL

'

LT AL.
V.
BARREME
ST AL.
1

CC

"
hV,
henever, on just suspicion, you send a vessel into
port to be dealt with aeco-ifig to the aforementioned

"law, besides sending wijh her all her papers, send all
"the evidence vor -:an obtain tt support your suspicions,
" and effect her cc&.demnation.
"At the same time that you are thus attentive to fulfil
"the objects of the law, you are to be extremely careful
"not 4oharrass, or injure the trade of foreign nations
"with whom we are at peace, nor thefair trade of our
own citizens."

"

In the district court of Massachusetts, the vessel and
cargo. were ordered to be restored,, without damages or
costs. Upon the question of damages, the honourable
fudge LowHI, delivered the following opinion.
" This libel is founded on the statutes of the United
"States, made to suspend the commercial intercourse
"between the UnitedStates and P rance, and the depen"dencies thereof. The libellants not having produced
"sufficient proof to bring this vessel and cargo so far
"within the' provisions of these statutes as to incur a
" forfeiture thereof, the same has been decreed to be
delivered to the claimants.

" The question remaining to be decided is, whether
"the claimants are entitled to darhages, which they sug"gest to have arisen to them, or those for whom they
" claim, by the capture and detention.
"The facts which appear and are material to this
question are, that the vessel was owned, and hei cargo,
"by Samuel Goodman, a Prussianby birth, but now an
"inhabifant of the Danish island of St. Thomas ; that
"the master was born in, and is now of the same island,
* but for several years had been employed in vessels of
"citizens of the United States, and sailed olit of our
"ports ; that he speaks our language perfectly, in the
"accent of an American, and has the appearance of being
"

"one.
The mate is a citizen of the United'States,born
"here, and having'always continued such. The rest of
"the seamen are Englishmen, "Portugueseand Negroes.
.The supercargo a Frenchman, The vessel had cairiMd

FEBRUARY, 1804.
and dry-goods from'St. Thomas's

a cargo of frovisions
"to 7eremie, and Was returning thither, loaded with
" coffee, when capiured.

That during the chase by the
"American frigates, the inaste1 .threw overboard the
"log-book, and certain other papers. That there was
"on board a protest.signed .by the master,- supercargo
"and several seamen, in which- the'y, declared that the
"vessel had been bound from St. Thomas's to Port-au' Prince,-and was compelled by Rigaud's vessels to go
" into Yernie, which was false and totally unfounded;
"and that after the capture, the master .iiquired of-his
"seamen whether they would'sta.nd by him respecting
"this pretence.

LITTLE

ETvAL.

BAREM K
T L.

"That the statutes of the United States prohibiting
"intercourse with France and.its dependencies had been
"long before known at St. Thomcw's, and that iR bad
"been since a common practice there to cover American
.prperty for the purpose of eluding the law.
"If a'war of a common nature had existed betweeni
"the United States and, France, no question would be
"made but the false papers found on board, the destruc"tion of the log-book and other papers,'would be a suffi" cient excuse for the capture, detention and consequent
It is only to be considered whether the
"damages.
" same principles as they respect neutrals are to be ap" 4 .lied to this case.
" My mind has found much difficulty in settling this
" question. It is one altogether new to me, and arises
" from the peculiar imperfect war existing at this time
"between the United States and France. I bave embra-.
"ced an opinion with much diffidence, and am happy'
"tha' it may be revised in the superior courts of the
" United States.
" On what principles is the right of belligerent powers
"to exam'ine neutral yessels, and the duty of neutrals
"to furnish their ships with proper papers., and to avoid
"-such oiduct as may give cause to suspect they are
" other than they pretend to be, 'founded? Do they not
"necessarily result from a compromise .of their respec1"tive rights in a state of war ? Neither of the belliger-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LITTLE
ET AL.
V.

BAaEM.

ET AL.

"ent powers have an original and perfect right to cap"ture the property of neutrals, but they have a right,
c

"unless

restrained by treaty, however disgaised or

"covered by the aid of neutrais.t

It is a, breach of

to attempt to defeat this right. The prac,
"neutrality
"tice of nations, therefore, for many agqs hts been, on
"the one hand to exercise, and on the other to.prevent
this examination, and to establish a principle that neu"'tral vessels shall be furnished with the usual docu"ments to prove their neutral state ; shall destroy none
"of their papers, nor shall carry false papers, under the
"hazard of being exposed to every inconvenience re"suiting from capture, examination and.detention, ex"cept the eventual condemnation of 'the property ; and
"even this, by some writers, has'been held to be lawful,
"and enforced by some great maritime powers. Every
"maritime nation must be involved in the war on the
" side of one or the other of the belligerent powers, but
"from the establishment of these principles. , It is not
"the edicts, statutes or regulations of any particular
"nation, which confer these rights or impose these dutties. They are the result of common pr.actice, long
"existing, often- recognized, and founded on pacific
Whenever a state of war exists, these
"principles.
"rights and duties exist.
"It does not appear to"me to be material what is'the
"nature of the war, general or limited. Nothing ern
"be required of neutrals but to avoid duplicity, Suffi:.
"cient notice to neutrals of the existing.state of -hostili"ties is all that is necessary to attach to them the duties,
"and to belligerent nati6ns the rights 'resulting from a
" state'of war. This notice is given.in different ways,
"by proclamations, heralds, statutes published, and even
'.by the mere. existence of hoslilities, for a length oftime.
"As the island of St. Thomas, being a dependency of
"a neutral nation, situated near the dependencies of ihe
"belligerent power with whom the UnitedStates had
"prohibited intercourse, and having had long apd full
"knowledge of the state of things, its inhabitants Were,

t It is believed that there hs been an error in copying this passage.

It is, however, printed verbatim from the transcript of the recQrd.-

The words to be supplied probably are, "to search for and seize the
property of their enemies" tobe interted after the word ",treaty." * '

FEBRUARY,

804."

175

.1 conceive, bound not to interfere or attempt to
"defdat the measures taken by -our government in their
"limited war. We find, however, that these attempts
"have bqen frequent; that' American vessels have, in
"nmany.instances', been covered in that island, and the
"trade which our goverhment has interdicted, has been
"thus carried on. It behoved, then, those. of its i.nhab"itafits who would avoid the inconveniences of restraint
" to act with openness, and avoid fraud and its appearancep'.
"n

"This construction of the state in which the United
"States are, (although I am of opinion that, abstracted"ly from other considerations, it would give them the
"rights of belligerent powers) places the neutral powers
inno neW predicament, nor imposes the necessity of
"any new documents, or other conduct than they were
"obliged to from the pre-existing state of war between
"most of the great naval powers.
"On the whole I am of opinion that no damages are
".to be paid the claimants for the -capture and detentions
"and do so decree, and that each party bear -theirown
"costs.)"
*From tbis decree the claimants appealed to the Circuit
Court, where it was reversed and 8,504 dollars damages
were given.'
The following is the decree of the 'Circuit Court.
"This Court having fully heaid the parties on the
"said.appeal, finds the facts stated in the said decree to
"be true, and that the said Little had instructions from
"the President of tne United States, on which the action
"in the said libel is founded, a copy of which instruc" tions is on file. And it further appearing that the said
1 brigantine and her .cargo were Danish and neutral
"property, and that ihe said George Little knew that the
"said brig at the-time of the said captiure was bound and
"sailing from 7eremie to St. 'homas's, a Danish and
"neutral port, and not to any French port-; This court
"is of opinion that although Captain Little had a right to
.Astop and examine the said brig, in case of suspecting

L.ITTLZ

VT.
BAInE,3r
IT

A-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LITTLrK
XT AT..

BARUM
XT
'_*-

AL.

F,

"her to be engaged in any commerce codtrary to the act
" of the 9th of February 1799, yet thathe was not war-

"ranted by law to capture"and send her to a port of the
"United States. That it was at his risque and peril if
"the property was neutral; ard that a pr.bable causp
4 to suspect the vessel and cargo American will not, in
" such case, excuse a capture and sefiding to pbrt.
'5 It is, therefore, considered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the sid decree respecting damages
"and costs be, and'it is. hereby reversed, and that the
"said claimants recover their damages aud costs."

The damages being assessedby assessors, appointed
by the Court, a final sentence was. pronounced, from
which the captors appealed to this Court.
-The cause was argued at December term 1801, by
Dexter for the appellants, and by MBPartin and Mfason for
the claimants.
February 27. "MARSHALL, Chief Justice, how deuveredthe-opinion of the Court.
The Flying-Fiih a- Danish vessel having on board
Danish and .neutral property, was captured on the
2d of December 1799, on a voyage from Yeremie to.
St. 7thomas's, by the United States frigate Boston,
commanded by Captain Little, and brought .into. the
port of Boston, where she was libelled as, an American vessel that had violated the 'non-intercouise'law.
The J. ge before whom the cause was fried, directed
'a restoratioh of the vessel and cargo,as neutral property,
but refused to award'damages for the capture and detention, because in his opinion, there was probable cause to.
suspect the vessel to be American.
On an 4app~al to the circuit court this sentence was,
reversed, because the Flying-Fish was on a voyage
from, not to, a French port, and was thereforej had she
even been an American vessel, not liable to capture'on
the high seas.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

1117

During the hostilities between the UnitedStates and
,ctfor the suspension of all intercourse be.
tween.the two nations was annually passed. That under
wjiich.the .Flying-Fishwas condemned, declared- every
vdssel, owned, hired or employed wholly or in part'by
an Ameri an, which 'should be employed in any traffic or
.coi~merce with or for any person resident within the
jurisdiction. or -under the authority Qf' the Fiechq xepublic, tc be foifeited together with her cargo; the one
half to -accrue to -the United States, and'the.other to aity
perspn or persons, citizens of the United States, who
will inform.and prosecute for the sa~re.

.r~nce, an

The 5th seation of this act'auithoriso the presideA 6f.
the United States, "toinstruct the commander Qf"qrn
"' to stop and examine any ship or vessel of'
ed vesse
the United States oh the high se,: which there may Pe
reason to suspect to be 'hgaged' in,ny traffic' 'or -com-merce contrary to the true .tenor of 'the act, and if -ipon
examination.it should appear that such ship -or vessel
is bound or.sailing to'sny port or place within the .teitory of the French republic or her dependencies, it'is
renddred lawful.to seize such vessel, and.send hr.into
the United States for adjudication.
Xt is by no means clear that the president of-the •
United States whose high duty it i to '1 take care ih t
the laws be faithfully executed,"-and who is commander in chief of the armies and-navies of the .United'
,States, might fiot, without any.sp'ecial authority for ilhat
purpose,. in the ihen existing state of things, have empowered the officers commanding the atmed vessels of
the United States, to seize and send' into'port 'for adjudication, American"vessels which were forfeited by beiing engaged in this illicit commerce. - But when it is"ob.
serve'd that the general clause of the first section of the
"act, which declares that such vessels may be seized,-aid
rMay'be prosecuted in any district or circuit coutt, which
shall be holden within or for the district where the seiziire shall 'be made," obviously contemplates a seizure
within the Unted States; and that the 5th section gives
a special authority to seize on the high seas, and lim.4s,
that -authority to the seizure'of vessels bound or sailing.
to a Frenchport, the legislature.seem to have precribed

LITTLZ

-. T

A.

BqA..r.
ST .4L.

SUPREM'E COURT U. S.
LTTzL
MT AL.

BARUI ,
ET AL.

that the manner in which this 1.w shall be carried into
execution, was to exclude a seizure of any vessel not
bound to a French port. Of consequence, however
.strong the circumstances might be, which induced cap.
tain Little to suspect the FlyingFish to be an American
vessel, they could not excuse the deteiition ofher, since
li6 would not have been authorised to detain her had sh4
been really American.
It was so obvious, that if only vessels sailing to a
Trench port could be seized on the high seas, that the
law would be very ofteri evaded, that thi. act of congress appears to have received a differept construction
from the executive of the UnitedStates ; ' construction
.much better calculated t'o give it effect.
A copy of this act was transmitted by tfie secretary
of the navy, to the. captains of the armed vessels, who
Wer6 ordered to'consider the 5th section as a part of
their instructions. The same letter contained the fol'lowing clause. " A proper discharge of the imporitant
duties enjoined on you, arising out of this act, will require the exercise of a sound and an impartial judgment.
You are not only to do'all that in ybu lies, to prevent all
intercourse, whether direct or circuitous, between the
,ports of the United States, and those of Franceor her
dependencies, where fthe 'essels -are apparently awell
as really American, and -protected by American papers
-bnly, but you are to b vigilant that vessels or .cargoes
iall ,American,but covered by Daniih or other foreign
papers, and bound to orfro'n French portsi do not eseape~youe
'These orders given by the executive under the con9truction of the act of congrEss made by the department to
ivhich its execution was assigned, enjoin the seizure of
.American vessels -sailingfrom a French port. Is the officer who obeys them liable for damages sustained by this
misconstructin of the act, orwill his orders excuse him ?
'Ifhis instructions afford him no protection, then the law
must take its course, and he ,must pay such damages as
are legally awarded against him; if they excusd an act
not otherwise excusable, it would then be necessary to inquire whether this is a case in which -the probable cause

FEBRUARY, 1804.

179

which existed to induce,%suspicion that the vessel was
American, would excuse the captor from damages when.
the vessel appeared in fact to be neutral;

LITTLz
ET AL.
.o

BARtSZ
MT AL.

I confess the first bias of my mind was very strong in -Y'
favour of tlw opinion that though the instructions of the executive courd not give a right, they might yet excuse from
damages., I-Ivas much inclined to think.that a distinction
ought to. bre taken between acts of bivil and those of military officer? ; and between proceedings. within the body of
the country andthose.on the high seas. That implicitobe,
dience which military men usually pay tor the orders of
their superiors, which indeed is indispensably necessry'
to every military system, appeared to me strongly to im-"
ply the priuciple, that those orders, if not to perform a
prohibited act, ought to justify.the person whose genieral.
duty it is tq ubey them, arid who is placed by the law§ of
his country in a situation which in general requires, that
he should obey them. I'was strongly inclied to think
that where, in consequence of orders from the legitimate
authority, a vessel is seized with pure intention, the claim.
of the injured party for damages wouldbe against that government from which the orders proceeded, and Would be
a proper subject. for rlegotiation. But I have been convinced that I was mistaken, and I have receded from this.
first opinion. I acquiesce in that of my brethren, which is,.
that the instructions cannot change the nature of the Oansaction, or legalize an act which without those instructions
;would have been a plain trespass.
"It
becomes therefore unnecessary! to inquire whether the
probable cause afforded by the conduct of the Flying-Fish
to sus. ct her of being an American, would excuse Captain Little from damages for having seized and sent her
into port; since had she actually been an American, the
seizure would have been unlawful?-.'
Captain Little then must be answerable in damages to
the owner of this neutral vessel, and as the account taken
by order of the circuit court is not, objectionable on its
face, and has not been excepted to by otncil before the
proper tribunal, this court can receive .no objection to it.
There.appears then to be no error in the judgment of
the circuit court, and it must be affirmed with costs.

