PEBRVARY, 180.
HEPBURN AND DUNDAS

KtrBui

ELLZEY.*

'.

E LzI.

This was a question certtf/ed from the circuit court A citize

of

the district of
for the fifth circuit, holden in the Virginia district, on Columbia can.

which ihe opinions bf the judges of that court were not maintain
opposed. (See•, Laws of L. S. tl. 6, p. 89. sec. 6.) an
k. citi-g i.__action
• ea of Vir .The cerrficate sets forth that ." in this cause it .. nia, in the ir.curred as a question whether Hepburn and Dundas, .cuit court for;
the Virginia
"the plaintiffs in this cause, who are citizens and resi.
. .district. A i.
" dents of the District of Columbia, and are so stated itlizenofthedis.
"the pleadings, can maintain an action in this court trict of Colum.
"against the defendant who is a citizen and inhabitant bia is not a cla ,te
tizen ofthe
,
" o'f the commonwealth of Virginia, and isalso stated.within

" so to be in the pleadings, or whether for want of juris. meaning of
"diction the said suit ought not to be dismissed."
theconstittition.
.E. 7. Lee," for plaintiffs. This question arises under
the. 2d sec. of the 3d article of the constitution of the
United States; which defines the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States.
The particular words of the section which apply to the
question are those declaring that thi jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States shall extend " tb controver"6sies between citizen of different states.'
If such words are tised in the constitution as accord.
ing to their literal meaning, will give jurisdiction to the
court, it is all that is necessary to be established.
It is essential, in determining this question, to ascer.
tain the import of the term "st a es," which in Itself is
a vague expression. It will sometimes meAn an extent
of country Within certain limits, within-which the A&u
thority of the fieighboring country cannot be lawfully
exercised. It sometimes means the government which
is' established in separate-parts of a territory occhpied
bya political society. It may also be said to-be a socie.
ty by which a multitude of people unite together under
t Present, Marshall, Ch. J.-C-hing, Paterson, Chase and Jrashinp"
Ion, Justices.

. 44&.

SUPREME COURT U. -S.

1ivw
U.. the dependence of-a-,guperiot pbwer for. protection. 2
DUnDa8, Buremaqui, 1.-And sometimes itmeans a multitude
V.
ELZzsy.- of people united by a communion of interest -and by
This is the definition given by Cicero.
\u,--.%/' common laws.

-

Either of the ibove definitions will bring the district
,within the meaiihg of the constitution. It is-certainly
•such an extent of country, as excludes from within its
1 lirits the force and operation of the laws of the governments:iyhich adjoin. it. .There dxists withift it a political society. with a government over it. That government
for'.all general cuncerns of the society is the congress
and prjesidentof the United States. And as to its local
concerns, 'there are subordine authorities acting under
the:'superintendence of the national government. This
political society is'dependent -upon the superior power
of thehUnited States.
It is riot essential tW the formation of a state that the
-members of.it should have the. power in all cases of
electirigtheir own' officers';" but itis sufficient that there
ar&ecertain ruIes'laid down either by themselves, or thode
by whom they have submitted to be governed, for their
conduct.
-The people of the distriet are governed by a.power to
'hiclx they have.frecly. ubmaitted .,They do .not "possess in as great degree the rights. of sovereignty as those
people who inhabitthe states. And- if the free exercis.
of A-- the rights. of sovereignty,. uncontrouled by .any.
.0thrpower, is essenti j1"ie'formation of a state;.none
ot iioe sections of the country which form hekUniitid
a.' state:"
States are entitled sfrictly to the appellation kO1
wich tthoy
fg,.ther.e. are certain rights of svereigfityppnno;.exercise. in ther.state capacity, such .as-regutt~.eQnmerce,.nmaking peaGe and war, &c. "
, .The terw. ' states;' .as-..ed in-the.'cdnstitution mayi
, acordigg to thl.subject max."r .Id.understbod in eithe,
6f the'i~bov.e.enses." t h, b".en, .uJndeirsood by a mayarity.of the Judges of this ,ourt'*i-the case of Chir'.E
3.xerutors v. Thle .tte.of Giorgia, 2. Dall. 457,

to mean-the.government..

FEBRUARY, 1805.

447

The idea, that those territories which are' under the Iizsrnpus&
are to be .Duixigs
exclusive government of the United Stdites
•
V.
considered in some respects as include& in the term ELLZZY.
"states" as used in the constitution, is supported by the k
acts of congress.
In the 2d paragraph of the 2d section of the 4th art.
of the constitution, it is d6clared, that "a person charg"ed in any state with treason, felony, or other crime,
"who shall flee from justice and be found in another
"state, shall, on deihand of the executive authorky'of
"the state'from which he fled; be del-vred up tobe re"moved to the .state-having jurisdiction of the crime."It is also declared in the same article -of the c.nstitution,
that "'no person -hIdto -service or labour in one -tate
" under the liws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in
"consequence of any law or regulation therein, be dis"charged from such service" or labotir, but shall be de"livered -p on claim- of the party to whom such service
"or :labou rmay be due.".
Congress, i "piescribing the mode of executing the
i.owers contained in these' claiises of the constitution;
passed a lair dated-Feb. f1,1793. ch. 7; sec.' 1, vol...2.
p.. 165, whiclh declares- "that whenever the executiv6
"authority of any -tate inihe union, or of either of the
"territories northwest or south of the""riverOhio,. shall
"demand an~y person 'as a fugitive-from justice, -87f the
Sexecutive authority of' any suchi state or territory to
"Which such person shall -have.fled," and shall produce.
iuch evidence of the fact as is, prescribed by the act,. the
pers.on so escaping shal beisurendered, &t.-A"simii r
provision with respect to persons held to labour or service.under ihe laws of the states or territories, i contained in the same act of congress.
.
If these territories are not,, as to some purposes, i1n.-.
eluded i the .term "states," usdn
t above clauses or
the eonstitutin,,congress could not constitutionally passa law making. it the. duty of the executive of a state,*tc6mply with. such a requisitionof the1executive or one.
of those terrjtories, Ifthey are thu 4ncluded'why may
they not also be included in that part of the const.ituti6a.
which uses.the same .term," states," in defining the jurs-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ffspsuaw

DUiiDA
V.
E LLzS.

k

& diction of the courts? The citizens of the territories
are subject to the same evil, if they are obliged to resort
to the state courts, which was intended to bi remedied by
that clause of the constitution which authorises citizens
of different states to resort to the federal courts. And
if being within the same evil authorised congress to give
a latitude to the term "states" in one part of the constitution, the same reason wilt authorise the same con.
struction of the same term in another part.
The words of the constitution only authorise such a requisition to be made by the executive-of a state, upon thk
executive of another state. It must therefore be acknowiledged either that the territories are included in the term
states, or that the act of congress is.unconstitutional. As
a further proof of the same construction of the word state,
congress, by the 6th sec. of the act supleme'tary to the
act concerning the district of Columbia, have enacted that
in all cases where the constitution or laws of the United
States provide that criminals and fugitives from justice, or
persons held to labour in any state, escaping into another
state shall be delivered up, the chief justice of the said
district shall be, and he is hereby required to cause to be
apprehended and delivered up such criminal, &c. "who
shall be found within the distric:.'.Independent of these
considerations it..seems to .be agi~eable to the first principles of govefrni it, that all persons who are under the
peculiar and exclusive government and protctior:..f a
particular'power,. ha .e, as it were, a.natural. daimipon
that power for protection and redress of wrongs.--And
ihat the courts of the United States are the most proper
tribunals. to which the people of the district of Columbia
can apply for redress in'a cases where the aggressor can
be found within thejurisdiction of those courts. It seems
to be a denial of that protettion which the United States
are boundto afford to those who reside under their exclusive jurisdiction, to say that h cause you may sue your
*debtor in a.foreign tribunal (if I. may use the expression)
therefore you shall not resort to our own courts although
your debtor may be found within our'jurisdiction. The
framers of the constitution could nei'e have supposed it
necessary to declare in express terms that the courts of
the United States should have power to hear and 'decide
on the tomplaints of one of the"citizens of those district*
that were 'under the exclusive government and care of the

FEBRUARY,

8Y

449

United States, te whom alone allegiance was due.

They

could not have intended to deny to that part of the citizens of the U nited States who inhabit the territories, the
privileges which were granted to citizens of particular

states, and even to foreigners ; especially the right of resorting to an impartial tribunal of justice. When they
pt,rmitted aliens to resort either to the state or to the federal courts, they could not mean to confine one of their
own exclusive citizens to a remedy in the state courts
alone. It would be strange that those citizens whb owe
no allegiance but to the United States, should be debarred
from going into.the courts of the United'States for redress, when that privilege is*granted to others in like circumstances, who owe allegiance to a foreigni or to a state
government..
C. Lee, contra. This is a new queftion, which has
hrisen in consequence of the cession of the district of Columbia, by the states of Virginia and Maryland to the
United States.
The words of the constitution do not take in the caseand the act of congress is also too narrow.
The constitution is a limited grant of power.
is to be presumed but what is expressed.

Nothing

Itis contended that a citizen of the district of Columbia
is' a citizen of a state. It is said that he is a citizen of the
United States, and not being a citizen of the same state
with the defendant he must be a citizen of a different state.
But there may be a.'citizen of the United States *rho is
not a citizen of any one of the states. The expression
a citizen of a state, has a constitutional meaning. The
states are not absolutely sovereigns, but if I ma'y use the
expression) they are demi-sovereigns. The word state
has a meaning peculiar to the United States.-It means a
certain political society forming a constituent part of the
union. -.There can be no state unless it be entitled to a
representation in the Senate. It must have its separate
executive, legislative-and judicial powers. The termimay
also comprehend a number of other ideas.
Even if th ccv-.-titurion of the United States :uthoris-s
a mort enlarz.-:
-dctir,
.han the judicia:y act of 1789

HEzauaw..

DU. V.
ELLZEY.

'*ht

450
Mii~vair
ST, ZtV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.'

& has given, vet the court can take no, jurisdiction which is
not given bv the act. I'therefore call for the law. which
gives ajurisdiction in.this case.

The jurisdiction given to the federal courts in cases between citizens of different states, was, at the time of the
adoption of the constitutiofi, supposed to he of very little
importance to the peiple. Veethe debates in the Virginia
Qnvention, p. 109, 122,128.
* In no case from any one of the territories has this court
ever considered itself as having jurisdiction ; and in that
of.Clar4 v. Baza~ione, (Ante, vo. 1. p. 212_) the writ of
because the act of congress had not
error was
"given
this quashed
court appeliate jurisdiction in cases from the
territories.
This is h6t a case between citizens of diffdrent states,
within the meaning of the consti.ution. And in the case
of Bingham v, Cabot, 3. Dall. 382, it was decided bythil
court that the tourts of the United States were courts of
limited jurisdiction, and that it must appear upon the re:cord that the parties were citizens of different states in
order to support the jurisdiction.
E. j. Lee, in reply. Alaw was not necessary to give
the federal courts that jurisdiction which is provided for
by the constitution. It was only. necessary to limit the
amount-of the claims which should• come before the different .inferior courts.
If a demand should be made bythe executive power of
the district of Columbia, upon the executive of a state to
deliver up a fugitive from justice, the constitution would
apply, and oblige the state executive to respect. the demand.
If the term state is to hayt the limited.construction contended for by the opposite counsel, the citizens of Columbia will be deprived of the general rights of citizens of the
United States.7-They will be in a worse*condition than
4liens."

By the 4th article of the constitution of the .United

States,, sec. 1 "FiFll faith and credit shal be given, in

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

451

" each state, to the public acts, records and judicial pro- HEPSvaN &
.'ceedings of every other state."

If the district of Ca-

lumbia is not to be considered as a state for this purpose,
there is no obligation upon the states, to give faith or credit to the records or.judicial proceedings of this district.
But congress, in carrying into effect, this provision of the
constitution, by.the act of March 27th 1804, (vol. 7. p.
1.52) has expressly declared that it "shall apply as well
"to the public acts," &c. ".of the respective territoriesof
"the United States and countries subject to the jurisdic"tion of the United States, as to the public acts," &c. "of
"the several states," thereby giving another clear legislative construction to the word states, conformable to that
for which we contend.
Again, by the 9th sec. of the Ist art. of the constitution
of the United States, "No tax or duty shall be laid on
"arti*cles exported from any state." Can congress lay a
tax or duty on articles exported from the district of Columbia, without a violation of the constitution?
By the same sec. "no preference shall be given by any
"regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one
"state over those of another. Can congress constitutionally give a preference to the ports of the disTrict of
Columbia over. those of any of the states ?
The same section says, "Nor shall vessels bound to or.
"from one state be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in,
Can vessels sailing to or from the district of
".another."
Columbia be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in Ma-.
ryland or Virginia'? Yet all this may be done if the rigit.
construction contended for be given to the word state..
It is true that the citizens of Columbia are not entitled
to the elective franchise in as full a manner as the citizens
of states. They have no vote in the choice of president,
vice-president, senators and represefitatives in congress.
But .in this they are not singular. More than seven
eighths of the free white inhabitants of Virginia are in the
same situation. Of the white population of Virginia-one
half are females-half of the males probably are under
age-and not more than one half of the residue are freeholders and entitled to vote at'elections. The same case
happens in some degree in all the states. A great majori-

DUNS
V.

ELLrZEY.

.452

SUPREME COURT*U, S.

Rzy-m & ty are not entitled to vote. But in every other respect
DuNxDs
the citizens of Columbia are entitled to all the privileges
V.
and immuities of citizens of the United. States.
ELLZE..
Mlfarshall, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case is whether thd plaintiffs, as
residents of the district of Columbia, can maintain an action in the pircuit court of' the United States for the districtof Virginia.
This depend s on the act of congress describing the juiisdiction of that court. That -act gives jurisdiction to
the circuit courts in cases between a citizen of the state in
which the suit is brought, and a citizen of another state.
"To support the jurisdiction in this case therefore it must
appear that Columbia is a state.
_n the part of the-plaintiffs it has been urged that Columbia is a distinct political society; and is therefore 1 a
"state" according to the definitions of writers on general
law.
This is true. But as the act of congress obviously
uses the word 1 s t at e " in ieference to that term as used in the constitution, it becomes necessary to inquire whether
Columbia is a state in the sense of that instrument. The
result of that examination is a conviction that the members
of the American confederacy only are thd states contemplated in the constitution.
The hause of representatives is to be composed of.members chosen by the people of the several states ; 'and each
state shall have at least one representative.
The senate of the United States shall be composed of
two senatorsfrom each state.
Each state shall appoint, for the election of the executive,
a number of elictors equal to its whole number of senatQrs.
and representatives.
clauses show that the word state is used in the
onstitution as designating a member of the union, and ex-Thase

FEBRUARY, 1805.
dudes from the term the signification attached to it by HIZpulN &
writers on the lawof nations. When the same term which DuxiAs
V.
has bien used plainly in this limited sense in the articles
ELL.ZZY.
alis
departfients,
executive
and
legislative
respecting.the
so employed in that whichrespects the judicial department,
it must be understood as retaining the sense originally given to it.
Other passages from the constitution have been cited by
the plaintiffs to show that the term state is sometimes used
in-its more enlarged sense. But on examining the passages quoted, they' do not prove what was to be shown by
them.
It is true that as citizens of the United states, and of
that particular district which is subject to the jurisdiction
of congress, it is extraordinary that the-courts of the United States, which are open to aliens, and to the citizens of
every state in the union, should be dosed upon then.But this is a subject for legislative not for judicial consideration.
The. opinion to be certified to the circuit court is that
that court has no jurisdictiQn in the case.

END OF VOL.' I.

