10
WILLIAMS

Ho)csozz

SUPREME COURT U. S.

& "ty.thret cents, and 355 pounds of tobacco at the rate
"of 13 shillings and 4 pence per cwt." The recita, of

the execution in the bond stated ii to be for "1i43 dol" lars 67 cents, also twenty dollars thirty-three cents,
not thereby vi- "and 355 pounds of tobacco at the rate of 13 shillings
tiated, ifthe " and four pence per hundred weight; and marshall's
LYLES.

-m-'-

"

Aggregate of

debts and costs
be truly stated,
51
but will su
.
port ajudg.

"1fees and commissions, and all costs attending the exe41cution of the said writ, 8 dollars and 11 cents, mahing
" in the whole the sum of one hundred and seventy-one
" dollars ninety-nine cents." This aggregate suni was

tion.

correct according to the execution, and not according to
the recital, there having been a mistake in writing the
word twenty for twelve. The court below, considering
the recital as correct in substance, rendered judgment
for the plaintiff. The defendants took a bill of excep.tions, and brought their writ of error.
Toungs, for defendant in error, cited 1 Call's Rep.
42, Scott v. Hornsby; and Bell v. Zfarr, p. 47.-Worsham v. Egleston,p. 48; and Wilkinsonv. M'Lochlinp.49.
7udgmentaffirmed,withlopercent. damages and costs.
FAW v. MARSTELLER.*
FAW

THIS was an appeal by Faw, the original defendant, from a decree of the circuit court of the district of

MARsTEL.

,

inadeed made Columbia, sitting as a court of chancery at Alexandria,
in the year. in July 1803.
1779, of land

rendering an

The case, as stated by Marshall,ch.j. in delivering
the. opinion of the court, was as follows

annual rent of

26 pounds

rent nwrey of
Virginia forever, the rents
are not to be
reduced by the
scale of depreciation, but the
actual annual
value of the
and, fi the

0 The counsel in this cause had not furnished the court with a state.
meat of the points of the case, accorling to the rule of the court, ante,
Vol. I p. XVI. Being called upon by the court for such a statement,
Swann observed that there was but a single point in the case, and therefore they had not supposed it necessary to reduce it to writing.
MarhallCh. .- The court will proceed to hear this cause without
having been furnished with a statexncnt of the points; but they wish it
to be understood that they always ea-pect such a statement. If tre is
only one point, it is the c iier to state it.

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
in the month of May, 1r79, the executors of Yiohn
F.w
V.
Alexander in pursuance of a power contained in the M^RSTELwill of their.testator, set up to the highest bidder on a
LER.
ground rent for ever, certain lots of land lying in the
town of Alexatidria.
"t ofde con.
One of these lots containing half an acre, was struck
off to a'certain Peter Wise, at the rent of £26 per annum, current money of Virginia. IVise bid for acob
Sly, a citizen of Maryland, who transferred the lot to
Abraham Faw, to whom the same was conveyed'in feesimple, by. a deef bearing date the 5th of August, 119,
in which the said ground-rent of £26 per annum, current money of.Virginia, was teserved.
In the year 1784, Abraham.2aw divided the said half
acre of ground into eight smaller lots, five of which hehas sold, reserving a ground-rent for ever, amountingto
£84 12s per annum. One of these lots was conveyed by
.Faw, to _izcob Hess, in the ye~Ar 11784, at the groundrent of £25 16&per annum, which lot has been since
purchased by Philip .Marsteller, the apellee, who has
also purchased from the devisee of Yohn Alexander, all
his rights in, or issuing from the half-acre lot of ground
conveyed to Abraham Paw. Thus Abrahant Paw becomes liable to Philip Marsteller, for the rent accruing
under the deed of Augoust, 1799, who is himself liable
to the said Paw, for the rent accruing on part of the
same lot, under the deed executed by Fawv to Hess, in
Aovenber 1784.
In November, 1781, the legislature of Pirini&,
passed
an act, calling paper money out of circulation: and also
another act directing the mode for adjusting and settling contracts made in that currency.
The second section of this latter act, after stating, by
way of preamble, that" the good people of the State
" would labour under many inconveniences for want of
4 some rule, whereby to settle and adjust the payment
" of 'debts and contracts entered into, or made between
" the first day' of 7anuary, 1777, hnd the first day of
" Yanuary, 1782, unless some rule should be by law
" established for liquidating and adjusting the same, so

tract, in specie,
orin othermo-

ney. equivalent

thereto, is to
be ascertained
by ajur.

SUPREME COTJRT.-U. S.
PAw

11"
LER.

as to'do justice as .wllto the debtor as the c#ditor ,'
enacts that from and-after the passing of the .act, W. all
" debt and contracts entered into a1 made in the current
Scmoiey of thisState orthe United.States, excepting,
" at all times, contracts entered into for gold and siI..
ve coin, tobacco,. or any other specific property,
" within the period af6resaid, now remaining due, and
unfulfilled, or.which may become due at-any future
14 day, ,or days, for the paymerit of any sum or sums of
11 money, shall be .liquidated, settled, and adjusted a" greeably to. a scale of depreciation herein'after men". tioned and contained ;.that is to-say, by reducing .the
amount of all such debts and contracts to the true
value in specie, at.the days oi- times the same were
" incurred *or enter'ed'into, and upon payment of said:
value-so found, - in Apecie or other money, equivalent
" therto.the debt6rs 9r contractors shall be forever
""disdharged of' arid frgm the said debt4"or contract,any lav.i-fisto i.,or usage to the. contrary, in any
'. wise notwithsta~ding."
"
"

The foutth section establishes the spile of depreciation which shalt constitute the rule by which the value of
the debts, contracts, and aemands, in the act mentioned,
shall be asce tained ; and the fifth section enacts, "that
where a suit shall be brought. for the recovery of "a
debt, and it shall appear that the value .thereof
".hath been tenderedond-refised; or where 'it*shall ap"1 pear that the'non-paymeift thereof hath been owing to
cc the creditor; or where other circumstances -arise
which, in the opinion of the court, before whom the
" cause is brought to issue, would render a determination agreeable to the above table unjust ; in either case
" it shall and may be lawful for the court to award such
" judgment as to them shall appear just and equitable."

The act then empowers the court to direct at what depreciation any judgment shall be discharged bn a verdict given for damages, between the first day of Yanuary, 1777, and th first day of 7anuary, '782, having
regird to the original injury or contract on which thb
damages are founded, and any other proper circum" stances that the fiature of the c-se will admit."

FEBRUARY, .18o4.

13

It Was proved in the cause, that the contracts made by
at the time vethe executQrs of Yohn Alexander excitedof
general conry grehi atteitibn, and 'were the subject
versation.

The prevailing opinion among the bidders

was, that the rents would be paid in paper money so lqng
as paper should be the circulating "medium, after which
they iould.be paid in specie. Such too was the-opiniion
of Peter Wise; the puichaser of the particular lot which
occasioned the-existing controyersy,: and there, Js reason to suppose it was also the opinion ofthbse who were
disposing of the property; it was also thought the rent
reserved was low, whenconsidered as paYable in.papdr, .
but' high if to be-paid in specie.
-

It was further' proved, that a lot not more valuable.
than that which occasioned the present contest, was gold
in 1774, on aground-rentof £13 5 peraiinum; forever,
and that a lot less valuable was s6ld in th year. 1784, on.
a ground-rent of £35 per annum. But it appeared from.
other parts of the testimony, that the lots 'whi'h were
sold in the year 1784, in Alexandria, on giomnd-rent,
were contracted for so muih above the,valu6 they After.-.
wards {fore,.tbgit the lessors in very many instances,.were
under'the necessity of reducing the rents one hailf below
t1e sam.originally stipulated, and.in some 'in'tailces'the
reduction was still grpater.
The circuit coiurt decreed, that the'.rents which accrued during the existence of paper money should be'
reduced according to the scale for the time when ihey "
became payable, but -that the subsequent rents shduld
.be paid in specie.' From this decree Faw appealed,
and the case was now argued by Swann and "Masonfor
-the: appellant; and by . f4.Lee, Jones, -and Key, for
'the appellee.
For the-afipellant, it was'conterded,
'1. That this was. a contract within the letter and spirit of the 2d section of the act of assembly of Virginia
'bef6re mentioned, passed in November 1-'81, c. 22,
(6Y.ancery revision 4f the laws, p, 147,) and entitled,an act directing the !node of adjusting and settling
.
"dhe, payment of certain debts and contra.ts, and for
"other purposes ;" and therefore,

FAI'

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PAW
MARLSTELLER.

y

2. It was not within the 5th section of that act.
1. This is a contract made in current money of the

state, within the period contemplated by the act, paya-

ble at a future day or days, for the payment of money,
and is therefore within the very words of the 2d section of the .act. This point was decided by the court
of appeals in Virginia, in the case of Watson and Hartshibrne v. Alexander, 1 Wash. 340. The object of that
section was to proCide for contracts in which the fact of
depreciation had increased the ideal value of tie con.
sideration of the contract. It is proved in the present
case, that the rent was high if payable in specie. It is
therefore a case within the spirit as well as within the
words of the section; for it is reasonable to presume
that the high rent was agreed to be given in consequence
of the dpreclated state of the paper currency.
2. The 5th section could not mean'to provide for
cases which were within the spirit of the 2d; because
that would be to render the latter section a mere nullity. There would be no use in fixing a scale, if the
cofirt were to make a iule according tb the circumstances of each particular case.
But the 5th section was intended for the benefit of
debtors only. Every case of equity in favour of creditors was provided for by the exception in the 2d.' The
only two cases particularly specified in the 5th section
to authorise the equitable interposition of the court,
are,. where the money has been tendered and refused,
or where the non-payment is owing to the creditor. In
both these cases, the equity is in favour of the debtor.
The act then proceeds, "or whiere other circumstances
"1arise, which in the opinion of ihe court, *vouldrender
" a determination according to the above table unjust;
" in either case it shall be lawful for the courtto award
"such judgment as to them shall appe,-r just and equiThe two cages are only put by way of exam"table."
ple, to show the nature of those other circumstances
which will justify the codrt in departing from the ge
neral rule.

"EBRUARY,

1804.

In the present case there are no such othercircum-

FAw

IZ
atancds as come within the intention of the legislature;-'MARS "
LER.
nothifig like the examples which they have stated.

The act of assembly is founded upon the idea that
every contract for-the payment of current money made

within the .period described, is to be considered prima
facie, a contract for the payment of paper money. This
idea is founded in'reason, because' duiing that period it
was almost tb. only -circuliting medium. Gold and
silver were scarcely known.
But if the '5th section was intended for the benefit of
creditors, as well as debtors, still it authorises the court
to interfere only in cases qttended with extraordinary
circumstances. No such circumstances appear in the
present case. It was an ordinary and a common con-,
tract no differing from the great mass of cases which
the legislature intepded to subject to the operation of.
the scale.
At the time when ths contract was made, May, 1779,
the parties could, have had'no idea of .ascale of '4epreciation. It w.as even in a manner criminal to-dbubt the'
faith of the money.' it iight have appreciated until it
gained the par of,gold and silver.. It was therefore'natural that they should have had an expectation that the.
rents would'at some future iime be payable in*specie..Such must also have been the expectation of all -those
who made contracts for the payment of current money
at distant future periods, and therefore that circumstance canliot vary this case from all others where. the

money was to be paid in future.- The injury arising
from that expectation was the very evil which the Legislature intended to guard against.
Argument, for -theAppellee.
1. This case is not within the letter or the spirit of
the 2d section of the act.
2; It is within the 5th section.

1. It is not within the spirit or letter of tle 2d section.

16.
FA&w
&tsT,.VR.

'u

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The object of the Legislature was to -prevent.injury
arising from the deprbciation of paper money in cisds
where the contract was made with a view to that currency,, and where the paities had not guarded themselves from the effect. of its depreciation. The act was
not, expected to do abstractjustice in each case, -but tofix a rule whicl should produce a general good effect.
It was predicatedupon the idea that an equivalent ou.ght
t& be paid for the consideration received. The consideration was presued to pass at the time when thie obligation was given; or the contrdct entered into ; and. if
entered intb -between certain periods, the value of.-the..
considei ition was supposed to have been measured by
the paper medimm.
ut .whereany thifig on the face
-of the contract showed'tht~t paper money'was not ih
contemplation, theftthe rule was-not to apply; as where
-the contract was made:foi gold and silver, tobacc6, or.
.other specific tiing' A. contrac therefore in which the
Vartiea did not estimate'the value of the' consideration
by the paper "mediuim, wa's not a contract within the
spirit of the 2d section of this act of Assembly. So if
the parties themselves had provided for the event of the
depreciation an'&total failure -of paper money, and had'
regulated, the prie accordingly, the case would be out
of the .spirit of theaw,; for the partes-themselves had
taken-care tb do the thing which the law supposed them
to have negl~eted: -and only for that reason provided a
remedy.

-.

Ilenced. in the construction of this act, courts ihave always'traiced the contract up to the time when'the consideration first moed from the-plaintiff to the defendant,
as ii the case of Pleagantsv. Bibb, I. Wash. 8f where
the bond was dated 1st of Feb. 1780, with condition to
pay £ i0i on or .before Dec. 17, i781, wit, interet
thereon..fom,the 16th of Feb. 1779,. and it was decided
that the.debt arose in February 1779,. and was to be reduced by the scale for that month. .By the same reason,
if th&debt had been stated to have-accrued before Jan.
1777, it would not have been reduced at all, yet it would,
by the tendei" law, have been payable in pap.er money
during its existen.ce, but if. not actually paid or tender-"

FEBRUARY,180

lt

FMVV
6d in pap.er duing that time, it would ixotcome within
the act of As'sbmbly of 1781.
M "
J.ERo

Suppose-a contract tnade in 1779, when the depre. \wu'y-wwoi
ciation was twenty for one, and a bond given to pay
X20 current money on delivery of a-horse worth X20

current mney in 1785.
in the spirit of the act.

This is another cae not with.

'Again, suppose a contract'made in 1177, when the7
market price of whea' was.20oi. a bushel, payable in pa.
Ker money, by'which A. should bind himself and his
eirs,. to deliver'to B. *and his heirs, 1000 bushels of
wheat 'per annum, for 1'000 years, for which B. agrees
for himself and his heirs, to pay ten shillings current
money of Virginia per. bushel on delivery. Would
this "+conira t be within the spirit of thi act?

Iln the present case the lease creates no debt; it is only
inducement. The debt arises only from the enjoyment
of the property; and nil debet is,
a g~od plea, which it
would not be if the debt was due by specialty. The.
couideiatioi 9f the rtuit due at the end of any one year
was the enjoyment for that year; and if the tenant
should be 'evicted by a paramount -title the rent would
not be recoverable. The consideration for -ll the -rents
since, 1781 has accrued since the passage of 'the law.
If the- debt in 1800 arises from the enjoyment of the
preceding year, is it possible to measure the value of
that enjoyment by the.depreciated p@aper of 1779?
No consideration passed at the date of the deed, aid,
.nodeb.w4s then cregted.
It 's impossible to conceive that an interminable con.
tract, when a new debt is always rising from a new enjoynent, should be measured by the paper money and
the'enjoyment of 1779..
- The act must have meant temporary, and not inter.
-minabj.e contracts.

It could not have been the understanding of the par.
ties at the date of the deed, that the rent was forever
C

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FAw

V,

LE.

'i--yu-m./

to be paid in the currency of 1779 ; which is the construction contended for by the appellant in his answer
to the bill. No person had an expectation that paper
money would last forever.' It was not in the nature of
things that it should. Nor is sucl' a construction warranted by the expressions of the deed. The words are
"to have and to hold the said lot unto the said Abra"ham Faw, his heirs and assigns forever, yielding and
"paying for the same, on the 5th day of August next"
"ensuing, and yearly and every year for ever on the
"same day unto the said William Thornton Alexander,
" his heirs and assigns, the sum of "twenty-six pounds
!4 current m2oney of Virginia." And the.co,'enant of
Faw is that he will " ,yearly and every year, foever,
" well and truly pay the aforesaid sum of twenty-six
"pounds Virginia currency."
This can only mean money current at the times the
rents shall become payable. It cannot he contended,
that he could satisfy the"terms. of the lease by paying
the rents since 1782 in paper money.
As this case is not within the spirit, so neither is it
within the letter of the Second section of the act.
The words are " all debts and contracts entered into
"or made in the current money of this state, or of the
" United States," "within the -period aforesaid, now
"renaining due, and unfulfilled, or which may become
"due at any future day or days, for the payment of
"any sum or sums of nioney, &c.
At the date of the deed this was neither a debt nor
a contract, in the sense in which those terms are used in
the act.
The whole clause must be taken together. The subsequent words explain the'kind of debts and contracts intended.
"'he word debts means debitd in prxsenti, solvenda
infuturo; such as debts due by instalments. But in
the present case there was no debt at the date' of the
deed. if Paw had become bankrupt, the rents not ack

FEBRUARY, 1.8o4.
FAw
crued at the time of the bankruptcy could not be proved tinder the commission; and the certificate would be MRsTEiLZR.
mo bar to the recovery of the future rents.. The reason
is because there is no debt until after enjoyment. Each ,
gale of rent is as a new and separate contract, and constitutes a new and separate debt.

The words "debts" and " contracts" are not- used
synonimously, but in contradistinction to each other;
and the subsequent epithets are to be applied distributively-reddendasingula singulis. Thus the words "now
"remaining due, or which may become du6 at any future day or days" are to be referred only to the word.
"debt is ' ; and the expressions " unfulfilled" and." for
"the payment of any sum or sums of money" are only
The meaning
applicable to the word " contracts."
therefore is " debts now remaining due, or which may
become due at any future day or days,'' and -1 contracts, for the payment of any sum or sums of money,
now remaining unfulfilled."
It is clear then that this was not a debt within the
meaning of the act.
The word contract evidently means such a contract
as might be fulfilled. This is implied by the Words
"now remaining unfulfilled."
It must not only be a contract which-might be fulfilled, but it must be then remaining unfulfilled. Now
this is not a contract which can ever be fulfilled, strictly speaking; and if the rents had been paid up to the
time of passing the act, it would have been fulfilled as
far as it was possible ever to fulfil it. If the rents should
be paid for a thousand years, it would still be as far
fr6im being fulfilled as it was the day of its date. But
as the rents were not paid up to the time of passing the
act, there was something for the act to operate upon, if
it is to be considered as affecting the case at all. The
rents then accrued constituted a debt "remaining due,"
and therefore, perhaps, they were properly subje Ft to the
scale. But the future rents constituted no debt; and
the contract was constantly renovating and never could
be discharged.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FAw
MARSTEL.
LER.

."

-

The case then is not within the statute.-But if it is,
it is within the fifth section.
It has been urged that this sectiou is for the benefit
of debtors only. But surely the legislature of Virginia
would not so violate the principles of justice, as to pro.
vide for the equity of debtors, without also providing
for special cases in favour of creditors. The case of
Watson & Hartshornev. Alexander, 1 Ti.Vsh. 240, is full
in our favour upon this point. T'--. judgment in that
case was not reversed on the merits, but upon a supposed impropriety in the manner of bringing the spe.
cial circumstances of the case before the court below.
. But here it is not contebded that the facts did not
come .properly before the court.
It appears that the rent was high at that time if payable in specie,' but low if payable inpaper money.
* The deposition of Wise, who purchased the lot for
Sye, states, that he understood at the time that the
rents would be payable in specie when paper should
cease to circulate.
What was the appellant's own opinion, appears by his
having received from Saunders, C400, in specie, for
a breach of Saunders' covenant to extinguish the rent.
If the rent is to be reduced to the sum of 'i,3, 7,
according to the appellant's idea, he will have received
Inore than three -hundred years purchase.
But the parties in this case, made their contract with

afull knowledge of the depreciation of paper* money.
It had already greatly depreciated; and was continuing
rapidly to depreciate.
They knew they were forming a contract, which
would extend far beyond the possible existence of paper
money. That temporary medium therefore could not
have had much influence upon either of them. The
chance of paying his rent, for some time, in a depreciated currency might have been some small temptation
to the appellant lo give a little higher rent, but it does
not appear to have been a very high rent even if payable
in specie, provided specie had been as plenty as it was

FEBRUARY, 1804.

21

before the existence of paper money. The small increase of the rent which -the existence of paper money

occasioned was compensated: to the appellant by his
right to pay it in a depreciated currency, during the

existence of that currency; while the same increase of
rent was a compensation to Alexandr for his loss by
the depreciation.
It was therefore a fair and equitable bargain, in whiich
the subject of depreciation was completely and fairly
settled by the parties themselves. This court therefore, as a bourt of equity, has nothing more to do than
to carry into effect, the contract as it was understood by
the parties at the time, by rediucing'to the scale, the
rents which accrued during the existence of paper money, and by compelling a .payment of the residue in
specie.
The intention of the parties constitutes the contract;
especially in equity. If it was their intention, (as seezns

to have been fully proved,) that the rent should be paid
in papef money during its existence, and afterwards in
specie, then it was a contract to pay the rent in gold and
silver after a certain period; which period has by subsequent events been proved to be the 1st of January
1782. As to all the rents therefore which have since
accrued it was a contract for gold and silver, and therefore expressly within the exceptiQn of the 2d section of
the act.
"
Upon.these principles the decree of the court belou
is founded, and if the court is now to form an equitable
adjustment of the contract, it cannot be formed on surer
ground than the intentions of the parties themselves,
deliberately entered into, with a full knowledge of all
the circumstances, and without even an allegation of
fraud, mistake, or accident.
In reply, it was observed that the nature of the consideration makes no difference. The case is not varied
-whether the consideration be a horse, or land ;-or the
use of a horse, or the use of land-or whether an annuity fore~eri be granted in consideration of ,r00 paid
in hand--or whether it be a perpetual rent.

.FA*
MAVs..
LrFR

SUPREME COURT U. S.
If the deed did not create a debt, yet it created a conon the part of Faw to
tract. It contains a covenant
n
This is a conyear
C26
Virginia
currency.
pay every

PAtARSTELLER.
.tract

obligatory upon him without enjoymefit.

The intention of the parties has been resorted to.
That intention can be learned only from the'instrument
itself. But if we do resort to extraneous evidence, it
appears that current money was intended, and that paper money was most naturally within the contemplation
of the parties, because there was little specie in cir.culation. The law was intended to carry into effect
the intention of the parties.
It has been said that the consideration must be a past,
and not an accruing consideration.
But here the consideration was past. 'the grantor
had parted with his whole right and estate.
-In an action of debt for rent upon a demise by deed,
it is not necessary to aver occupation and enjoyment.
The deed itself is the consi-eration.
February14th. Marshall, Ch. .7. After stating the
facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was instituted to recover the rent in arrear,
under the deed, executed in August 1779, a part of
which rent had accrued during the circulation of paper
money.
The circuit court decreed that the rents which became payable in the years 1780, and 1781, should be
adjusted by the scale of depreciation, when they respectively became due, and that the rents accruing afterwards should be discharged in specie.
From this decree Fan' appealed to this court, and it
is alleged that the decree of the court below, is erroneous, because,
Ist. The contract of August-1777, is within the 2d
section of the act of the Virginia assembly, which has
been cited. And if so,

FEBRUARY, 1804.
Idly. That it is not within the 5th section of that act.
The descriptive words of thi act of assembly are "all
"debts and contracts entered into, or made, in the cur"1rent money of this stite, or of the United States,"
" now remaining due and unfulfilled, or which may be"1come due, at any future day or days, for the payment
" of any sum or sums of money." 'These words, it is
.urged, comprehend in express terms the very contract
now b'efore the court. That coniract is an engagement
entered into within the time specified by the act to pay
several sums of current money in future. To *makethe
case still stronger, contracts for gold and silver coin, tobacco, or any other specific property are expressly excepted out. of the operation of the law. When those
who introduced these exceptions, were so very cautious
as expressly to take a contract for tobacco, or other specific property, out of the operations of a law made solely
for money contracts, there are additionalinducements to
believe that every possible contract, not included within
the exceptions, was designed to be comprehended in the
general rule.
It is admitted.in argument, by the coumcil for the appellee, thiat the terms used in the first part of the section
are such, that if they stood alone, they would include,
in their letter, the case at bar: but it is contended, that
there are subsequent words which limit those just
quoted, o as to restrain their operation to contracts capable of being extinguished. These words are, that
upon payment of what'was the value of the debt or contract.at the time it was entered into, " the debtors or
" contractors shall be .fdrever discharged of, and from
"the s.aid.debts or contracts." These words, it is said,
can only apply to temporary contracts, such as may be
completely fulfilled, and from.which the debtors'or contractors may, in the language of the law, "be forever
discharged."
It will not be denied that there is much weiglit in this
argument; but it does not appear to the court to be
strictly correct.. In searching for the literal construc-'
tion of an act, it would -eem to be generally true, that
positive and explicit provisions,comprehending in terms

F.&w
MAUSTZ14,

LZt.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FAM
MARSTEL-

LER.
y

a whole class of cases, are not to'be restrained, by applying to those cases an implication drawn from subsequent words, unless that implication be very clear, necessary, and irresistible.

In the present case, the im-

plication does not appear to the ccurt to bV of.that
description. A contract for the payment of distinct
sums of money, at different periods, is very much in the
nature of distinct contracts. An action of debt lies for
each sum as it becomes due, and when that sum is paid,
the debtor or contractor is forever discharged from the
contract to pay it. To understand in this tense the
words of the att which are considered as restrictive,
does not appear to the court to be such a violence to
their natural import as to be inadmissible; and to understand them in this sense reconciles the different parts
of' the clause with each other.
But .although the counsel for the appellee may not
have established the literal construction for which they
insist, yet so much weight is admitted to be in the argument, that if they succeed in showifig the case to be
out of the mischief intended to be guarded against, or
out of the spirit of the law, the letter would nbt be
deemed so unequivocal as absolutely to exclude the
construction they contend for.
It is urged, that the mischief designed to be guarded
against, is confined to temporary contracts, and that by
the spirit of the law, and the construction it has received,
the time when the consideration, on which the debt is
founded, moved from the creditor, is the.real date ot
contract.
But the court perceives no sufficient ground for iaying that this case is taken out of the mischief or spirit
of the law by either of the circumstances which have
been relied on.
The only real reason for supposing that the law
might not be designed to comprehend interminable contracts is, that as paper money must unavoidably cease
to circulate during the 'continuance of the contract, thtparties must have measured their agreement by a more
permanent standard.

FEBRUARY, fl"

.5

FLW
Very great respect, is certainly, due to this arguIV.,
which
agreement,
an
MARsTEzL.
that
denied,
be
rient, but it cannot
LzR.
is to subsist for a very great length of time, as for a
thousand years, would be entered into with precisely
the same sentiments, as an agreement to subsist for
ever. The contracting parties would be as confident
in the one case, as, in the other, that the agreement
would subsist, 9fter the aper currency would cease to
circulate. Yet an agreement for a thotisand years,
would be withini the very words and the spirit of the
law, which pltinly comprehends engagements for different Sums of rnohek to become due in future at diffeent periods. To suppose a distinction to have beer%
contetihplated between two such cases, is to suppose a
course of reasoning too unsubstantial, and too finely
dtfawn for tle regulation of human action. It seems to
be the date, and. not the'duratibn of the coniract, which
*Rs regarded by the legiglature. The act is applied
difectly to -the date of contract, and the motive for
iakihg Iti was4 that contracts entered into duting the
circulation 'of paper mohey, ought in justice to be dis" thatged, by a sum differing in intrinsic value, from the
nomiial sum mentioned in the contract,*4nd that when
the legislature removed the elusive standards by
which the value, of the thing acquired had been ineasured, they "0ught to' provide'that justice should be
cdone to the "parties&

That the.ttime'when the "tonisiderabln w," fcefed,"
tionstittitt§ the date of contfact, accotding to the intention of the iet O ms fiot to be a correct opinion; nor,
it 6rrect, woAuld it affect the present case.
n If, for .e-aiple, a contract had been entered Hito,
in 17791 to be executed in 1789, whereby a specific
sum in cuitenit money, was to' be given for property
then to he delivered, no doubt would be entertaified,
but that the case would come within the law, although
the thin sold, *would pass out of the vendor after the
first of lanua'y 182 "yet th6 cofitract to pay the mo&ney, was- eiiteied into in 1779, and in the general legislhtive view of the. subject, the value of the money at
the date of the cobtract, is supposedto have regulated'
the price of the article.

SUPREME-COVRT U. S.
Fnw

V.
LA.

If in the case of rents, this argument of the counsel
for the appellees was correct, it would follow, that rents
accruing during the circulatidn of paper money, or
Sleases made before the first of January, 1777, were
within the operation of the act. If enjoyment is the
-consideration, for which the rent becomes payable, and
the date of the consideration is in the spirit of the act
.the date of contract, then rents accruing between the
first of January, 1777, and the first of January, 1782,
or leases made prior to the former period, would be
payable according to the scale of depreciation, and
rents accruing after the first of January, 1782, or
leases made for a short term of years, when depreciaation was actually at the rate of 500 for one, would be
payable in specie at their nominal sum. These consequenices folloW inevitably, from the construction contended for, and yet it is believed, that no person would
admit an exposition, which he acknowledged to involve
them.
The position then, that the value of the money at the
time of the consideration, for which it was to be paid,
was "receivedT if the standard by which the contract is
to be measured, is not a correct one, and if correct, it
would not apply to this case, because, the real consideration i' found'in the contract itself, by which the right
to enjoy the premises, is conveyed from the grantor to
the grantee. This right was defeated by subsequent
events, but does not originate in those events.
The case cited from 1st HWashington 8, by no means
conflicts with this opinion. In that case it was decided
that where a written instrument discloses on its face
any matter which proves that the contract itself was
of a date anterior to the paper, by which it is evidenced,
as when a bond carries'interest from a past dy, the
contract shalthe consideied as of a date antecedent to its.
execution, and the scale of that antecedent date shall
he applied to it. The reason of this decision is, that
the price of the article sold, vas measured in nominal
moneyaccording to its value, at the date of the original
contract, and not according to its value when the instrument of writing was executed.

FEBRUARY, 1804.

27

It is then the opinion of the court, that the contract
of the 5th of August, 1779, comes .within the secohd
section of the act, "directing the mode of adjusting and
settling the payment of certain debts and contracts,
aid for other purposes."
It remains to inquire, whether it is a case .proper for
the interposition of that equitakle power which is con£erred on the court by the fifth sectfon of that act, and
if so, in what manner, and to what extent that power
ought to be interposed.
It is contended by the .counsel for the appellant, that
this case does not come within the fifth sectioi of the
act, because,•
- ist. That section is designed only for the benefit of
'debtors.
2d. No testimoziy out of a written contract -can be
admitted to explain it.
3d. If the testimony be admitted, it does not prove
one of those extraordinary cases, which will 6ie entitled
to the-benefits of that section.
1st. The fifth section is designed only for the benefit
of debtors.
'That the provisions of an act, for the regulation of
contracts, should be designed uniformly to benefit one
of the parties only, is at first view a proposition replete
"with so much injustice, that the person who would:
maintain it must certainly show, either that the words
of the act will admit fairly of no other construction, or
that legislative aid on one side only, was requisite in
order to do right between the parties.
The counsel for the appellants endeavour to maintain
both-these propositions, and if they succeed in either,
the case is clearly with them.
In reasoning from the words of the law, they say,
that the two cases put, are by way of example, and as

FAL'

"'a.
-r.L:

MAs

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FAW
W/ARSTEL.LER.

h

they are both cases, where the scale established by the
act is to be departed from, for the benefit of the debtor,
the general power afterwards given to the court ought
to be considered as dt-signed to furnish a remedy in
other similar cases not occurring at the time to the legislature.
The words of the section are, " that where a suit
shall bz brought for the recovery of the debt, and it
shall appear, that the value thereof hath been tendered
and refused; or where it shall appear that the non-payment thereof hath been owing to the creditor; or where
other circumstances arise, which in the opinion of the
court, before whom the cause is brought to issue, would
render a determination agreeable to the above table unjust; in either case it shall and may be lawful for the
court to award such judgment as to them shall appear
just and equitable."
The terms used in the third member of the sentence
are certainly very comprehensive, and their general
natural import does not appear to be so restrained by
their connection with other parts of the section, as necessarily to confine their operation to cases where debtors only can derive advantage from them.
The legislature was performing a very extraordinary
act. It was interfering in the mass of coftracts entered into between the first of January, 1777, and the
first of January 1782' and ascertaining the value of
those contracts, by a rule different from that which'had
been adopted by the parties themselves. Altho' the rule
might in the general be ajust one, yet that it would often
produce excessive injury to one or other of the parties,
must have been foreseen. It was therefore in- some
measure necessary to vest in the tribunals applying this
rule a power to relax its rigor in such extraordinary
cases. This sentiment might produce the fifth section,
and if it did, the general terms used, oidght to be applied to the relief of the injured party, whether he was
the creditor or the debtor.
The opinion that the creditor could not in the contemplation of the legislature be the injured party,, because

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

29

the ssime of depreciation gave him the full value of his
Accanuae£, dQes not seem to be perfectly correct.
•
cordinf to th law Of the coniract, all monies -accruing
inder i4 whlh were not received during the currency
Qf pape, "would be pyable in such other money as
ii&h be current at the time of payment It is im.
ossible to say bv any general rule what influence
nowled&e of this pzinciple might have of the p4rties,
in avozy~cw. where the cotract ws eontintiing and
ws to be fuc1iJed at futioe very distant periods. Unisuch casps, p .eswd some
cals &e" iilk appying

;h

is app.rent that the one or the
-M
Ootar of the pArts woId o6en be injured, by the inverfine&e of tes.
b witls
e ith their .ptraet, and
ti in-juy would moMt ge..rally be .st4ned by the
thata at
ba ecau in al
Ca
in . cooWivcti.olivetht
more valkil me.di m
the
return during
te
time,
would
a
tha a ci.e4~ing
tho contxpA of tip
h
ntr.ct, rrua have had .onsi.
drb."
iWovcite on dhe parties in
u _oney
or'ed to 4 p
-

ing the sum of

There appears, therfore, nothing IaOhe stte of the
rties tO be aff,ted by the fifth svption of the act,
jiviib §hoWld preymt its applicaton, either to creditors oT debtors, xs tA r a jusifce of tIe mge m'y re.
Bm* ad inWg the .orteoee* of this opinion, iti*
contended that w~ circu twlus cau be gie
v-

4=0e to ggliip S Written eontrat, 40d thereore,. it i's
said, that e judgment of the court in Jtbipase must
.be goverwd abo* tely by the ded of.Augut, 1'9,
unless other snbse.wmt aW iadepen4t ere's shoauld
cotrol th.&t ded,
The rue which forbids a deed to he ntradicted,
oroexpWt
d by pMol testimoAy, is k Wultary on;e ,nd
the court is not disposed to impair it
'he applicgion
of that rule to this case, howiever, is not perceived.
The tgmopy which brings this contrac, within the
fifth section, neitrer contradic4 nor e~plains the deed.
It isnot pretended that the deed was not executed on
the considertion erpressed on the face.of it. But ac.

M

PAW
"

MAUSTEL-

LEa.

3o.
)FAW
14ARsTEL.

LER.
sbecome

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

cording to the law which existed when the deed was
executed, that consideration would be payable only in.
gold and silver coin, when gold and silver coin should
the only currency of the country. The law chang-

ing the nominal sum of money, by which .the debt
should be discharged, and giving a general rule, by
which a different sum, from that agreed on by the
parties, is to be paid and received, authorises a departure from the rule where circumstances shall arise
which render a determination agreeable to it unjust.j
The examination of these circumstances is not entered
into for the purpose of contradicting or explaining the
deed; but for the purpose of determining which of two
rules given by the statute altering the law of the contract does really govern the case.
The argument, that the exception, if it receives the
construction which the court seems inclined to give it,
would destroy .the rule, must be founded on a supposition that in every case the circumstances would be
looked into, and a slight injustice in the application of
the scale of depreciation to the contract, would be
deemed a sufficient motive for departing from it. But;
this is not the opinion bf the court, and it may very
readily be perceived that the great mass of contracts,
made during the circulation of paper money, may be
decided by a general scale estimating the value of those
contracts, although there may be very strong features
insome few cases, which distinguish them as of such
peculiar character, that they are embraced by the clause
which measures their value by the standard of justice.
But although the just construction of the 5th section
of the law, admits a creditor, who would be greatly injured by the application of the general rule to his case,
to show circumstances which authopise a departure
from that rule; it is contended that such circumstances
have not been shown in the cause under consideration.
It is said that the case ought to be an extraordinary
one, that the circumstances ought to be uncommon
which would warrant a departure from the general
principle established for the government of contracts
generally.

FEBRUARt,

804,

*2This is true,. and the court would certainly not feel
itself at liberty to exercje on a common occasion a
discretionary power, limited only by the opinion entertained of the naked justice of the cse.
But this appears to the court to be ah extraordinary
case. The evidence goes, a great way in proving that
the 'parties to the contract believed that the sums becoming due under it, would at no distant period be payable in specie only. This testimony is the more to be
credited, 'because it is not easy -to conceive any other
motive for disposing of the propeity on the 'terms on
which It was parted with; and still more. because such
was the.operation of the'existing law -on th contract
when it was entered into. " Under this impression, an
impression warranted by the law of the land, a very valuable property has been conveyed away for what would
have been, uider the then' existing law, a full-consideratidn, *butwhich a subsequent act of the legislature -has
reduced certainly to' a tenth, perhaps to, a twentictli of
the real value of the estate disposed of.
Sti ch a case is in the opinion of the court an extraordinary case, which is completely entitled'to the extraordinary relief furnished by the act which' has 6ccasloned.
the mischief.

* In inquiring to what extent this relief, ought to' be
afbtded or, in the words of the law, what "judgment
"will be just and equitable," the court can perceive fio
ofiler guide, by which its opinion ought, in this case, to
he Tegulated, but, the real value of the property at the
time it Was sold. The record does not furnish satis'factory evidence of this value. It is proved that a lot
not'superior to that which occasioned the present contest, rented in the year 1.774, for X13 58 per annum,
.and that other lots, perhaps not equal to it, rented in
1784, for .'£25 pei .innupm. It is even proved that a
small part of the very lots, about thi value of which the
inquiry is nw to be made, rented in the year 1784, on
a ground rent forever, for X9-5 16&per annuth. Thes6
are very strong circumstances in support of the decree
of le .circuit court, fixing the rent at £26 per annum,

FAVW
"
M "ASTE1'Liu.

32
lAW
A"L
LZR.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the nominal sum mentioned in the lease.

But a ma-

jority of the judges are of opinion hat the value must

be ascertained by a less erring standard.
Neither the value in 1774 nor in 1784, ought to regulate the rent. The value at the date of the contract,
must be the sum which in equity and justice the lessee
ought to pay, and as this value is not ascertained by the
testimony in the record, it ought to be found by a jury.
In finding this value however, the jury ought not to be
governed by the particular difficulty of obtaining gold
and silver coin at the time, but their conduct ought to.
be regulated by 1he real value of the property, if a solid
equivalent for specie, had been made receivable in lieu
thereof. On these principles the court has directed the
following decree.
This cause, which was abated.by the" death of the
appellee and was revived in the name of his ad ministrator, came. on to be heard on the transcript of the record, and was fully argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, the court is of opinion that there is error
in the decree of the circuit court in this, that the rents
reserved in the lease in the proceedings mentioned,
bearing date the 5th day of August, in the year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy.nine,
and which were in arrear and unpaid, were decreed to
be paid.at their value accordifig to the scale of depreciation wyhen the same became due and that those rents
which accrued after the first of January 1 82,- are d!.creed to be paid according to the nominal sum mentioned in the lease; whereas, the annual rent reserved in
the said.lease, ought to be reduced to such a, sum in
specie, as the property conveyed, was,'at the date of the
contract, actually worth ; to ascertain which, the evidence of the cause not being sufficient for that purpose,
an issue ought to have been directed, according to the
ve*rdict on which, if satisfactory to the court, the final
decree oughtto have been rendered.
This court .is therefore of opinion, that the decree
rendered in this cause, in the circuit court for the coun-

