HOOD v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

istered according to the rights of parties existing at the time of
such suspension. Whether, if the defendant claimed a judgment against the bank or its officers for the alleged fraud or
deceit of the latter officers, he could participate in the distribution of the proceeds of the stock assessment until all the contract obligations of the bank had been met, was not decided
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. That question'was wisely
reserved for decision when it should arise and become necessary
to be decided. It was deemed by that court only necessary to
adjudge that the receiver was entitled to a judgment against
the defendant, and that the latter was not entitled in this action
to a judgment against the receiver on account of frauds committed by the bank or its officers. In that view we concur.
Perceiving no error of law in the record, the judgment below is
Affirmed.

HOOD v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 179. Argued March 19,1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

Lantry v. Wallace, ante 536, followed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
The counsel were the same as in Zntiry v. Wallce, and the
two cases were argued together.
MR. JUSTICE

I[AAx delivered the opinion of the court.

The pleadings in this case are the same as in Latm' v. Vallace, just decided. The demurrer to the answer and cross-petition of Hood was sustained in an elaborate opinion by Judge
Phillips, holding the Circuit Court. 89 Fed. Rep. 11. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

judgment in that court was affirmed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Lan"zry v. rallace, 97 Fed. Rep 865.
For the reasons stated in the opinion just- rendered in Lantry'8 case, the judgment in this case is
.4ffirmed.

COM

ERCIAL BANK v. CHAMBERS.

ERROR TO THE SUPREE

COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAI.

No. 270. Argued and submitted April 26, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
As the constitution of Utah distinguished between stock and credits in
determining the amount of property of a national bank subject to taxation, shares of stock were not credits, and resident and non-resident shareholders were not entitled to deduct bonafide indebtedness from their
shares of stock.
The assessed value of real estate owned by a bank in other States than that
in which the bank is located, is not to be deducted in determining the
amount of assessable property of the bank, unless authorized by the laws
of the State in which the bank is situated.

THE plaintiff in error is a national banking association, doing
business at Ogden City, Weber County, Utah. The action below was brought by the "bank to enjoin the collection of the
alleged illegal portion of certain taxes levied against its shareholders for the year 1898.
Certain provisions of the constitution and laws of Utah which
are claimed to be pertinent to the controversy are excerpted in
the margin. 1
'Provisions of the constitution of Utah relied on by plaintiff in error
(Rev. Stat. Utah, 1898, p. 61):
" ARTICLE XIII, SEc. 2.
[WHAT PROPERTY TAXABLE. DEFINITIONS.
REVE UE.]-All property in the State, not exempt under the laws of the
United States, or under this constitution, shall be taxed in proportion to
its value, to be ascertained as provided by law. The word property, as
used in this article, is hereby declared to include moneys, credits, bonds,
stocks, franchises and all matters and things (real, personal and mixed) cap-

