OCTOBER TERII, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

ruptcy proceedings had not been instituted and such controversies had been between the bankrupts and such adverse claimants.
"b. Suits by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted
in the courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them
if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted unless by
consent of the proposed defendant.
"c. The United States courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the courts of bankruptcy, within their respective territorial limits, of the offences enumerated in this act."
The proceedings we are reviewing were not a suit within the
meaning of that section, and the order of the court requiring
the repayment of the dividend was properly and legally made.
ajfrmed.
IJudgmenvt
The CmEF JUSTICE, Mr. Justice SHIAS, Mr. Justice W rr&
and Mr. Justice PEoEAm dissented.

UNITED STATES ex 'el. QUEEN v. ALVEY.
ORIGINAL.-PTITION FOR MANDAMUS.
No. 17. Original. Argued February 25,1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
Under the circumstances set forth in its opinion this court thinks that the
rule respecting appeals to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia must receive the interpretation here which was given to it by the
-Court of Appeals.

UPON filing the petition for mandamus a rule was issued and
served. The respondents have replied thereto. The question
presented is the interpretation of a rule of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia hereinafter set out.
The case of petitioners as presented by their petition is substantially as follows: Marcella Jarboe, a widow, died without
issue in the District of Columbia, on the 28th day of March,

UNITED STATES ex wl. QUEEN v. ALVEY.
Statement of the Case.

1899, aged 88 years. The petitioners were her heirs at law.
After her death a paper writing, purporting to be her will,
dated February 24, 1892, and two other paper writings purporting to be codicils, dated respectively October 20, 1892, and
February 15, 1898, were offered for probate by William Myer
Lewin, executor, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding a special term for orphans' court business, as her
last will and testament.
The relators filed caveats to the probate of the will traversing the due execution of the papers as a will and alleging incapacity, undue influence and fraud. Upon the issue thus
formed testimony was taken, and at its close the court instructed the jury to render a verdict for the will and codicils.
Exception was duly made, and subsequently, on May 10, 1900,
a motion for new trial was made and overruled, and an.order
was passed admitting the will and codicils to probate and directing letters testamentary to issue. An appeal was allowed
to the Court of Appeals of the District, and a bond fixed for
costs, not to operate as a supersedeas. The bond was duly approved, and filed May 17, 1900.
On July 2, 1900, the trial justice extended the time for filing
the transcript forty days from the expiration of the time then
limited. The transcript, however, was not filed within the extended time, and Mr. Justice Cole again extended it to October 15, 1900.
The transcript was filed October 9, 1900, but not until after
appellees had given notice of a motion to docket and dismiss
under the rule. When the motion came on to be heard it was
abandoned, and by leave of the court a motion to dismiss was
substituted. It was granted October 19, 1900, and the appeal
dismissed with costs. This petition was then filed. The rule,
the interpretation of which is involved, is as follows:
"All cases, the records and transcripts of which shall be received by the clerk of this court before the last twenty days of
the term, shall be considered for trial in the course of that term;
but such cases shall be placed on the docket in the order of time
in which the records or transcripts shall be received; and if received within twenty days of the next succeeding term, either

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

party shall be entitled to a continuance; but when an appeal is
entered in the court below which shall operate as a supersedeas
of the judgment, order or decree appealed from, or when there has
been a special order or appeal bond for the stay or supersedeas
of the judgment, decree or order appealed from, in all such cases
it shall be the duty of the appellant, within forty days from the
time of the appeal entered and perfected in the court below (unless such time for special and sufficient cause be extended by the
court below, or the judge thereof by whom the judgment, decree, or order may have been rendered, such time to be definite
and fixed), to produce and file with the clerk of this court a transcript of the record of such cause; and if he shall fail to file the
transcript within the time limited therefor the appellee shall be
allowed to file a copy or transcript of the record with the clerk
of this court, and the cause shall stand for trial in the like manner as if the transcript had been filed by the appellant in due
time; or the said appellee may, on producing a certificate from
the clerk of the court below, stating the cause, and that an
appeal has been entered, and the date thereof, and that the
judgment, decree or order appealed from is stayed or superseded by bond or otherwise, have the said appeal docketed and
dismissed; or, in any and all cases, the appellee may, after the
tim6 limited for filing the transcript in this court by the appellant, and his or her default in respect thereto, upon pro dhcing
.a certificate showing the entry of appeal and the date thereof,
have said appeal docketed and dismissed; and in no case shall
the appellant be entitled to docket a case and file the record
after said appeal shall have been docketed and dismisged under
this rule, unless by special order of the court, upon satisfactory
reason shown."
The answer of the respondents alleged the promulgation of
the rule in pursuance of the act of Congress creating the court,
and that under the same act on the 29th of September, 1894,
the court amended the rules in several respects and promulgated them as amended. The amendment consisted in the insertion of the words "in any and all cases" for the words
"in any case," in numbered rule XV.

UNITED STATES ez 7el. QUEEN v. ALVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

-Yr. Walter D. J)avidge and XM.
for petitioners.

Walter D. 1Davidge, JT.,

-Yr. A. S. Torthington for respondents.
.Fraileywas on his brief.

Air. Charles L.

MR. XUSTICE MCKEINA, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act of Congress -of February 9, 1893, which established a Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, it was
provided"That any party aggrieved by any final order, judgment or
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or
of any justice thereof, may appeal therefrom to the Court of
Appeals hereby created; and upon such appeal the Court of
Appeals shall review such order, judgment or decree, and affirm, reverse or modify the same as shall be just."
And it was also provided"That said Court of Appeals shall establish by rule of court
such terms in the court in each year as to it may seem necessary: Provided, however, that there shall be at least three terms
in each year, and it shall make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary and proper for the transaction of its business
and the taking of appeals to said court. And said Court of
Appeals shall have power to prescribe what part or parts of
the proceedings in the court below shall constitute the record
on appeal and the form of bills of exception, and to require that
the original papers shall be sent to it instead of copies thereof,
and generally to regulate all matters relating to appeals, whether
in the court below or in said Court of Appeals."
Under this provision the rule set out in the return of the
respondents was established and amended. The question now
is as to the interpretation of the rule. It will be observed that
the rule states that "when an appeal is entered in the court
below which shall operate as a supersedeas of the judgment,
order or decree appealed from, or when there has been a'special
order or appeal bond for the stay or supersedeas of the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, decree or order appealed from, in all such cases it shall
be the duty of the appellant, within forty days from the time
of the appeal entered and perfected in the court below, (unless
such time for special and sufficient cause be extended by the
court below, or the judge thereof by whom the judgment, decree
or order may have been rendered, such time to be definite and
fixed,) to produce and file with the clerk of this court a transcript of the record of such cause."
The contention of the parties turns on this provision. Is it to
be interpreted independently or in connection with and as receiving meaning from the subsequent provision commencing
-withthe words "in any and all cases?" Or, in other words, is
the rule to be applied differently when the appeal operates as a
supersedeas from what it does when the appeal does not so
operate? The appeal of relators did not so operate, and the
relators contend that their cause "was not of the class of cases
to which the rule relates," and therefore no rule or authority
imposed on them the duty of filing the transcript within the
forty days, but tthat their case falls under that part of the rule
which provides for filing the record in cases wher6 there was
no supersedeas or stay. "It does not enlarge in any manner,"
counsel say, "the cases specified in the former part of the rule,
and to which the duty of filing within forty days is confined."
The Court of Appeals held otherwise, and declares in its reply,
which is very circumstantial, that the rule even as originally
framed was intended to have a different meaning from that
which relators put upon it, but upon doubts arising it was
amended to remove the doubts, and "in all cases, whether
there had been a supersedeas or not, to fix a period of time
within which the transcript should be filed in the Court of Appeals (subject to the authority given by the rule itself, to the
court below or a judge thereof, to extend the time). Otherwise
there would have been no provision at all for cases in which
there should be no supersedeas."
The answer also states" The rule as so understood and construed by the respondents
has been enforced in every case in which it has been brought
to the attention of the respondents. So far as they know no

UNITED STATES ex rel. QUEEN v. ALVEY.
Syllabus.

case has arisen since September 29, 1894, in which the transcript
has not been filed within forty days from the time of the appeal
entered and perfected in the court below, except where the time
has been extended in accordance with the rule, by an order
made by a judge of the court below before the expiration of
the time limited by the rule or by a previous order. In the
case of the District of Columbia v. Humphprey, 11 App. D. C.
68, the appeal was dismissed solely because the transcript was
not filed in the Court of Appeals within the forty days prescribed by the rule in question, and without reference to whether
the appeal operated as a supersedeas. The opinion of the Court
of Appeals in that case was published among the regular reports
of that court in 18982
Under these circumstances we are of the opinion that the
rule must receive the interpretation which was given it by the
Court of Appeals.
Rule discharged.

CLEWS v. JAMIESON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
NO. 245. Argued Apr11 17,18,1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
As the governing committee of the stock exchange had no personal interest
in the fund in question in this suit, which was placed in its possession
in the trust and confidence that it would see that the purposes of the deposit were fulfilled, and that the *moneyswere paid out only in accordance with the terms of the trust under which it was deposited, there can
be no question that the fund became thereby a trust fund in the possession of the governing committee, and the disposition of which, in accordance with the trust, they were called upon to secure. The committee
occupied, from the time of the deposit of the funds, a fiduciary relation
towards the parties depositing it, and became a trustee of the fund,
charged with the duty of seeing that it was applied in conformity with
the provisions creating it.
The jurisdiction of the court below was plainly established, because, under
the circumstances, the complainant had no adequate and full remedy at
law.

