OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

CARSON v. BROCKTON SEWERAGE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 249. Argued April 18,1901.-fDecided May 27,1901.

Whether the construction of a public sewer by assessments upon adjoining
property entitles the owners of.such property to the free use of such
sewer, or only to the right to a free entrance to it of their particular
sewers, is a question of local policy.
Notwithstanding that such sewer was built by assessments upon the property benefited, it is competent for the legislature to require persons
making use of it to pay a reasonable sum for such use.
Where an ordinance fixes the charges that shall be paid for the use of a
common sewer, no notice is required to be given to the property owners
of an assessment for that purpose.

THIs was a petition to the justices of the Supreme Judicial
Court for the county of Suffolk, for a writ of certiorari to the
Board of Sewer Commissioners of the city of Brockton, directi ng them to bring up certain proceedings connected with the
assessment of taxes upon petitioner's land to the amount of
$42.53, for the maintenance' and operation of a public sewer,
and for an order quashing the proceedings.
The petitioner alleged the assessment to be illegal and void:
1. Because the city ordinance does not provide for notice to
or hearing of persons whose estetes are affected thereby, in
violation of the state constitution;
2. Because the method of computing the sewer dharges is
unreasonable and disproportionate;
3. Because petitioner, having already paid for the sewers
connected with his land, cannot be compelled to pay a special
tax for the maintenance and operation of sewers from which he
receives no special benefit;
4. Because such tax or sewer rental is in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution;
5. Because such tax is permissible only when founded upon
peculiar and special benefits to the property so taxed, and then
only to the amount of such benefits;

CARSON v. BROCKTON SEWERAGE COMMISSION. 399
Statement of the Case.

6. Because lands assessed for the construction of sewers cannot be said to receive an additional and special and peculiar
benest from the general oversight and operation of the same.
By an act of the legislature of YMassachusetts, passed May 6,
1892, c. 245, "to give greater power to cities and towns in relation to the construction of sewers," it was enacted as follows:
"SEc. 1. The city council of any city except Boston, or a
town, in which common sewers are laid under the provisions of
sections one, two and three of chapter fifty of the Public Statutes, or a system of sewerage is adopted under the provisions
of section seven of said chapter, may by vote establish just and
equitable annual charges or rents for the use of such sewers, to
be paid by every person who enters his particular sewer into the
common sewer, and may change the same from time to time.
Such charges shall constitute a lien upon the real estate, using
such common sewer, to be collected in the same manner as taxes
-upon real estate, or in an action of contract in the name of such
city or town. Sums of money so received may .be applied to
the payment of the cost of maintenance and repairs of such
sewers or of any debt contracted for sewer purposes."
Pursuant to this authority the city council of Brockton, on
August 23, 1894, adopted an ordinance, of which the following
is the material provision:
"S.o. 4. Every person or owner of an estate who enters his
particular sewer into a common sewer shall pay for the use of
such sewer an annual rental determined upon the basis of water
service, as follows: For unmetered water service, eight dollars;
for metered water service, thirty cents per 1000 gallons of
sewerage delivered to the sewer, the quantity so delivered to
be determined by the meter readings taken 1-y the water commissioners, but the annual charge shall in no case be less than
eight dollars, it being provided, however, that in cases where
said commissioners shall deem the same to be equitable, a discount may be made, such discount to be determined by said
comm'ssioners and approved by the mayor and aldermen; and
it being further provided that any such person or owner may
place at his own expense a water meter, which shall be approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Cour.

by the said commissioners, to measure the amount of water
which does not enter the sewer.
"Such charges shall be collected quarterly and shall constitute a lien upon the real estate using the sewer, to be collected
in the same manner as taxes upon real estate or in an action of
contract in the name of the city of Brockton."
The petition was denied, and the petitioner sued out this writ
of error.
. r. William

. Car8on, in person for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case involves the single question whether a municipal
ordinance, making an annual assessment upon property owners
for the use of a common sewer, infringes upon any provision of
the Constitution of the United States.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts held that the
petitioner received a special benefit in the use of the sewer for
which he might be charged; that the city, by building the
sewer and receiving a part of its cost from the petitioner, did
not bind'itself that the sewer should be maintained forever, or
that the petitioner should be at liberty to use it free of further
expense; that the charge for using it was a benefit distinct
from that originally conferred by building it; that there was
no charge unless the sewer were used; that the only questions
were whether petitioner's sewer entered the common sewer,
and what amount of sewage was delivered to it; and that, if
the petitioner wished to be heard on either of these facts, he
could resort to the courts; that the city counsel had a right to
fix the charges without notice to the parties interested, unless,
under the pretence of fixing an equitable rate, the ordinance
should do what amounted to the taking or destruction of property.
The ordinance imposes an annual rental of eight dollars for

CARSON v. BROCKTON SEWERAGE COMMISSION. 401
Opinion of the Court.

unmetered water service, and for metered water service thirty
cents per thousand gallons of sewage delivered to the sewer
-the quantity to be so delivered to be determined by the meter
readings-with the privilege to the commissioners of making
a discount when equitable. As the Supreme Judicial Court
held that the municipality had power to adopt this ordinance
under the public statutes of the Commonwealth, and that such
statutes were no violation of the state constitution, we are
concerned only with the question whether the petitioner was
thereby deprived of his propbrty without-due process of law, or
denied the equal protection of the laws within the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The validity of the legislative act is assailed upon the ground
that no notice was required to be given to the property owner,
nor provision made for a hearing, and that the authority given
to the city council of Brockton to change the rate of sewerage
clbrges and assessments from time to time manifested an intention on the part ofthe legislature to assess such property without regard to benefits. There is no doubt that, when land is
proposed to be taken and devoted to the public service, or any
serious burden is laid upon it, the owner of the land must be
given an opportunity to be heard with respect to the necessity
of the taking, and the compensation to be paid by the city.
Davison v. lew
.7
Orleans,96 U. S. 97; Palmer v. .XoMahon,
133 U. S. 660; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183, subsequently
rebxamined in this court in Spencer v. Mkerchant, 125 U. S. 345.
Obviously these cases have no application to an ordinance
which fixes beforehand the price to be paid for certain privileges, and leaves it optional with the taxpayer to avail himself
of such privileges or not. As well might it be insisted that an
ordinance which fixes water rates, proportioned to the amount
furnished, is void, because no notice is required to be-given before such rate is fixed, or the taxpayer is assessed his proportionate charge under the ordinance. Where the use. of such
privilege is left optional with the taxpayer by his. election to
avail himself of it or not, he contracts with the city to pay the
rental fixed by its ordinance, if he elect to use it. In such case
there is no room for the question of notice. Where notice will
VOL. cixxx-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

avail nothing, no notice is required.

Reclamation Districtv.

Phillips,108 California, 306; Amery v. Xeokuk, 72 Iowa, 701;
Commonwealth v. Lehigh Valley Railroad Co., 129 Penn. St.
429.
*Thusin Hfagar v. Reclamation -District,111 U. S. 701, it was
said by -Mr. Jistice Field (p. 708): "Undoubtedly where life
and liberty are involved, due process requires that there be a
regular course of judicial proceedings, which imply that the
party to be affected shall have notice and an opportunity to be
heard. So, also, where title or possession is involved. But,
where the taking of property is in the enforcement of a tax,
the proceeding is necessarily less formal, and whether notice to
him is at all necessary may depend upon the character of the
tax, and the manner in which the amount is determinable.
Of the different kind of taxes which the State may impose, there'is a vast number of which, from their nature, no
notice can be given to the taxpayer, nor would notice be of any
possible advantage to him. Such as poll taxes, license taxes,
(not dependent upon the extent of his business,) and, generally,
specific taxes on things or persons or occupatibns. In such eases,
the legislature, in authorizing the tax, fixes its amount, and that
is the end of the matter."

See also Parsonsv. Districtof Co-

lumbia, 170 U. S.45. Under the circumstances of this case no
notice was necessary.
Similar considerations apply to the defence that petitioner
has been, or is about to be, deprived of his property without
due process of law. But of what property has he been deprived? None whatever. There has not been, nor is there
anything to indicate there ever will be, any taking of his property within the meaning of the law. Assuming that the imposition of a burden which manifestly belongs to the public,
upon private property, constitutes a deprivation of such property within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, there
is nothing of the kind involved in this case. There is not even
compulsory taxation of the property. The act of the legislature (chap. 245, act of 1892) merely provides that the city
council "may by vote establish just and equitable annual
charges or rents for the use of such sewers, to be paid by

CARSON v. BROCKTON SEWERAGE COMIUSSION. 403
Opinion of the Court.

every person who enters his particular sewer into the common sewer, and may change the same from time to time."
The municipal ordinance fixes the annual rentals, determinable upon a certain basis of water service, with a provision that
the commissioners may make an equitable discount from such
rates at their discretion. This was all there was to it. The
lot owner could use the sewer or not, as he chose. If he used
it, he paid the rental fixed by the ordinance. If he made no
use of it, he paid nothing. There is no element of deprivation
here or even of taxation, but one of contract, into which the
lot owner might or might not enter. There is no allegation in
the petition that the petitioner was required by the board of
health to discharge into the public sewer. There is no allegation that the particular charges fixed by the commissioners are
unreasonable, only that the method is unreasonable, that is, that
any charge is unreasonable.
The stress of petitioner's argument appears to be laid upon
the proposition that his property having been once assessed for
the construction of the common sewer, he has a right to the
free use of such sewer forever afterwards, and that the expense of its maintenance must be raised by general taxation
and not by special assessment. This, however, is a question
of state policy. It was for-the legislature to say whether the
construction of the sewer entitled the adjoining property owners to the free use of it, or only to the right to a free entrance
to it of their particular sewers. As held by the Supreme Judicial Court, there can be no doubt that the adjoining property
owners did receive a special benefit in being permitted to discharge their private sewers into it. The amount of such benefit was, under the statutes of the Commonwealth, determinable
by the city council, which fixed upon a certain rate for unmetered service, and a certain other rate per thousand gallons of
sewage discharged for metered service. We have held in the
recent case of Pasonm v. -Ditriatof Columbia, 170 U. S. 45,
that it was competent for, the legislative power to assess the.'
amount of benefit specially received by abutting property, and
so long as such amount is not grossly excessive, or out of all
proportion. to the benefit received, there is no reason to com-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

plain, particularly if, as held by the Supreme Judicial Court in
this case, the question of connecting with the public sewer be
left optional with the property owner.
The case is somewhat analogous to that of Sands v. .Yanietee
River Improvement Co., 123 U. S. 288, wherein we held that
the exaction of tolls, under a state statute, for the use of an
improved national waterway, is not within the prohibition of
the due process of the law clause of the Constitution. Said -Mr.
Justice Field (p. 293): "The tolls exacted from the defendant
are merely compensation for benefits conferred, by which the
floating of his logs down the stream was facilitated . ..
Tolls are the compensation for the use of another's property or
of improvements made by him, and their amount is determined
by the cost of the property or of the improvements, and consideration of the returns which such values or expenditures
should yield. The legislature, acting upon inf6rmation received, may prescribe, at once, the tolls to be charged, but ordinarily it leaves their amount to be fixed by officers or boards
appointed for that purpose."
It is true that in Sears v. Street Commisione of Boston,
173 Mass. 350, decided in May, 1899, construing a similar statute applicable to the bity of Boston, the Supreme Judicial Court
made a decision which it is difficult to reconcile with its opinion in the case under consideration, and held that "where lands
have paid assessments for special benefits from the construction
of all sewers by whose operation they are affected, it cannot be
said that they receive an additional special and peculiar benefit
from the general oversight and operation of the sewers of Boston, such as to subject them to a second special assessment.
Expenses of this kind should be made the subject of general
taxation," citing a number of cases in support of this proposition, none of which appear to be in point. Hammett v. Philadelphia, 65 Penn. St. 146, was a case of widening and repaving
a public street; Vashington Avenue, 69 Penn. St. 352, one of
compelling the owners of farm lands lying within one mile on
each side of a public highway to pay for grading, macadamizing and improving it, by an assessment upon their lands by the
acre; Appeal of William&Tport, 41 Atlantic Rep. 4:76, one of

CARSON v. BROCKTON SEWERAGE COMMISSION. 105
Opinion of the Court.

reconstructing a sewer originally built by the city; Eric v.
1usel, 148 Penn. St. 384, a similar case, except that the sewer
was originally built by local assessments; Dietz v. City of Neenah, 91 Wisconsin, 422, a question of want of notice; Dyar v.
Farmi'ngton,70 Maine, 515, one of assessment for building a
railroad; Hancorm v. Omaha, 11 Nebraska, 37, one of the extent
to which property was benefited by constructing a sewer. It
needs no argument to show that these cases had no pertinence.
The question of notice or want of notice was also considered
in the Sears case, but the court did not decide that question,
intimating, however, an opinion somewhat adverse to the validity of the statute upon this ground.
We are not required, however, to reconcile these cases. It
is sufficient that the Supreme Judicial Court held that this case
was "free from the elements which in Sears v'. Street Commw 'sionems led to the. conclusion that the petitioner was assessed
without regard to the benefits received by him." Notwithstanding the former case, we think the court was correct in
holding in this case- that the petitioner and other property
owners whose lots abutted on this public sewer did receive a
benefit not common to the inhabitants of the city generally, in
being permitted to discharge into it the contents of their private sewers, that the amount of such benefit was determinable
by the city council, and that in its action there was nothing
violative of the Federal Constitution. It was properly said by
Chief Justice Holmes in this connection: "No one denies that
it was a special benefit to the petitioner to have the sewer built
in front of his land. That benefit was the probability that the
sewer would be available for use in the future; but the city by
building it and receiving a part of the cost from the petitioner
did not impliedly bind itself or the general taxes that the sewer
should be maintained forever, and that the petitioner should be
at liberty to use it free of further expense. If building the
sewer was a special benefit, keeping the sewer in condition for
use by such further expenditure as was necessary was a further
special benefit to such as used it."
The judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court is therefore

Affirmed.

