OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
I
Mia. JUSTICE

Syllabus.

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is controlled by the case of Dooky v. UnitedStatea,
No. 501, just decided. So far as the duties were exacted upon
goods imported prior to the ratification of the treaty of April 11,
1899, they were properly exacted. So far as they were imposed
upon importations after that date and prior to December 5,1899,
plaintiff is entitled to recover them back.

The judgment of the Court of Claim8 is therefore reversed
and the case remanded to that court for further proceeding8 not inconsistent with this opinion.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 507. Argued January 8, 9,10,11,1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.1

By MR.JUSTICE BRoWN, in announcing the conclusion and judgment of
the court.
The Circuit Courts have jurisdiction, regardless of amount, of actions
against a collector of customs for duties exacted and paid under protest
upon merchandise alleged not to have been imported.
The island of Porto Rico is not a part of the United States within that provision of the Constitution which declares that "all duties, imposts, and
excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
1

In announcing the conclusion and judgment of the court in this case,
MR. JUSTICE BROWN delivered an opinion. MR. JusTIcE WnrvE delivered a concurring opinion which was also concurred in by Mn. JUSTICE
SHiRAs and MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA. MR. JUSTICE GBAY also delivered a
concurring opinion. The Chief Justice, MR.JusTIcE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREwER,and MR.JUSfICE PECKHAM dissented. Thus it is seen that
there is no opinion in which a majority of the court concurred. Under
thdse circumstances I have, after consultation with MR. JUSTICE BROWN,
who announced the judgment, made headnotes of each of the sustaining
opinions, and placed before each the names of the justices or justice who
concurred in it.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.

245

Syllabus.
There is a clear distinction between such prohibitions of the Constitution:
as go to the very root of the power of Congress to act at all, irrespective
of time or place, and such as are operative only throughout the United
States, or among the several States.
A long continued and uniform interpretation, put by the executive and legislative departments of the government, upon a clause in the Constitution
should be followed by the judicial department, unless such interpretation
be manifestly contrary to its letter or spirit.
By MR. JusTicE WHITE,with whom MR. JUsTIcE SHIRAs and MR.JusTICE MCKENNA. concurred.
The government of the United States was born of the Constitution, and all
powers which it enjoys or may exerqise must be either derived expressly
or by implication from that instrument. Ever then, when an act of any
department is challenged, because not warranted by the Constitution, the
existence of the authority is to be ascertained by determining whether
the power has been conferred by the Constitution, either in express terms
orby lawful implication, to be drawn from the express authority conferred
or deduced as an attribute which-legitimately inheres in the natuie of the
powers given, and which flows from the character of the government established by the Constitution. In other words, whilst confined to its constitutional orbit, the government of the United States is supreme within
its lawful sphere.
Every function of the government being thus derived from the Constitution, it follows that that instrument is everywhere and at all times potential in so far as its provisions are applicable.
Hence it is that wherever a power is given by the Constitution and there is
a limitation imposed on the authority, such restriction operates upon and
confines every action on the subject within its constitutional limits.
Consequently it is impossible to conceive thatwhere conditions are brought
about to which any particular provision of the Constitution applies its
controlling influence may be frustrated by the action of any or all of the
departments of the government. Those departments, when discharging,
within the limits of their constitutional power, the duties which rest on
them, may of course deal with the subjects committed to them in such a
way as to cause the matter dealt with to come under the control of provisions of the Constitutions which may not have been previously applicable. But this does not conflict with the doctrine just stated, or presuppose
that the Constitution may or may not be applicable at the election of any
agency of the government.
The Constitution has undoubtedly conferred on Congress the right to create such municipal organizations as it may deem best for all the territories of the United States whether they have been incorporated or not, to
give to the inhabitants as respects the local governments such degree of
representation as may be conducive to the public well-being, to delrive
such territory of representative government if it is considered just to do
so, and to change such local governments at discretion.
As Congress in governing the territories is subject to the Constitution, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.
results that all the limitations of the Constitution which are applicable
to Congress in exercising this authority necessarily limit its power on
this subject. It follows also that every provision of the Constitution
which is applicablS to the territories is also controlling therein. To
justify a departure from this elementary principle by a criticism of the
opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393,
is unwarranted. Whatever may be the view entertained of the correctness of the opinion of the court in that case, in so far as it interpreted a
particular provision of the Constitution concerning slavery and decided
that as so construed it was in force in the territories, this in no way affects the principle which that decision announced, that the applicable
provisions of tfie Constitution were operative.
Tn the case of the territories, as in every other instance, when a provision
of the Constitution is invoked, the question which arises is, not whether
the Constitution is operative, for that is self-evident, butwhether the provision relied on is applicable.
As Congress derives its authority to levy local taxes for local purposes
within the territories, not from the general grant of power to tax as expresated in the Constitution, it follows that its right to locally tax is not
to be measured by the provision empowering Congress ':To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises," and is not restrained by the
requirement of uniformity throughout the United States. But the power
just referred to, as well as the qualifiation of uniformity, restrains Congress from imposing an impost duty on goods coming into the United States
from a territory which has been incorporated into and forms a partof the
United States. This results because the clause of the Constitution in
.question does not confer upon Congress power to impose such an impost
duty on goods coming from one part of the United States to another part
thereof, and such duty besides would be repugnant to the requirement of
uniformity throughout the United States.
BY MR.JusTioe GRAY.
The civil government of the United States cannot extend Immediately, and
of its own force, over territory acquired by war. Such territory must
necessarily, in the first instance, be governed by the military power under
the control of the President as commander in chief. Civil government
cannot take effect at once, ss soon as possession is acquired under milltary authority, or even as soon as that possession is confirmed by treaty.
It can only be put in operation by the action of the appropriate political
department of the government, at such time and in such degree as that
department may determine.
In a conquered territory, civil government must take effect, either by the
action of the treaty-making power, or by that of the Congress of the United States. The office of a treaty of cession ordinarily is to put an end to
all authority of the foreign government over the territory; and to subject
the territory to the disposition of the Government of the United States.
The government and disposition of territory so acquired belong to the
Government of the United States, consisting of the President, the Senate,

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.
elected by the States, and the House of :Representatives, chosen by and
immediately representing the people of the United States.
So long as Congress has not incorporated the territory into the United
States, neither military occupation nor cession by treaty makes the conquered territoxy domestic territory, in the sense of the revenue laws. But
those laws concerning "foreign countries" remain applicable to the conquered territory, until changed by Congress..
If Congress is not ready to construct a complete government for the conquered territory, it may establish a temporary government, which is not
subject to all the restrictions of the Constitution.

Tis was an action begun in the Circuit Court by Downes,
doing business under the firm name of S. B. Downes & Co.;
against the collector of the port of New York, to recover back
duties to the amount of $659.35 exacted and paid under protest
upon certain oranges consigned to the plaintiff at New York,
and brought thither from the port of San Tuan in the Island
of Porto Rico during the month of November, 1900, after the
passage of the act temporarily providing a civil government and
revenues for the Island of Porto Rico, known as the Foraker
act.
The District Attorney demurred to the complaint for the
want of jurisdiction in the court, and for insufficiency of its
averments. The demurrer was sustained, and the complaint
dismissed. Whereupon plaintiff sued out this writ or error.
-r. FreericR. Coudert, J., and Mr.JoAn G. Carlisle for
plaintiff in error. Xr. Paul Fuller was on Mr. Couderts
brief.
r.Solicitor General and -Mr. Attorney General for defendants in error.
MR.JFUsTicE BRo WN, after making the above statement, an-

nounced the conclusion and judgment of the court.
This case involves the question whether merchandise brought
into the port of New York froni Porto Rico since the passage
of the Foraker act, is exempt from duty, notwithstanding the
third section of that act, which requires the payment of "fif-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

teen per centum of the duties which are required to be levied,
collected and paid upon like articles of merchandise imported
from foreign countries."
1. The exception to the jurisdiction of the court is not well
taken. By Rev. Stat. see. 629, subdivision 4, the Circuit Courts
are vested with jurisdiction "of all suits at law or equity arising
under any act providing for a revenue from imports or tonnage," irrespective of the amount involved. This section should
be construed in connection with see. 643, which provides for
the removal from state courts to Circuit Courts of the United
States of suits against revenue officers "on account of any act
done under color of his office, or of any such [revenue]. law, or
on account of any right, title or authority claimed by such
officer'or other person under any such law." Both these sections are taken from the act of March 2, 1833, c. 57, 4 Stat. 632,
commonly known as the Force Bill, and are evidently intended to
include all actions against customs officers acting under color of
their office. While, as we have held in De lima v. Bidwell,
actions against the collector to recover back duties assessed
upon non-importable property are not "customs cases" in the
sense of the Administrative Act, they are, nevertheless, actions
arising under an act to provide for a revenue from imports, in
the sense of section 629, since they are for acts done by a collector under color of his office. This subdivision of sec. 629
was not repealed by the Turisdictional Act of 1875, or the subsequent act of August 13, 1888, since these acts were "not intended to interfere with the prior statutes conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit or District Courts in special cases, and
over particular subjects." United State v. Mooney, 116 U. S.
104, 107. See also In. Co. v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541 ; P iZadephia v. The ColZector, 5 Wall. 720 ; -HornthaZIv. ne Collector,
9 Wall. 560. As the case "involves the construction or application of the Constitution" as well as the constitutionality of
a law of the United States, the writ of error was properly sued
out from this court.
2. In the case of De Lima v. Bidwell, just decided, we held
that upon the ratification of the treaty of peace with Spain,
Porto Rico ceased to be a foreign country, and became a terri-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

tory of the United States, and that duties *ere no longer -collectible upon merchandise brought from that island. We. are
now asked to hold that it became a part of the Unid Stae8
within that provision of -the Constitution which de6lares that
"1all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States." Art. I, sec. 8. If Porto Rico be a part of the
United States, the Foraker act imposing duties upon its products is unconstitutional, not bnly by reason of a violation of
the uniformity clause, but because by section 9 "1
vessels bound to
or from one State "1cannot "be obliged to enter, clear or pay
duties in another."
The case also involves the broader question whether the revenue clauses of the Constitution extend of their own force to
our newly acquired territories. The Constitution itself does
not answer the question. Its solution must be found in the
nature of the government created by that instrument, in the
opinion of its contemporaries, in the practical construction put
upon it by Congress and in the decisions- of this court.
The Federal government was created in 1777 by the union of
thirteen colonies of Great Britain in "certain, articles, of confederation and perpetual union,"' the first one of which declared
that "the stile of this confederacy shall be the United.States. of
America." Each member of the confederacy was denominated
a Sate. Provision was made for the representation of each
State by not less than two nor more than seven delegates; but.
no mention was made of territories or other lands,. except in
Art. XI, which authorized the admission of Canada, upon its
"acceding to this confederation," and of other colonies if such
admission were agreed to by nine States. At this time several
States made claims to large tracts of land in the unsettled West,
which they were at first indisposed -to relinquish. Disputes
over these lands became so acrid as nearly to defeat the confederacy, before it was fairly. put in operation. Several of
the States refused to ratify the articles, because the convention
had taken no steps to settle the titles to these lands upon, principles of equity and sound policy; but all of them, through fear
of being accused of disloyalty, finally yielded their claims, though
Maryland held out until 1781. Most of these States in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

mean time having ceded their interests in these lands, the
confederate Congress, in 1787, created the first territorial government northwest of the Ohio River, provided for local selfgovernment, a bill of rights, a representation in Congress by a
delegate, who should have a seat "with a right of debating,
but not of voting," and for the ultimate formation of States
therefrom, and their admission into the Union on an equal foot- ing

with the original States.

The confederacy, owing to well-known historical reasons,
having proven a failure, a new Constitution was formed in
1787 by "the people of the United States" "for the United
States of America," as its preamble declares. All legislative
powers were vested in a Congress consisting of representatives
from the several States, but no provision was made for the admission of delegates from the territories, and no mention was
made of territories as separate portions of the Union, except
that Congress was empowered "to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other
pr l rty belonging to the United States." At this time all of
the States had ceded their unappropriated lands except North
Carolina and Georgia. It was thought by Chief Justice Taney
in the Dred Scott case, 19 How. 393, 436, that the sole object
of the territorial clause was "to transfer to the new government the property then held in common by the States, and to
give to that government power to apply it to the objects for
which it had been destined by mutual agreement among the
States before their league was dissolved;" that the power "to
make needful rules and regulations" was not intended to give
the powers of sovereignty, or to authorize the establishment of
territorial governments-in short, that these words were used
in a proprietary and not in a political sense. But, as we observed in De Lima v. Bidwell, the power to establish territorial governments has been too long exercised by Congress and
acquiesced in by this court to be deemed an unsettled question.
Indeed, in the Dred Scott case it was admitted to be the inevitable consequence of the right to acquire territory.
It is sufficient to observe in relation to these three fundamental instruments that it can nowhere be inferred that the

DOWNES -. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Cour

territories were considered a part of the United. States. The
Constitution was created by the people of the United &at,
as a union of Stat, to be governed solely by representatives
of the States; and even the provision relied upon here, that
all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform "throughout
the United States," is explained by subsequent provisions of
the Constitution, that "no tax or duty shall be laid, on articles
exported from any Sate," and "no preference shall be given
by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one
State over those of another; nor shall vessels bound -toor from
one State be obliged to enter, clear or pay duties in another."
.Inshort, the Constitution deals with State8, their people, and
their representatives.
The Thirte6nth Amendment to the Constitution, prohibiting
slavery and involuntary servitude "within the United States,
or in any place subject to their jurisdiction," is also significant
as showing that there may be places within the jurisdiction of
the United States that are no part of the Union. To say that
the phraseology of this amendment was due to the fact that it
was intended to prohibit slavery in the seceded States, under a
possible interpretation that those States were no longer a part of
the Union, is to confess the very point in issue, since it involves
an admission that, if these States were not a part of the Union
they were still subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
Upon the other hand, the Fourteenth Amendment, upon the
subject of citizenship, declares only that "=all persons born or
naturalized in the United Stat8, and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, are citizens of the United States, and of the State
wherein they reside." Here there is a limitation to persons
born or naturalized in the United States which is not extended
to persons born in any place "subject to their jurisdiction."
The question of the legal relations between the States and
the newly acquired territories first became the subject of public
discussion in connection with the purchase of Louisiana in 1803.
This purchase arose primarily from the fixed policy of Spain to
exclude all foreign commerce from the Mississippi. This restriction became intolerable to the large number of immigrants
who were leaving the Eastern. States to settle in the fertile val-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ley of that river and its tributaries. After several futile attempts to secure the free navigation of that river by treaty,
advantage was taken of the exhaustion of Spain in her war with
France, and a provision inserted in the treaty of October 27,
1795, by which the Mississippi River was opened to the commerce of the United States. 8 Stat. 138, 140, Art. IV. In
October, 1800, by the secret treaty of San Ildefonso, Spain
retroceded to France the territory of Louisiana. This treaty
created such a ferment in this country that James Monroe
was sent as minister extraordinary with discretionary powers
to coperate with Livingston, then minister to France, in the
purchase of New Orleans, for which Congress appropriated
$2,000,000. To the surprise of the negotiators, Bonaparte invited them to make an offer for the whole of Louisiana at a
price finally fixed at $15,000,000. It is well known that Mr.
Jefferson entertained grave doubts as to his power to make
the purchase, or, rather, as to his right to annex the territory
and make it part of the United Statesi and had instructed Mr.
Livingston to make no argeement to that effect in the treaty,
as he believed it could not be legally done. Owing to a new
war between England and France being upon the point of breaking out, there was need for haste in the negotiations, and Mr.
Livingston took the responsibility of disobeying his instructions,
and, probably owing to the insistence of Bonaparte, consented
to the third article of the treaty, which provided that "the
inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the
Union of the United States, and admitted as soon as possible,
according to the principles of the Federal Constitution, to the
enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizeuis of the United States; and in the meantime they shall be
maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty,
property and the religion which they profess." This evidently
committed the government to the ultimate, but not to the immediate, admission of Louisiana as a State, and postponed its
incorporation into the Union to the pleasure of Congress. In
regard to this, Mr. Jefferson, in a letter to Senator Breckinridge
of Kentucky, of August 12, 1803, used the following language:
"This treaty must, of course, be laid before both houses, because

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

both have important fhnctions to exercise respecting it. They,
I presume, will see their duty to their country in ratifying and
paying for it, so as to secure a good which would otherwise
probably be never again in their power. But I suppose they
must then appeal to the nation for an additional article to the
Constitution approving and confirming an act which the nation
had not previously authorized. The Constitution has made no
provision for holding foreign territory, still less for incorporating foreign nations into our Union. The Executive, in-seizing
the fugitive occurrence which so much advances the good of
their country, has done an act beyond the Constitution."
To cover the questions raised by this purchase Mr. Jefferson
prepared two amendments to the Constitution, the first of which
declared that "the province of Louisiana is incorporated with
the United States and made part thereof;" and the second of
which was couched in a little different language, viz.: "Louisiana, as ceded by France to the United States, is made a .part
of the United States. Its white inhabitants shall be citizens,
and stand, as to their rights and obligations, on the same footing as other citizens in analogous situations." But by the time
Congress assembled, October 17, 1803, either the argument. of
his friends or the pressing necessity of the situation seems to
have dispelled his doubts regarding his power under the Constitution, since in his message to Congress he referred the whole
matter to that body, saying that" with the wisdom of Congress
it will rest to take those ulterior measures which may be necessary for the immediate occupation and temporary government
of the country; for its incorporation into the Union." Jefferson's Writings, vol. 8, p. 269.
The raising of money to provide for the purchase of this territory and the act providing a civil government gave rise to an
animated debate in Congress, in which two questions were prominently presented : First whether the provision for the ultimate
incorporation of Louisiana into the Union was constitutional;
and, second, whether the seventh article of the treaty admitting
the ships of Spain and France for the next twelve years "'into
the ports of New Orleans, and in all other legal ports of entry
within the ceded territory, in the same manner as the ships of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States coming directly from France or Spain, or any
of their colonies, without being subject to any other or greater
duty on merchandise or other or greater tonnage than that paid
by the citizens of the United States," was an unlawful discrimination in favor of those ports and an infringement upon Art. I,
see. 9, of the Constitution, that "no preference shall be given by
any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State
over those of another." This article of the treaty contained
the further stipulation that "during the space of time above
mentioned no other nation shall have a right to the same privileges in the ports of the. ceded territory;

.

.

and it is well

understood that the object of the above article is to favor the
manufactures, commerce, freight and navigation of France and
Spain."
It is unnecessary to enter into the details of this debate. The
arguments of individual legislators are no proper subject for judicial comment. They are so often influenced by personal or
political considerations, or by the assumed necessities of the situation, that they can hardly be considered even as the deliberate
views of the persons who make them, much less as dictating the
construction to be put upon the Constitution by the courts.
United Stateo v. Union Pac. Railroad,91 U. S. 72, 79. Suffice
it to say that the administration party took the ground that,
under the constitutional power to make treaties, there was ample
power to acquire territory, and to hold and govern it under laws
to be passed by Congress; and that as Louisiana was incorporated into the Union as a territory, and not as a State, a stipulation for citizenship became necessary; that as a State they
would not have needed a stipulation for. the safety of their liberty, property and religion, but as territory this stipulation would
govern aid restrain the undefined powers of Congress to "make
rules and regulations" for territories. The Federalists admitted
the power of Congress to acquire and hold territory, but denied
its power to incorporate it into the Union under the Constitution as it then stood.
They also attacked the seventh article of the treaty, discriminating in favor of French and Spanish ships, as a distinct violation of the Constitution against preference being given to the

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

ports of one State over those of another. The administration
party, through Mr. Elliott of Vermont, replied to-this that "the
States, as such, were equal and intended t6 preserve that equality; and the provision of the Constitution alluded to was "calculated to prevent Congress from making any odious discri'ination or distinctions between particular States. It was not
contemplated that this provision would have application to colonial or territorial acquisitions." Said Mr. Nichoson of Maryland, speaking for the administration: "It [Louisiana] is in the
nature of a colony whose commerce may b6 regulated without
any reference to the Constitution. Had it been the Island of
Cuba which was ceded to us, under a similar condition of admitting French and Spanish vessels for a limited time into Havana,
could it possibly have been contended that this would be giving
a preference to the ports of one State over those of anotther, or
that the uniformity of duties, imposts and excises throughout
the United States would have been destroyed? And becauseLouisiana lies adjacent to our own territory is it to be viewed in
a different light?"
As a sequence to this debate two bills were passed, one October 31, 1803, 2 Stat. 245, authorizing the President to take
possession of the territory, and to continue the existing government, and the other November 10, 1803, 2 Stat. 245, making
provision for the payment of the purchase price. These acts
continued in force until March 26, 1804, when a new act was
passed providing for a temporary government, 2 Stat. 283, c. 38,
and vesting all legislative powers in a governor and legislative
council, to be appointed by the President. These statutes may
be taken as expressing the views of Congress, first, that territory
may be lawfully acquired by treaty, with a provision for its ultimate incorporation into the Union; and, second, that a dis.
crimination in favor of certain foreign vessels trading with the
ports of a newly acquired territory is no violation of that clause
of the Constitution, Art. 1, see. 9, that declares that no preference
shall be given to the ports of one State over those of another.
It is evident that the constitutionality of this discrimination can
only be supported upon the theory that ports of territories are
not ports of States within the meaning of the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The same construction was adhered to in the treaty with
Spain for the purchase of Florida, 8 Stat. 252, the sixth article
of which provided th.t theinhabitants should "be incorporated
into the Union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the principles of the Federal Constitution ;" and the
fifteenth article of which agreed that Spanish vessels coining
directly from Spanish ports and laden with productions of
Spanish growth or manufacture, should be admitted, for the
term of twelve years, to the ports of Pensacola and St. Augustine, "without paying other or higher duties on their cargoes,
or of tonnage, than will be paid by the vessels of the United
States," and that "during the said term no other nation shall
enjoy the same privileges within the ceded territories."
So, too, in the act annexing the Republic of Hawaii, there
was a ptovision continuing in effect the customs relations of
the Hawaiian Islands with the United States and other countries, the effect of which was to compel the collection in those
islands of a duty upon certain articles, whether coming from
the United States or other countries, much greater than the
duty provided by the general tariff law then in force. This
was a discrimination against the Hawaiian ports wholly inconsistent with the revenue clauses of the Constitution, if such
clauses were there operative.
The very treaty with Spain under discussion in this case contains similar discriminative provisions, which are apparently
irreconeilablb with the Constitution, if that instrument be held
to extend to these islands immediately upon their cession to
the United States. By Art. IV the United States agree "for
the term of tenvyears from the date of the exchange of the
ratifications of the present treaty, to admit Spanish ships .and
merchandise to the ports of the-Philippine Islands on the same
terms as ships and merchandise of the United States "-a privilege not extending to any other ports; It was a clear breach
of the uniformity clause in question, and a manifest excess of
authority on the part of the commissioners, if ports of the
Philippine Islands be ports of the United States.
So, too, by Art. XIII, "'Spanish scientific, literary and artistic works

.

.

. shall be continued to be admitted free of

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

duty in such territories, for the period of ten years, to be reckoned from the date of the exchange of the ratifications of this
treaty." This is also a clear discrimination in favor of Spanish
literary productions into particular ports.
Notwithstanding these provisions for the incorporation of
teriitories into the Union, Congress, not only in organizing the
territory of Louisiana by act of March 26, 1804, but all other
territories carved out of this vast inheritance, has assumed that
the Constitution did not extend to them of its own force, and
has in each case made special provision, either that their legislatures shall pass no law inconsistent with the Constitution of
the United States, or that the -Constitution or laws of the United States shall be the supreme law of such territories. Finally,
in Rev. Stat. see. 1891, a general provision was enacted that
"the Constitution and all laws of the United States which are
not locally inapplicable shall have the same force and effect
within all the organized territories, and in every territory hereafter organized, as elsewhere within the United States."
So, too, on March 6, 1820, 3 Stat. 545, c. 22, in an act authorizing the people of Missouri to form a state government,
after a heated debate, Congress declared that in the territory
of Louisiana north of 36' 30' slavery should be forever prohibited. It is true that, for reasons which have become historical,
this act was declared to be unconstitutional in Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, but it is none the less a distinct annunciation by Congress of power over property in the territories which
it obviously did not possess in the several States.
The researches of counsel have collated a large .number of
other instances, in which Congress has in its enactments recognized the fact that provisions intended for the States did-not
embrace the territories, unless specially-mentioned. These are
found in the laws prohibiting the slave trade with "the United
States or territories thereof;" or equipping ships "in any port
or place within the juridictionof the United States;" in the
internal revenue laws, in the early ones of which no provision was made for the collection of taxes in the territory not
included within the boundaries of the existing States, and others
of which extended them expressly to the territories, or ff within
vOL. OLxxxi=-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the exterior boundaries of the United States;" and in the acts
extending the internal revenue laws to the Territories of Alaska
and Oklahoma. It.would prolong this opinion unnecessarily
to set forth the provisions of these acts in detail. It is sufficient to say that Congress has or has not applied the revenue
laws to the territories, as the circumstances of each case seemed
to require, and, has specifically legislated for. the territories
whenever it was its intention to execute laws beyond the limits
of the States. Indeed, whatever may have been the fluctuations of opinion in other bodies, (and even this court has not
been exempt from them,) Congress has been consistent in recognizing the difference between, the States and territories under the Constitution.
The decisions of this court upon this subject have not been
altogether harmonious. Some of them are based upon the
theory that the Constitution does not apply to the territories
without legislation. Other cases, arising from territories where
such legislation has been had, contain language which would
justify the inference that such legislation was unnecessary, and
that the Constitution took effect immediately upon the cession
of the territory to the United States. It may be remarked,
upon the threshold of an analysis of these cases, that too much
weight must not be given to general expressions found in several opinions that the power of Congress over territories is complete and supreme, because these words may be interpreted as
meaning only supreme under the Constitution; nor upon the
other hand, to general statements that the Constitution covers
the territories as well as the States, since in such cases it will
be found that acts of Congress had already extended the Constitution to such territories, and that thereby it subordinated
not only its own acts, but, those of the territorial legislatures,
to what had become the supreme law of the land. "It is a
maxim not to be disregarded, that general expressions, in every
opinion, are to be taken in connection with the case in which
those expressions are used. If they go beyond the case, they
may be respected, but ought not to control the judgment in a
subsequent suit when the very point is presented for decision.
The reason of this maxim is obvious. The question actually

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

before the court is investigated with care, and considered in its
full extent. Other principles which may serve to illustrate it,
are considered in their relation to the case decided, but their
possible bearing on all other cases is seldom completely investigated." Co/sen v. V'irginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399.
The earliest case is that of Hepburn v. Elzey, 2 Cranch, 445,
in which this court held that, under that clause of the Constitution limiting the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
to controversies between citizens of different States, a citizen of
the District of Columbia could not maintain an action in the
Circuit Court of the United States. It was argued that the
word "State," in that connection, was used simply to denote a
distinct political society. "But," said the Chief Justice, "as
the act of Congress obviously used the word ' State' in reference
to that term as used in the Constitution, it becomes necessary
to inquire whether Columbia is a State in the sense of that instrument. The result of that examination is a conviction that
the members of the American confederacy only are the States
contemplated in the Constitution,

.

.

.

and excludes from

the term the signification attached to it by writers on the law
of nations." This case was followed in Barney v. Baltimore
City, 6 Wall. 280, and quite recently in .Hooe v. Jamieson, 166
U. S. 395. The same rule was applied to citizens of territories
in Nmw Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, in which an attempt
was made to distinguish aterritory from the District of Columbia. But it was said that "neither of them is a State in the
sense in which that term is used in the Constitution." In Scott
v. Jcones, 5 How. 343, and in Xiner' Bank,v. Iowa, .12 How. 1,
it was held that under the Judiciary Act, permitting writs of
error to the Supreme Court of a State, in cases where the validity
of a state 8atut is drawn in question, an act of a territorial
legislature was not within the contemplation of Congress.
LoughborougA v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317, was an action of trespass (or, as appears by the original record, replevin) brought in
the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia to try the right
of Congress to impose a direct tax for general purposes on that
District. 3 Stat. 216, c. 60, Feb. 17,1815. It was insisted that
Congress could act in a double capacity: in one as legislating

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

for the States; in the other as a local legislature for the District of Columbia. In the latter character, it was admitted that
the power of levying direct taxes might be exercised, but for
District purposes only, as a state legislature might tax for state
purposes; but that it could not legislate for the District under
Art. I, sec. 8, giving to Congress the power "to lay and collect
taxes, imposts and excises," which "shall be uniform throughout the United States," inasmuch as the District was no part
of the United States. It was held that the grant of this power
was a general one without limitation as to place, and consequently extended to all places over which the government extends; and that it extended to the District of Columbia as a
constituent part of the United States. The fact that Art. I,
sec. 20, declares that "representatives and direct taxes shall be
apportioned among the several States

.

.

.

according to

their respective numbers," furnished a standard by which taxes
were apportioned; but not to exempt any part of the country
from their operation. "The words used do not mean, that
direct taxes shall be imposed on States only which are represented, or shall be apportioned to representatives; but that
direct taxation, in its application to States, shall be apportioned
to numbers." That Art. I, sec. 9, 4, declaring that direct
taxes shall be laid in proportion to the census, was applicable
to the District of Columbia, "and will enable Congress to apportion on it its just and equal share of the burden, with the
same accuracy as on the respective States. If the tax be laid
in this proportion, it is within the very words of the restriction.
It is a tax in proportion to the census or enumeration referred
to." It was further held that the words of the ninth section
did not "in terms require that the system of direct taxation,
when resorted to, shall be extended to the territories, as the
words of the second section require that it shall be extended to
all the States. They therefore may, without violence, be understood to give a rule wheii the territories shall be taxed without imposing the necessity of taxing them."
There could be no doubt as to the correctness of this conclusion, so far, at least, as it applied to the District of Columbia.
This District had been a part of the States of Maryland and

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

Virginia. It had been subject to the Constitution, and was a
part.of the United States. The Constitution had attached to
it irrevocably. There are steps which can never be taken backward. The tie that bound the States of Maryland and Virginia
to the Constitution could not be dissolved, without at least the
consent of the Federal and state governments to a formal separation. The mere cession of the District of Columbia to the
Federal government relinquished the authority of the States, but
it did not take it out of the United States or from under the cagis
of the Constitution. Neither party had ever consented to that
construction of the cession. If, before the District was set off,
Congress had passed an unconstitutional act, affecting its inhabitants, it would have been void. If done after the District was
created, it would have been equally void; in other words, Congress could not do indirectly by carving out the District what
it could not do directly. The District still remained a part of
the United States, protected by the Constitution. Indeed, it
would have been a fanciful construction to hold that territory
which had been once a part of the United States ceased to be
such by being ceded directly to the Federal government.
In delivering the opinion, however, the Chief Justice made
certain observations which have occasioned some embarrassment in other cases. "The power," said he, "to lay and collect
duties, imposts, and excises may be exercised, and must be exercised, throughout the United States. Does this term designate
the whole, or any particular portion of the American empire?
Certainly this question can admit but of one answer. It is the
name given to our great republic, which is composed of States
and territories. The District of Columbia, or the territory
west of the Missouri, is not less within the United States than
Maryland and Pennsylvania; and it is not less necessary, on
the principles of our Constitution, that uniformity in the imposition of imposts, duties and excises, should be observed in the
one, than in the other. Since, then, the power to lay and collect taxes, which includes direct taxes, is obviously coextensive
with the power to lay and collect duties, imposts and excises,
and since the latter extends throughout the United States, it follows, that the power to impose direct taxes also extends through-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

out the United States." So far as applicable to the District of
Columbia, these observations are entirely sound. So far as they
apply to the territories, they were not called for by the exigencies of the case.
In line with Loughborough v. Blake is the case of Callanv.
Wil8on, 127 U. S. 540, in which the provisions of the Constitution relating to trial by jury were held to be in force in the
District of Columbia. Upon the other hand, in Geofroy v.
lRigg, 133 U. S. 258, the District of Columbia, as a political
community, was held to be one of "the States of the Union"
within the meaning of that term as used in a consular convention of February 23, 1853, with France. The seventh article
of that convention provided that in all the States of the Union,
whose existing laws permitted it, Frenchmen should enjoy the
right of holding, disposing of and inheriting property in the
same manner as citizens of the United States; and as to the
States of the Union, by whose existing laws aliens were not
permitted to hold real estate, the President engaged to recommend to them the passage of such laws as might be necessary
for the purpose of conferring this right. The court was of opinion that if these terms, "States of the Union," were held to
exclude the District of Columbia and the territories, our government would be placed in the inconsistent position of stipulating that French citizens should enjoy the right of holding,
disposing of and inheriting property in like manner as citizens
of the United States, in States whose laws permitted it, and
engaging that the President should recommend the passage of
laws conferring that right in States whose laws did not permit
aliens to hold real estate, while at the same time refusing to
citizens of France, holding property in the District of Columbia
and in some of the territories, where the power of the United
States is in that respect unlimited, a like release from the disabilities of alienage, "thus discriminating against them in favor
of citizens of France holding property in States having similar
legislation. No plausible motive can be assigned for such discrimination. A right which the .government of the United
States apparently desires that citizens of France should enjoy
in all the States it would hardly refuse to them in the district

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court

embracing its capital, or in any of its own territorial dependencies."
This case may be considered as establishing the principle that,
in dealing with foreign sovereignties, the term "United States"
has a broader meaning than when used in the Constitution, and
includes all territories subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal
government, wherever located. In its treaties and conventions
with foreign nations this government is a unit. This is so not
because the territories comprised a part of the government established by the people of the States in their Constitution, but
because the Federal government is the only authorized organ of
the territories, as well as of the States, in their foreign relations.
By Art. I, sec. 10, of the Constitution, "no State shall enter
into any treaty, alliance or confederation, . . . or enter
into any agreement or compact with another State; or with a
foreign power." It would be absurd to hold that the territories,
which are much less independent than the States, and are under
the direct control and tutelage of the general government, possess a power in this particular which is thus expressly forbidden
to the States.
It may be added in this connection that, to put at rest all
doubts regarding the applicability of the Constitution to the
District of Columbia, Congress by the act of February 21, 1871,
c. 62, 16 Stat. 419, 426, sec. 34, specifically extended the Constitution and laws of the United States to this District.
The case of Am4ican Is. Co.v. Canter,1 Pet. 511, originated
in a libel filed in the District Court of South Carolina, for the
possession of 356 bales of cotton, which had been wrecked on
the coast of Florida, abandoned to the insurance companies, and
subsequently brought to Charleston. Canter claimed the cotton as bona fide purchaser at a marshals sale at Key West, by.
virtue of a decree of a territorial court consisting of a notary
and five jurors, proceeding under an act of the governor and
legislative council of Florida. The case turned.upon the question whether the sale by that court was effectual to divest the
interest of the underwritezs. The District Judge pronounced
the proceedings a nullity, and rendered a decree from which
both parties appealed to the Circuit Court. The Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

reversed the decree of the District Court upon the ground that
the proceedings of the court at Key West were legal, and transferred the property to Canter, the alleged purchaser.
The opinion of the Circuit Court was delivered by Mr. Justice
Johnson of the Supreme Court, and is published in full in a note
in Peters' Reports. It was argued that the Constitution vested
the admiralty jurisdiction exclusively in the general government; that the legislature of Florida had exercised an illegal
power in organizing this court, and that its decrees were void.
On the other hand, it was insisted that this was a court of separate and distinct jurisdiction from the courts of the United
States, and as such its acts were not to be reviewed in a foreign
tribunal, such as was the court of South Carolina; "that the
District of Florida was not part of the United States, but only
an acquisition or dependency, and as such the Constitution Per
se had no binding effect in or over it." "It becomes," said the
court "indispensable to the solution of these difficulties, that
we should conceive a just idea of the relation in which Florida
stands to the United States.

.

.

.

And, first, it is obvious

that there is a material distinction between the territory now
under consideration, and that which is acquired from the aborigines (whether by purchase or conquest) within.the acknowledged
limits of the United States, as also that which is acquired by the
establishment of a disputed line. As to both these there can be
no question, that the sovereignty of the State or territory within
which it lies, and of the United States, immediately attach, producing a complete subjection to all the laws and institutions of
the two governments, local and general, unless modified by
treaty. The question now to be considered, relates to territories
previously subject to the acknowledged jurisdiction of another
sovereign, such as was Florida to the crown of Spain. And on
this subject, we have 'the most explicit proof, that the understanding of our public functionaries, is, that the government
and laws of the United States do not extend to such territory
by the mere act of cession. For, in the act of Congress of
March 30, 1822, section nine, we have an enumeration of the
acts of Congress, which are to be held in force in the territory;
and in the tenth section an enumeration, in the nature of a bill

DOWNES

'v.

BIDWELL.

Opinion of the Court.

of rights, of privileges and immunities, which could not be denied
to the inhabitants of the territory, if they came under the Constitution by the mere act of cession. . .
These States, this
territory, and future State to be admitted into the.Union are

the sole objects of the Constitution; there is no express provision whatever made in the Constitution for the acquisition or
government of territories beyond those limits." He further
held that the right of acquiring territory was altogether incidental to the treaty-making power; that their government was
left to Congress; that the territory of Florida did "not stand
in the relation of a State to the United States;" that the acts
establishing a territorial government were the constitution of
Florida; that while, under these acts, the territorial legislature
could .enact nothing inconsistent with what Congress had made
inherent and permanent in the territorial government, it had
not done so in organizing the court at Key West.
From the decree of the Circuit Court the underwriters appealed to this court, and the question was argued whether the
Circuit Court was correct in drawing a distinction between
territories existing at the date of the Constitution and territories
subsequently acquired. The main contention of the appellants
was that the Superior Courts of Florida had- been vested by
Congress with exclusive jurisdiction in all admiralty and maritime cases; that salvage was such a case, and therefore any lawof Florida giving jurisdiction in salvage cases to any other court
was unconstitutional. On behalf of the purchaser it was argued
that the Constitution and laws of the United States were not
per 8e in force in Florida, nor the inhabitants citizens of the
United States; that the Constitution was established by the
people of the United Statesfor the United States; that if the
Constitution were in force in Florida it was unnecessary to pass
an act extending the laws of the United States to Florida.
"What is Florida? " said Mr. Webster. "It is no part of the
United States. How can it be? How is it represented? Do
the laws of the United States reach Florida ? Not unless by
particular provisions."
The opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in this case should
be read in connection with Art. III, sees. 1 and 2, of the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution, vesting "the judicial power of the United States" in
""one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish. The judges both
of the Supreme Court and the inferior courts shall hold their
offices during good behavior," etc. He held that the court
"should take into view the relation in which Florida stands to
the United States;" that territory ceded by treaty "becomes
a part of the nation to which it is annexed; either on the terms
stipulated in the treaty of cession, or upon such as its new master shall-impose." That Florida, upon the conclusion of the
treaty, became a territory of the United States and subject to
the power of Congress under the territorial clause of the Constitution. The acts providing a territorial government for
Florida were examined in detail. He held that the judicial
clause of the Constitution, above quoted, did not apply to Florida; that the judges of the Superior Courts of Florida held
their office for four years; that "these courts are not constitutional courts in which the judicial power conferred by the Constitution on the general government, can be deposited;" that
"they are legislative courts, created in virtue of the general right
of sovereignty which exists in the government," or in virtue of
the territorial clause of the Constitution; that the jurisdiction
with which they are invested is not a part of judicial power of
the Constitution, but is conferred by Congress, in the exercise
of those general powers which that body possesses over the
territories of the United States; and that in legislating for them
Congress exercises the combined powers of the general and oT a
state government. The act of the territorial legislature, creating the court in question, was held not to be "inconsistent with
the laws and Constitution of the United States," and the decree
of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
As the only judicial power vested in Congress is to create
courts whose judges shall hold their offices during good behavior, it, necessarily follows that, if Congress authorizes the
creation of courts and the appointment of judges for a limited
time, it must act independently of the Constitution, and upon
territory which is not part of the United States within the
meaning of the Constitution. In delivering his opinion in this

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

case Mr. Chief Justice Marshall made no reference whatever to
the prior case of Loughboroughv. Blake, 5 Wheat. 311, in which
he had intimated that the territories were part of the United
States. But if they be a part of the Ujilted States, it is difficult to see how Congress could create courts in such territories,
except under the judicial clause of the Constitution. The power
to make needful rules and regulations would certainly not authorize anything inconsistent with the Constitution if it applied to
the territories. Certainly no such court could be created within
a State, except under the restrictions of the judicial clause. It
is sufficient to say that this case has ever since been accepted as
authority for the proposition that the judicial clause of the Constitution has no application to courts created inthe territories,
and that with respect to them Congress has a power wholly unrestricted by it. We must assume as a logical inference from this '
case that the other powers vested in Congress by the Constitution have no application to these territories, or that the judicial
clause is exceptional in that particular.
This case was followed in Benner v. Porter,9 How. 235, in
which it was held that. the jurisdiction of these territorial
courts ceased upon the admission of Florida into the Union,
they
Mr. Justice Nelson remarking of them (p. 242) that '.
are not organized under the Constitution, nor subject to its
complex distribution of the powers of government, as the organic law;- but are the creations, exclusively, of the legislative
department, and subject to its supervision and control. Whether,
or not, there are provisions in that instrument which extend to
and act upon these territorial governments, it is not now material to examine. We are speaking here of those provisions that
refer particularly to the distinction between Federal and State
jurisdiction. . . . (p. 244.) Neither were they organized
by Congress under the Constitution, as they were invested
with powers and jurisdiction which that body were incapable
of conferring upon a court within the limits of a State." To
the same effect are Clinton v. Englereckt, 13 Wall 4 4; Good
v. f.artin, 95 U. S.90, 98, and AfAllister v. United States, 141
U. S. 174.
That the power over the territories is vested in Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

without limitation, and that this power has been considered the
foundation upon which the territorial governments rest, was also.
asserted by Chief Justice Marshall in Xrc/uloeh v. HarylZnd,
4 Wheat. 316, 422, and in United State8 v. Gratiot,14 Pet. 526.
So, too, in 3formon Churok v. United &ate,

136 U. S. 1, in

holding that Congress had power to repeal the charter of the
church, Mr. Justice Bradley used the following forceful language: "The power of Congress over the territories of the
United States is general and plenary, arising from and incidental to the right to acquire the territory itself, and from the
power given by the Constitution to make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States. It would be absurd to hold that the
United States has power to acquire territory, and no power to
govern it when acquired. The power to acquire territory, other
than the Territory northwest of the Ohio River, (which belonged
to the United States at the adoption of the Constitution,) is derived from the treaty-making power and the power to declare
and carry on war.. The incidents of these powers are those of
national sovereignty, and belong to all independent governments. The power to make acquisitions of territory by conquest, by treaty and by cession is an incident of national
sovereignty. The territory of Louisiana, when acquired from
France, and the territories west of the Rocky Mountains, when
acquired from Mexico, became the absolute property and domain of the 'United States, subject to such conditions as the
government, in its diplomatic negotiations, had seen fit to accept relating to the rights of the people then inhabiting those
territories. Having rightfully acquired said territories, the
United States government was the only one which could impose laws upon them, and its sovereignty over them was
Doubtless Congress, in legislating, for the
.
complete.
territories would be subject to those fundamental limitations
in favor of personal rights which are formulated in the Constitution and its amendments; but these limitations would exist rather by inference and the general spirit of the Constitution
from which Congress derives all its powers, than by any qxpress
and direct application of its provisions." See also, to the same

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.

269

Opinion of the Court.

effect, _Yationaw Bank v. County bf Yankton, 101 U. S. 129;
urhy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15.
In We'bster v. Reid, 11 How. 437, it was held that a law of
the Territory of Iowa, which prohibited the trial by jury of
certain actions.at law, founded on contract to recover payment
for services, was void; but the case is of little value as bearing
upon the question of the extension of the Constitution to that
Territory, inasmuch as the organic law of the Territory of Iowa,
by express provision and by reference, extended the laws of the
United States, including the ordinance of 1787, (which provided
expressly for jury trials,) so far as they were applicable; and
the case was put upon this ground. 5 Stat. 235, 239, sec. 12.
In ReynodR v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, a law of the Territory of Utah, providing for grand juries of fifteen persons, was
held to be constitutional, though Rev. Stat. see. 808 required
that a grand jury empanelled before any Circuit or District
Court of the United States shall consist of not less than sixteen
nor more than twenty-three persons. Section 808 was held to
apply only to the Circuit and District Courts. The territorial
courts were free to act in obedience to their own laws.
In Ross's Case, 140 U. S. 453, petitioner had been convicted
by the American Consular Tribunal in Japan, of a murder
committed upon an American vessel in the harbor of Yokohama, and sentenced to death.- There was no indictment by a
grand jury, and no trial by a petit jury. This court affirmed
the conviction, holding that the Constitution had no application, since it was ordained and established "for the United
States of America," and not for countries outside of their limits.
"The guarantees it affords against accusation of capital or infamous crimes, except by indictment or presentment by a grand
jury, and for an impartial trial by a jury when thus accused, apply only to citizens and others within the United States, or who
are brought there for trial for alleged offences committed elsewhere, and not to residents and temporary sojourners abroad."
In Sjn',ngville v. Thomas, 166 U. S. 707, it was held that a
verdict returned by less than the whole number of jurors was
invalid, because in contravention .of the Seventh Amendment
to the Constitution and the act of Congress of April 7, 1874,. c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

80, 18 Stat. 27, which provide "that no party has been or shall
be deprived of the right of trial by jury in cases cognizable at
common law." It was also intimated that Congress "could
not impart the power to change the constitutional rule," which
was obviously true with respect to Utah, since the organic act
of that Territory had expressly extended to it the Constitution
and laws of the United States. As we have already held, that
provision once made could not be withdrawn. If the Constitution could be withdrawn directly, it could be nullified indirectly by acts passed inconsistent with it. The Constitution
would thus cease to exist as such, and become of no, greater
authority than an ordinary act of Congress. In American
Pub. Co. v. F1er,166 U. S. 464, a similar law providing for
majority verdicts was put upon the express ground above stated,
that the organic act of Utah extended the Constitution over
that Territory. These rulings were repeated in Tom_8on v.
tah, 1'To U. S. 343, and applied to felonies committed before
the Territory became a State, although the state constitution
continued the same provision.
Eliminating, then, from the opinions of this court all expressions unnecessary to the disposition of the particular case, and
gleaning therefrom the exact point decided in each, the following propositions may be considered as established:
1. That the District of Columbia and the territories are not
States, within the judicial clause of the Constitution giving
jurisdiction in cases between citizens of different States;
2. That territories are not States, within the meaning of Rpvised Statutes, sec. 709, permitting writs of error from this
court in cases where the validity of a state statute is drawn in
question;
3. That the District of Columbia and the territories are States,
as that word is used in treaties with foreign powers, with respect to the ownership, disposition and inheritance of property;
4. That the territories are not within the clause of the Constitution providing for the creation of a Supreme Court and such
inferior courts as Congress may see fit to establish;
5. That the Constitution does not apply to foreign countries
or to trials therein conducted, and that Congress may lawfully

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

provide for such trials before consular tribunals, without the intervention of a grand or petit jury;
6. That where the Constitution has been once formally extended by Congress to territories, neither Congress nor the territorial legislature can enact laws inconsistent therewith.
The case of Dred Scott v. Sandford,19 How. 393, remains to
be considered. This was an action of trespass vi et armis brought
in the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri by Scott, alleging himself to be a citizen of Missouri, against Sandford, a citizen of New York. Defendant pleaded to the jurisdiction that
Scott was not a citizen of the State of Missouri, because a negro
of African descent, whose ancestors were imported as negro
slaves. Plaintiff demurred to this plea and the demurrer was
sustained; whereupon, by stipulation of counsel and with leave
of the court, defendant pleaded in bar the general issue, and
specially thatthe plaintiff was a slave and the lawful property
of defendant, and, as such, he had a right to restrain him. The
wife and children of the plaintiff were also involved in the suit.
The facts in brief were, that plaintiff had been a slave belonging to Dr. Emerson, a surgeon in the army; that, in 1834, Emerson took the plaintiff from the State of Missouri to Rock
Island, Illinois, and subsequently to Fort Snelling, Minnesota,
(then known as Upper Louisiana,) and held him there until 1838.
Scott married his wife there, of whom the children were subsequently born. In 1838 they returned to Missouri.
Two questions were presented by the record: First, whether
the Circuit Court had jurisdiction; and, second, if it had jurisdiction, was the judgment erroneous or not? With regard to
the first question, the court stated that it was its duty "to deqide whether the facts stated in the plea are or are not sufficient
to show that the plaintiff is not entitled to sue as a citizen in a
court of the United States," and that the question was whether
"a negro, whose ancestors were imported into this country, and
sold as slaves, became a member of the political community
formed and brought into existence by the Constitution of the
United States, and as such entitled to all the rights and privileges and immunities guaranteed by that instrument to the
citizen, one of which rights is the privilege of suing in a court

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States." It was held thathe was not, and was
not included under the words "citizens" in the Constitution,
and therefore could claim "none of the rights and privileges
which that instrument provides for and secures to citizens of
the United States;" that it did not follow because he had all
the rights and privileges of 'a citizen of a State, he must be a citizen of the United States; that no State could by any law of its
own "introduce a new member into the political community
created by the Constitution ;" that the African race was not intended to be included, and formed no part of the people who
framed and adopted the Declaration of Independence. The
question of the status of negroes in England and the several
States was considered at great length by the Chief Justice, and
the conclusion reached that Scott was not a citizen of Missouri,
and that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case.
This was sufficient to dispose of the case without reference to
the question of slavery; but, as the plaintiff insisted upon his
title to freedom and citizenship by the fact that he and his wife,
though born slaves, were taken by their owner and kept four
years in Illinois and Minnesota, they thereby became free, and
upon their return to Missouri became citizens of that State, the
Chief Justice proceeded to discuss the question whether Scott
was still a slave. As the court had decided against his citizenship upon the plea in abatement, it was insisted that further
decision upon the question of his freedom or slavery was extrajudicial and mere obiter dicta. But the Chief Justice held that
the correction of one error in the court*below did not deprive
the appellate court of the power of examining furthet into the
record and correcting any other material error which.may have
been committed ; that the error of an inferior court in actually
pronouncing judgment for one of the parties, in a case in which
it had no jurisdiction, can lie looked into or corrected by this
court, even though it had decided a similar question presented
in the pleadings.
Proceeding to decide the case upon the merits, he held that
the territorial clause of the Constitution was confined to the territory which belonged to the United States at the time the Con-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution was adopted, and did not apply to territory subsequently acquired from a foreign government.
In further examining the question as to what provision of the
Constitution authorizes the Federal government td acquire territory outside of the original limits of the United 'States and
what powers it may exercise therein over the person or property
of a citizen of the United States, he made use of the following
expressions, upon which great reliance is placed by the plaintiff
in this case (p. 446): "There is certainly no power given by the
Constitution to the Federal government to establish or maintain
colonies bordering on the United States or at a distance, to be
ruled dnd governed at its own pleasure;

.

.

.

and if a new

State is admitted, it needs no further legislation by Congress,
because the Constitution itself defines the relative rights and
powers and duties of the State, and the citizens of the State, and
the Federal government. But no power is given to acquire a
territory to be held and governed permanently in that character."
He further held that citizens who migrate to a territory cannot be ruled as mere colonists, and that while Congress had the
power of legislating over territories until States were formed
from them, it could not deprive a citizen of his property
merely because he brought it.into a particular territory of the
United States, and that this doctrine applied to slaves as well
as to other property. Hence, it followed that the act of Congress
which prohibited a citizen from holding and owning slaves in
territories north of 360 30' (known as the Missouri Compromise)
was unconstitutional and void, and the fact that Scott was cartied into such territory, referring to what is now known as
Minnesota, did not entitle him to his freedom.
He further held that, whether he was made free by being
taken into the free State of Illinois and being kept there two
years, depended upon the laws of Missouri and not those of Illinois, and that by the decisions of the highest court of that
State his ta5u8 as a slave continued, notwithstanding his residence of two years in Illinois.
It must be admitted that this case is a strong authority in
favor of the plaintiff, and if the opinion of the Chief Justice be
VOL. cLXxxII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

taken at its full value it is decisive in his favor. We are not,
however, bound to overlook the fact that, before the Chief
Justice gave utterance to his opinion upon the merits, he had
already disposed of the case adversely to the plaintiff upon the
question of jurisdiction, and that, in view of the excited political condition of the country at the time, it is unfortunate that
he felt compelled to discuss the question upon the merits, particularly so in view of the fact that it involved a ruling that an
act of Congress, which had been acquiesced in for thirty years,
was declared unconstitutional. It would appear from the opinion of Mr. Justice Wayne that the real reason for discussing
these constitutional questions was that "there had become
such a difference of opinion" about them "that the peace and
harmony of the country required the settlement of them by
judicial decision." (p. 455.) The attempt was not successful
It is sufficient to say that the country did not acquiesce in the
opinion, and that the civil war, which shortly thereafter followed, produced such changes in judicial, as well as public
sentiment, as to seriously impair the authority of this case.
While there is much in the opinion of the Chief Justice which
tends to prove that he thought all the provisions of the Constitution extended of their own force to the territories west of
the .Mississippi, the question actually decided is readily distinguishable from the one involved in the cause under consideration. The power to prohibit slavery in the territories is so
different from the power to impose duties upon territorial products, and depends upon such different provisions of the Constitution, that they can scarcely be considered as analogous,
unless we assume broady that every clause of the Constitution
attaches to the territories as well as to the States-a claim quite
inconsistent with the position of the court in the Canter ease.
If the assumption be true, that slaves are indistinguishable froni
other property; the inference from the Dred Scott case is irresistible that Congress had no power to prohibit their introduction into a territory. It would scarcely be insisted that Congress
could with one hand invite settlers to locate in the territories
of the United States, and with the other deny them the right
to take their property and belongings with them. The two

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

are so inseparable from each other that one could scarcely be
granted and the other withheld without an exercise of arbitrary power inconsistent with the underlying principles of a
free government. It might indeed be claimed with great plausibility that such a law would amount to a deprivation of property within the Fourteenth Amendment. The difficulty with
the Dred Scott case was that the court refused to make a distinction between property in general, and a wholly exceptional
class of property. Mr. Benton tersely stated the distinction
by saying that- the Virginian might carry his slave into the
territories, but he could not carry with him the Virginian law
which made him a slave.
In his history of the Dred Scott case, Mr. Benton states
that the doctrine of the Constitution extended to territories as
well as to States, first made its appearance in the Senate in the
session of 1848-1819, by an attempt to amend a bill giving territorial,government to California, New Mexico and Utah, (itself
"hitched on" to a general appropriation bill,) by adding the
words "that the Constitution of the United States and all and
singular the several acts of Congress (describing them,) be and
the same hereby are extended and given full force and efficacy
in said territories." Says Mr. Benton: "The novelty and
strangeness of this proposition called up Mr. Webster, who repulsed as an absurdity and as an impossibility the scheme of
extending the Constitution to the territories, declaring that instrument to have been made for States, not territories; that
Congress governed the territories independently of the Constiiution and incompatibly with it; that no part of it went to a
territory, but what Congress chose to send; that it could not,
act of itself anywhere, not even in the States for which it was
made, and that'it required an act of Congress to put it in operation before it had effect anywhere. Mr. Clay was of -the same
opinion and added: ' Now, really, I must say the idea that eo
instanti,upon the consummation of the treaty, the Constitution,
of the United States spread itself over the acquired territory
and carried along with it the institution of slavery, is so irreconcilable with my comprehension, or any reason I possess, that
I hardly know how to meet it.'" Upon the other hand, Mr. Cal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

houn boldly avowed his intent to carry slavery into them under
the wing of the Constitution, and denounced as enemies of the
South all who opposed it."
The amendment was rejected by the House, and a contest
brought on which threatened the loss of the general appropriation bill in which this amendment was incorporated, and the
Senate finally receded from its amendment. "Such," said Mr.
Benton, "were the portentous circumstances under which this
new'doctrine first revealed itself in the American Senate, and
then as needing legislative sanction requiring an act of Congress to carry the Constitution into the territories and to give
it force and efficacy there." Of the Dred Scott case he says:
"I conclude this introductory note with recurring to the great
fundamental error of the court, (father of all the political errors,)
that of assuming the extension of the Constitution to the territories: I call it assuming, for it seems to be a naked assumption without a reason to support it, or a leg to stand upon,
condemned by the Constitution itself, and the whole history of
its formation and administration. Who were the parties to it?
The States alone. Their delegates framed it in the Federal
convention; their citizens adopted it in the state conventions.
The Northwest Tefitory was then in existence and it had
been for three years; yet it had no voice either in the framing
or adopting of the ifistrument, no delegate at Philadelphia, no
submission of it to their will for adoption. The preamble'
shows it made by States. Territories are not alluded to in it."
Finally, in summing up the results of the decisions holding
the invalidity of the Missouri Compromise and the self-extension
of the Constitution to the territories, he declares "that the desions conflict with the uniform action of all the departments of
the Federal government from its 'foundation to the present
time, and.cannot be received as rules governing Congress and
the people without reversing that action, and admitting the
political supremacy of the court, and accepting an altered Constitution from its hands and taking a new and portentous point
of departure in the working of the government."
To sustain the judgment in the case under consideration it by
no means becomes necessary to show that none of the articles

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Oourt.

of the Constitution apply to the Island of Porto Rico. There
is a clear distinction between such prohibitions as go to the
very root of the power of Congress to act at all, irrespective of
time or place, and such as are operative only "throughout the
United States" or among the several States.
Thus, when the Constitution declares that " no bill of attainder
or ew po8 fato law shall be passed," and that "no title of
nobility shall 'be granted by the United States," it goes to the
competency of Congress to pass a bill of that descr ption. Perhaps, the same remark may apply to the First Amendment,
that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment
of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof ; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the
people to peacefully assemble, and to petition the government
for a redress of grievances." We do not wish, however, to be
understood as expressing an opinion how far the bill of rights
contained in the first eight amendments is of general and how
far of local application.
Upon the other hand, when the Constitution declares that
all duties shall be uniform " throughout the United States," it
becomes necessary to inquire whether there be any territory
over which Congress has jurisdiction which is not a part of the
" United States," by which term we understand the State
whose people united to form the Constitution, and such as have
since been admitted to the Union upon an equality with them.
Not only did the people in adopting the Thirteenth Amendment thus recognize a distinction between the United States
and "any place subject to their jurisdiction," but Congress
itself, in the act of March 27, 1804, c. 56, 2 Stat. 298, providing
for the proof of public records, applied the provisions of the act
not only to "1every court and office within the United States,"
but to the "courts and offices of the respective territories of
the United States, and countries subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States," as to the courts and ofees of the several
States. This classification, adopted by the Eighth Congress, is,
carried into the Revised Statutes as follows:
" SE .905. The acts of the legislature of any State or Terr-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tory, or of any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, shall be authenticated," etc.
"SEc. 906. All records and exemplifications of books, which
may be kept in any public office of any State or Territory, or
any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States," etc.
. Unless these words are to be rejected as meaningless, we must
treat them as a recognition by Congress of the fact that there
may be territories subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, which are not of the United States.
In determining the meaning of the words of Article I, section 6, "uniform throughout the United States," we are bound
to consider not only the provisions forbidding preference being
given to the ports of one State ove those of another, (to which
attention has already been called,) but the other clauses declaring that no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from
any State, and that no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties upon imports or exports, nor
any duty on tonnage. The object of all of these was to protect the States which united in forming the Constitution from
discriminations by Congress, which would operate unfairly or
injuriously upon some States and not equally upon others. The
opinion of Mr. Justide White in Enowiton v. ]Xnoare, 178 U. S.
41, contains an- elaborate historical review of the proceedings
in the convention, which resulted in the adoption of these different clauses and their arrangement, and he there comes to the
conclusion (p. 105) that "although the provision as to preference
between ports and that regarding uniformity of duties, imposts
and excises were one in purpose, one in their adoption," they
were originally placed together, and "became separate only in
arranging the Constitution for the purpose of style." Thus
construed together, the purpose is irresistible that the words
-1throughout the United States" are indistinguishable from the
words "among or between the-several States," and that these
prohibitions were Intended to apply only to commerce between
ports of the several States as they then existed or should thereafter be admitted to the Union.
Indeed, the practical interpretation put by Congress upon the
Constitution has been long continued and uniform to the effect

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court

that the Constitution is applicable .to territories acquired by
purchase or conquest only when and so far as Congress shall so
direct. Notwithstanding its duty to "guarantee to every State
in this Union a republican form of government," Art. IV, see. 4,
by which we understand, according to the definition of Webster,
"a government in which the supreme power resides in the whole"
body of the people, and is exercised by representatives electedby them," Congress did not hesitate, in the original organization
of the territories of Louisiana, Florida, the Northwest Territory,
and its subdivisions of Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and
Wisconsin, and still more recently in the case of Alaska, to establish a form of government bearing a much greater analogy
to a British crown colony than a republican State of America,
and to vest the legislative power either in a governor and council, or a governor and judges, to be appointed by the President.
It was not until they had attained a certain population that
power was given them to organize a legislature by vote of the
people. In all these cases, as well as in Territories subsequently
organized west of the Mississippi, Congress thought it necessary
either to extend the Constitution and laws of the United States
over them, or to declare that the inhabitants should be entitled
to enjoy the right of trial by jury, of bail, and of the privilege
of the writ of habeas corpus, as well as other privileges of the
bill of rights.

.

We are also of opinion that the power to acquire territory by
treaty implies not only the power to govern such, territory, but
to prescribe upon what terms the United States will receive its
inhabitants, and what their status shall be in what Chief Justice Marshall termed the "American Empire." There seems
to be no middle ground between this position and the doctrine
that if their inhabitants do not become, immediately upon annexation, citizens of the United States, their children thereafter
born, whether savages or civilized, are such, and entitled to all
the rights, privileges and immunities of citizens. If such be
their statu, the consequences will be extremely serious. Indeed, it is doubtful if Congress would ever assent to the annexation of territory upon the condition that its inhabitants, however foreign they may be to our hal~its, traditions. and modes

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

df .life, shall become at once citizens of the United States. In
qll its treaties hitherto the treaty-making power has mhde special
provision for this subject; in the cases of Louisiana and Florida,
by stipulating that "the inhabitants shall be incorporated into
the Union of the United States and admitted as soon as possible
to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United States ;" in the case of Mexico,
that they should "be incorporated into the Union, and be admitted at the proper time, (to be judged of by the Congress of
the United States,) to the enjoyment of all the rights of citizens
of the United States;" in the case of Alaska, that the inhabitants who remained three years, "with the exception of uncivilized native tribes, shall be admitted to the enjoyment of all
the rights," etc. ; and in the case of Porto Rico and the Philippines, "that the civil rights and political 8tatm of the native
.
shall be determined by Congress." In
inhabitants .
all these cases there is an implied denial of the right of the inhabitants to American citizenship until Congress by further
action shall signify its assent thereto.
Grave apprehensions of danger are felt by many eminent
men-a fear lest an unrestrained possession of power on the
part. of Congress may lead to unjust and oppressive legislation,
in which the natural rights of territories, or their inhabitants,
may be engulfed in a centralized despotism. These fears, however, find no justification in the action of Congress in the past
century, nor in the conduct of the British Parliament towards
its outlying possessions since the American Revolution. Indeed, in the only instance in which this court has declared an
act of Congress unconstitutional as trespassing upon the rights
of territories, (the-Missouri Compromise,) such action was dictated by motives of humanity and justice, and so far commanded popular approval as to be embodied in the Thirteenth
Amendment to the Constitution. There are certain principles
of natural justice inherent in the Anglo-Saxon character which
need no expression in constitutions or statutes to give them
effect or to secure dependencies against legislation manifestly
hostile to their real interests. Even in the Foraker act itself,
the constitutionality of which is so vigorously assailed, power

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

was given to the legislative assembly of Porto Rico to repeal
the very tariff in question in this case, a power it has not seen
fit to exercise. The words of Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbon v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, with respect to the power of Congress to regulate commerce, are pertinent in this connection:
"This power," said he, "like all others vested in Congress, is
complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and
acknowledges no limitations other than are prescribed in the
The wisdom and discretion of ConConstitution. . .
gress, their identity with the people, and the influeilce which
their constituents possess at elections, are, in this, as in many
other instances, as that, for example, of declaring war, the sole
restraints on which they have relied to secure them from its
abuse. They are the restraints on which the people must often
rely on solely, in all representative governments."
So, too, in Joknson v. _fclntosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 589, it was
said by him :
"The title by conquest is acquired and maintained by. force.
The conqueror prescribes its limits. Humanity, however, acting on public opinion, has established, as a general rule, that
the conquered shall not be wantonly oppressed, and that their
condition shall remain as eligible as is compatible with the objects of the conquest. Most usually, they are incorporated
with the victorious nation, and become subjects or citizens of
the government with which they are connected. The new and
old members of the society mingle with each other; the distinction between them is gradually lost, and they make one people.
Where this incorporation is practicable, humanity demands, and
a wise policy requires, that the rights of the conquered to prop
erty should remain unimpaired; that the new subjects should
be governed as equitably as the old, and that confidence in
their security should gradually banish the painful sense of being
separated from their ancient connections, and united by force
to strangers.
"When the conquest is complete, and the conquered inhabi-.
tants can be blended with the conquerors, or safelygoverned a8
a ditindtpeoZe, public opinion, which not even the conqueror
can disregard, imposes these restraints upon him; and he can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not neglect them without injury to his fame, and hazard to his
power."
The following remarks of Mr. Justice White in the case of
Knowlton v. Mfoore, 178 U. S. 41* 109, in which the court upheld the progressive features of the legady tax, are also pertinent:
"The grave consequences which it is asserted must arise in
the future if the right to levy a progressive tax he recognized
involves in its ultimate aspect the mere assertion that free and
representative government is a failure, and that the grossest
abuses of power aia foreshadowed unless the courts usurp a
purely legislative function. If a case should ever arise, where
an arbitrary and confiscatory exaction is imposed bearing the
guise of a progressive or any other form of tax, it will be time
enough to consider whether the judicial power can afford a
remedy by applying inherent and fundamental principles for
the protection of the individual, even though there be no express authority in the Constitution to do so."
It is obvious that in the annexation of outlying and distant
possessions grave questions will arise from differences of race,
habits, laws and customs of the people, and from differences of
soil, climate and production, which may require action on the
part of Congress that would be quite unnecessary in the annexation of contiguous territory inhabited only by people of the
same race, or by scattered bodies of native Indians.We suggest, without intending to' decide, that there may be
a distinction between certain natural rights, enforced in the
Constitution by prohibitions against interference with them,
and what may be termed artificial or remedial rights, which
are peculiar to our own system of jurisprudence. Of the former
class are the rights to one's own religious opinion and-to a public
expression of them, or, as sometimes said, to worship God according to the dictates of one's own conscience; the right to personal liberty and individual property; to freedom of speech and
of the press; to free access to courts of justice, to due process
of law and to an equal protection of the laws; to immunities
from unreasonable searches and seizures, as well as cruel and
unusual punishments; and to such other immunities as are in-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

dispensable to a free government.

Of the latter class are the

rights to citizenship, to suffrage, .Minor v. Ha"&mett, 21 Wall.

162, and to the particular methods of procedure pointed out in
the Constitution, which are peculiar to Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence, and some of which have already been held by the States
to be unnecessary to the proper protection of individuals.
Whatever maybe finally decided by the American people as to
the 8tatu8 of these islands and. their inhabitants-whether they
shall be introduced into the sisterhood of States or be permitted
to form independent governments-it does not follow that, in tlte
meantime, awaiting that decision, the people are in the matter of
personal rights unprotected by the provisions of our Constitution, and subject to the merely arbitrary control of Congress.
Even if regarded as aliens, they are entitled under the principles of the Constitution to be protected in life, liberty and
property. This has been frequently held by this court in respect to the Chinese, even when aliens, not possessed of the political rights of citizens of the United States. Yic TWo v. Hop
kins, 118 U. S. 356; Fong Yue Ting v. United tate8, 149 U. S.
698; Lem -oon Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538,54'; Wong
Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228. We do not desire, however, to anticipate the difficulties which would naturally arise in
this connection, but merely to disclaim any intention to hold
that the inhabitants of these territories are subject to an unrestrained power on the part of Congress to deal with them upon
the theory that they have no rights which it is bound to respect.
Large powers must necessarily be entrusted to Congress in
dealing with these problems, and we are bound to assume that
they will be judiciously exercised. That these powers may be
abused is possible. But the same may be said of its powers under the Constitution as well as outside of it. Human wisdom
has never devised a form of government so perfect that it may
not be perverted to bad purposes. It is never conclusive to
argue against the possession of certain powers from possible
abuses of them. It is safe to say that if Congress should venture upon legislation manifestly dictated by selfish interests, it
would receive quick rebuke at the hands of the people. Indeed,
it is scarcely possible that Congress could do a greater injustice

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to these islands than would be involved in holding that it could
not impose upon the States taxes and excises without extending
the same taxes to them. Such requirement would bring them
at once within our internal revenue system, including stamps,
licenses, excises and all the paraphernalia of that system, and
applying it to territories which have had no experience of this
kind, and where it would prove an intolerable burden.
This subject was carefully considered by the Senate committee in charge of the Foraker bill, which found, after an examination of the facts, that property in Porto Rico was already burdened with a private debt amounting probably to $30,000,000;
that no system of property taxation was or ever had been in
force in the island, and that it probably would require two years
to inaugurate one and secure returns from it; that the revenues
had always been chiefly raised by duties on imports and exports,
and that our internal revenue laws, if applied in that island,
would prove oppressive and ruinous to many people and interests; that to undertake to collect our heavy internal revenue
tax, far heavier than Spain ever imposed upon their products
and vocations, would be to invite violations of the law so innumerable as to make prosecutions impossible, and to almost certainly alienate and destroy the friendship and good will of that
people for the United States.
In passing upon the questions involved in this case and kindred
cases, we ought not to overlook the fact that, while the Constitution was intended to establish a permanent form of government for the States which should elect to take advantage of its
conditions, and continue for an indefinite future, the vast possibilities of that future could never have entered the minds of its
framers. The States had but recently emerged from a war
with one of the most powerful nations of Europe; were disheartened by the failure of the confederacy, and were doubtful as
to the feasibility of a stronger union. Their territory was confined to a narrow strip of land on the Atlantic coast from Canada to Florida, with a somewhat indefinite alaim to territory
beyond the Alleghenies, where their sovereignty was disputed
by tribes of hostile Indians supported, as was popularly believed,
by the British, who had never formally delivered possession

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

under the treaty of peace. The vast territory beyond the Mississippi, which formerly had been claimed by France, since
1762 had belonged to Spain, still a powerful nation, and the
owner of a great part of the Western Hemisphere. Under
these circumstances it is little wonder that the question of annexing these territories was not made a subject of debate. The
difficulties of bringing about a union of the States were so great,
the objections to it seemed so formidable, that the whole thought
of the convention centered upon surmounting these obstacles.
The question of territories was dismissed with a single clause,
apparently applicable only to the territories then existing, giving Congress the power to govern and dispose of them.
Had the acquisition of other territories been contemplated as
a possibility, could it have been foreseen that, within little more
than one hundred years, we were destined to acquire not only
the whole vast region between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans,
but the Russian possessions in America and distant islands in
the Pacific, it is incredible that no provision should have been
made for them, and the question whether the Constitution
should or should not extend to them have been definitely settled. If it be once conceded that we are at liberty to acquire
foreign territory, a presumption arises that our power with respect to such territories is the same power which ofher nations
have been accustomed to exercise with respect to territories
acquired by them. If, in limiting the power which Congress
was to exercise within the United States, it was also intended
to limit it with regard to su6h territories as the people of the
United States should thereafter acquire, such limitations should
have been expressed. Instead of that, we find the Constitution
speaking only to States, except in the territorial clause, which
is absolute in its terms, and suggestive of no limitations upon
the power of Congress in dealing with them. The States could
only delegate to Congress such powers as they themselves possessed, and as they had no power to acquire new territory they
had none to delegate in that connection. The logical inference
from this is, that if Congress had power to acquire new territory, which is conceded, that- power was not hampered by the
constitutional provisions. If, upon, the other hand, we assume

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

that the territorial clause of the Constitution was not intended
to be restricted to such territory as the United States then possessed, there is nothing in the Constitution to indicate that the
power of Congress in deiling with them was intended to be
restricted by any of the other provisions.
There is a provision, that "new States may be admitted by
the Congress into this Union." These words, of course, carry
the Constitution with them, but nothing is said regarding the
acquisition of new territories or the extension of the Constitution over them. The liberality of Congress in legislating the
Constitution into all our contiguous territories has undoubtedly
fostered the impression that it went there by its own force, but
there is nothing in the Constitution itself, and little in the interpretation put upon it, to confirm that impression. There is
not even an analogy to the provisions of an ordinary mortgage
for its attachment to after-acquired property, without which it
covers only property existing at the date of the mortgage. In
short, there is absolute silence upon the subject. The executive
and legi lative departments of the government have for more
than a century interpreted this silence as precluding the idea
that the Constitution attached to these territories as soon as acquired, and unless such interpretation be manifestly contrary
to the letter or spirit of the Constitution, it should be followed
by the judicial department. Cooley's Consti. Lim. secs. 81 to
85. Burrow-Gilem Lithographic Co. v. Barony, 111 U. S. 53,
57; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.649, 691.
Patriotic and intelligent men may differ widely as to the
desireableness of this or that acquisition, but this is solely a
political question. We can only consider this aspect of the case
so far as to say that no construction of the Constitution should
be adopted which would prevent Congress from considering
each case upon its merits, unless the language of the instrument imperatively demand it. A false step at this time might
be fatal to the development of what Chief Justice Marshall
called the American Empire. Choice in some cases, the natural gravitation of small bodies towards large ones in others, the
result of a successful war in still others, may bring about conditions which would render the annexation of distant posses-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JuSTICES WBlT-, SHmAS and MoKExsxA, concurring.

sions desirable.

If those possessions are inhabited by alien

races, differing from us in religion, customs, laws, methods of

taxation and modes of thought, the administration of government and justice, according to Anglo-Saxon principles, may for
a time be impossible; and the question at once arises whether
large concessions ought not to be made for a time, that, ultimately, our own theories may be carried out, and the blessings
of a free government under the Constitution extended to them.
We decline to hold that there is anything in the Constitution
to forbid such action.
We are therefore of opinion that the Island of Porto Rico is
a territory appurtenant and belonging to the United States,
but not a part of the United States within the revenue clauses
of the Constitution; that the Foraker act is constitutional, so
far as it imposes duties upon imports from such island, and that
the plaintiff cannot recover back the duties exacted in this case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
.Affind.
MR. JUSTICE WITE, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE SEmEs
and MR.JUSTiCE. McKENNA, uniting in the judgment of affirm-

ance.
MR. JUSTIoE BRoWN, in announcing the judgment of affirm-

ance, has in his opinion stated his reasons for his concurrence
in such judgment. In the result I likewise concur. As, however, the reasons which cause me to do so are different from, if
not in conflict with, those expressed in that opinion, if its meaning is by me not misconceived, it becomes my duty to state the
convictions which control me.
The recovery sought is the amount of duty paid on merchandise which came into the United States from Porto Rico after
July 1, 1900. The exaction was made in virtue of the act of
Congress approved April 12,1900, entitled "An act temporarily
to provide revenue and a civil government for Porto Rico, and
for other purposes." 31 Stat. 77, c. 191. The right to recover
is predicated on the assumption that Porto Rico, by the ratification of the treaty with Spain, became incorporated into the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusmES WmTE, Smn.As and MoKENN., concurring.

United States, and therefore the act of Congress which imposed
the duty in question is repugnant to Article I, see. 8, clause 1,
of the Constitution providing that "The Congress shall have
Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to
pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and
Excises shall be Uniform throughout the United States." Subsidiarily, it is contended that the.duty collected was also repugnant to the export and preference clauses of the Constitution.
But as the case concerns no duty on goods going from the United
States to Porto Rico, this proposition must depend also on the
hypothesis that the provisions of the Constitution referred to
apply to Porto Rico because that island has been incorporated
into the United States. It is hence manifest that this latter contention is involved in the previous one, and need not be separately considered.
The arguments at bar embrace many propositions which seem
to me to be irrelevant, or, if relevant, to be so contrary to reason and so in conflict with previous decisions of this court as to
cause them to require but a passing notice. To eliminate all controversies of this character, and thus to come to the pivotal contentions which the case involves, let me state and concede the
soundness of some principles, referring, in doing so, in the
margin to the authorities by which they are sustained, and
making such comment on some of them as may to me appear
necessary.
Firdt. The government of the United States was born of the
Constitution, and all powers which it enjoys or may exercise
must be either derived expressly or by implication from that
instrument. Ever then, when an act of any department is challenged, because not warranted by the Constitution, the existence of the authority is to be ascertained by determining whether
the power has been conferred by the Constitution, either in express terms or by lawful implication, to be drawn from the express authority conferred or deduced as an attribute which legitimately inheres in the nature of the powers given, and which
flows from the character of the government established by the
Constitution. In other words, whilst confined to its constitu-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIR.&s and MXKEuiA, concurring.

is supreme
tional orbit, the government of the United States
within its lawful sphere.'
Second. Every function of the government being thus derived
from the Constitution, it follows that that instrument is everywhere and at all times potential in so far as its provisions are
applicable
,hird.Hence it is that wherever a power is given by the Constitution and there is a limitation imposed on the authority,
such restriction operates upon and confines every action on the
subject within its constitutional limits. 3
Fourth. Consequently it is impossible to conceive that where
conditions are brought about to which any particular provision
of the Constitution applies, its controlling influence may be
frustrated by the action of any or all of the departments of the
government. Those departments, when discharging, within the
limits of their constitutional power, the duties which rest on
them, may of course deal with the subjects committed to them
in such a way as to cause the matter dealt with to come under
the control of provisions of the Constitution which may not
have been previously applicable. But this does not conflict withthe doctrine just stated, or presuppose that the Constitution may
or may not be applicable at the election of any agency of the
government.
.ifth.The Constitution has undoubtedly coiiferred on Congress the right to create such municipal organizations as it may
deem best for all the territories of the United States whether
they have been incorporated or not, to give to the inhabitants
as respects the local governments such degree of representation
as may be conducive to the public well-being, to deprive such
1 Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 187, 176 et. seq. ; Martin v.-Hunter, 1
Wheat. 304,326; New Orleansv. United States, 10 Pet. 662, 736; Geofroy v.
Biggs, 133 U. S. 258,266; United States v. Gettysburg Electric Railway, 160
U.2 S. 668, 679, and cases cited.
The City of Panama,101 U. S. 453, 460; Fong Yue Ting v. United States,
149 U. S. 698, 716, 738,
8
Monongahela Navigation Company v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 479; United
States v. Toint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, 571.

VOL. CLXXXII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SaImAs and

McKExwA, concurring.

territority of representative government if it is considered just
to do so, and to change such local governments at discretionj
The plentitude of the power of Congress as just stated is conceded by both sides to this controversy. It has been manifest
from the earliest days and so many examples are afforded of it
that to refer to them seems superfluous. However, there is an
instance which e~emplifies the exercise of the power substantially
in all its forms, in such an apt way that reference is made to it.
The instance referred to is the District of Columbia, which has
had from the beginning different forms of government conferred
upon it by Congress, some largely representative, others only
partially so, until, at the present time, the people of the District
live under a local government totally devoid of local representation, in the elective sense, administered solely by officers appointed by the President, Congress, in which the District has
no representative in effect, acting as the local legislature.
In some adjudged cases the power to locally govern at discretion has been declared to arise as an incident to the right to
acquire territory. In others it has been rested upon the clause
of section 3, Article IV, of the Constitution, which vests Congress with the power to dispose of and make all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory or other property of
the United States.2 But this divergence, if not conflict of
opinion, does not imply that the authority of Congress to govern
the territories is outside of the Constitution, since in either case
the right is founded on the Constitution, although referred to
different provisions of that instrument.
Whilst, therefore, there is no express or implied limitation on
Congress in exercising its power to create local governments for
'United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 378; Shivelyv. Bowlby, 152U. S.
1, 48.
2 Sere v. Pitot, 6 Cranch, 332, 336; McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,
421; American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542; United States v. Gratiot,
14 Pet. 526, 537; Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 448; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 434, 447; Hamilton v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73, 93; NationalBank
v. County of Yankton, 101 U. S. 129, 132; The City of Panama, 101 U. S.
453, 457; Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 44; United States v. Kagama,
118 U. S. 375, 380; Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1, 42; Boyd
v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135, 169.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIBAS and MCKFNNA, concurring.

any and all of the territories, by which that body is restrained
from the widest latitude of discretion, it does not follow that
there may not be inherent, although unexpressed, principles
which are the basis of all free government which cannot be
with impunity transcended. But this does not suggest that
every express limitation of the Constitution which is applicable
has not force, but only signifies that even in cases where there
is no direct command 6f the Constitution which applies, there
may nevertheless be restrictions of so fundamental a nature that
they cannot be transgressed, although ndt expressed in so many
words in th6 Constitution.
Sixth. As Congress in governing the territories is subject to
the Constitution, it results that all the limitations of the Constitution which are applicable to Congress in exercising this
authority necessarily limit its power on this subject. It follows also that every provision of the Constitution which is
applicable to the territories is also controlling therein. To
justify a departure from this elementary principle by a criticism of the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Scott v.
Sandford, 19 How. 393, appears to me to be unwarranted.
Whatever may be the view entertained of the correctness of
the opinion of the court in that case, in so far as it interpreted
a particular provision of the Constitution concerning slavery
and decided that as so construed it was in force in the territories, this in no way affects the principle which that decision
announced, that the applicable provisions of the Constitution
were operative. That doctrine was concurred in by the dissenting judges, as the following excerpts demonstrate. Thus
Mr. Justice McLean, in the course of his dissenting opinion,
said, (19 How. 542):
"In organizing the government of %territory, Congress is
limited to means appropriate to the attainment of the constitutional object. No powers can be exercised which are prohibited by the Constitution, or which are contrary to its
spirit."
-'MormonChurch v. United States, 136 U. S. 1, 44.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTICEs WHITE, SHiR s and MCKENNA, concurring.

Mr. Justice Curtis, also in the dissent expressed by him, said
(p. 614):
"If, then, this clause does contain a power to legislate respecting the territory, what are the limits of that power?
"To this I answer that, in common with all the other legislative powers of Congress, it finds limits in the express prohibitions on Congress not to do certain things; that, in the exercise
of the legislative power, Congress cannot pass an ex _po8t facto
law or bill of attainder; and so in respect to each of the other
prohibitions contained in the Constitution."
Seventh. In the case of the territories, as in every other instance, when a provision of the Constitution is invoked, the
question which arises is, not whether the Constitution is operative, for that is self-evident, but whether the provision relied on
is applicable.
.Eighth. As Congress derives its authority to levy local taxes
for local purposes within the territories, not from the general
grant of power to tax as expressed in the Constitution, it follows that its right to loQally tax is not to be measured by the
provision empowering Congress "To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises," and is not restrained by the requirement of uniformity throughout the United States. But the
power just referred to, as well as the qualification of uniformity, restrains Congress from imposing an impost duty on goods
coming into the United States from a territory which has been
incorporated into and forms a part of the United States. This
results because the clause of the Constitution in question does
not confer upon Congress power to impose such an impost duty
on goods coming from one part of the United States to another
part thereof, and such duty besides would be repugnant to the
requirement of uniformity throughout the United States.'
To question the principle above stated on the assumption that
the rulings on this subject of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in
Loughborough v. Blake were mere dicta, seems to me to be entirely inadmissible. And, besides, if such view was justified,
ILoughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317, 322; Woodruffv. Parham, 8 Wall.
123, 133; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622, 628; Fairbankv. United States,
181 U. S. 283.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JusTicEs WmTE, SHmAs and McKkKKA,

concurring.

the principle would still find support in the decision in TFoodruf v. Parham,and that decision, in this regard, was affirmed
by this court in Brown v. Houton, and Fairban v. United
States,

8t pra.

From these conceded propositions it follows that Congress in
legislating for Porto Rico was only empowered to act within
the Constitution and subject to its applicable limitations, and
that every provision of the Constitution which applied to a
country situated as was that island, was potential in Porto
Rico.
And the determination of what particular provision of the
Constitution is applicable, generally speaking, in all cases, involves an inquiry into the situation of the territory and its relations to the United States. This is well illustrated by some
of the decisions of this court which are cited in the margin.'
Some of these decisions hold on the one'hand that, growing out
of the presumably ephemeral nature of a territorial government, the provisions of the Constitution relating to the life tenure of judges is inapplicable to courts created by Congress,
even in territories which are incorporated into the United
States, and some on the other hand decide that the provisions as
to common-law juries found in the Constitution are applicable
under like "Conditions; that is to say, although the judge presiding over a jury need not have the constitutional tenure, yet
the jury must be in accordance with the Constitution. And
the application of the provision of the Constitution relating to
juries has been also considered in a different aspect, the case
being noted in the margin2
The question involved was the constitutionality of the statutes
of the United States conferring power on ministers and consuls
1

American Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511; Benner v. Porter,9 How.
235; Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437, 460; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall.
434; Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145; Cullen v. Wilson, 127 U. S.
540; McAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 174; Springville v. Thomas,. 166
U. S. 707; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343;
Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1; Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349,
63.
2
In re Ross, 140 U. S. 453, 461, 462, 463.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTioEs WH E, SmiRAS and McKENwA, concurring.

to try American citizens for crimes committed in certain foreign
countries.

Rev. Stat. secs. 4083-4086.

The court held the pro-

visions in question not to be repugnant to the Constitution, and
that a conviction for a felony without a previous indictment by
a grand jury, or the summoning of a petty jury, was valid.
It was decided that the provisions of the Constitution relating to grand and petty juries were inapplicable to consular
courts exercising their jurisdiction in certain countries foreign to
the United States. But this did not import that the governinent of the United States in creating and conferring jurisdiction on consuls and ministers acted outside of the Constitution,
since it was expressly held that the power to call such courts
into being and to confer upon them the right to try, in the foreign countries in question, American citizens was deducible from
the treaty-making power as conferred by the Constitution. The
court said (p. 463):

"cThe treaty-making power vested in our government extends
to all proper subjects of negotiation with foreign governments.
It can, equally with any of the former or present governments
of Europe, make treaties providing for the exercise of judicial
authority in other countries by its officers appointed to reside
therein."
In other words, the case concerned not the question of a power
outside the Constitution, but simply whether certain provisions
of the Constitution were applicable to the authority exercised
under the circumstances which the case presented.
Albeit, as a general rule, the 8tatus of a particular territory
has to be taken in view when the applicability of any provision
of the Constitution is questioned, it does not follow when the
Constitution has absolutely withheld from the government all
power on a given subject, that such an inquiry is necessary.
Undoubtedly, there are general prohibitions in the Constitution
in favor of the liberty and property of the citizen which are not
mere regulations as to the form and manner in which a conceded
power may be exercised, but which are an absolute denial of
all authority under any circumstances or conditions to do particular acts. In the nature of things, limitations of this char-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JuSTIcES WT,

SmRAS and McKEwNKA,

concurring.

acter cannot be under any circumstances transcended, because
of the complete absence of power
The distinction which exists between the two characters of
restrictions, those which regulate a granted power and those
which withdraw all authority on a particular subject, has in effect been always conceded, even by those who most strenuously
insisted on the erroneous principle that the Constitution did not
apply to Congress in legislating for the territories, and was not
operative in such districts of country. No one had more broadly
asserted this principle than Mr. Webster. Indeed, the support
which that proposition receives from expressions of that illustrious man have been mainly relied upon to sustain it, and yet
there can be no doubt that, even whilst insisting upon such principle, it was conceded by Mr. Webster that those positive probibitions of the Constitution which withhold all power on a
particular subject were always applicable. His views of the
principal proposition and his concession as to the existence of
the qualification are clearly shown by a debate which took place
in the Senate on February 24, 1849, on an amendment offered
by Mr. Walker extending the Constitution and certain laws of
the United States over California and New Mexico. Mr. Webster, in support of his conception that the Constitution did not,
generally speaking, control Congress in legislating for the territories or operate in such districts, said as follows (20 Cong.
Globe, App. p. 272):
"Mr. President, it is of irhportanbe that we should seek to
have clear ideas and correct notions of the question which this
amendment of the member from Wisconsin has presented to
us; and especially that we should seek to get some conception
of what is meant by the proposition, in a law, to ' extend the
Constitution of the United States to the territories.' Why, sir,
the thing is utterly impossible. All the legislation in'the world,
in this general form, could not accomplish it. There is no
cause for the operation of the legislative power in such a matter as that. The Constitution, what is it-we extend the Constitution of the U.nited Statas by law to a territory? What is
the Constitution of the United States? Is not its very first
principle that all within its influence and comprehension shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JuSTIOES WHITE, SumAs and McKExNA, concurring.

be represented in the legislature which it establishes, with not
only the right of debate and the right to vote in both houses
of Congress, but a right to partake in the choice of the President and Vice President? And can we by law extend these
rights, or any of them, to a territory of the United States?
Everybody will see that it is altogether impracticable."
Thereupon, the following colloquy ensued between Mr. Underwood and Mr. Webster:
"Mr. Underwood: I The learned Senator from Massachusetts
says, and says most appropriately and forcibly, that the principles of the Constitution are obligatory upon us even while legislating for the territories. That is true, I admit, in its fullest force, but if it is obligatory upon us while legislating for the
territories, is it possible that it will not be equally obligatory
upon the officers who are appointed to administer the laws in
these territories? '
"Mr. Webster: II never said it was not obligatory upon
them. What I said was, that in making. laws for these territories it was the high duty of Congress to regard those great
principles in the Constitution intended for the security of personal liberty and for the security of property.'
"Mr. Underwood: I . . . Suppose we provide by our
legislation that nobody shall be appointed to an office there
who professes the Catholic religion. What do we do by an act
of this sort?'
"Mr. Webster: 'We violate the Constitution, which says
that no religious test shall be required as qualification for
office.'"1
And this was the state of opinion generally prevailing in the
Free Soil and Republican parties, since the resistance of those
parties to the extension of slavery into the territories, whilst
in a broad sense predicated on the proposition that the Constitution was not generally controlling in the territories, was sustained by express reliance upon the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution forbidding Congress from depriving any person of
life, liberty or property without due process of law. Every
platform adopted by those parties down to and including 1860,
whilst propounding the general doctrine,. also in effect declared

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS

and

MC

ENNA,

concurring.

the rule just stated. I append in the margin an excerpt from
the platform of the Free Soil Party adopted in 1842.1
The conceptions embodied in these resolutions were in almost
identical language reiterated in the platform of the Liberty
Party in 1843, in that of the Free Soil Party in 1852 and in
the platform of the Republican Party in 1856. Stanwood,
Hist. of Presidency, pp. 218, 253, 254 and 271. In effect, the
same thought was repeated in the declaration of principles made
by the Republican Party convention in 1860, when Mr. Lincoln
was hominated, as will be seen from an excerpt therefrom set
out in the margin.2
The doctrine that those absolute withdrawals of power which
Extract from the Free S6il Party platform of 1842 (Stanwood, Hist. of
Presidency, p. 240):
"Resolved, That our fathers ordained the Constitution of the United
States inorder, among other great national objects, to establish justice,
promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty, but expressly deniedto the Federal government, which they created, all constitutional power to deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due legal process.
" Resolved, That, in the judgment of this convention, Congress has no
more power to make a slave than to make a king ; no more power to institute or establish slavepy than to institute or establish a monarchy. No
such power can be found among those specifically conferred by the Constitution, or derived by any just implication from them.
"1.Resolved, That it is the duty of the Federal government to relieve itself from all responsibility for the existence or continuance of slavery
wherever the government possesses constitutional authority to legislate on
that subject, and is thus responsible for its existence.
"Resolved, That the true and in the judgment of this convention the only
safe means of preventing the extension of slavery into territory now free is
to prohibit its existence in all such territory by an act of Congress."
2
Excerpt from declarations made in the platform of the Republican
Party in 1860 (Stanwood, Hist. of Presidency, p. 293):
"8. That the normal condition of ill the territory of the United States
is that of freedom; that as our republican fathers, when they had abolished
slavery in all our national territory, ordained that no person should be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law, it becomes'
our duty, by legislation, whenever such legislation is necessary, to maintain this provision of the Constitution against all attempts to violate it;
and we deny the authority of Congress, of a territorial legislature or of any
individual to give legal existence to slavery in any territory of the United
States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIcMS WHITE, SHIMAS and MCKENNA, concurring.

the Constitution has made in favor of human liberty are applicable to every condition or status has been clearly pointed out
by this court in hicago, Rock i8land &c.Railway v. .AcGlinn,
(1885) 114 U. S. 542, where, speaking through Mr. Justice Field,
the court said (p. 546):
"1It is a general rule of public law, recognized and acted upon
by the United States, thnt whenever political jurisdiction and
legislative power oQer any territory are transferred from one
nation or sovereign to another, the imnicipal laws of the country
-that is, laws which are intended for the protection of private
rioghts-continue in force until abrogated or changed by the
new government or sovereign. By the cession public property
passes from one government to the other, but private property
remains as before, and with it those municipal laws which are
designed to secure its peaceful use and enjoyment. As a matter
of course, all laws, ordinances, and regulations in conflict with
the political character, institutions, and constitution of the new
government are at once displaced. Thus, upon a cession of political jurisdiction and legislative power-and the latter is involved in the former-to the United States, the laws of the
country in support of an established religion, or abridging the
freedom of the press, or authorizing cruel and unusual punishments,- and the like, would at once cease to be of obligatory
force without any declaration to that effect; and the laws of
the country on other subjects would necessarily be superseded
by existing laws of the new government upon the same matters.
But with respect to other laws affecting the possession, use and
transfer of property, and designed to secure good drder and
peace in the community, and promote its health and prosperity,
which are strictly of a municipal character, the rule is general
that a change of government leaves them in force until, by direct action of the new government, they are altered or repealed.
Amer. Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 542; Halleck, Int.Law, chap. 34,
 14.'
There is in reason then no room in this case to contend that
Congress can destroy the liberties of the people of Porto Rico
by exercising in their regard powers against freedom and justice which the Constitution has absolutely denied. There can

DOWNES v. BIDWELL
JUSTICES WEirrE, SHIBAS

and McKnNwA, concurring.

also be no controversy as to the right of Congress to locally
govern the island of Porto Rico as its wisdom may decide and
in so doing to accord only such degree of representative governinent as may be determined on by that body. There can also be
no contention as to the authority of Congress to levy such local
taxes in Porto Rico as it may choose, even although the amount
of the local burden so levied be manifold more. onerous than
is the duty with which this case is concerned. But as the duty
in quest-on was not a local tax, since it was levied in the United
States on goods coming from Porto Rico, it follows that if that
island was a part of the United States, the duty was repugnant
to the Constitution, since the authority to levy an impost duty
conferred by the Constitution on Congress, does not, as I have
conceded, include the right to lay such a burden on goods coming from one to another part of the United States. And, besides, if Porto Rico was a part of the United States the exaction
was repugnant to the uniformity clause.
The sole and only issue, then, is not whether Congress has
taxed Porto Rico without representation-for, whether the tax
was focal or national, it could have been imposed, although
Porto Rico had no representative local government and was
not represented in Congress-but is, whether the particular
tax in question was levied in such form as to cause it to be
repugnant to the Constitution. This is to be resolved by answering the inquiry, Had Porto Rico, at the time of the passage of the act in question, been incorporated into and become
an integral part of the United States.?
On the one hand, it is affirmed that, although Porto Rico
had been ceded by the treaty with Spain to the United States,
the cession was accompanied by such conditions as prevented
that island from becoming an integral part of the United States,
at least, temporarily, and until Congress had so determined.
On the other hand, it is insisted that by the fact of cession to
the United States alone, irrespective of any conditions found
in the treaty, Porto Rico became a part of the United. States,
and was incorporated into it. It is incompatible with the Constitution, it is argued, for the government of the United States
to accept a cession of territory-from a foreign country without

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHRAS and MCKENNA, concurring.

complete incorporation following as an immediate result, and
therefore it is contended that it is immaterial to inquire what
were the conditions of the cession, since if there were any
which were intended to prevent incorporation they were repugnant to the Constitution and void. The result of the argument is that the Government of the United States is absolutely
without power to acquire and hold territory as property or as
appurtenant to the United States. These conflicting contentions are asserted to be- sanctioned by many adjudications of
this court and by various acts of the executive and legislative
branches of the government; both sides, in many instances, referring to the same decisions and to the like acts, but deducing
contrary conclusions from them. From this it comes to pass
that it will be impossible to weigh the authorities relied upon
without ascertaining the subject-matter to which they refer, in
order to determiie their proper influence. For this reason, in
the orderly discussion of the controversy, I propose to consider
the subject from the Constitution itself, as a matter of first impression, from that instrument as illustrated by the history of
the government, and as construed by the previous decisions of
this court. By this process, if accurately carried out, it will
follow that the true solution of the question will be ascertained,
both deductively and inductively, and the result, besides, will
be adequately proven.
It may not be doubted that by the general principles of the
law of nations every government which is sovereign within its
sphere of action possesses as an inherent attribute the power to
acquire territory by discovery, by agreement or treatyr, and by
conquest. It cannot also be gainsaid that as a general rule
wherever a government acquires territory as a result of any of
the modes above stated, the relation of the territory to the new
government is to be determined by the acquiring power in the
absence of stipulations upon the subject. These general principles of the law of nations are thus stated by Halleck in his
treatise on International Law, page 126:
"A state. may acquire property or domain in various ways;
its title may be acquired originally by mere occupancy, and
confirmed by the presumption arising from the lapse of time;

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAs and MOENNA, concurring.

or by discovery and lawful possession; or by conquest, confirmed by treaty or tacit consent; or by grant, cession, purchase
or exchange; in fine, by any of the recognized modes by which
private property is acquired by individuals. It is not our object to enter into any general discussion of these several modes
of acquisition, any further than may be necessary to distinguish
the character of certain rights of property which are the peculiar objects of international jurisprudence. Wheaton, Elm. Int.
Law, pt. 2, ch. 4, sees. 1, 4, 5; Phillimore on Int. Law, vol. 1,
sees. 221-211; Grotius, de Jur. Bel. ac. Pac. lib. 2, cap. 4; Vattel, Droit des Gens, liv. 2, chs. 7 and 11 ; Rutherford, Institutes,
b. 1, ch. 3; b. 2, ch. 9; Puffendorf, de Jur. Nat. et Gent. lib- 4,
chs. 4, 5, 6; Moser, Versuch, etc., b. 5, cap. 9; Martens, Precis
du Droit des Gens, see 35, et seq. ; Schmaltz, Droit des Gens,
liv. 4, ch. 1 ; Kluber, Droit des Gens sees. 125, 126; Heffter,
Droit International, see. 76; Ortolan, Domainie International,
sec. 53, et seq.; Bowyer, Universal Public Law, ch. 28, Bello,
Derecho Internacional, pt. 1, cap. 4; Riquelme, Derecho Pub.
Int. lib. 1, tit. 1, cap. 2; Burlamaqui, Droit de la Nat. et des
Gens, tome 4, pt. 3, ch. 5."
Spealdng of a change of sovereignty, Halleck says (pp. 16,

814):
"Ch. III, See. 23. The sovereignty of a state may be lost in
various ways. It may be vanquished by a foreign power, and
become incorporated into the conquering state as oprovince or
as one of its component parts; or it may voluntarily unite itself
with another in such a way that its independent existence as a
state will entirely cease."
"Oh. XXXIII, See. 3. If the hostile nation be subdued and
the entire state conquered, a question arises as to the manner in
which the conqueror may treat it without transgressing the just
bounds established by the rights of conquest. If he simply replaces the former sovereign, and, on the submission of the people, governs them according to the laws of the State, they can
have no cause of complaint. Again, if he incorporates them
with his former states, giving to them the rights, privileges and
immunities of his own subjects, he does for them all that is due

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITH, SurmAs and MCKENNA, concurring.

from a humane and equitable conqueror to his vanquished foes.
But if the conquered are a fierce, savage and restless people, he
may, according to the degree of their indocility, govern them
with a tighter rein, so as to curb their ' impetuosity, and to keep
them under subjection.' Moreover, the rights of conquest may,
in certain cases, justify him in imposing a tribute or other burthen, either a compensation"for the expenses of the war or as a
punishment for the injustice he has suffered from them.
Vattel, Droit des Gens, liv. 3,.ch. 13,  201; Curtis, History,
etc!, liv. 7, cap. 8; Grotius, de Jur. Bel. ac. Pac. lib. 3, caps. 8,
15; Puffendorf, de Jur. 1at. et Gent., lib. 8, cap. 6,  24; Real,
Science du Gouvernement, tome 5, ch. 2,  5; Heffter, Droit
International,  124 ; Abegg, Untersuchungen, etc., p. 86."
In American Is. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, the general doctrine was thus summarized, in the opinion delivered by Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall (p. 542):
"If it (conquered territory) be ceded by the treaty, the acquisition is confirmed, and the ceded territory becomes a part of
the nation to which it is annexed, either on the terms stipulated
in the treaty of cession, or on such as its new master shall im.Pose."
When our forefathers threw off their allegiance to Great Britain and established a republican government, assuredly they
deemed that the nation which they called into being was endowed with those general powers to'acquire territory which all
independent governments in virtue of their sovereignty enjoyed.
This is demonstrated by the concluding paragraph of the Declaration of Independence, which reads as follows:
"As free and independent States, they [the United States of
America] have full power to levy war, conclude peace, contract
alliances, establish commerce, and to do all other acts and things
which independent States may of right do."
That under the confederation it was considered that the government of the United States had authority to acquire territory
like any other sovereignty, is clearly established by the eleventh of the articles of confederation.
. The decisions of this court leave no room for question that,
under the Constitution, the government of the United States,

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIfAS and MoKENNA,

303
-oncurring.

in virtue of its sovereignty, supreme within the sphere of its
delegated power, has the full right to acquire territory enjoyed
by every other sovereign nation.
In American Invurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511,. the court,
by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, said (p. 542): "The Constitution
confers absolutely on the government of the Union, the powers
of making war, and of making treaties; consequently, that government possesses the power of acquiring territory, either by
conquest or by treaty."
In United States v. -Huckabee, (1872) 16 Wall. 414, the court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Clifford, said (p. 434): "Power
to acquire territory either by conquest or treaty is vested by
the Constitution in the United States. Conquered territory,
however, is usually held as a mere military occupation until
the fate of the nation from which it is conquered is determined,
but if the nation is entirely subdued, or in case it be destroyed
and ceases to exist, the right of occupation becomes permanent,
and the title vests absolutely in the conqueror. American lins.
Co. v. Canter,1 Pet. 511; Hogsheads of8
Sugarv. Boyle; 9 Cranch,
195; Shanks V. Dupont, 3 Pet. 246; United States v. Rice, 4
Wheat. 254; The Amy Warwick, 2 Sprague, 143; Johnson v.
Ifclntosh, 8 Wheat. 588. Complete conquest, by whatever
mode it may be perfected, carries with it all the rights of the
former government, or, in other words, the conqueror, by the
completion of his conquest, becomes the absolute owner of the
property conquered from the enemy, nation or state. His rights
are no longer limited to mere occupation of what he has taken
into his actual possession, but they extend to all the property
and rights of the conquered state, including even debts as well
as personal and real property. Halleck, International Law,
839; Elphilnstone v. Bedreechund, 1 Knapp's Privy Council
Cases, 329 ; Vattel, 365 ; 3 Phillimore's International Law, 505."
In 3formon Church v. United States, (1889) 136 U. S. 1, Mr.
Justice Bradley, announcing the opinion of the court, declared
(p. 42): "The power to acquire territory, other than the territory northwest of the Ohio River, (which belonged to the United States at the adoption of the Constitution,) is derived from
the treaty-making power and the power to declare and carry

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WoITE, SHIRAS and MOKENNA, concurring.

on war. The incidents of these powers are those of national
sovereignty, and belong to all independent governments. The
power to make acquisitions of territory by conquest, by treaty
and by cession is an incident of national sovereignty. The
Territory of Louisiana, when acquired from France, and the
territories west of the Rocky Mountains, when acquired from
Mexico, became the absolute property and domain of the United
States, subject to such conditions as the government, in its
diplomatic negotiations, had seen fit to accept relating to the
rights of the people then inhabiting those territories."
Indeed, it is superfluous to cite authorities establishing the
right of the government of the United States to acquire territory, in view of the possession of the Northwest Territory when
the Constitution was framed and the cessions to the general
government by various States subsequent to the adoption of
the Constitution, and in view also of the vast extension of the
territory of the United States brought about since the existence
of the Constitution by substantially every form of acquisition
known to the law of nations. Thus, in part at least, "the title
of the United States to Oregon was founded upon original discovery and actual settlement of citizens of the United States,
authorized or approved by the government of the United
States." Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 50. The Province of
Louisiana was ceded by France in 1803; the Floridas were
transferred by Spain in 1819; Texas was admitted into the
Union by compact with Congress in 1845; California and New
Mexico were acquired by the treaty with Mexico of 1848, and
other western territory from Mexico by the treaty 'of 183;
numerous islands have been brought within the dominion of
the United States under the authority of the act of August 18,
1856, c. 164, usually designated as the Guano Islands act, reenacted in Revised Statutes, sections 5570-55,78; Alaska was
ceded by Russia in 1867; Medway Island, the western end of
the Hawaiian group, 1200 miles from Honolulu, was acquired
in 1867, and $50,000 was expended in efforts to make it a naval
station; on the renewal of a treaty with Hawaii, November 9,
1887,'Pearl Harbor was leased for a permanent naval station;
by joint resolution of Congress the Hawaiian Islands came un-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHnIAS

and McKwlA, concurring.

der the sovereignty of the United States in 1898; and on
April 30, 1900, an act for the government of Hawaii was approved, by which the Hawaiian Islands were given the 8tat 8
of an incorporated territory; on May 21, 1890, there was proclaimed by the President an agreement, concluded and signed
with Germany and Great Britain, for the joint administration
of the Samoan Islands, 26 Stat. 1497; and, on February 16,
1900, 31 Stat. 67, there was proclaimed a convention between
the United States, Germany and Great Britain, by which Germany and Great Britain renounced in favor of the United States
all their rights and claims over and in respect to the Island of
Tutuilla and all other islands of the Samoan group east of longitude 171' west of Greenwich. And finally the treaty with
Spain which terminated the recent war was ratified.
It is worthy of remark that, beginning in the administration
of President Jefferson, the acquisitions of foreign territory above
referred to were largely made whilst that political party was
in power, which announced, as its fundamental tenet, the duty
of strictly construing the Constitution, and it is true to say that
all shades of political opinion have admitted the power to acquire and lent their aid to its accomplishment. &nd the power
has been asserted in instances where it has not -been exercised.
Thus, during the administration of President Pierce, in 1854, a
draft of a treaty for the annexation of Hawaii was agreed upon,
bui, owing to the death of the King of the Hawaiian Islands,
was not executed. The second article of the proposed treaty
provided as follows (Ex. Doe. Senate, 55th Congress, 2d sess.,
IReport No. 681, Calendar No. 747, p. 91):
"Article II.
"The Kingdom of the Hawaiian'Islands shall be incorporated
into the -American Union as a State, enjoying the same degree
of sovereignty as other States, and admitted as such as soon
as it can be done in consistency with the principles and requirements of the Federal Constitution, to all the rights, privileges
and immunities of a State as aforesaid, on a perfect equality
with the other States of the Union."
It is insisted, however, that, conceding the right of the govVOL. CLXXii-20

OCTOBER TERH, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SmTRAs and McKIC.NNA,

concurring.

ernment of the United States to acquire territory, as all such
territory when acquired becomes absolutely incorporated into
the United States, every provision of the Constitution which
would apply under that situation is controlling in such acquired
territory. This, however, is but to admit the power to acquire
and immediately to deny its beneficial existence.
The general principle of the law of nations, already stated,
is that acquired territory, in the absence of agreement to the
contrary, will bear such relation to the acquiring government
as may be by it determined. To concede to the government
of the United States the right to acquire and to strip it of all
power to protect the birthright of its own citizens and to provide for the well-being of the acquired territory by such enactments as may in view of its condition be essential, is, in effect,
to say that the United States is helpless in the family of nations, 'and does not possess that authority which has at all times
been treated as an incident of the right to acquire. Let me
illustrate the accuracy of this statement. Take a case of discovery. Citizens of .the United States discover an unknown
island, peopled with an uncivilized race, yet rich in soil, and
valuable to the United States for commercial and strategic reasons. Clearly, by the law of nations, the right to ratify such
acquisition and thus to acquire the territory would pertain to
the government of the United States. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8
Wheat. 543, 595 ; Mfartin v. TWaddell, 16 Pet. 367, 409; Jones
v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 212; Shively v. Bowlby, 152
U. S.1, 50. Can it be denied that such right could not be practically exercised if the result would be to endow the inhabitants
with citizenship of the United States and to subject them not
only to local but also to an equal proportion of national taxes,
even although the consequence woiild be to entail ruin on the
discovered territory and to inflict grave detriment on the United
States to arise both from the dislocation of its fiscal system and
the immediate bestowal of citizenship on those absolutely unfit
to receive it?
The practice of the government has been otherwise.- As
early as 1856 Congress enacted the Guano Islands act, heretofore referred to, which, by section 1, provided that, when any

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, S-m As and MCKENwA, concurring.

citizen of the United States shall "discover a deposit of guano
on any island, rock or key, not within the lawful jurisdiction
of any other government, and not occupied by the citizens of
any other government, and shall take peaceable possession
thereof, and occupy thc same, said island, rock or key may, at the
discretion of the President of the United States, be considered
a8 appertaining'tothe United States." 11 Stat. 119, c. 164:;
Rev. Stat.  5570. Under the act referred to, it was stated in
argument, that the government now holds and protects American citizens in- the occupation of some seventy islands. The
statute came under consideration in onm v. United States, 137
U. S. 202, where the question was whether or not the act was
valid and it was decided that the act was a lawful exercise of
power, and that islands thus acquired were "appurtenant" to
the United States. The court, in the course of the opinion,
speaking through Mr. Justice Gray, said (p. 212):
"By the law of nations, recognized by all civilized states, dominion of nev territory may be acquired by discovery and occupation, as well as by cession or conquest; and when citizens
or subjects of one nation, in its name, and by its authority or
with its assent, take and hold actual, continuous and useful possession, (although only for the purpose of carrying on a particular business, such as catching and curing fish or working
mines,) of territory unoccupied by any other government or its
citizens, the nation to which they belong may exercise such jurisdiction and for such period as it sees fit over territory so acquired. This principle affords ample warrant for tlie legislation of Congress concerning guano islands. Vattel, lib. 1, chap.
18; Wheaton on Internittional Law (8th ed.),  161, 165,176,
note 104:; Halleck on International Law, chap. 6,  7, 15;
1 Phillimore on International Law (3d ed.),  227, 229, 230,
242; 1 Calvo, Droit International (4th ed.),  266, 277, 300;
Whion v. AZbany County In& Co., 109 Mass. 24, 81."
And these considerations concerning discovery are equally
applicable to ownership resulting from conquest. A just war is
declared and in its prosecution the territory of the enemy is
invaded and occupied. Would not the war, even if waged successfully, be fraught with danger if the effect of occupation was

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SnRnAs and McKENNA, concurring.

to .necessarily incorporate an alien and hostile people into the
United States? Take another illustration. Suppose at the termination of a war the hostile government had been overthrown
and the entire territory or a portion thereof was occupied by
the United States, and there was no government to treat with
or none willing to cede by treaty, and thus it became necessary
for the United States to hold the conquered country for an indefinite period, or at least until such time as Congress deemed
that it should be either released of retained because it was apt
for incorporation into the United States. If holding was to
have the effect which is now claimed for it, would not the exercise of judgment respecting the retention be so fraught with
danger to the American people that it could not be safely
exercised?
Yet, again. Suppose the United States, in consequence of
outrages perpetrated upon its citizens, was obliged to move its
armies or send its fleets to obtain redress, and it came to pass
that an expensive war resulted and culminated in the occupation of a portion of the territory of the enemy, and that the
retention of such territory-an event illustrated by examples
in history-could alone enable the United States to recover the
pecuniary loss it had tuffered. And suppose further that to do
so would require occupation for an indefinite period, dependent
upon whether or not payment was made of the required indemnity. It being true that incorporation must- necessarily
follow the retention of the territory, it would result that the
United States must abandon all hope of recouping itself for the
loss suffered by the unjust war, and, hence, the whole burden
would be entailed upon the people of the United States. This
would be a necessary consequence, because if the United States
did not hold the territory as security for the needed-indemnity
it could not c?llect such indemnity, and on the other hand if
incorporation must follow from holding the territory the uniformity provision of the Constitution would prevent, the assessment of the cost of the war solely upon the newly acquired
country. In this, as in the case of discovery, the traditions
and practices of the government demonstrate the unsounuiness
of the contention. Congress, on May 13, 1846, declared that

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIBAS

and

MCKENIiA,

concurring.

war existed with Mexico. In the summer of that year lNew
Mexico and California were subdued by the American arms and
the military occupation which follbwed continued until after the
treaty of peace was ratified, in May, 1848. Tampico, a Mexican
port, was occupied by our forces on November 15, 1846, and
possession was not surrendered until after the ratification. In
the spring of 1847 President Polk, through the Secretary of
the Treasury, prepared a tariff of duties on imports and tonnage
which was put in force in the conquered country. 1 Senate
Documents, First Session, 30th Congress, pp. 562, 569. By
this tariff, duties were laid as well on merchandise exported
fr.om the United States as from other countries, except as to
supplies for our army, and on May 10, 1847, an exemption from
tonnage duties was accorded to "all vessels chartered by the
United States to convey supplies of any and all descriptions to
our army and navy, and actually laden with supplies." Ib. 583.
An interesting debate respecting the constitutionality of this
action of the President is contained in 18 Cong. Globe, First
Session, 30th Congress, at pp. 478, 479, 484-489, 495, 498, etc.
In Flemingv. Page, 9 How. 603, it was held that the revenue
officials properly treated Tampico as a port of a foreign country
during the occupation by the military forces of the United States,
and that duties on imports into the United States from Tampico
were lawfully levied under the general tariff act of 1846. Thus,
although Tampico was in the possession of the United States,
and the court expressly held that in an international sense the
port was a part of the territory of the United States, yet it was
decided that, in the sense of the revenue laws, Tampico was a foreign country. The special tariff act promulgated by President
Polk was in force in N'ew Mexico and California until after notice was received of the ratification of the treaty of peace. In
Cross v. Harrison,16 How. 164, certain collections of impost
duties on goods brought from foreign countries into California
prior to the time when official notification had been received in
California that the treaty of cession had been ratified, as well as
impost duties levied after the receipt of such notice, were called
in question. The duties collected prior to the receipt of notice
were laid at the rate fixed by the tariff promulgated by the Presi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WmHITE, SIm&AS

and McKENHA, concurring.

dent; those laid after the notification conformed to the general
tariff laws of the United States. The court decided that all
the duties collected were valid. The court undoubtedly in the
course of its opinion said that immediately upon the ratification
of the treaty California became a part of the United States and
subject to its revenue laws. However, the opinion pointedly
referred to a letter of the Secretary of the Treasury directing
the enforcement of the tariff laws of the United States, upon the
express ground that Congress had enacted laws which recognized
the treaty of cession. Besides, the decision was expressly placed
upon the conditions of the treaty, and it was stated, in so many
words, that a different rule would have been applied had the
stipulations in the treaty been of a different character.
But, it is argued, all the instances previously referred to may
be conceded, for they but illustrate the rule inter arma silent
lege8. Hence, they do not apply to acts done after the cessation
of hostilities when a treaty of peace has been concluded. This
not only begs the question, but also embodies a fallacy. A case
has been supposed in which it was impossible to make a treaty
because of the unwillingness or disappearance of the ho tile government, and, therefore, the occupation necessarily continued,
although actual war'had ceased. The fallacy lies in admitting
the right to exercise the power, if only it is exerted by the military arm of the government, but denying it wherever the civil
power comes in to rdgulate and make the conditions more in
accord with the spirit of our free institutions. Why it can be
thought, although under the Constitution the military arm of
the government is in effect the creature of Congress, that such
arm may exercise a power without violating the Constitution,
and yet Congress-the creator-may not regulate, I fail to comprehend.
This further argument, however, is advanced. Granting that
Congress may regulate without incorporating, where the military arm has taken possession of foreign territory, and where
there has been or can be no treaty, this does not concern the
decision of this case, since there is here involved no regulation
but an actual cession to the United States of territory by treaty.
The general rule of the law of nations, by which the acquiring

DOW'NES v. BIDWNELL.
JusTicxs WmTnz, SmRAs and McKAxxA, concurring..

government fixes the 8tatu8 of acquired territory, it is urged,
does not apply to the government of the United States, because
it is incompatible with the Constitution that that government
should hold territory under a cession and administer it as a dependency without its becoming incorporated. This claim, I
have previously said, rests on the erroneous assumption that the
United States under the Constitution is stripped of those powers
which are absolutely inherent in and essential to national existence. The certainty of this is illustrated by the examples already made use of in the supposed cases of discovery and conquest.
If the authority by treaty is limited as suggested, then it will
be impossible to terminate a successful war by acquiring territory through a treaty, without immediately incorporating such
territory into the United States. Let me, however, eliminate the
case of war and consider the treaty-making power as subserving
the purposes of the peaceful evolution of national life. Suppose
the necessity of acquiring a naval station or a coaling station
on an island inhabited with people utterly unfit for American
citizenship and totally incapable of bearing their proportionate
burden of the national expense. . Could such island, under the
rule which is now insisted upon, betaken? Suppose again the
acquisition of territory for an interoceanic canal, where an inhabited strip of land on either side is essential to the United
States for the preservation of the work. Can it be denied that,
if the requirements of the Constitution as to taxation are to immediately control, it might be impossible by treaty to accomplish the desired result?
Whilst no particular provision of the Constitution is referred
to to sustain the argument that it is impossible to acquire territory by treaty without immediate and absolute incorporation, it
is said that the spirit of the Constitution excludes the conception of property or dependencies possessed by the United States,
and which are not so completely incorporated as to be in all respects a part of the United States; that the theory upon which
-the Constitution proceeds is that of confederated and independent States, and that no ter.ritory therefore can be acquired -which
does not contemplate statehood, and excludes the acquisition of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHMRAS and MCKENNA, concurring.

any territory which is not in a position to be treated as an integral part of the United States. But this reasoning is based
on political and not judicial considerations. Conceding that
the conception upon which the Constitution proceeds is that
no territory as a general rule should be acquired unless the
territory may reasonably be expected to be worthy of statehood, the determination of when such blessing is to be bestowed
is wholly a political question, and the aid of the judiciary cannot be invoked to usurp political discretion in order to save the
Constitution from imaginary or even real dangers. The Constitution may not be saved by destroying its fundamental limitations.
Let me come, however, to a consideration of the express powers which are conferred by the Constitution. to show how unwarranted is the principle of immediate incorporation, which is
here go strenuously insisted on. In doing so it isconceded at
once that the true rule of construction is not to consider one
provision of the Constitution alone, but to contemplate all, and
therefore to limit one conceded attribute by those qualifications
which naturally result from the other powers granted by that
instrument, so that the whole may be interpreted by the spirit
which vivifies, and iiot by the letter which killeth. Undoubtedly, the power to carry on war and to make treaties implies
also the exercise of those incidents which ordinarily inhere in
them. Indeed, in view of the rule of construction which I have
just conceded-that all powers conferred by the Constitution
must bejinterpreted with reference to the nature of the government and be construed in harmony with related provisions
of the Constitution-it seems to me impossible to conceive that
the treaty-making power by a mere cession can incorporate an
alien people into the United States without the express or implied approval of Congress. And from this it must follow that
there can be no foundation for the assertion that where the
treaty-making power has inserted conditions which preclude
incorporation until Congress has acted in respect thereto, such
conditions are void and incorporation results in spite thereof.
If the treaty-making power can absolutely, without the consent of Congress, incorporate territory, and if that power may

DOWNES ,. BIDWELL.
JusTcCS

WmTE, SHmAs

and McKExw., concurring.

not insert conditions against incorporation, it must follow that
the treaty-making power is endowed by the Constitution with
the most unlimited right, susceptible of destroying every other
provision of the Constitution; that is, it may wreck our institutions. If the proposition be true, then millions of inhabitants of alien territory, if acquired by treaty, can, without the
desire or consent of the people of the United States speaking
through Congress, be immediately and irrevocably incorporated
into the United States, and the whole structure of the government be overthrown. While thus aggrandizing the treatymaking power on the one hand, the construction at the same
time minimizes it on the other, in that it strips that authority
of any right to acquire territory upon any condition which
would guard the people of the United States from the evil of
immediate incorporation. The treaty-making power then, under this contention, instead of having the symmetrical functions which belong to it from its very nature, becomes distorted
-- vested with the right to destroy upon the one hand and deprived of all power to protect the government on the other.
And, lboked at from another point of view, the effect of the
principle asserted is equally antagonistic, not only to the express provisions but to the spirit of the Constitution in other
respects. Thus, if it be true that the treaty-making power has
the authority which is asserted, what becomes of that branch
of Congress which is peculiarly the representative of the people
of the United States, and what is left of the functions of that
body under the Constitution? For, although the House of Representatives might be unwilling to agree to the incorporation of
alien races, it would be impotent to prevent its accomplishment,
and the express provisions conferring upon Congress the power
to regulate commerce, the right to raise revenue-bills for which,
by the Constitution, must originate in the House of Representa.
tives-and the authority to prescribe uniform naturalization
laws would be in effect set at naught by the treaty-making
power. And the consequent result-incorporation-would be
beyond all future control of or remedy by the American people,
since, at once and without hope of redress or power of change,
incorporation by the treaty would have been brought about.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JuSTICES WHIT,

SHIRAS and MCKEWWA, concurring.

The inconsistency of the position is at once manifest. The basis
of the argument is that the treaty must-be considered to have
been incorporated, because acquisition presupposes the exercise
of judgment as to fitness for immediate incorporation. But the
deduction drawn is, although the judgment exercised is against
immediate incorporation and this result is plainly expressed, the
conditions are void because no judgment against incorporation
can be called into play.
All the confusion and dangers above indicated, however, it is
argued, are more imaginary than real, since, although it be conceded that the treaty-making power has the right by cession to
incorporate without the consent of Congress, that body may
correct the evil by availing itself of the provision of the Constitution giving to Congress the right to dispose of the territory
and other property of the United States. This assumes that
there has been absolute incorporation by the treaty-making power
on the one hand, and yet asserts that Congress may, deal with
the territory as if it had not been incorporated into the United
States. In other words, the argument adopts conflicting theories of the Constitution and applies them both at the same time.
I am not unmindful that there has been some contrariety of decision on the subject of the meaning of the clause empowering
Congress to dispose of the territories and other property of the
United States, some adjudged cases treating that article as referring to property as such and others deriving from it the general grant of power to govern territories. In view, however,
of the relations of the territories to the government of the United States at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, and
the solemn pledge then existing that they should forever " remain
a part of the confederacy of the United States of America," I
cannot resist the belief that the theory that the disposing clause
relates as well to a relinquishment or cession of sovereignty
as to a mere transfer of rights of property, is altogether erroneous.
Observe again the inconsistency of this argument. It considers, on the one hand, that so vital is the question of incorporation that no alien territory may be acquired by a cession without absolutely endowing the territory with incorporation and

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WMTE, SHmAS and MOKEmxA,

concurring.

the inhabitants with resulting citizenship, because, under our
system of government, the assumption that a territory and its
inhabitants may be held by any other title than one incorporating is impossible to be thought of. And yet to avoid the evil
consequences which must follow from accepting this proposition, the argument is that all citizenship of the United States
is precarious and fleeting, subject to be sold at any moment like
any other property. That is to say, to protect a newly acquired
people in their presumed rights, it is essential to degrade the
whole body of American citizenship.
The reasoning which has sometimes been indulged in by those
who asserted that the Constitution was not at all operative in
the territories is that, as they were acquired by purchase, the
right to buy included the right to sell. This has been met by
the proposition that if the country purchased and its inhabitants became incorporated into the United States, it came under
the shelter of the Constitution, and no power existed to sell
American citizens. In conformity to the principles which I
have admitted it is impossible for me to say at one and the same
time that territory is an integral part of the United States protected by the Constitution, and yet the safeguards, privileges,
rights and immunities which arise from this situation are so
ephemeral in their character that by a mere act of sale they
may be destroyed. And, applying this reasoning to the provisions of the treaty under consideration, to me it seems indubitable
that if the treaty with Spain incorporated all the territory ceded
into the United States, it resulted that the millions of people to
whom that treaty related were, without the consent of the Amer:
ican people as expressed by Congress, and without any hope of
relief, indissolubly made a part of our common country.
Undoubtedly, the thought that under the Constitution power
existed to dispose of people and territory and thus to annihilate
the rights of American citizens was contrary to the conceptions
of the Constitution entertained by Washington and Jefferson.
In the written suggestions of Mr. Jefferson, when Secretary of
State, reported to President Washington in March, 1792, on the
subject of proposed negotiations between the United States and
Spain, which were intended to be communicated by way of in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIcEs WHITE, SmrRAs and McKEwNA,

concurring.

struction to the commissioners of the United States appointed
to manage such negotiations, it was observed, in discussing the
possibility as to compensation being demanded by Spain "for
the ascertainment of our right" to navigate the lower part of
the Mississippi, as follows:
"We have nothing else" (than a relinquishment of certain
claims on Spain) "to give in exchange. For as to territory, we
have neither the right nor the disposition to alienate an inch of
what belongs to any member of our Union. Such a proposition
therefore is totally inadmissible, and not to be treated for a moment." Ford's Writings of Jefferson, vol. v, p. 476.
The rough draft of these observations was submitted to Mr.
Hamilton, then Secretary of the Treasury, for suggestions, previously to sending it to the President, some time before ]March 5,
and Hamilton made the following (among other) notes upon it:
"Page 25. Is it true that the United States have no right to
alienate an inch of the territory in question, except in the case
of necessity intimated in another place? Or will it be useful
to avow the denial of such a right? It is apprehended that the
doctrine which restricts the alienation of territory to cases of
extreme necessity is applicable rather to peopled territory than
to waste and uninhabited districts. Positions restraining the
right of the United States to accommodate to exigencies which
may arise ought ever to be advanced with great caution." Ford's
Writings of Jefferson, vol. v, p. 443.
Respecting this note, Mr. Jefferson commented as follows:
"The power to alienate the unjeopled territories of any State
is not among the enumerated powers, given by the Constitution
to the general government, and if we may go out of that instrument and accommodate to exigencies which may arise by alienating the unpeopled territory of a State, we may accommodate
ourselves a little more by alienating that which ispeopled, and
still a little more by selling the people themselves. A shade or
two more in the degree of exigency is all that will be requisite,
and of that degree we shall ourselves be the judges. However,
may it not be hoped that these questions are forever laid to rest
by the Twelfth Amendment once made a part of the Constitution, declaring expressly that ' the powers not delegated to the

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHn=As

and M KENIA, concurring.

United States by the Constitution are reserved to-the States respectively 2' And if the general government has no power to
alienate the territory of a State, it is too irresistible an argument
to deny ourselves the use of it on the present occasion." Ib.
The opinions of Mr. Iefferson, however, met the approval of
President Washington. On March 18, 1792, in inclosing to
the commissioners to Spain their commission, he said, among
other things:
"You will herewith receive your commission; as also observations on these several subjects reported to the President and
approved by him, which will therefore serve as instructions for
you. These expressing minutely the sense of our government,
and what they wish to have done, it is unnecessary for me to
do more here than desire you to pursue these objects unremittingly," etc. Ford's Writings of Jefferson, vol. v, p. 456.
When the subject-matter to which the negotiation related is
considered it becomes evident that the word "State" as above
used related merely to territory which was either claimed by
some of the States, as Mississippi Territory was by Georgia, or
to the Northwest Territory embraced within the ordinance of
1787, or the territory south of the Ohio (Tennessee), which had
also been endowed with all the rights and privileges conferred
by that ordinance, and all which territory had originally been
ceded by States to the United States under express stipulations
that such ceded territory should be ultimately formed into States
of the Union. And this meaning of the word " State" is absolutely in accord with what I shall hereafter have occasion to
demonstrate was the conception entertained by Mr. Jefferson
of what constituted the United States.
True, from the exigency of a calamitous war or the necessity
of a settlement of boundaries, it'
may be that citizens of the
United States may be expatriated by the action of the treatymaling power, impliedly or expressly ratified by Congress.
But the arising of these particular conditions cannot.justify
the general proposition that territory which is an integral part
of the United States may, as a mere act of sale, be disposed of.
If however the right to dispose of an incorporated American
territory and citizens by the mere exertion of the power to sell

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JuSTICES WHITE, SmEAS and McKExNA, concurring.

be conceded, arguendo, it would not relieve the dilemma. It
is ever true that where a malign principle is adopted, as long
as the error is adhered to it must continue to produce its baleful results. Certainly, if there be no power to acquire subject
to a condition, it must follow that there is no authority to dispose of subject to conditions, since it cannot be that the mere
change of form of the transaction could bestow a power which
the Constitution has not conferred. It would follow then that
any conditions annexed to a disposition which looked to the
protection of the people of the United States or to enable them
to safeguard the disposal of territory would be void; and thus
it would be that either the United States must hold on absolutely or must dispose of unconditionally.
A practical illustration will at once make the consequences
clear. Suppose Congress should determine that the millions of
inhabitants of the Philippine Islands should not continue appurtenant to the United States, but that they should be allowed
to establish an autonomous government, outside of the Constitution of the United States, coupled, however, with such conditions providing for control as far only as essential to the
guarantee of life and property and to protect against foreign
encroachment. If the proposition of incorporation be well
founded, at once the question would arise whether the ability
to impose these conditions existed, since no power was conferred
by the Constitution to annex conditions which would limit the
disposition. And if it b3 that the question of whether territory
is immediately fit for incorporation when it is acquired is a judicial and not a legislative one, it would follow that the validity
of the conditions would also come within the scope of judicial
authority, and thus the entire political policy of the government
be alone controlled by the judiciary.
The theory as to the treaty-making power upon which the
argument which has just been commented upon rests, it is now
proposed to be shown, is refuted by the history of the government from the beginning. There has not been a single cession
made from the time of the Confederation up to the present day,
excluding the recent treaty with Spain, which has not contained
stipulations to the effect that the United States through Con-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JusTlcEs W=oTE, S=mis and McKExNA, concring.

gress would either not disincorporate or would incorporate the
ceded territory into the United States. There were such conditions in the deed of cession by Virginia when it conveyed the
Northwest Territory to the United States. Like conditions
were attached by North Carolina .to the cession whereby the
territory south of the Ohio, now Tennessee, was transferred.
Similar provisions were contained in the cession by Georgia
of the Mississippi territory, now the States of Alabama and
Mississippi. Such agreements were also expressed in the treaty
of 1803, ceding Louisiana; that of 1819, ceding the Floridas,
and in the treaties of 1848 and'1853, by which a large extent
of territory was ceded to this country, as also in the Alaska
treaty of 1867. To adopt the limitations on the treaty-making
power now insisted upon would presuppose that every one of
these conditions thus sedulously provided for was superfluous,
since the guaranties which they afforded would have obtained,
although they were not expressly provided for.
When the various treaties by which foreign territory has been
acquired are considered in the light of the circumstances which
surrounded them, it becomes to my mind clearly established
that the treaty-making power was always deemed to be devoid
of authority to incorporate territory into the United States
without the assent, express or implied, of Congress, and that no
question to the contrary has ever been even mooted. To appreciate this it is essential to bear in mind what the words "United
States" signified at the time of the adoption of the Constitution.
When by the treaty of peace with Great Britain the independence of the United States was acknowledged, it is unquestioned
that all the territory within the boundaries defined in that treaty,
whatever may have been the disputes as to title, substantially
belonged to particular States. The entire territory was part of
the United States, and all the native white inhabitants 'were
citizens of the United States and endowed with the rights and
privileges arising from that relation. When, as has already
been said, the Northwest Territory was ceded by Virginia, it
was expressly stipulated that the rights of the inhabitants in
this regard should be respected. The ordinance of 1787, providing for the government of the lorthwest Territory, fulfilled

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTIcES WHITE, SHnRAs and MCKENxA, concurring.

this promise on behalf of the Confederation. Without undertaking to reproduce the text of the ordinance, it suffices to say
that it contained a bill of rights, a promise of ultimate statehood,
and it provided (italics mine) that "The said territory and the
States which may.be formed therein shall ever remain apartof
this confederacy of the UnitedSlates of America, subject to the articles of confederation, and to such alterations therein as shall
be constitutionally mqade, and to all the acts and ordinances of
the United States in Congress assembled, conformably thereto."
It submitted the inhabitants to a liability for a tax to pay their
proportional part of the public debt and the expenses of the government td b6 assessed by the rule of apportionment which governed the States of the confederation. It forbade slavery
within the Territory, and contained a stipulation that the provisions of the ordinance should ever remain unalterable unless
by conmmon consent.
Thus it was that, at the adoption of the Constitution, the United States, as a geographical unit and as a governmental conception both in the international and domestic sense, consisted not
only of States, but also of territories, all the native white inhabtiants being endowed with citizenship, protected by pledges of a
common union, and, except as to political advantages, all enjoying equal rights and freedom, and safeguarded by substantially
similar guaranties, all being under the obligation to contribute
their proportionate share for the liquidation of the debt and
future expenses of the general government.
The opinion has been expressed that the ordinance of 1787
became inoperative and a nullity on the adoption of the Constitution (Taney, C. 3., in Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 438,)
while, on the other hand, it has been said that the ordinance of
1787 was "the most solemn of all engagements," and became
a part of the Constitution of the United States by reason of
the sixth article, which provided that "all debts contracted and
engagements entered into, before the adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this
Constitution as under the confederation." Per Baldwin, J.,
concurring opinion in Lessee of Pollird's Heirs v. Ribe, 14
Pet. 353, 417,and per Catron, J., in dissenting opinion in Stra-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JusTICEs WHITE, SimuAs and MCKENNA, concurring.

der v. Grahav?,1O How. 82, 98. Whatever view may be taken
of this difference of legal opinion, my mind refuses to assent to
the conclusion that under the Constitution the provision of the
Northwest Territory ordinance making such territory forever
a part of the confederation was not binding on the government
of the United States when the Constitution was formed. When
it is borne in mind that large tracts of this territory were reserved for distribution among the -continental soldiers, it is impossible for me to believe that it was ever considered that the
result of the cession was to take the Northwest Territory out
of the Union, the necessary effect of which would have been
to expatriate the very men who by their suffering and valor
had secured the liberty of their united country. Can it be conceived that North Carolina; after the adoption of the Constitution, would cede to.the general government the territory south
of the Ohio River, intending thereby to expatriate those dauntless mountaineers of North Carolina who had shed lustre upon
the Revolutionary arms by the victory of King's Mountain?
And the rights bestowed by Congress after the adoption of the
Constitution, as I shall proceed to demonstrate, were utterly
incompatible with such a theory.
Beyond question, in one of the early laws enacted at the first
session of the First Congress, the binding force of the ordinance
was recognized, and certain of its provisions concerning the
appointment of officers in the territory were amended to conform the ordinance to the new Constitution. c. 8, August 7,
1789, 1 Stat. 50.
In view of this it cannot, it seems to me, be doubted that the
United States continued to be composed of States and territories, all forming an integfal part thereof and incorporated
therein, as was the case prior to the adoption of the Constitution. Subsequently, the territory now embraced in the State
of Tennessee was ceded to the United States by the State of
North Carolina. In order to insure the rights of the native inhabitants, it was expressly stipulated that the inhabitants of
the ceded territory should enjoy all the rights, privileges, benefits and advantages set forth in the ordinance "of the late Congress for the government of the western territory of the United
VOL. oLxxx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTIcEs WHITE, SmRAs and MOENNA, concurring.

States." A condition was, however, inserted in the cession
that no regulation should be made by Congress tending to
emancipate slaves. By act of April 2, 1790, 1 Stat. 106, c. 6,
this cession was accepted. .And, at the same session, on May 26,
1790, an act was passed for the government of this territory,
under the designation of "the territory of the -United States
south of the Ohio River." 1 Stat.- 123, c. 14. This act, except
as to the prohibition which was found in the Northwest Territory ordinance as to slavery, in express terms declared that the
inhabitants of the territory should enjoy all the rights conferred
by that ordinance.
A government for the Mississippi Territory was organized
on April 7, 1798. 1 Stat. 519, c. 28. The land embraced was
claimed by the.State of Georgia, and her rights were saved by
the act. The sixth section thereof provided as follows:
"SEc. 6. And be itfurther enacted, That from and after the
establishment of the said government, the people of the aforesaid territory, shall be entitled to and enjoy, all and singular
the rights, privileges and advantages granted to the people of
the territory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio,
in and by the aforesaid ordinance of the thirteenth day of July,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, in
as full and ample a manner as the same are possessed and enjoyed by the people of the said last-mentioned territory."
Thus clearly defined by boundaries, by common citizenship,
by like guarantees, stood the United States when the plan of
acquiring by purchase from France the Province of Louisiana
was conceived by President Jefferson. Naturally, the suggestion which arose, was the power on the part of the government
of the United States, under the Constitution, to incorporate
into the United States-a Union then composed, as I have
stated, of States and Territories-a foreign province inhabited
by an alien people, and thus make them partakers in the American commonwealth. Mr. Jefferson, not doubting the power
of the United States to acquire, consulted Attorney General
Lincoln as to the right by treaty to stipulate for incorporation.
By that officer Mr. Jefferson was, in effect, advised that the
power to incorporate, that is, to share the privileges and ir-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS and McKEIMnA, concurring.

munities of the people of the United States with a foreign population, required the consent of the people of the United States,
and it was suggested, therefore, that if a treaty of cession were
made containing such agreements it should be put in the form
of a change of boundaries instead of a cession, so as thereby to
bring the territory within the United States. The letter of
Mr. Lincoln was sent by President Jefferson to Mr. Gallatin,

the Secretary of the Treasury. Mr. Gallatin did not agree as
to the propriety of the expedient suggested by Mr. Lincoln.
In a letter to President Jefferson, in effect sd stating, he said:
"But, does any constitutional objection really exist ? To me
it would appear (1) that the United States as a nation hav.e. an
inherent right to acquire territory; (2) that whenever that acquisition is by treaty, the same constituted authorities in which
the treaty-making power is vested have a constitutional right
to sanction the acquisition; (3) that whenever the territory has
been acquired Congress have the power either of admitting into
the Union as a new State or of annexing to a State, with the
consent of that State, or of making regulations for the government of such territory." Gallatin's Writings, vol. 1, p. 11, etc.
To this letter President Jefferson replied in January, 1803,
clearly showing that he thought there was no question whatever of the right of the United States to acquire, but that he
did not believe incorporation could be stipulated for and carried
into effect without the consent of the people of the United
States. He said (italics mine):
"You are right, in my opinion, as to Mr. L.'s proposition:
There isno constitutional difficulty a8 to the acquisitionqf territory, and whether when acquiredit may be taken into the Union
by the Constitution as it now stands will become a question of
expediency. I think it will be safer not to permit the enlargement of the Union but by amendment of the Constitution."
Gallatin's Writings, vol. 1, p. 115.
And the views of Mr. Madison, then Secretary of State, exactly
conformed to those of President Jefferson, for, on March 2,
1803, in a letter to the commissioners who were negotiating
the treaty, he said:
"To incorporate the inhabitants of the hereby ceded territory

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIcEs WHTE, SmxR.s and MCKENNA, concurring.

with the citizens of the United States, being a provision which
cannot now be made, it is to be expected from the character
and policy of the United States that such incorporation will
take place without unnecessary delay." State Papers, II, 540.
Let us pause for a moment to accentuate the irreconcilable
conflict which exists between the interpretation given to the
Constitution at the time of the Louisiana treaty by Jefferson
and Madison, and the import of that instrument as now insisted
upon. You are to negotiate, said Madison to the commissioners,
to obtain a cession of the territory, but you must not under any
circumstances agree "to incori)oratethe inhabitantsof the hereby
ceded territoriy with the citizens of the United ,tates, being a
.rovision which cannot now be made." Under the theory now
urged, Mr. Madison should have said: You are to negotiate for
the cession of the territory of Louisiana to the United States, and
if deemed by you expedient in accomplishing this purpose, you
may provide for the immediate incorporation of the inhabitants
of the acquired territory into the United States. This you can
freely do because the Constitution of the United States has conferred upon the treaty-making power the absolute right to bring
all the alien people residing in acquired territory into the United
States and thus divide with them the rights which peculiarly
belong to the citizens of the United States. Indeed, it is immaterial whether you make such agreements, since by the effect
of the Constitution without reference to any agreements which
you may make for that purpose, all the alien territory and its
inhabitants will instantly become incorporated into the United
States if the territory is acquired.
Without going into details, it suffices to say that a compliance
with the instructions given them would have prevented the
negotiators on behalf of the United States from inserting in
the treaty any provision looking even to the ultimate incorporation of the acquired territory into the United States. In
view of the emergency and exigencies of the negotiations, however, the commissioners were constrained to make such a stipulation, and the treaty provided as follows:
"Art. III. The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be
incorporated into the Union of the United States, and admitted

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.

325*

-JusTIos WHITE, SH IAS and MCKENNA, concurring.

as soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal
Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and
immunities of citizens of the United States; and in the mean
time they shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property and the religion which they profess." 8 Stat. 202.
Weighing the provisions just quoted, it is evident they refute
the theory of incorporation arising at once from the mere force
of a treaty, even although such result be directly contrary to
any provisions which a treaty may contain. Mark the language. It expresses a promise: "The inhabitants of the ceded
territory shall be incorporated intc the Union of the United
States.

.

.

."

Observe how guardedly the fulfillment of this

pledge is postponed until its accomplishment is made possible
by the will of the American people, since it is to be executed
only "as soon asyossible accordingto theprincilples of the iFederal
Constitution." If the view now urged be true, this wise circumspection was unnecessary, and, indeed, as I have previously
said, the entire proviso was superfluous, since everything which
it assured for the future was immediately and unalterably to
arise.
It is said, however, that the treaty for the purchase of Louisiana took for granted that the territory ceded would be immediately ificorporated into the United States, and hence the
guarantees contained in the treaty related, not to such incorporation, but was a pledge that the ceded territory was to be
made a part of the Union as a State. The minutest analysis,
however, of the clauses of the treaty fails to disclose any refer.
ence to a promise of statehood, and hence it can only be that
the pledges made referred to incorporation into the United
States. This will further appear when" the opinions of Jefferson and Madison and their acts on the subject are reviewed.
The argument proceeds upon the theory that the words of the
treaty "shall be incorporated into the Union of the United
States," could only haVe referred to a promise of statehood,
since the then existing and incorporated Territories were not a
part of the Union of the United States, as that Union consisted
only of the States. But this has been shown to be unfounded,

OCTOWP

CERM, 1900.

Err,SmEAs and MCKENNA,

concurring.

since the "Union of the United States" was composed of States
and Territories, both having been embraced within the boundarips fixed by the treaty of peace between Great Britain and the
United States which terminated the Revolutionary war, the
latter, the Territories, embracing districts of country which
were ceded by the States to the United States under the express
pledge that they should forever remain a part thereof. That
this conception of the Union composing the United States was
the understanding of Jefferson and Madison, and indeed of all
those who participated in the events which preceded and led
up to the Louisiana treaty, results from what I have already
said, and will be additionally demonstrated by statements to be
hereafter made. Again, the inconsistency of the argument is
evident. Thus, whilst the premise upon which it proceeds is
that foreign territory, when acquired, becomes at once a part
of the United States, despite conditions in the treaty expressly
excluding such consequence, it yet endeavors to escape the refutation of such theory which arises from the history of the government by the contention that the territories which were a
part of the United States were not component constituents of
the Union which composed the United States. I. do not understand how foreign territory which has been acquired by treaty
can be asserted to have been absolutely incorporated into the
United States as a part thereof 'despite conditions to the contrary inserted in the treaty, and yet the assertion be made that
the territories which, as I have said, were in the United States
originally as a part of the States and which were ceded by them
upon express condition that they should forever so remain a
part of the United States, were not a part of the Union composing the United States. The argument, indeed, reduces itself
to this, that for the purpose of incorporating. foreign territory
into the United States domestic territory must be disincorporated. In other words, that the Union must be, at least in theory, dismembered for the purpose of maintaining the doctrine
of the immediate incorporation of alien territory.
That Mr. Jefferson deemed the provision of the treaty relating to incorporation to be repugnant to the Constitution is
unquestioned. Whilst he conceded, as has been seen, the right

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES W ITE,'SHIrAS and

MCKENNA, concurring.

to acquire, he doubted the power to incorporate the territory
into the United States without the consent of the people by a
constitutional amendment. In July, 1803, he proposed two
drafts of a proposed amendment, which he thought ought to be
submitted to the people of the United States to enable them to
ratify the terms of the treaty. The first of these, which is
dated July, 1803, is printed in the margin.'
The-second and revised amendment was as follows:
"Louisiana, as ceded by France to the United States, is made
a part of the United States. Its white inhabitants shall be citizens, and stand, as to their rights and obligations, on the same
footing with other citizens of the United States, in analogous
situations. Save only that, as to the portion thereof lying
north of the latitude of the mouth of Arcana River, no new
State shall be established nor any grants of land made therein
other than to Indians in exchange for equivalent portions of
lands occupied by them until an amendment of the Constitution shall be made for those purposes.
"Florida also, whensoever it may be rightfully obtained,
shall become a part of the United States. Its.white inhabitants
shall thereupon become citizens, and shall stand, as to their
rights and obligations, on the same footing with other citizens
of the United States in analogous situations." Ford's Writings of Jefferson, vol. 8, p. 241.
It is strenuously insisted that Mr. Jefferson' conviction onthe
subject of the repugnancy of the treaty to the Constitution was

IFirst

draft of Mr. Jefferson's proposed amendment to the Constitution.
"The Province of Louisiana is incorporated with the United States and
made part thereof. The rights of occupancy in the soil and of self-government are confirmed to Indian inhabitants as they now exist." It then proceeded with other provisions relative to Indian rights and possession and
exchange of lands, and forbidding Congress to dispose of the lands otherwise than is therein provided without further amendment to the Constitution. This draft closes thus: "Except as to that portion thereof which
lies south of the latitude of 31, which, whenever they deem' expedient,
they may enact into a territorial government, either separate or as making
part with one on the eastern side of the river, vesting the inhabitants
thereof with all rights possessed by other territorial citizens of the United
States." Writings of Jefferson, edited by Ford, vol. 8, p. 241.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SnIRAS and MCKENq., concurring.

based alone upon the fact that he thought the treaty exceeded
the limits of the Constitution, because he deemed that it provided for the admission, according to the Constitution, of the
acquired territory as a new State or States into the Union, and
hence, for the purpose of conferring this power, he drafted the
amendment. The contention is refuted by two considerations;
the first, because the two forms of amendment which Mr. Jefferson prepared did not purport to confer any power upon Congress to admit new States ; and, second, they absolutely forbade
Congress from admitting a new State out of a described part
of the territory without a further amendment to the Constitution. It cannot be conceived that Mr. Jefferson would have
drafted an amendment to cure a defect which he thought existed and yet say nothing in the amendment on the subject of
such defect. And, moreover, it cannot be conceived that he
drafted an amendment to confer a power he supposed to be
wanting under the Constitution, and thus ratify the treaty, and
yet in the very amendment withhold in express terms, as to a
part of the ceded territory, the authority which it was the purpose of the amendment to confer.
I excerpt in the margin i6,o letters from Mr. Jefferson, one
ILetter

to William Dunbar of July 7, 1803:
"Before you receive this you will have heard through the channel of the
public papers of the cession of Louisiana by France to the United States.
The terms as stated in the National Intelligencer are accurate. That the
treaty may be ratified in time, I have found it necessary to convene Congress on the 17th of October, and it is very important for the happiness of
the country that they should possess all information which can be obtained
respecting it, that they make the best arrangements practicable for its good
government. It is most necessary because they will be obliged to ask
from the people an amendment of the Constitution authorizing their receiving the province into the Union and providing for its government, and
limitations of power which shall be given by that amendment will be unalterable but by the same authority." Jefferson's Writings, vol 8, p. 254.
Letter to Wilson Cary Nicholas of September 7, 1803:
"I am aware of the force of the observations you make on the power
given by the Constitution to Congress to admit new States into the Union
without restraining the subject to the territory then constituting the
United States. But when I consider that the limits of the United States
are 'precisely fixed by the treaty of 1783, that the Constitution expressly
declares itself to be made for the United States, I cannot help believing

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WRITE, S=nAS and'CKENINA,

concurring.

written under date of July 7, 1803, to William Dunbar, and
the other dated September 7, 1803, to Wilson Cary Nicholas,
which show clearly the difficulties which were in the mind of
Mr. Jefferson, and which remove all doubt concerning the
meaning of the amendment which he wrote and the adoption
of which he deemed necessary to cure any supposed want of
power concerning the treaty would be provided for.
These letters show that Mr. Jefferson bore in mind the fact
that the Constitution in express terms delegated to Congress the
power to admit new States, and, therefore, no further authority
on this subject was requiied. But he thought this power in
Congress was confined to the area embraced within the limits of
the United States, as existing at the adoption of the Constitution. To fulfill the stipulations of the treaty so as to cause the
ceded territory to become a part of the United States, Mr. Jefferson deemed an amendment to the Constitution to be essential. For this reason the amendment which he formulated declared that the territory ceded was to be 1"ap art o the United
States, and its white inhabitants shall be citizens, and stand, as
to their rights and obligations, on the same footing with other
citizens of the United States, in analogous situations." What
these words meant is not open to doubt when it is observed
that they were but the paraphrase of the following words,
which were contained in the first proposed amendment which
Mr. Jefferson wrote: " V esting the inhabitants thereof with all
rights possessed by other temitorialcitisens of tAe UnitedStates,"
which clearly show that it was the want of power to incorporate the ceded country into the United States as a territory
which was in Air. Jefferson's mind, and to accomplish which rethat the intention was to permit Congress to admit into the Union new
States which should be formed out of the territory for which and under
whose authority alone they were then acting. I do not believe it was
meant that they might receive England, Ireland, Holland, etc., into it,
which would be the case under your construction. When an instrument
admits two constructions, the one safe, the other dangerous, the one precise, the other indefinite, I prefer that which is safe and precise. I had
rather ask an enlargement of power from the nation where it is found necessary than to assume it by a construction which would make our powers
boundless." Writings of Jefferson, vol. 8, p. 247.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS

and

MCKENNA,

concurring.

sult he thought an amendment to the Constitution was required. This provision of the amendment applied to all of the
territory ceded, and, therefore, brought it all into the United
States, and hence placed it in a position where the power of
Congress to admit new States would have attached to it. As
Mr. Jefferson deemed that every requirement of the treaty
would be fulfilled by incorporation, and that it would be unwise to form a new State out of the upper part of the new territory, after thus providing for the complete execution of the
treaty by incorporation of all the territory into the United
States, he inserted a provision forbidding 0ongressfronzadmitting a new State out of a part qf the territory.

With the debates which took place on the subject of the treaty
I need not particularly concern myself. Some shared Mr. Jefferson's doubts as to the right of the treaty-making power to incorporate the territory into the United States without an amendment of the Constitution; others deemed that the provision of.
the treaty was but a promise that Congress would ultimately
incorporate as a territory, and until by the action of Congress
this latter result was brought about full power of legislation to
govern as deemed, best was vested in Congress. This latter
view prevailed. Mr. Jefferson's proposed amendment to the
Constitution, therefore, was never adopted by Congress, and
hence was never submitted to the people.
An act was approved on October 31, 1803, 2 Stat. 245, "to
enable the President of the United States to take possession of
the territories ceded by France to the United States by the treaty
concluded at Paris on the 30th of April last, and for' the temporary government thereof." The provisions of this act were
absolutely incompatible with the conception that the territory
had been incorporated into the United States by virtue of the
cession. On November 10, 1803, 2 Stat. 245, an act was passed
providing for the issue of stock to raise the funds to pay for the
territory. On February 24, 1804, 2 Stat. 251, an act was approved which expressly extended certain revenue and other
laws over the ceded country. On March 26, 1804, 2 Stat. 283,
an act was passed dividing the "Province of Louisiana" into
Orleans Territory on the south and the District of Louisiana to

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Jumcms WHITE, SHRAs and MCKENNA, concurring.

the north. This act extended over the Territory of Orleans a
large number of the general laws of the United States and provided a form of government. For the purposes of government
the District of Louisiana was attached to the Territory of Indiana, which had been carved out of the Northwest Territory.
Although the area described as Orleans Territory was thus under the authority of a territorial government and, many laws of
the United States had been extended by act of Congress to it,
it was manifest that Mr. Jefferson thought that the requirement
of the treaty that it should be incorporated into the United
States had not been complied with.
In a letter written to Mr. Madison on July 14, 1801, Mr. Jefferson, speaking of the treaty of cession, said (Ford's Writings
of Jefferson, vol. 8, p. 313):
"The enclosed reclamations of Girod & Chote against the
claims of Bapstroop to a monopoly of the Indian commerce
supposed to be under the protection of the third article of the
Louisiana convention, as well as some other claims to abusive
grants, will probably force us to meet that question. The article
has been worded with remarkable caution on the part of our
negotiators. It is that the inhabitants shall be admitted as.
soon as possible, according to the principles of our Constitution,
to the enjoyment of all the rights of citizens, and, in the mean
time, en attendant,shall be maintained in their liberty, property and religion. That is, that they shall continue under the
protection of the treaty, until the principles of our Constitution
can be extended to them, when the -protection of the treaty is
to cease, and that of our own principles to take its place. But
as this could not be done at once, it has been provided to be as
soon as our rules will admit. Accordingly, Congress has begun
by extending about twenty particular laws by their titles, to
Louisiana. Among these is the act concerning intercourse with
the Indians, which establishes a system of commerce with them
admitting no monopoly. That class of rights therefore are now
taken from under the treaty and placed under the principles of
our laws. I imagine it will be necessary to express an opinion
to Governor Claiborne on this subject, after you shall have made
up one."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS and MCKENNA, concurring.

In another letter to Mr. Madison, under date of August 15,
1804, Mr. Jefferson said (1b. p. 315):
"I am so much impressed with the expediency of putting a
termination to the right of France to patronize the rights of
Louisiana, which will cease with their complete adoption as
citizens of the United States, that I hope to see that take place
on the meeting of Congress."
At the following session of Congress, on 'March 2, 1805, 2
Stat. 322, c. 23, an act was approved, which, among other purposes, doubtless was intended to fulfill the lhope expressed by
Mr. Jefferson in the letter just quoted. That act, in the first
section, provided that the inhabitants of the Territory of Orleans "8hall be entitled to and enjoy all the rights, privileges
and advantages secured by the said ordinance," (that is, the ordinance of 1787,) "and now enjoyed by the people qf the .Afis8issiTpi Territory." As will be remembered, the ordinance of
1787 had been extended to that territory. 1 Stat. 550, c. 28. Thus,
strictly in accord with the thought embodied in the amendments contemplated by Mr. Jefferson, citizenship was conferred,
and the Territory of Orleans was incorporated into the United
States to fulfill the requirements of the treaty, by placing it
exactly in the position which it w6uld have occupied had it
been within the boundaries of the United States as a territory
at the time the Constitution was framed. It is pertinent to recall that the treaty contained stipulations giving certain preferences and commercial privileges for a stated period to the vessels of French and Spanish subjects, and that even after the
action of Congress above stated this condition of the treaty
continued to be enforced, thus demonstrating that even after
the incorporation of the territory the express provisions conferring a temporary right which the treaty had stipulated for
and which Congress had recognized were not destroyed, the effect being that incorporation as to such matter was for the time
being in abeyance.
The upper part of the Province of Louisiana., designated by
the act of March 26, 1804, 2 Stat. 283, c. 38, as the District
of Louisiana, and by the act of March 3, 1805, 2 Stat. 331, c. 27,
as the Territory of Louisiana, was created the Territory of Mis-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WlriE, SHIRAS and McKExHA, concurring.

souri on June 4, 1812.

2 Stat. 743, c 95.

By.this latter act,

though the ordinance of 1787 was not in express terms extended
over the territory-probably owing to the slavery agitationthe inhabitants of the territory were accorded substantially all
the rights of the inhabitants of the Northwest Territory. Citizenship was in effect recognized in the ninth section, whilst the
fourteenth section contained an elaborate declaration of the
rights secured to the people of the territory.
Pausing to analyze the practical construction which resulted
from the acquisition of the vast domain covered by the Louisiana
purchase, it indubitably results, first, that it was conceded by
every shade of opinion that the government of the United States
had the undoubted right to acquire, hold and govern the territory as a possession, and that incorporation into the United
States could under no circumstances arise solely from a treaty
of cession, even although it contained provisions for the accomplishment of such result; second, it was strenuously denied by
many eminent men that in acquiring territory, citizenship could
be conferred upon the inhabitants within the acquired territory;
in other words, that the territory could be incorporated into
the United States without an amendment to the Constitution;
and, third, that the opinion which prevailed was that, although
the treaty might stipulate for incorporation and citizenship
under the Constitution, such agreements by the treaty-making
power were but promises depending for their fulfillment on the
future action of Congress. In accordance with this view the
territory acquired by the Louisiana purchase wa governed as
a mere dependency, until, conformably to the suggestion of Mr.
Jefferson, it was by the action of Congress incorporated as a
Territory into the United States and the same rights were con
ferred in the same mode by which other Territories had previously been incorporated, that is, by bestowing the privileges
of citizenship and the rights and immunities which pertained
to the Northwest Territory.
Florida was ceded by treaty signed on February 2, 1819.
8 Stat. 252. Whilst drafted in accordance with the precedent
afforded by the treaty ceding Louisiana, the Florida treaty was
slightly modified in its phraseology, probably to meet the view

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS and MCKENNA, concurring.

that under the Constitution Congress had the right to determine the time 'when incorporation was to arise. Acting under
the precedent afforded by the Louisiana case Congress adopted
a plan of government which was wholly inconsistent with the
theory that the territory had been incorporated. General Jackson was appointed governor under this act, and exercised a degree of authority entirely in conflict with the conception that
the territory was a part of the United States, in the sense of
incorporation, and that those provisions of the Constitution
which would have been applicable under that hypothesis were
then in force. It will serve no useful purpose to go through the
gradations of legislation adopted as to Florida. Suffice it to
say that in 1822, (3 Stat. 654, c. 13,)"an act was passed, as in
the- case of Missouri, and presumably for the same reason,
which, whilst not referring to the Northwest Territory ordinance, in efeet endowed the inhabitants'ofthat territory with
the rights granted by such ordinance.

This treaty also, it is to be remarked, contained discriminatory commercial provisions incompatible with the conception
of immediate incorporation arising from the treaty, and they
were enforced by the executive officers of the government.
The intensity of the political differences which existed at the
outbreak of hostilities with Mexico, and at the termination of
the war with that country, and the subject around which such
conflicts of opinion centered probably explains why the treaty
of peace with Mexico departed from the form adopted in the
previous treaties concerning Florida and Louisiana. That
treaty, instead of expressing a cession in the form lreviously
adopted, whether intentionally or not I am unable, of course,
to say, resorted to the expedient suggested by Attorney General Lincoln to President Jefferson, and accomplished the cession
by changing the boundariesof the two countries; in other words,
by bringing the ac!uired territory within the described boundaries of the United States. The treaty, besides, contained a
stipulation for rights of citizenship; in other words, a provision equivalent in terms to those used in the previous treaties
to which I have referred. The controversy which was then
flagrant on the subject of slavery prevented the passage of a

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHImAS and MdO'KENA,

concurring.

bill giving California a territorial form of government, and
California after considerable delay was therefore directly admitted into the Union as a State. After the ratification of the
treaty various laws were enacted by Congress, which in effect
treated the territory as acquired by the United States, and the
executive officers of the government, conceiving that these acts
were an implied or express ratification of the provisions of the
treaty by Congress, acted upon the assumption that the provisions of the treaty were thus made operative, and hence incorporation had thus become efficacious.
Ascertaining the general rule from the provisions of this
latter treaty and the practical execution which it received, it
will be seen that the precedents established in the cases of
Louisiana and Florida were departed from to a certain extent;
that is, the rule was considered to be that where the treaty, in
express terms, brought the territory within the boundaries of
the United States and provided for incorporation, and the treaty
was expressly or impliedly recognized by Congress, the provisions of the treaty ought to be given immediate effect. But
this did not conflict with the general principles of the law of
nations which I have at the outset stated, but enforced it, since
the action taken assumed, not that incorporation was brought
about by the treaty-making power wholly without the consent
of Congress, but only that as the treaty provided for incorporation in express terms, and Congress had acted without repudiating it, its provisions should be at once enforced.
Without referring in detail to the acquisition from Russia of
Alaska, it suffices to say that that treaty also contained provisions for incorporation and was acted upon exactly in accord
with the practical construction applied in the case of the acquisitions from Mexico as just stated. However, the treaty
ceding Alaska contained an express provision excluding from
citizetiship the uncivilized native tribes, and it has been nowhere
contended that this condition of exclusion was inoperative because of the want of power under the Constitution in the treatymaking authority to so provide, which must be the case if the
limitation on the treaty-making power, which is here asserted,
be well founded. The treaty concerning Alaska, therefore, adds

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS

and McKExNA, concurring.

cogency to the conception established by every act of the gov-

ernment from the foundation-that the condition of a treaty,
when expressly or impliedly ratified by Congress, becomes the
measure by which the rights arising from the treaty are to be
adjusted.
The demonstration which it seems to me is afforded by the
review which has preceded is besides sustained by various other
acts of the government which to me are wholly inexplicable except upon the theory that it was admitted that the government
of the United States had the power to acquire and hold territory
without immediately incorporating it. Take, for instance, the
simultaneous acquisition and admission of Texas, which was admitted into the Union as a State by joint resolution of Congress
instead of by treaty. To what grant of power under the Constitution can this action be referred, unless it be admitted that
Congress is vested with the right to determine when incorporation arises? It cannot be traced to the authority conferred on
Congress to admit new States, for to adopt that theory would
be to presuppose that this power gave the prerogative of conferring statehood on wholly foreign territory. But this I have
incidenfally shown is a mistaken conception. Hence, it must
be that the action of Congress at one and the same time fulfilled
the function of incorporation; and this being so, the privilege
of statehood was added. But I shall not prolong this opinion
by occupying time in referring to the many other acts of the
government which further refute the correctness of the propositions which are here insisted on and which I have previously
shown to be without merit. In concluding my appreciation of
the history of the government attention is called to the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which to my mind seems
to be conclusive. The first section of the amendment, the italics
being mine, reads as follows: "Sec. 1. -either slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof
the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the
United States, or any place subject to theirjurisdicton." Obviously this provision recognized that there may be places subject to the jurisdiction of the United States but which are not

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JusTmEs WmTE, SmRAs and MCKERNA, concurring.

incorporated into it, and hence are not within the United States
in the completest sense of those words.
Let me proceed to show that the decisions of this court, without a single exception, are absolutely in accord with the true
rule as evolved from a correct construction of the Constitution
as a matter of first impression and as shown by the history of
the government which has been previously epitomized. As it
is appropriate here, I repeat the quotation which has heretofore been made from the opinion, delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in American,in surance Co. v. Canter,1 Pet. 511,
where, considering the Florida treaty, the court said (p. 542):
"The usage of the world is, if a nation be not entirely subdued, to consider the holding of conquered territory as a mere
military occupation, until its fate shall be determined at the
treaty of peace. If it be ceded by the treaty, the acquisition is
confirmed, and the ceded territory becomes a part of the nation
to which it is annexed, either on the terms stipulated in the
treaty of cession, or on such as its new master shall impose."
In Fleming v. Page the court, speaking through Mr. Chief
Justice Taney, discussing the acts of the military forces of the
United States while holding possession of Mexican territory,
said (9 How. 603, 614):
"The United States, it is true, may extend its boundaries by
conquest or treaty, and may demand the cession of territory as
the.condition of peace, in order to indemnify its citizens for the
injuries they have suffered, or to reimburse the government for
the expense of the war. But this can be done only by the
treaty-making power or the legislative authority.5'
In Cross v. arrison,16 How. 164, the question for decision,
as I have previously observed, was as to the legality of certain
duties, collected both before and after the ratification of the
treaty of peace, on foreign merchandise imported into California. Part of the duties collected were assessed upon importations made by local officials before notice had been received of
the ratification of the treaty of peace, and when duties were
laid under a tariff which had been promulgated by the President. Other duties were imposed subsequent to the receipt of
notification of the ratification, and these latter duties were laid
VOL. oLXXXII-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SHIRAS and MCKENNA, concurting.

according to the tariff as provided in the laws of the United
States. All the exactions were upheld. The court decided
that prior to and up to the receipt of notice of the ratification
of the treaty, the local government lawfully imposed the tariff
then in force in California, although it differed from that provided by Congress, and that subsequent to the receipt of notice
of the ratification of the treaty, the duty prescribed by the act
of Congress which the President had ordered the local officials
to enforce could be lawfully collected. The opinion undoubtedly expressed the thought that by the ratification of the treaty
in question, which, as I have shown, not only included the ceded
territory within the bound'aries of the United States, but also expressly provided for incorporation, the territory had become a
part of the United States, and the body of the opinion quoted the
letter of the Secretary of the Treasury which referred to the enactment of laws of Congress by which the treaty had been impliedly ratified. The decision of the court as to duties imposed
subsequent to the receipt of notice of the ratification of the
treaty of peace undoubtedly took the fact I have just stated
into view and, in addition, unmistakably proceeded upon the
nature of the rights which the treaty conferred. No comment
can obscure or do away with the patent fact, namely, that
it was unequivocally decided that if different provisions had
been found in the treaty, a contrary result would have followed.
Thus, speaking through Mr. Justice Wayne, the court said (16
How. 197):
"By the ratification of the treaty, California became a part
of the United States. And, as there is nothing diferently stipulated in the treaty with respect to commerce, it became instantly
bound and privileged by the laws which Congress had passed
to raise a revenue from duties on imports and tonnage."
It is then, as I think, indubitably settled by the principles of
the law of nations, by the nature of the government created
under the. Constitution, by the express and implied powers conferred upon that government by the Constitution, by the mode
in which those powers have been executed, from the beginning, and by an unbroken line of decisions of this court, first
announced by Marshall and followed and lucidly expounded

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JUSTICES WMITE, SMIRAS and McKxNNA,

concurring.

by Taney, that the treaty-making power cannot incorporate
territory into the United States without the express or implied
assent of Congress, that it may insert in a treaty conditions
against immediate incorporation, and that on the other hand
when it has expressed in the treaty the conditions favorable to
incorporation, they will, if the treaty be not repudiated by
Congress, have the force of the law of the land, and therefore
by the fulfillment of such conditions cause incorporation to
result. It must follow, therefore, that where a treaty contains
no conditions for incorporation, and, above all, where it not
only has no such conditions but expressly provides to the contrary, incorporation does not arise until in the wisdom of Congress it is deemed that the acquired territory has reached
that state where it is proper that it should enter into and form
a part of the American family.
Does, then, the treaty in question contain d provision for
incorporation, or does it, on the contrary, stipulate that incorporation shall not take place from the mere effect of.the treaty
and until Congress has so determined? is then the only cluestion remaining for consideration.
The provisions of the treaty with respect to -the 8tt of
Porto Rico and its inhabitants are as follows:
"Article I.
"Spain cedes to the United States the Island of Porto Rico
and other islands now under Spanish sovereignty in the West
Indies, and the Island of Guam in the. Marianas or Ladrones."
"Article IX.
"Spanish" subjects, natives of the Peninsula, residing in the
territory over which Spain by the present treaty relinquishes
or cedes her sovereignty, may remain in such territory or may
remove therefrom, retaining in either event all their rights of
property, including the right to sell or dispose of such property or of its proceeds; and they shall also have the right to
carry on their industry, commerce and professions, being subject in respect thereof to such laws as are applicable to other
foreigners. In case they remain in the territory they may pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WEITE, SmRAS and

McXrNwA, concurring.

serve their allegiance to the crown of Spain by making, before
a court of record, within a year from the date of the exchange
of ratifications of this treaty, a declaration of their decision to
preserve such allegiance; in default of which declaration they
shall be held to have renounced it and to have adopted the
nationality of the territory in which they may reside.
"The civil rights and political status of the native inhabitants of the territories hereby ceded to the United States shall
be determined by the Congress.
"Article X.
"The inhabitants of the territories over which Spain relinquishes or cedes her sovereignty shall be secured in the free
exercise of their religion."
It is to me obvious that the above quoted provisions of the
treaty do not stipulate for incorporation, but on the contrary
expressly provide that the "civil rights and political stus of
the native inhabitants of the -territories hereby ceded," shall
be determined by Congress. When the rights to which this
careful provision refers are put in juxtaposition with those
which have been deemed essential from the foundation of the
government to bring about incorporation, all of which have
been previously referred to, I cannot doubt that the express
purpose of the treaty was not only to leave the statu8 of the
territory to be determined by Congress but to prevent the
treaty from operating to the contrary. Of course, it is evident that the express or implied acquiescence by Congress in
a. treaty so framed cannot import that a result was brought
about which the treaty itself-giving effect to its provisions
-could not produce. And, in addition, the provisions of the
act by which the duty here in question was imposed, taken
as a whole, seem to me plainly to manifest the intention of
Congress that for the present at least Porto Rico is not to be
incorporated into the United States.
The fact that the act directs the officers to swear to support
the Constitution does not militate against this view, for, as I
have conceded, whether the island be incorporated or not, the
applicable provisions of the Constitution are there in force. A

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
JusTics WHITE, SHm s and McKaNNA, concurhing.

further analysis of the provisions of the act 'seems to me not to
be required in view of the fact that as the act was reported
from the committee it contained a provision conferring citizenship upon the inhabitants of Porto Rico, and this was stricken
out in the Senate. The argument, therefore, can only be that
rights were conferred, which, after consideration, it was determined'should not be granted. Moreover I fail to see how it is
possible, on the one hand, to declare that Congress in passing
the act had exceeded its powers by treating Porto Rico as not
incorporated into the United States, and, at the same, time, it
be said that the provisions of the act itself amount to an incorporation of Porto Rico into the United States, although the
treaty had not previously done 'so. It in reason cannot be that
the act is void because it seeks to keep the island disincorpo-.
rated, and, at the same time, that material provisions are not
to be enforced.because the act does incorporate. 'Two irreconcilable views of that act cannot be taken at the same time, the
consequence being to cause it to be unconstitutional.
In what has preceded I have in effect considered every substantial proposition and have 6ither conceded or reviewed every
authority referred to as establishing that immediate incorporation resulted from the treaty of cession which is under consideration. Indeed, the whole argument in favor of the view that
immediate incorporation followed upon the ratification of the
treaty in its last analysis necessarily comes to this: Since it has
been decided that incorporation flows from a treaty which provides for that result, when its provisions have been expressly
or impliedly approved by Congress, it must follow that the
same effect flows from a treaty which expressly stipulates to
the contrary, even although the condition to that end has been
approved by Congress. That is to say, the argument is this:
Because a provision for incorporation when ratified incorporates,
*therefore a provision against incorporation must also produce.
the very consequence which it expressly provides against.
The result of what has been said is that whilst in an inter.
national sense Porto Rico was not a foreign country, since it
was subject to the sovereignty of and was owned by the United
States, it was foreign to the United States in a domestic sense,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIES WHITE, SHIiAS and McXONNA, concurring.

because the island had not been incorporated into the United
States, but was merely appurtenant thereto, as a possession.
As a necessary consequence, the impost in question assessed on
merchandise coming from Porto Rico into the United States
after the cession was within the power of Congress, and that
body was not, moreover, as to such imposts, controlled by the
clause requiring that imposts should be uniform throughout the
United States; in other words, the provision of the Constitution
just referred to was not applicable to Congress in legislating
for Porto Rico.
Incidentally I have heretofore pointed out that the arguments
of expediency, pressed with so much earnestness and ability concern the legislative and not the judicial department of the government. But it may be observed that even if the disastrous
consequences which are foreshadowed as arising from conceding that the government of the United States may hold property without incorporation were to tempt me to depart from what
seems to me to be the plain line of judicial duty, reason admonishes me that so doing would not serve to prevent the grave evils
which it is insisted must come, but, on the contrary, would only
render them more dangerous. This must be the result, since,
as already said, it seems to me it is not open to serious dispute,
that the military arm of the government of the United States
may hold and occupy conquered territory without incorporation for such length of time as may seem appropriate to Congress in the exercise of its discretion. The denial of the right
of the civil power to do so would not therefore prevent the
holding of territory by the United States if it was deemed
best by the political department of the government, but would
simply necessitate that it should be exercised by the military
instead of by the civil power.
And to me it further seems apparent that another and more
disastrous result than that just stated would follow as a consequence of an attempt to cause judicial judgment to invade the
domain of legislative discretion. Quite recently one of the
stipulations contained in the treaty with Spain which is now
under consideration came under review by this court. By the
provision in question Spain relinquished "all claim of sover-

DOWNES v. BI3DWELt.
JusrrMcs WHITE, SHMIRAS and MIeXENNA, concurring.

eignty over and title to Cuba.' It was further provided in
the treaty as follows:
"And as the island is upon the evacuation by Spain to be
occupied by the United States, the United States will so long
as such occupation shall last assume and discharge the obligations that may under international law result from the fact of
its occupation and for the protection of life and property."
It cannot, it is submitted, be questioned that, under this provision of the treaty, as long as the occupation of the United
States lasts, the benign sovereignty of the United States extends over and dominates the Island of Cuba. Likewise, it is
not, it seems to me, questionable that the period when that
sovereignty is to cease is to be determined by the legislative
department of the government of the United States in the exercise of the great duties imposed upon it and with the sense
of the responsibility which it owes to the people of the United
States and the high respect which it of course feels for all the
moral obligations by which the government of the United
States may, either expressly or impliedly, be bound. Considering the provisions of this treaty and reviewing the pledges of
this government extraneous to that instrument, by which the
sovereignty of Cuba is to be held by the United States for the
benefit of the people of Cuba and for their account, to be relinquished to them when the conditions justify its accomplishment, this court unanimously held in _Neely v. enkel, 180 U. S.
109, that Cuba was not incorporated into the United States and
was a foreign country. It follows from this decision that it is
lavful for the United States to take possession of and hold in
the exercise of its sovereign power a particulr territory, without incorporating it into the United States, if there be obligations of honor and good faith which, although not expressed in
the treaty, nevertheless sacredly bind the United States to terminate the dominion and control, when, in its political discre.
tion, the situation is ripe to enable it to do so. Conceding,
then, for the purpose of the argument, it to be true that it
would be a violation of duty under the Constitution for the
legislative department, in the exercise of its discretion, to accept a cession of and permanently hold territory which is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, SH1RAS and McKE..NA, concurring.

intended to be incorporated, the presumption necessarily must
be that that department, which within its lawful sphere is but
the expression of the political conscience of the people of the
United States, will be faithful to its duty under the Constitution, and, therefore, when the unfitness of particular territory
for incorporation is demonstrated the occupation will terminate. I cannot conceive how it can be held that pledges made
to an alien people can be treated as more sacred than is that
great pledge given by every member of every department of
the government of the United States to support and defend
the Constitution.
But if it can be supposed-which, of course, I do not think
to be conceivable-that the judiciary would be authorized to
draw to itself by an act of usurpation purely political functions,
upon the theory that if such wrong is not committed a greater
harm will arise, because the other departments of the government will forget their duty to the Constitution and wantonly
transcend its limitations, I am further admonished that any judicial action in this case which would be predicated fipon such
an unwarranted conception would be absolutely unavailing. It
cannot be denied that under the rule clearly settled in NIeely v.
ReAkel, su'pa, the s.vereignty of the United States may be extended over foreign territory to remain paramount until in the
discretion of the political department of the government of the
United States it be relinquished. This method, then, of dealing with foreign territory, would, in any event, be available.
Thus, the enthralling of the treaty-making power, which would
result from holding that no territory could be acquired by treaty
of cession without immediate incorporation, would only result
in compelling a resort to the subterfuge of relinquishment of
sovereignty, and thus indirection would take the place of directness of action-a course which would be incompatible with the
dignity and honor of the government.
I am authorized to say that Mr. Justice SnmAs and Mr. Justice MoKEmx&

concur in this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE, GRAY, concurring.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
31.

JUSTICE GRAY,

concuning.

Concurring in the judgment of affirmance in this case, and in
substance agreeing with the opinion of Mr. Justice White, I
will sum up the reasons for my concurrence in a few propositions, which may also indicate my position in other cases now
standing for judgment.
The cases now before the court do not touch the authority of
the United States over the Territories, in the strict and technical
sense, being those which lie within the Ufhited States, as bounded
by the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, the Dominion of Canada
and the Republic of Mexico, and the Territories of Alaska and
Hawaii; but they relate to territory, in the .broader sense, acquired by the United States by war with a foreign State.
As Chief Justice Marshall said: "The Constitution confers
absolutely on the government of the Union the powers of making war, and of making treaties; consequently, that government
possesses the power of acquiring territory, either by conquest
or by treaty. The usage of the world is, if a nation be not entirely subdued, to consider the holding of conquered territory
as a mere military occupation, until its fate shall be determined
at the treaty of peace. If it be ceded by the treaty, the acquisition is confirmed, and the ceded territory becomes a part of the
nation to which it is annexed; either on the terms stipulated
in the treaty of cession, or on such as its new master shall impose." American Imurance Co. v. Cant-r, (1828) 1 Pet. 511,
542.
The civil government of the United States cannot extend immediately, and of its own force, over territory acquired by war.
Such territory must necessarily, in the first instance, be governed by the military power under the control of the President
as commander in chief. Civil government cannot take effect at
once, as soon as possession is acquired under military authority,
or even as soon as that possession is confirmed by treaty. It
can only be put in operation by the action of the appropriate
political department of the government, at such time and in such
degree as that department may determine. There must, of necessity, be a transition period.
In a conquered territory, civil government must take effect,
either by the action of the treaty-making power, or by that of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JusTICE GRAY, concurring.

the Congress of the United States. The office of a treaty of
cession ordinarily is to put an end to all authority of the foreign
government over the territory; and to subject the territory to
the disposition of the Government of the United States.
The government and disposition of territory so acquired belong to the Government of the United States, consisting of the
President, the Senate, elected by the States, and- the House of
Representatives, chosen by and immediately representing the
people of the United States. Treaties by which territory is acquired from a foreign State usually recognize this.
It is clearly recognized in the recent treaty with Spain, especially in the ninth article, by which "The civil rights and
political statu of the native inhabitants of the territories hereby ceded to the United States shall be determined by the Congress."
By the fourth and thirteenth articles of the treaty, the United States agree that, for ten years, Spanish ships and merchandise shall be admitted to the ports of the Philippine Islands on
the same terms as ships and merchandise of the United States,
and Spanish scientific, literary and artistic works, not subversive of public order, shall continue to be admitted free of duty
into all the ceded territories. Neither of the provisions could
be carried out if the Constitution required the customs regulations of the United States to apply in those territories.
In the absence of Congressional legislation, the regulation of
the revenue of .the conquered territory, even after the treaty of
pession, remains with the executive and military authority.
So long as Congress has not incorporated the territory into
the United States, neither military occupation nor cession by*
treaty makes the conquered territory domestic territory, in the
sense of the revenue laws. But those laws concerning "foreign
countries" remain applicable to the conquered territory until
changed by Congress. Such was the unanimous opinion of this
court, as declared by Chief Justice Taney, in Fleming v. Page,
9 How. 603, 617.
If Congress is not ready to construct a complete government
for the conquered territory, it may establish a temporary government, which is not subject to all the restrictions of the Constitution.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PEKHAm, JJ., dissenting.

Such was the effect of the act of Congress of April 12, 1900,
c. 191, entitled "An act temporarily to provide revenues and a
civil government for Porto Rico, and for other purposes." By
the third section of that act, it was expressly declared that the
duties thereby established on merchandise and articles going
into Porto Rico from the United States, or coming into the
United States from Porto Rico, should cease in any event on
March 1, 1902, and sooner if .the legislative assembly of Porto
Rico should enact and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government established by
that act.
The system of duties, temporarily established by that act during the transition period, was within the authority of Congress
under the Constitution of the United States.
M

. CHIF JUSTICE FULLER,

TICE HAmAL, M
dissenting.

(with whom concurred Mr. Jus-

.JusTIcE BBEWEB and MR.. JusTinE PEoxHAm,)

This is an action brought to recover moneys exacted by the
collector of customs at the port of New York-as import duties
on two shipments of fruit from ports in the island of Porto
Rico to the port of New York in November, 1900.
The treaty ceding Porto Rico to the United States was ratifled by the Senate, February 6, 1899; Congress passed an act
to carry out its obligations March 3, 1899 ; and the ratifications
were exchanged, and the treaty proclaimed April 11, 1899.
Then followed the act approved April 12, 1900. 31 Stat. IT,
c. 191.
Mr. Justice Harlan, Mr. Justice Brewer, Mr. Justice Peckham and myself are unable to concur in the opinions and judgment of the court in.this case. The majority widely differ in
the reasoning by which the conclusion is reached, although
there seems to be concurrence in the view that Porto Rico
belongs to the United States, but nevertheless, and notwithstanding the act of Congress, is not a part of the United States,
subject to the provisions of the Constitution in respect of the
levy of taxes, duties, imposts and excises.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
PuLLE,

C. J., HARLAN, BREwER and PECxHAM, JJ., dissenting.

The inquiry is whether the act of April 12, 1900, so far a it
requires the payment .of import duties on merchandise brought
from a port of Porto Rico as a condition of entry into other

ports of the United States, is consistent with the Federal Constitution.
The act creates a civil government for Porto Rico, with a
Governor, Secretary, Attorney General, and other officers, appointed by the President, by. and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, who, together with five other persons, likewise
so appointed and confirmed, are constituted an executive council ; local legislative powers are vested in a legislative assembly,
consisting of the executive council and a house of delegates to
be elected; courts are provided for, and, among other things,
Porto Rico is constituted a judicial district, with a district judge,
attorney and marshal to be appointed by the President for the
term of four years. The district court is to be called the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico, and to possess,
in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of
the United States, jurisdiction of all cases cognizant in the Circuit Courts of the United States. The act also provides that
"Writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico and the District Court of the
United States shall be allowed and may be taken to the Supreme
Court of the United States in the same manner and under the
same regulations and in the same cases as from the Supreme
Courts of the Territories of the United States; and such writs
of error and appeal shall be allowed in all cases where the Constitution of the United States, or a treaty thereof, or an act of
Congress is brought in question and the right claimed thereunder is denied."
It was also provided that the inhabitants continuing to reside
in Porto Rico, who were Spanish subjects on April 11, 1899,
and their children born subsequent thereto, (except such as
should elect to -preserve their allegiance to the Crown of Spain,)
together with citizens of the United States, residing in Porto
Rico, should "constitute a body politic under the name of The
People of Porto, Rico, with governmental powers as hereinafter conferred and with power to sue and be sued as such."

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.

349'

FuLLER, C. J., HAR LA , BBEWER and PECKHAM, J3., dissenting.

All officials authorized by the act are required to "before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices take an oath
to support the Constitution of the United States and the laws
of Porto Rico."
The second, third, fourth, fifth and thirty-eighth sections of
the act are printed in the margin.'
ISEc. 2. That on and after the passage of this act the same tariffs, customs, and duties shall be levied, collected, and paid upon all axticles imported into Porto Rico from ports other than those of the United States
which are required by law to be collected upon articles imported into the
United States from foreign countries: Provided, That on all coffee in the
bean or ground imported into Porto Rico there shall be levied and collected
a duty of five cents per pound, any law or part of law to the contrary notwithstanding: And providedfurther, That all Spanish scientific, literary,
and artistic works, not subversive of public order in Porto Rico, shall be admitted free of duty into Porto Rico for a period of ten years, reckoning
from the eleventh day of April, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, as provided in said treaty of peace between the United States and Spain: And
I)rovided further, That all books and pamphlets printed in the English
language shall be admitted into Porto Rico free of duty when imported
from the United States.
S E. 3. That on and after the passage of this act all merchandise coming
into the United States from Porto Rico and coming into Porto Rico from
the United States shall be entered at the several ports of entry upon payment of fifteen per centum of the duties which arerequired to be levied, collected, and paid upon like articles of merchandise imported from foreign
countries; and in addition thereto upon articles of merchandise of Porto
Rican manufacture coming into the United States and withdrawn for consumption or sale upon payment of a tax equal to the internal revenue tax imposed in the United States upon the like articles of merchandise of domestic
manufacture; such tax to be paid by internal revenue stamp or stamps to
be purchased and provided by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and
to be procured from the collector of internal revenue at or most convenient
to the port of entry of said merchandise in the United States, and to be
affixed under such.regulations as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe; and on
all articles of merchandise of United States manufacture coming into
Porto Rico in addition to the duty above provided upon payment of a tax
equal in rate and amount to the internal revenue tax imposed in Porto
Rico upon the like articles of Porto Rican manufacture: Provided, That on
and after the date when this act shall take effect, all merchandise and
articles, except coffee, not dutiable under the tariff laws of the United
States, and all merchandise and articles entered in Porto Rico free of duty
under orders heretofore made by the Secretary of War, shall be admitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULL B, C. J., HAnLAw, BnEWFu and PECK=Am, JJ., dissenting.

It will be seen that duties are imposed upon "merchandise
coining into Porto Rico from the United States;" "merchandise
into the several ports thereof, when imported from the United States, free
of duty, all laws or parts of laws to the contrary notwithstanding; and
whenever the legislative assembly of Porto Rico shall have enacted and put
into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government of Porto Rico, by this act established, and shall by resolution duly
passed so notify the President, he shall make proclamation thereof, and
thereupon all tariff duties on merchandise and articles going into Porto
Rico from the United States or coming into the United States from Porto
Rico shall cease, and from and after such date all such merchandise and
articles shall be entered at the several ports of entry free of duty; and in
no event shall any duties be collected after the first day of March, nineteen
hundred and two, on merchandise and articles going into Porto Rico from
the United States or coming into the United States from Porto Rico.
Snc. 4. That the duties and taxes collected in Porto Rico in pursuance of
this act, less the cost of collecting the same, and the gross amount of all
collections of duties and taxes in the United States upon articles of merchandise coining from Porto Rico, shall not be covered into the general
fund of the Treasury, but shall be held as a separate fund, and shall be
placed at the disposal of the President to be used for the government and
benefit of Porto Rico until the government of Porto Rico herein provided
for shall have been organized, when all moneys theretofore collected under
the provisions hereof, then unexpended, shall be transferred to the local
treasury of Porto Rico, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall designate
the several ports and sub-ports of entry into Porto Rico and shall make
such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as may be necessary to
collect the duties and taxes authoxized to be levied, collected, and paid in
Porto Rico by the provisions of this act, and he shall fix the compensation
and provide for the payment thereof of all such officers, agents, and assistants as he may find it necessary to employ to carry out the provisions
hereof; Provided, however, That as soon as a civil government for Porto
Rico shall have been organized in accordance with the provisions of this
act and notice thereof shall have been given to the President he shall make
proclamation thereof, and thereafter all collections of duties and taxes in
Porto Rico under the provisions of this act shall be paid. into the treasury
of Porto Rico, to be expended as required by law for the government and
benefit thereof instead of being paid into the Treasury of the United States.
SEC. 5. That on ahd after the day when this act shall go into effect all
goods, wares, and merchandise previously imported from Porto Rico, for
which no entry has been made, and all goods, wares, and merchandise previously entered without payment of duty and under bond for warehousing,
transportation, or any other purpose, for which no permit of delivery to
the importer or his agent has been issued, shall be subjected to the duties
imposed by this act, and to no other duty, upon the entry or the withdrawal

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLEB, C. J., HARLAN, BREWEB and PECKXAM, JJ., dissenting.

coming into the United States from Porto Rico;." taxes upon
" articles of merchandise of Porto Rican manufacture coming
into the United States and withdrawn from consumption or
sale" "equal to the internal-revenue tax imposed in the United
States upon like articles of domestic manufacture;" and "on
all articles of merchandise of United States manufacture coming
into Porto Rico," "a tax equal in rate and amount to the internal-revenue tax imposed in Porto Rico upon the like articles
of Porto.Rican manufacture."
And it is also provided that all duties collected in Porto Rico
on imports from foreign countries and on "merchandise coming
into Porto Rico from the United States," and "the gross amount
of all collections of duties and taxei in the United States upon
articles of merchandise coming from Porto Rico," shall be.
held as a separate fund and placed "at the disposal of the
President to be used for the government and benefit of Porto
Rico" until the local government is organized, when "all collections of taxes and duties under this act shall be paid into the
treasury of Porto Rico instead of being paid into the Treasury
of the United States."
The first clause of section 8 of Article I of the Constitution
thereof: Provided, That when duties are based upon the weight of merchandise deposited in any public or private bonded warehouse said duties shall
be levied and collected upon the weight of such merchandise at the time of
its entry.
SEc. 38. That no export duties shall be levied or collected on exports
from Porto Rico; but taxes and assessments on property, and license fees
for franchises, privileges, and concessions may be imposed for the purposes
of the insular and municipal governments, respectively as may be provided
and db.ined by act of the legislative assembly; and where necessary to anticipate taxes and revenues, bonds and other obligations may be issued by
Porto Rico or any municipal government therein as may be provided by law
to provide for expenditures authorized by law, and to protect the public
credit, and to reimburse the United States for any moneys which have been
or may be expended out of the emergency fund of the War Department for
the relief of the industrial conditions of Porto Rico caused by the hurricane
of August eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine. Provided, however,
That no public indebtedness of Porto Rico or of any municipality thereof
shall be authorized or allowed in excess of seven per centum of the aggregate tax valuation of its property.

,OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, C. J., HARLA,

BREWER and PEOKiuM, JJ., dissenting.

provides: "The Congress shall have power to levy and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide
for the common defence and general welfare of the United
States; but all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States."
Clauses four, five and six of section nine are:
",No capitation, or other direct, tax shall be laid, unless in
proportion to the census or enumeration hereinbefore directed
to be taken.
"No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any
State.
"No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce
or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another; nor
shall vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter,
clear, or pay duties in another."
This act on its face does not comply with the rule of uniformity and that fact is admitted.
The uniformity required by the Constitution is a geographical uniformity, and is only attained when the tax operates with
the same force and effect in every place where the subject of it
is found. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Head .Money Caes8,
112 U. S. 580, 594. But it is said that Congress in attempting
to levy these duties was not exercising power derived from the
first clause of section 8, or restricted by it, because in dealing
with the territories Congress exercises unlimited powers of government, and, moreover, that these duties are merely local
taxes.
This court, in 1820, when Marshall was Chief Justice, and
Washington, William Johnson, Livingston, Todd, Duvall and
Story were his associates, took a different view of the power of
Congress in the matter of laying and collecting taxes, duties,
imposts and excises in the territories, and its ruling in Lough
borough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317, has never been overruled.
It is said in one of the opinions of the majority that the Chief
Justice "made certain observations which have occasioned some
embarrassment in other cases." Manifestly this is so in this
case, for it is necessary to overrule that decision in order to
reach the result herein announced.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLER, 0. J.,

IA.RLA.,

BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

The question in Loughborough v. Blake was whether Congress had the right to impose a direct tax on the District of
Columbia apart from the grant .of exclusive legislation, which
carried the power to levy local taxes. The court held that Congress had such power under the clause in question. The reasoning of Chief Justice Marshall was directed to show that the
grant of the 'power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts
and excises," because it was general and without limitation as
to place, consequently extended "to all places over which the
government extends," and he declared that, if this could be
doubted, the doubt was removed by the subsequent words,
which modified the grant, "but all duties, imposts and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United States." He then said:
"It will not be contended that the modification of the power
extends to places to which the power itself does not extend.
The power then to lay and collect duties, imposts and excises
may be exercised, and must be exercised throughout the United
States. Does this term designate the whole, or any portion of
the American empire? Certainly this question can admit of
but one answer. It is the name given to our great republic,
which is composed of States and territories. The District of
Columbia, or the territory west of the Missouri, is not less within
the United States, than Maryland or Pennsylvania; and it is
not less necessary, on the principles of our Constitution, that
uniformity in the imposition of imposts, duties and excises should
be observed in the one, than in the other. Since, then, the
power to lay and collect taxes, which includes direct taxes,
is obviously coextensive with the power to lay and collect duties, imposts and excises, and since the latter extends throughout the United States, it follows that the power to impose direct
taxes also extends throughout the United States."
It is wholly inadmissible to reject the process of reasoning
by which the Chief Justice reached and tested the soundness
of his conclusion as merely obiter.
Nor is there any intimation that the ruling turned on the
theory that the Constitution irrevocably adhered to the soil of
M'aryland and Virginia, and, therefore,.accompanied the parts
which were ceded to form the District, or that "the tie" beVOL. OLXxxn-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULuER, 0. XT.,HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

tween those States and the Constitution "could not be dissolved,
without at least the consent of the Federal and state governments to a formal separation," and that this was not given by
the cession and its acceptance in accordance with the constitutional provision itself, and hence that Congress was restricted
in the exercise of its powers in the District, while not-so in the
territories.
So far from that, the Chief Justice held the territories as
well as the District to be part of the United States for the purposes of national taxation, and repeated in effect what he had
already said in AfcCulloch v. 2faryland,4 Wheaton, 316, 408:
"Throughout this vast republic, from the St. Croix to the Gulf
of Mexico, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, revenue is to be
collected and expended, armies are to be marched and supported."
Conceding that the power to tax for the purposes of territorial government is implied from the power to govern territory,
whether the latter power is attributed to the power to acquire
or the power to make needful rules and regulations, these particular duties are nevertheless not local in their nature, but are
imposed as in the exercise of national powers. The levy is
clearly a regulation of commerce, and a regulation affecting
the States and their people as well as this territory and its
people. The power of Congress to act directly on the rights
and interests of the people of the States can only exist if, and
as, granted by the Constitution. And by the Constitution Congress is vested with power "to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes." The territories are indeed not mentioned by name,
and yet commerce between the territories and foreign nations
is covered by the clause, which would seem to have been intended to embrace the entire internal as well as foreign commerce of the country.
It is evident that Congress cannot regulate commerce between a territory and the States and other territories in the
exercise of the bare power to govern the particular territory,
and as this act was framed to operate and does operate on the
people of the States, the power to so legislate is apparently

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLER, 0. J., HARLAT, BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

rested on the assumption that the right to regulate commerce
between.the States and territories comes within the commerce
clause by necessary implication. Stounburgh v. Hennick, 129
U. S. 141.
Accordingly the act of Congress of August 8, 1890, entitled
"An act to limit the effect of the regulations of commerce between the several States and with foreign countries in certain
cases," applied in terms to the territories as well as to the States.
In any point of view, the imposition of duties on commerce
operates to regulate commerce, and is not a matter of local legislation; and it follows that the levy of these duties was in the
exercise of the national power to do so, and subject to the requirement of geographical uniformity.
The fact that the proceeds are devoted by the act to the use
of the territory does not make national taxes, local. Nobody
disputes the power of Congress to lay and collect duties, geographically uniform, and apply the proceeds by a proper appropriation act to the relief of a particular territory, but the destination of the proceeds would not change the source of the power to
lay and collect. And that suggestion certainly is not strengthened when based on the diversion of duties collected from all
parts of the United States to a territorial treasury before reaching the Treasury of the United States. Clause I of section 9
of Article I provides that "no money shall be drawn from the
Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law,"
and the proposition that this may be rendered inapplicable if
the money is not permitted to be paid in so as to be susceptible
of being drawn out, is somewhat startling.
It is also urged that Chief Justice Marshall was entirely in
fault because while the grant was general and without limitation as to place, the words, "throughout the United States,"
imposed a limitation as to place so far as the rule of uniformity
was concerned, namely, a limitation to the States as such.
Undoubtedly the view of the Chief Justice was utterly inconsistent with that contention, and, in addition to what has been
quoted, he further remarked: "If it be said that the principle
of uniformity, established in the Constitution, secures the District from oppression in the imposition of indirect taxes, it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

not less true that the principle of apportionment, also established in the Constitution, secures the District from any oppressive exercise of the power to lay and collect direct taxes." It
must be borne in mind that the grant was of the absolute power
of taxation for national purposes, wholly unlimited as to place,
and subjected to only one exception and two qualifications.
The exception was that exports could not be taxed at all. The
qualifications were that direct taxes must be imposed by the
rule of apportionment, and indirect taxes by the rule of uniformity. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462. But as the power necessarily could be exercised throughout every part of the national
domain, State, Territory, District, the exception and the qualifications attended its exercise. That is to say, the protection
extended to the people of the States extended also to the people
of the District and the Territories.
In Knowlton v. .Moore, 178 U. S. 41, it is shown that the
words "throughout the United States" are but a qualification
introduced for the purpose .of rendering the uniformity prescribed, geographical, and not intrinsic, as would have resulted
if they had not been used.
As the grant of the power to lay taxes and duties was unqualified as to place, and the words were added for the sole purpose of preventing the uniformity required from being intrinsic,
the intention thereby to circumscribe the area within which
the power could operate not only cannot be imputed, but the
contrary presumption must prevail.
Taking the words in their natural meaning-in the sense in
which they are frequently and commonly used-no reason is
perceived for disagreeing with the Chief Justice in the view
that they were used in this clause to designate the geographical
unity known as "The United States," "our great republic,
which is composed of States and territories."
Other parts of the Constitution furnish illustrations of the
correctness of this view. Thus the Constitution vests Congress
with the power "to establish an uniform rule of naturalization,
and uftiform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout
the United States."

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLER, C. J., IIARLAw, BnRWER

and PECKHA,

JJ., dissenting.

This applies to the territories as well as the States, and has
always been recognized in legislation as binding.
Aliens in the territories are made citizens of the United
States, and bankrupts residing in the territories are discharged
from debts owing citizens of the States pursuant to uniform
rules and laws enacted by Congress in the exercise of this power.
The Fourteenth Amendment provides that "all persons born
or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the States
wherein they reside;" and this -court naturally held, in the
Slaughter Rouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, that the United States included the District and the territories. Mr. Justice Miller observed: "It had been said by eminent judges that no man was
a citizen of the United States, except as he was a citizen of one
of the States composing the Union. Those, therefore, who had
been born and resided always in the District of Columbia or in
the territories, though within the United States, were not citizens. Whether this proposition was sound or not had never
been judicially decided." And he said the question was put at
rest by the Amendment, and the distinction between citizenship
of the United States and citizenship of a State was clearly recognized and established. "KNot-only may a man be a citizen of
the United States without being a citizen of a State, but an important element is necessary to convert the former into the latter. He must reside within the State to make him a citizen of
it, but it is only necessary that he should be born or naturalized
in the United States to be a citizen of the Union."
No person is eligible to the office of President unless he has
"attained to the age of thirty-five years, and been fourteen
years a resident within the United States." Clause 5, sec. 1,
Art. I.
Would a native-born citizen of Massachusetts be ineligible if
he had taken up his residence and resided in one of the territories for so many years that he had not resided altogether
fourteen years in the States? When voted for he must be a
citizen of one of the States (clause 3, sec. 1, Art. II; Art. XII),
but as to length of time must residence in the territories be
counted against him?

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAMk, JJ., dissenting.

The Fifteenth Amendment declares that "the right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged
by the United States or by any State on account of race, color,
or previous condition of servitude." Where does that prohibition on the United States especially apply if not in the territories?
The Thirteenth Amendment says that neither slavery nor
involuntary servitude "shall exist within the United States or
any place subject to their jurisdiction." Clearly this prohibition would have operated in the territories if the concluding
words had not been added. The history of the times shows
that the addition was made in view of the then condition of
the country-the amendment passed the house January 31,
1865,-and it is moreover otherwise applicable than to the territories. Besides, generally speaking, when words are used
simply out of abundant caution, the fact carries little weight.
Other illustrations might be adduced but it is unnecessary to
prolong this opinion by giving them.
I repeat that no satisfactory ground has been suggested for
restricting the words "1throughout the United States," as qualifying the power to impose duties, to the States, and that.conclusion is the more to be avoided when we reflect that it rests,
in the last analysis, on the assertion of the possession by Congress of unlimited power over the territories.
The government of the United States is the government ordained by the Constitution, and possesses the powers conferred
by the Constitution. "This original and supreme will organizes the government, and assigns to different departments their
respective powers. It may either stop here, or establish certain
limits not to be transcended by those departments. The govermnent of the 'United States is of the latter description. The
powers of the legislature are defined and limited; and that those
limits may not be mistaken or forgotten, the Constitution is
written. To what purpose are powers limited, and to what purpose is that limitation committed to writing, if these limits may,
at any time, be passed by those intended to be restrained?"
Marbury v. .iadson,1 Cranch, 137, 176. The opinion of the
court, by. Chief Justice Marshall, in that case, was delivered at

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FUL ER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

the February term, 1803, and at the October term, 1885, the
court, in Yicok Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, speaking through
Mr. Justice Matthews, said: "When we consider the nature and
theory of our institutions of government, the principles upon
which they are supposed to rest, and review the history of their
development, we are constrained to conclude that they *donot
mean to leave room for the play and action of purely personal
and arbitrary power. Sovereignty itself is, of course, not subject to law, for it is the author and source of law; but in our
system, while sovereign powers are delegated to the agencies
of government, sovereignty itself remains with the people, by
whom and for whom all government exists and acts. And the
law is the definition and limitation of power."
From .Yarbury v. Madison to the present day, no utterance
of this court has intimated a doubt that in its operation on the
people, by whom and for whom it was established, the national
government is a government of enumerated powers, the exercise of which is restricted to the use of means appropriate and
plainly adapted to constitutional ends, and which are "not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution."
The powers delegated by the people to their agents are not
enlarged by the expansion of the domain within which they are
exercised. When the restriction on the exercise of a particular
power by a particular agent is ascertained, that is an end of the
question.
To hold otherwise is to overthrow the basis of our constititional law, and moreover, in effect, to reassert the proposition
that the States and not the people created the government.
It is again to antagonize Chief Jufice Marshall, when he said:
"The government of the Union, then, (whatever may be the influence of this fact on the case,) is, emphatically, and truly, a
government of the people. In form and in substance it emanates from them. Its powers are granted by them, and are
to be exercised directly on them, and for their benefit. This
government is acknowledgd by all to be one of enumerated
powers." 4 Wheat. 404.
The prohibitory clauses of the Constitution are many, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULER, (. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PEcHAMr, .JJ., dissenting.

they have been repeatedly given effect by this court in respect of
the Territories and the District of Columbia.
The underlying principleis indicated by Chief Justice Taney,
in T/ie Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 492, where he maintained
the right of the American citizen to free transit in these words:
"Living as we do under a common government, charged with
the great concerns of the whole Union, every citizen of the
United States, from the most remote States or territories, is
entitled to free access, not only to the principal departments
established at Washington, but also to its judicial tribunals and
public offices in every State and territory of the Union.
For all the great purposes for which the Federal government
was formed, we are one people, with one common country.
We are all citizens of the United States; and, as members of
the same community, must have the right to pass and repass
through every part of it without interruption, as freely as in
our own States."
In Cross v.Harrison,16 How. 161, 197, it was held that by
the ratification of the treaty with Mexico "California became
a part of the United States," and that: "The right claimed to
land foreign goods within the United States at any place out
of a collection district, if allowed, would be a violation of that
provision in the Constitution which enjoins that all duties,
imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States."
In Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, the court was unanimous in holding that the power to legislate respecting a territory was limited by the restrictions of the Constitution, or, as
Mr. Justice Curtis put it, by "the express prohibitions on Congress not to do certain things."
Mr. Justice McLean said: "No powers can be .exercised
which are prohibited by the Constitution, or which are contrary to its spirit."
Mr. Justice Campbell: "I look in vain, among the discussions of the time, for the assertion of a supreme sovereignty for
Congress over the territory then belonging to the United States,
or that they might thereafter acquire. I seek in iain for an
annunciation that a consolidated power had been inaugurated,

DOWNES 17.BIDWELL.
FPmLER, C. J.,

HARLAN, BREWER

and PECKIAM, JJ., dissenting.

whose subject comprehended an emliire, and which had no restriction but the discretion of Congress."
Chief Justice Taney: "The powers over persons and property of which we speak are not only not granted to Congress,
but are in express terms denied, and they are forbidden to exercise them. And this prohibition is not confined to the States,
but the words are general, and extend to the whole territory
over which the Constitution gives it power to legislate, including those portions of it remaining under territorial government,
as well as that covered by States. It is a total absence of power
everywhere within the dominion of the United States, and
places the citizens of a territory, so far as these rights are concerned, on the same footing with citizens of the States, and
guards them as firmly and plainly against any inroads which
the general government might attempt, under the plea of implied or incidental powers."
Mvany of the later cases were brought from territories over
which Congress had professed to "extend the Constitution," or
from the District after similar provision, but the decisions did
not rest upon the view that the restrictions on Congress were
self-imposed, and might be withdrawn at the pleasure of that
body.
Capial Traction Company v. ZTof, 174 U. S. 1, is a fair illustration, for it was there ruled, citing lfebster v. Reid, 11 How.
437; Callan v. Wison, 127 U. S. 550; Thompson v. Utah, 170
U. S. 343, that "it is beyond doubt, at the present day, that the
provisions of the Constitution of the -United States securing the
right of trial by jury, whether in civil or in criminal cases, are
applicable to the District of Columbia."
No reference whatever was made to section 34 of the act of
February 21, 1871, 16 Stat. 419, c. 62, which, in providing for
the election of a delegate for the District, closed with the words:
"The person having the greatest number of legal votes shall be
declared by the governor to be duly elected, and a certificate
thereof shall be given accordingly; and the Constitution and
all laws of the United States, which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect within the said District
of Columbia as elsewhere within the United States."

OCTO3ER TERM, 1000.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

iNor did the court in Bauman v. -Ross, 167 U. S. 548, attribute the application of the Fifth Amendment to the act of Congress, although it was cited to another point.
The truth is that, as Judge Edmunds wrote, "the instances
in which Congress has declared in statutes organizing territories, that the Constitution and laws should be in force there,
are no evidence that they were not already there, for Congress
and all legislative bodies have often made enactments that in
effect merely declared existing law. In such cases they declare a preexisting truth to ease the doubts of casuists." Cong.
Rec. 56th Cong. 1st Sess. p. 3507.
In (allan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 550, which was a criminal
prosecution in the District of Columbia, Mr. Justice Harlan,
speaking for the court, said: "There is nothing in the history
of the Constitution or of the original amendments to justify
the assertion that the people of this District may be lawfully
deprived of the benefit of any of the constitutional guarantees of life, liberty, and property-especially of the privilege
of trial by jury in criminal cases." And further: "We cannot think that the people of this District have, in that regard,
less rights than those accorded to the people of the territories
of the United States."
In Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, it was held that a statute of the State of Utah, providing for the trial of criminal
cases other than capital, by a jury of eight, was invalid as
applied on a trial for a crime committed before Utah was admitted; that it was not "competent for the State of Utah,
upon its admission into the Union, to do in respect of Thompson's crime what the United States could not have done while
Utah was a Territory ;" and that an act of Congress providing
for a trial by a jury of eight persons in the Territory of Utah
would have been in conflict with-the Constitution.
Article 6 of the Constitution ordains: "This Constitution,
and the laws of the United States which shall be made in persuance thereof and all treaties made, or which shall be made under
the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of
the land."
And, as Mr. Justice Curtis observed in United States v. Xorris,

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULxZR, 0. J., HARLA,

BrEwER.and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

I Curtis, 23, 50, "nothing can be clearer than the intention to
have the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States
in equal force throughout every part of the territory of the
'United States, alike in all places at all times."
But it is said that an opposite result will be reached if the
opinion of Chief Justice Marshall in American Insurance Comn
pany v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, be read "in connection with Art.
III, secs. 1 and 2 of the Constitution, vesting ' the judicial power
of the United States ' in ' one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish. The judges, both of the Supreme and inferior courts,
shall hold their offices during good behaviour,'" etc. And it
is argued: "As the only judicial power vested in Congress is to
create courts whose judges shall hold their offices during good
behaviour, it necessarily follows that, if Congress authorizes the
creation of courts and the appointment of judges for a limited
time, it must act independently of the Constitution, and upon
territory which is not part of the United States within the meaning of the Constitution."
And further, that if the territories "be a part of the United
States, it is difficult to see how Congress could create courts in
such territories, except under the judicial clause of the Constitution."
By the ninth clause of section 8 of Article I, Congress is
vested with power "to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court," while by section 1 of Article III the power is
granted to it to establish inferior courts in which the judicial
power of the government treated of in that article is vested.
That power was to be exerted over the controversies therein
named, and did not relate to the general administration of justice in the territories, which was committed to courts established
as part of the territorial government.
What the Chief Justice said was (p. 546): "These courts,
then, are not constitutional courts, in which the judicial power
conferred by the Constitution on the general government can
be deposited. They are incapable of receiving it. They are
legislative courts, created in virtue of the general right of sovereignty which exists in the government, or in virtue of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, C. J., H.kRLAN, BREWER and PEcKAmi,

JJ., dissenting.

clause which enables Congress to make all needful rules and regn.
lations respecting the territory belonging to the United States.
The jurisdiction with which they are invested is not a part of
that judicial power which is defined in the third article of the
Constitution, but is conferred by Congress, in the execution of
those general powers which that body possesses over the territories of the United States."
The Chief Justice was dealing with the subject in view of the
nature of the judicial department of the government and the
distinction between Federal and state jurisdiction, and the conclusion was, to use the language of Mr. Justice Harlan in
-YoAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 1-74, "that courts in the
territories, created under the plenary municipal authority that,
Congress possesses over the territories of the United States, are
not courts of the United States created under the authority conferred by that article."
But it did not therefore follow that the territories were not
parts of the United States, and that the power of Congress, in
general, over them, was unlimited; nor was there in any of the
discussions on this subject the least intimation to that effect.
And this may justly be said of expressions in some other
cases, supposed to give color to this doctrine of absolute dominion in dealing with civil rights.
In Xurphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, Mr. Justice Matthews
said: "The personal and civil rights of the inhabitants of the
territories are secured to them, as to other citizens, by the principles of constitutional liberty which restrain all the agencies
of government, state and national. Their political iights are
franchises, 'which they hold as privileges in the legislative discretion (f the Congress of the United States."
In the Mormon Chureh Case, 136 U. S. 1, 44, Mr. Justice
Bradley observed: "Doubtless Congress, in legislating for the
territories, would be subject to those fundamental lir-itations
in favor of personal rights which are formulated in the Constitution and its amendments; but these limitations would exist
rather by inference and the general spirit of the Constitution
from which Congress derives all its powers than by any express
and direct application of its provisions."

DOWNNES v. BIDWELL.
FUJLEB, C. J., HARLAI, BREWER and PECKuAM, JJ., dissenting.

That able judge was referring to the fact that the Constitution does not expressly declare that its prohibitions operate on
the power to govern the territories, but because of the implication that an express provision to that effeet might be essential,
three members of the court were constrained to dissent, regarding it,as was said, "of vital consequence that absolute power
should never be conceded as belonging under our system of
government to any one of its departments."
What was ruled in Xiurphy v. Ramsey is that in places over
which Congress has exclusive local jurisdiction its power over
the political status is plenary.
Much discussion was had at the bar in respect to the citizenship of the inhabitants of Porto Rico, but we are not required
to consider that subject at large in these cases. It will be time
enough to seek a ford when, if ever, we are brought to the
stream.
Yet although we are confined to the question of the validity
of certain duties imposed after the organization of Porto Rico
as a territory of the United States a few observations and some
references to adjudged cases may well enough be added in view
of the line of argument pursued in the concurring opinion.
In Ame~qcan Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 541in which, by the way, the court did not accept the views of
Mr. Justice Johnson in the Circuit Court or of Mr. Webster in
argument-Chief Justice Marshall said: "The course which the
argument has taken, will require, that, in deciding this question, the court should take into view the relation in which
Florida stands to the United States. The Constitution confers
absolutely on the government of the Union, the powers of making war, and of making treaties; 'consequently, that government
possesses the power of acquiring territory, either by conquest or
by treaty. The usage of the world is, if a nation be not entirely
subdued, to consider the holding of conquered territory as-a mere
military occupation, until its fate shall be determined at the
treaty of peace. If it be ceded by the treaty, the acquisition is
confirmed, and the ceded territory becomes a part of the nation
to which it is annexed; either on the terms stipulated in the
treaty of cession, or on such as its new master shall impose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWEn and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

On such transfer of territory, it has never been held, that the
relations of the inhabitants with each other undergo any change.
Their relations with their former sovereign are dissolved, and new
relations are created between them, and the government which
has acquired their territory. The same act which transfers
their country, transfers the allegiance of those who 'remain in
it; and the law, which may be denominated political, is necessarily changed, although that which regulates the intercourse,
and general conduct of individuals, remains in force, until altered
by the newly created power of the State. On the 2d of February, 1819, Spain ceded Florida to the United States. The
sixth article of the treaty of cession contains the following provision: 'The inhabitants of the territories, which his Catholic
Majesty cedes to the United States by this treaty, shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States, as soon as may
be consistent with the principles of the Federal Constitution;
and admitted to the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and
immunities of the citizens of the United States.' This treaty
is the law of the land, and admits the inhabitants of Florida
to the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and immunities, of
the citizens of the United States. It is unnecessary to inquire,
whether this is not their condition, independent of stipulation.
They do not, however, participate in political power; they do
not share in the government, till Florida shall become a State.
In the mean time, Florida continues to be a territory of the
United States; governed by virtue of that clause in the Constitution, which empowers Congress 'to make all needful rules
a'nd regulations, respecting the territory, or other property
belonging to the United States.' Perhaps the power of governing a territory belonging to the United States, which has not,
by becoming a State, acquired the means of self-government,
may result necessarily from the facts, that it is not within the
jurisdiction of any particular State, and is within the power and
jurisdiction of the United States. The right to govern may be
the inevitable consequence of the right to acquire territory.
Whichever may be the source, whence the power is derived, the
possession of it is unquestioned."

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLER, C.J., HARLAN, BREWEn and PECKAM, JJ., dissenting.

General Halleck, (Int. Law, 1st ed. chap. 33,  14,) after
quoting from Chief Justice Marshall, observed:
"This is now a well settled rule of the law of nations, and is
universally admitted. Its provisions are clear and simple, and
easily understood; but it is not so easy to distinguish between
what are political and what are municipal laws, and to determine when and how far the constitution and laws of the
conqueror change or replace those of the conquered. And in
case the government of the new state is a constitutional government, of limited and divided powers, questions necessarily
arise respecting the authority, which, in the absence of legislative action, can be exercised in the conquered territory after
the cessation of war, and the conclusion of a treaty of peace.
The determination of these questions depends upon the institutions and laws of the new sovereign, which, though conformable
to the general rule of the law of nations, affect the construction
and application of that rule to particular cases."
In United Stats v. Perc4eman, 7 Pet. 51, 87, the Chief Justice said:
"The people change their allegiance; their relation to their
ancient sovereign is dissolved; but their relations to each other,
and their rights of property, remain undisturbed. If this be
the modern rule even in cases of conquest, who can doubt its
application to the case of an amicable cession of territory?
The cession of a territory by its name from one sovereign to another, conveying the compound idea of surrendering
at the same time the lands and the. people who inhabit them,
would be necessarily understood to pass the sovereignty only,
and not to interfere with private property."
Again the court in Pollards8 Zessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212,
225 said:
"Every nation acquiring territory, by treaty or otherwise,
must hold it subject to the constitution and laws of its own
government, and not according to those of the government
ceding it."
And in Chicago, Bock1
Island & Pacift Railway Co. v. .A0cGlinn, 114 U. S. 546: "It is a general rule of public law, recognized and acted upon by the United States, that whenever

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAw, BREWER

and PECKa&AM, JT., dissenting.

political jurisdiction and legislative power over any territory
are transferred from, one nation or sovereign to another, the
municipal laws of the country, that is, laws which are intended
for the protection of private rights, continue in force until abrogated or changed by the new government or sovereign. By
the cession public property passes from one government to the
other, but private property remains as before, and with it those
municipal laws which are designed to secure its peaceful use and
enjoyment. As a matter of course, all laws, ordinances, and
regulations in conflict with the political character, institutions,
and constitution of the new government are at once displaced.
Thus, upon a cession of political jurisdiction and legislative
power-and the latter is involved in the former-to the United
States, the laws of the country in support of an established religion, or abridging the freedom of the press, or authorizing
cruel and unusual punishments, and the like, would at once cease
to be of obligatory force without any declaration to that effect;
and the laws of the country on other subjects would necessarily
be superseded by existing laws of the new government upon the
same matters. But with respect to other laws affecting the possession, use and transfer of property, and designed to secure
good order and peace in the community, and promote its health
and prosperity, which are strictly of a municipal character, the
rule is general that a change of government leaves them in
force until, by direct action of the new government, they are
altered or repealed."
When a cession of territory to the United States is completed
by the ratification of a treaty, it was stated in Cro V. H-arrieon, 16 How. 164, 198, that the land ceded becomes a part of
the United States, and that as soon as it becomes so the territory is subject to the acts which were in force to regulate foreign commerce with the United States, after those had ceased
which had been instituted for its regulation as a belligerent
right; and the latter ceased after the ratification of the treaty.
This statement was made by the Justice delivering the opinion
as the result of the discussion and argument which he had already set forth. Itwas his summing up of what he supposed
was decided on that subject in the case in which he was writing

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAw, BREWER

and PECxHAm, JJ., dissenting.

The new master was, in the instance of Porto Rico, the United States, a constitutional government with limited powers,
and the terms which the Constitution itself imposed, or which
might be imposed in accordance with the Constitution, were
the terms on which the new master took possession.
The power of the United States to acquire territory by conquest, by treaty, or by discovery and occupation, is not disputed,
nor is the proposition that in all international relations, interests, and responsibilities the United States is a separate, independent, and sovereign nation; but it.does not derive its powers
from international law, which, though a part of our municipal
law, is not a part of the organic law of the land. The source
of national power .in this country is the Constitution of the
United States; and the government,.as to our internal affairs,
possesses no inherent sovereign power not derived from that instrument, and inconsistent with its letfer and spirit.
Doubtless the subjects of the former sovereign are brought
by the transfer under the protection of the acquiring power,
and are so far forth impressed with its nationality, but it does not
follow that they necessarily acquire the full 8tatu of citizens.
The ninth article of the treaty ceding Porto Rico to the United
States provided that Spanish subjects, natives of the Peninsula,
residing in the ceded territory, might remain or remove, and in
case they remained might preserve their allegiance to the crown
of Spain by making a declaration of their decision to do so, "in
default of which declaration they shall be held to have renounced it and to have adopted the nationality of the territory
ih which they reside." :
The same article also contained this paragraph: "The civil
rights and political status of the native inhabitants of the territories hereby ceded to the United States shall be determined by
Congress." This was nothing more than a declaration of the
accepted principles of international law applicable to the 8tatmu
of the Spanish sdbjects and of the native inhabitants. It did
not assume that Congress could deprive the inhabitants of ceded
territory of rights to which they might be entitled. The grant
by Spain could not enlarge the powers of Congress, nor did it
VOL. oLXXXII-24

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
FULLER, 0. J., HARLAiz, BREWER and PECKUAM,

JJ., dissenting.

purport to secure from the United States a guaranty of civil or
political privileges.
Indeed a treaty which undertook to take away what the Constitution secured or to enlarge the Federal jurisdiction would be
simply void.
"It need hardly be said that a treaty cannot change the Constitution or be held valid it it be in violation of that instrument.
This results from the nature and fundamental principles of our
government." The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616, 620.
So Mr. Justice Field in Geofroy v. Biggs, 133 U. S. 258, 267:
"The treaty power, as expressed in the Constitution, is in terms
unlimited except by those restraints which are found in that instrument against the action of the government or of its departments, and those arising.from the nature of the government
itself and of that of the States. It would not be contended that
it extends so far as to authorize what the Constitution forbids,
or a change in the character of the government or in that of one
of the States, or a cession of any portion of the territory of the
latter, without its consent."
And it certainly cannot be admitted that the power of Congress to lay and collect taxes and duties can be curtailed by an
arrangement made with a foreign nation by the President and
two thirds of a quorum of the Senate. See 2 Tucker on the
Constitution,  354, 355, 356.
In the language of Judge Cooley: "The Constitution itself
never yields to treaty or enactment; it neither changes with
time nor does it in theory bend to the force of circumstances.
It may be amended according to its own permission; but while
it stands it is ' a law for rulers and people, equally in war and
in peace, and covers with the shield of its protection all classes
of men, at all times and under all circumstances.' Its principles
cannot, therefore, be set aside in order to meet the supposed
necessities of great crises. 'No doctrine involving more pernicious consequences was ever invented byi the wit of man than
that any of its provisions can be suspended during any of the
great exigencies of government.'"
I am not intimating in the least degree that any reason exists
for regarding this article to be unconstitutional, but even if it

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
FuLLL%, C. J., HABsax,

BREw

and PEKcHAM, 33., dissent ng.

were, the fact of the cession is a fact accomplished, and this
court is concerned only with the question of the power of the
government in laying duties in respect of commerce with the
territory so ceded.
In the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice White, we find cer-

tain important propositions conceded, some of which are denied,
or not admitted in the other. These are to the effect that" when
an act of any department is challenged, because not warranted
by the Constitution, the existence of the authority is to be ascertained by determining whether the power has been conferred
by the Constitution, either in express terms or by lawful im-

plication;"1 that as every function of the government is derived
from the Constitution, "that in'strument is everywhere and at
all times potentialin so far as its provisions are applicable;"
that "wherever a power is given by the Constitution and there
is a limitation imposed on the authority, such restriction operates
upon and confines every action on the subject within its constitutional limits;" that where conditions are brought about to
which any particular provision of the Constitution applies, its
controlling influence cannot be frustrated by the action of any
or all of the departments of the government; that the Constitution has conferred on Congress the right to create such municipal organizations as it may deem best for all the territories of
the United States, but every applicable express limitation of
the Constitution is in force, and even where there is no express
command which applies, there may nevertheless be restrictions
of so fundamental a nature that they cannot be transgressed
though not expressed in so many words; that every provision
of the Constitution which is applicable to the territories is controlling therein, and all the limitations of the Constitution applicable to Congress in governing the territories necessarily limit
its power; that in the case of the territories, when a provision
of the Constitution is invoked, the question is whether the provision relied on is applicable; and that the power to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, as well ag the qualification of uniformity, restrains Congress from imposing an impost
duty on goods coming into the United States from a territory

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULL3B, 0.

3.,

H.&RLAx, BREWER and rEOnHAM, JJ., dissenting.

which has been in corporated into and forms a part of the
United States.
And it is said that the determination of whether a particular
provision is applicable involves an inquiry into the situation of
the territory and its relations to the United States, although it
does not follow, when the Constitution has withheld all power
over a given subject, that such an inquiry is necessary.
The inquiry is stated to be: " H ad Porto Rico, at the time
of the passage of the act in question, been incorporated into
and become an integral part of the United States?" And the
answer being given that it had not, it is held that the rule of
uniformity was not applicable.
I submit that that is not the question in this case. The question is whether, when Congress has created a civil government
for Porto Rico, has constituted its inhabitants a body'politic,
has given it a governor and other officers, a legislative assembly,

and courts, with the right of appeal to this court, Congress can
in the same act and in the exercise of the power conferred by
the first clause of section eight, impose duties on the commerce
between Porto Rico and the States and other territories in contravention of the rule of uniformity qualifying the power. If
this can be done, it is because the power of Congress over commercebetween the States and any of the territories is hot restricted by the Constitution. This was the position taken by
the Attorney General, with a candor and ability that did him
great credit.
But that position is rejected, and the contention seems to be
that if an organized and settled province of another sovereignty
is acquired by the United States, Congress has the power to keep
it, like a disembodied .hade, in an intermediate state of ambiguous existence for an indefinite period; and, more than that, that
after it has been called from that limbo, commerce with it is absolutely subject to the will of Congress, irrespective of constitutional provisions.
The accuracy of this view is supposed to be sustained by the
act of 1856 in relation to the protection of citizens of the United
States removing guano from unoccupied islands; .but I am unable to see why the discharge by the United States of its un-

DOWNES v.. BIDWELL.
FwLLEn, C. 3., HAELAN, BREWER and PnCnn&ri, J.,

dissenting.

doubted duty to proiect its citizens on terra nullius, whether
temporarily engaged in catching and curing fish, or working
mines, or taking away manure, furnishes support to the proposition that the power of Congress over the territories of the
United States is unrestricted.
Great stress is thrown upon the word "incorporation," as if
possessed of some occult meaning, but I take it that the act
under consideration made Porto Rico, whatever its situation
before, an organized territory of the United States. Being
such, and the act undertaking to impose duties by virtue of
clause one of section 8, how is it that the rule which qualifies
the power does not apply to its exercise in respect of commerce
with that territory? The power can only be exercised as prescribed, and even if the rule of uniformity could be treated as
a mere regulation of the granted power, a suggestion to which
I do not assent, the validity of these duties comes up directly
and it is idle to discuss the distinction between a total want of
power and a defective exercise of it.
The concurring opinion recognizes the fact that Congress, in
dealing with the people of new territories or possessions, is bound
to respect the fundamental guarantees of life, liberty, and property, but assumes that Congress is not -bound, in those territories
or possessions, to follow the rules of taxation prescribed by the
Constitution. And yet the power to tax involves the power
to destroy, and the.levy of duties touches all our people in all
places under the jurisdiction of the government.
The 'logical result is that Congress may prohibit commerce
altogether between the States and territories, and may prescribe
one rule of taxation in one territory, and a different rule in
another.
That theory assumes that the Constitution created a government empowered to acquire countries throughout the world, to
be governed by different rules than those obtaining in the original States and territories, and substitutes for the present systein of republican 'government, a system of domination over
distant provinces in the exercise of unrestricted power.
In our judgment, so much of the Porto Rican act as author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
FULLER, . J., HARLAw, BREWmR and PEcKHAm, JJ., dissenting.

ized the imposition of these duties is invalid, and plaintiffs were
entitled to recover.
Some argument was-made as to general consequences apprehended to flow from this result, but the language of the Constitution is too plain and unambiguous to permit its meaning
to be thus influenced. There is nothing "in the literal construction so obviously absurd, or mischievous, or repugnant to
the general spirit of the instrument, as to justify those who
expound the Constitution" in giving it a construction not warranted by its words.
Briefs have been presented at this bar, purporting to be on
behalf of certain industries, and eloquently setting forth the
desirability that our government should possess the power to
impose a tariff on the products of newly acquired territories so
as to diminish or remove competition. That, however, furnishes no basis for judicial judgment, and if the producers of
staples, in the existing States of this Union, believe the Constitution should be amended so as to reach that result, the instrument itself provides how such amendment can be accomplished.
The people of all the States are entitled to a voice in the settlement of that subject.
Again, it is objected on behalf of the government that the
possession of absolute power is essential to the acquisition of
vast and distant territories, and that we should regard the situation as it is to-day rather than as it was a century ago. "We
must look at the situation as comprehending a possibility-I do
not say a probability, but a possibility-that the question might
be as to the powers of this government in the acquisition of Egypt
and the Soudan, or a section of Central Africa, or a spot in the
Antarctic Circle, or a section of the Chinese Empire."
But it must be remembered that,-as Marshall and Story declared, the Constitution was framed for ages to come, and that
the sagacious men who framed it were well aware that a mighty
future waited on their work. The rising sun to which Franklin referred at the close of the convention, they well knew, was
that star of empire, whose course Berkeley had sung sixty years
before.
They may not indeed have deliberately considered a trium-

DOWNBS v. BIDWELL.
MR. JusTicE HAuLAw, dissenting.

phal progress of the nation, as such, around the earth, but, as
Marshall wrote: "It is not enough to say, that this particular
case was not in the mind of the convention, when the article
was framed, nor of the American people, when it was adopted.
It is necessary to go farther, and to say that, had this particular. case been suggested, the language would have been so
varied, as to exclude it, or it would have been made a special
exception."
This cannot be said, and, on the contrary, in order to the
successful extension of our institutions, the reasonable presumption is that the limitations on the exertion of arbitrary power
would have been madb more rigorous.
After all, these arguments are merely political, and "political
reasons have not the requisite certainty to afford rules of judicial interpretation."
Congress has power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution all the powers
vested by the Constitution in the government of the United
States, or in any department or officer thereof. If the end be
legitimate and within the scope of the Constitution, then, to
accomplish it, Congress may use "all means which are appropriate,, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not
prohibited, but consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution."
The grave duty of determining whether an act of Congress
does or does not comply with these requirements -is only to be
discharged by applying the well settled rules which govern the
interpretation of fundamental law, unaffected by the theoretical opinions of individuals.
Tested by those rules our conviction is that the imposition of
these duties cannot be sustained.
MR.JusTc. H&ALAw,dissenting.

I concur in the dissenting opinion of the Chief Justice. The
grounds upon which he and Mr. Justice Brewer and Mr. Justice Peckham regard the Foraker act as unconstitutional in the
particulars involved in this action meet my entire approval.

OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

MR.JUSTICE HAiEmA, dissenting.

Those grounds need not be restated, nor is it necessary to reexamine the authorities cited by the Chief Justice. I agree in
holding that Porto Rico-at least after the ratification of the
treaty with Spain-became a part of the United States within
the meaning of the section of the Constitution enumerating the
poweis of Congress and providing that "all duties, imposts and
excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
In view, however, of the importance of the questions in this
case, and of the consequences that will follow any conclusion
reached by the court, I deem it appropriate-without rediscussing the principal questions presented-to add some observations suggested by certain passages in opinions just delivered in
support of the judgment.
In one of those opinions it is said that "the Constitution was
created by the people .ofthe United States, as a union of States,
to be -governed solely by representatives of the States;" also,
that "we find the Constitution speaking only to States, except
in the territorial clause, which is absolute in its terms, and suggestive of no limitations upon the power of Congress in dealing
with them." I am not sure that I -correctly interpret these
words. But if it is meant, as I assume it ismeant, that, with
the exception named, 'the Constitution was ordained by the
States, and is addressed to and operates only on the States, I
cannot acept that view.
In MAfartin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 324, 326, 331, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Story, aid that "the Constitution of
the United States was ordained and established, not by the
States in their sovereign capacities, but emphatically, as the
preamble of the Constitution declares, by the People of the
United States."
In .loCulloch v. MAaryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 403-406, Chief
Justice Marshall, speaking for this court, said: "The Govern:
ment proceeds directly from the people; is 'ordained and es:
tablished'. in the name of the people; and is declared to be
ordained, ' in ordr to.forii a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic. tranquillity, and secure the blessings of
liberty to themnselves -and their posterity.' The assent of the
States, in their sover'eigii capacity, is implied in calling a Con-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
MR.JusTicE HARLAx, dissenting.

vention, and thus submitting that instrument to the people.
But the people were at perfect liberty to accept or reject i%;
and their act was final. It required not the affirmance,,and
could not be negatived, by the state governments. The Constitution, when thus adopteA, was of complete obligation,
and bound the state sovereignties.

.

.

.

The Government

of the Union, then, (whatever may be the influence of this fact
on the case,) is, emphatically,. and truly, a government of the
people. In form and substance it emanates from them. Its
powers are granted by them, and are to be exercised directly.
on them and for their benefit. This Government is acknowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers.

.

.

.

It is

the Government of all; its powers are delegated by all; it
represents all, and acts for all."
Although the States are constituent parts of the United State4,
the Government rests upon the authority of the people of the
United States, and not on that of the States. Chief Justice
Marshall, delivering the unanimous judgment of this court in
Cohens v. Virginia,6 Wheat. 264,413, said: "That the United
States form for many, and for most important purposes, a single nation, has not yet been denied. In war we are one people. In making peace, we are one people. In all commercial
regulations, we are one -and the same people. In many other
respects, the American people are one; and the government
which is alone capable of controlling and managing their interests in all these respects is the Government of the Union. It
is their Government, and in that character they have no other.
America has chosen to be, in many respects and to many purposes, a nation; and for all these purp6ses her Government is
complete; to all these objects it is competent. The people
have declared that in the exercise of all powers given for those
objects, it is supreme. . It can, then, in effecting these objects,
legitimately control all individuals or governments within the
American territory."
In reference to the doctrine that the Constitution was established by and for the States as distinct political organizations,
Mr. Webster said: "The Constitution itself in its very front
refutes that. It declares that it is ordained and established by

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAw, dissenting.

the People of the United States. So far from saying that it is
established by the governments of the several States, it does
not even say that it is established by the people of the several
States. But it pronounces that it was established by the people of the United States in the aggregate. Doubtless, the people of the several States, taken collectively, constitute the people
of the United States. Bat it is in this their collective capacity,
it is as all the people of the United States, that they established
the Constitution."
In view of the adjudications of this court, I cannot assent to
the proposition, whether it be announced in express words or by
implication, that the National Government is a government of or
by th6 States in union, and that the prohibitions and limitations
of the Constitution are addressed only to the States. That is
but another form of saying that like the government created
.by the Articles of Confederation, the present government is a
mere league of States, held together by compact between themselves; whereas, as this court has often declared, it is a government created by the People of the United States, with enumerated powers, and supreme over States and individuals, with
respect to certain objects, throughout the entire territory over
which its jurisdiction extends. If the National Government is,
in any sense, a compact, it is a compact between the People of
the United States among themselves as constitutingin the aggregate the political community by whom the National Government was established. The Constitution speaks not simply to
the States in their organized capacities, but to all peoples, whether
of States or territories, who are subject to the authority of the
United States. Z.artin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 327.
In the opinion to which I am referring it is also said that the
"practical interpretation put by Congress upon the Constitution
has been long continued and uniform to the effect that the Constitution is applicable to territories acquired by purchase or conquest only when and so far as Congress shall so direct;" that
while all power of government may be abused, the same may be
said of the power of the Government "under the Constitutionas
well as outside of it ;" that" if it once be conceded that we are
at liberty to acquire foreign terfitory, a presumption arises that

DOWNES v. BIDWELL
MR.JusTicz HABx- ,dissenting.

our power with respect to such territories is the same power which
other nations have been accustomed to exercise with respect to
territories acquired by them ;" that" the liberality of Congress
in legislating the Constitution into all our contiguous territories
has undoubtedly fostered the impression that it went there by
its own force, but there is nothing in the Constitution itself, and
little in the interpretation put upon it, to confirm that impression;" that as the States could only delegate to Congress such
powers as they themselves possessed, and as they had no power
to acquire new territory, and therefore none to delegate in that
connection, the logical inference is that "if Congress had power
to acquire new territory, which is conceded, that power was not
hampered by the constitutional provisions;" that if " we assume
that the territorial clause of the Constitution was not intended
to be restricted to such territory as the United States then"possessed, there is nothing in the Constitution to indicate that the
power of Congress in dealing with them was intended to be restricted by any of the other provisions;" and that "the. executive and legislative departments of the Government have for
more than a century interpreted this silence as precluding the
idea that the Constitution attached to these territories-as soon
as acquired."
These are words of weighty import. They involve consequences of the most momentous character. I take leave to say
that if the principles thus announced should ever receive the
sanction of a majority of this court, a radical and mischievous
change in our system of government will be the result. We
will, in that event, pass from the era of constitutional liberty
guarded and protected by a written constitution into an era of
legislative absolutism.
Although from the foundation of the Government this court
has held steadily to the view that the Government of the United
States was one of enumerated powers, and that no one of its
branches, nor all of its branches combined, could constitutionally
exercise powers not granted, or which were not necessarily implied from those expressly granted, Mfartin v. H]unter, 1 Wheat.
304, 326, 331, we are now informed that Congress possesse4
powers outside of the Constitution, and may deal with new ter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JUSTICE HAELAN, dissenting.

ritory, acquired by treaty or conquest, in the same manner a8
other nation8 have been accustomed to act with respeot to ter7itorim acquired by them. 'In my opinion, Congress has no existence and can exercise no authority outside of the Constitution.
Still less is it true that Congress can deal with new territories
just as other nations have done or may do with their new territories. This nation is under the control of a written constitution, the supreme law of the land and the only source of the
powers which our Government, or any branch or officer of it, may
exert at any time or at any place. Monarchical and despotic
governments, unrestrained by written constitutions, may do
with newly acquired territories what this Government may not
do consistently with our fundamental law. To say otherwise
is to concede that Congress may, by action taken outside of the
Constitution, engraft upon our republican institutions a colonial
system such as exists under monarchical governments. Surely
such a result was never contemplated by the fathers of the Constitution. If that instrument had contained a word suggesting
the possibility of a result of that character it would never have
been adopted by the People of the United States. The idea
that this country may acquire territories anywhere upon the
earth, by conquest or treaty, and hold them as mere colonies or
provinces-the people inhabiting them to enjoy only such rights
as Congress chooses to accord to them-is wholly inconsistent
with the spirit and genius as well as with the words of the Constitution.
The idea preyails with some-indeed, it found expression in
arguments at the bar-that we have in this country substantially
or practically two national governments; one, to be maintained
under the Constitution, with all its restrictions , the other to be
maintained by Congress outside and independently of that instrument, by exercising such powers as other nations of the
earth are accustomed to exercise. It is one thing to give such
a latitudinarian construction to the Constitution as will bring
the exercise of power by Congress, upon a particular occasion
or upon a particular subject, within its provisions. It is quite a
different thing to say that Congress may, if it so elects, proceed
outside of the Constitution. The glory of our American system

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

of government is that it was created by a written constit6tion
which protects the people against the exercise of arbitrary, unlimited power, and the limits of which instrument may not be
passed by the government it created, or by any branch of it, or

even by the people who ordained it, except by amendment or
change of its provisions. "To what purpose," Chief Justice
Marshall said in .Aarbu y v. .fadi8on, 1 Cranch, 137, 176, "are
powers limited, and to what .purpose is that. limitation committed to writing, if these limits may, at any time, be passed
by those intended to be restrained? The distinction between a
government with limited and unlimited powers is abolished if
those limits do not confine the persons on whom they are imposed, and if acts prohibited and acts allowed are of equal obligation."
The wise men who framed the Constitution, and the patriotic
people who adopted it, were unwilling to depend for their safety
upon what, in the opinion referred to, is described as "certain
,principles of natural justice inherent in Anglo-Saxon character
which need no expression in constitutions or statutes to give
them effect or to secure dependencies against legislation manifestly hostile to their real interests." They proceeded upon the
theory-the wisdom of which experience has vindicated-that
the only safe guaranty against governmental oppression was to
withhold or restrict the power to oppress. They well remembered that Anglo-Saxons across the ocean had attempted, in defiance of law and justice, to trample upon the rights of AngloSaxons on this continent and had sought, by military force, to
establish a government that could at will destroy the privileges
that inhere in liberty. They believed that the establishment
here of a government that could administer public affairs according to its will unrestrained by any fundamental law and
without regard to the inherent rights of freemen, would be ruinous to the liberties of the people by exposing them to the oppressions of arbitrary power. Hence, the Constitution enumerates the powers which Congress and the other Departments
may exercise-leaving unimpaired, to the States or the People,
the powers not delegated to the National Government nor prohibited to the States. That instrument so expressly declares in

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
K3.

JUSTICE HLRLAN, dissenting.

the Tenth Article of Amendment. It will be an evil day for
American liberty if the theory of a government outside of the
supreme law of the land finds lodgment.in our constitutional

jurisprudence. :No higher duty rests upon this court than to
exert its full authority to prevent all violation of the principles
of the Constitution.
Again, it is said that Congress has assumed, in its past history, that the Constitution goes into territories acquired by purchase or conquest only when and a8 it shall 8o direct, and we

are informed of the liberality of Congress in legislating the
Constitution into all our contiguous territories. This is a view
of the Constitution that may well cause surprise, if not alarm.
Congress, as I have observed, has no existence except by virtue
of the Constitution. It is the creature of the Constitution. It
has no powers which that instrument has not granted, expressly
or by necessary implication. I confess that I cannot grasp the
thought that Congress which lives and moves and has its being
in the Constitution and is consequently the mere creature of
that instrument, can, at its pleasure, legislate or exclude its
creator from territories which were acquired only by authority
of the Constitution.
By the express words of the Constitution, every Senator and
Representative is bound, by oath or affirmation, to regard it as
the supreme law of the land. When the Constitutional Convention was in session there was much discussion as to the phra-

seology of the clause defining the supremacy of the Constitution,
laws and treaties of the United States. At one stage of the proceedings the Convention adopted the following clause: "This
Constitution, and the laws of the United States made in pursnance thereof, and all the treaties made under the authority of
the United States, shall be the supreme law of the several State8
and of their citizens and inhabitants, and the judges of the several States shall be bound thereby in their decisions, anything
in the constitutions or laws of the several States to the contrary
notwithstanding." This clause was amended, on motion of
Mr. Madison, by inserting after the words "all treaties made"
the words " or which shall be made." If the clause, so amended,
had been inserted in the Constitution as finally adopted, per-

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLA", dissenting.

haps there would have been some justification for saying that
the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States constituted the supreme law only in the States, and that outside of
the States the will of Congress was supreme. But the framers
of the Constitution saw the danger of such a provision, and put
into that instrument in place of the above clause the following:
"This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which
shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or
which shall be made, under the authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judgeg in every

State shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or
laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding." Meigs's
Growth of the Constitution, 284, 287. That the Convention
struck out the words "the supreme law of the several States"
and inserted "the supreme law of the land," is a fact of no little
significance. The "land" referred to manifestly embraced all
the peoples and all the territory, whether within or without the
States, over which the United States could exercise jurisdiction
or authority.
Further, it is admitted that some of the provisions of the Constitution do apply to Porto Rico and may be invoked as limiting or restricting the authority of Congress, or for the protection
of the people of that island. Aid it is said that there is a clear
distinction between such prohibitions "as go to the very root
of the power of Congress to act at all, irrespective of time or
place, and such as are operative only ' throughout the United
States' or among the several States." In the enforcement of
this suggestion it is said in one of the opinions just delivered:
"Thus, when the Constitution declares that ' no bill of attainder
or eX post facto law shall be passed,' and that ' no title of no-

bility shall be granted by the United States,' it goes to the competency of Congress to pass a bill of that descriytion." I cannot accept this reasoning as consistent with the Constitution or
with sound rules of interpretation. The express prohibition
upon the passage by Congress of bills of attainder, or of expost
facto laws, or the granting of titles of nobility, goes no more
directly to the root of the power of Congress than does the express prohibition against the imposition by Congress of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

duty, impost or excise that is not uniform throughout the
United- States. The opposite theory, I take leave to say, is
quite as extraordinary as that which assumes that Congress
may exercise powers outside of the Constitution, and may, in
its discretion, legislate that instrument into or out of a domestic territory of the United States.
In the opinion to which I have referred it is suggested that
conditions may arise when the annexation of distant possessions
may be desirable. "If," says that opinion," those possessions
are inhabited by alien races, differing from us in religion, customs, laws, methods of taxation and modes of thought, the administration of government and justice, according to AngloSaxon principles, may for a time be impossible; and the question at once arises whether large convessions ought not to be
made for a time, that ultimately our own theories may be carried out, and the blessings of a free government under the Constitution extended to them. We decline to hold that there is
anything. in the Constitution to forbid such action." In my
judgment, the Constitution does not sustain any such theory of
our governmental system. Whether a particular race will or
will not assimilate with our people, and whether they can or
cannot with safety to our institutions be byought within the
operation of the Constitution, is a matterto be thought of when
it'is proposed to acquire their territory by treaty. A mistake
in the acquistion of territory, although such acquisition seemed
at the time to be necessary, cannot be made the ground for
violating the Constitution or refusing to give full effect to its
provisions. The Constitution is not to be obeyed or disobeyed
as the circumstances of a particular crisis in our history may
suggest the one or the other course to be pursued. The People have decreed that it shall be the supreme law of the land at
all times. When the acquisition of territory becomes complete,
by cession, the Constitution necessarily becomes the supreme
law of such new territory, and no power exists in any Department of the Government to make "concessions" that are inconsistent with its provisions. The authority to make such concessions implies the existence in Congress of power to declare
that constitutional provisions may be ignored under special or

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

embarrassing circumstances. No such dispensing power exists
in any branch of our Government. The Constitution is supreme over every foot of territory, wherever situated, under the
jurisdiction of the United States, and its full operation cannot
be stayed by any branch of the Government in order to meet
what some may suppose to be extraordinary emergencies. If
the Constitution is in force in any territory, it is in force there
for every purpose embraced by the objects for which the Government was ordained. Its authority cannot be displaced by
concessions, even if it be true, as asserted in argument in some of
these cases, that if the tariff act took effect in the Philippines of
its own force, the inhabitants of Mandanao, who live on imported
rice, would starve, because the import duty is many fold more
than the ordinary cost of the grain to them. The meaning of
the Constitution cannot depend upon accidental circumstances
arising out of the products of other countries or of this country.
We cannot violate the Constitution in order to serve particular
interests in our own or in foreign lands. Even this court, with
its tremendous pow6r, must heed the mandate of the Constitution. No one in official station, to whatever department of the
Government he belongs, can disobey its commands without violating the obligation of the oath he has taken. By whomsoever
and wherever power is exercised in the name and under the
authority of the United States, or of any branch of its Government, the validity or invalidity of that which is done must be
determined by the Constitution.
In Delim v. Bidwell, just decided, we have held that upon
the ratification of the treaty with Spain, Porto Rico ceased to
be a foreign country and became a domestic territory of the
United States. We have said in that case that from 1803 to
the present time there was not a shred of authority, except a
dictum in one case, "for holding that a district ceded to and in
possession of the United States remains for any purpose a foreign territory ;" that territory so acquired cannot be "domestic
for one purpose and foreign for another;" and that any judgment to the contrary would be "pure judicial legislation," for
which there was no warrant in the Constitution or in the powers
conferred udp6n this court. Although, as we have just decided,
VOL. cLxxxn-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JUSTICE HALA_,

dissenting.

Porto Rico ceased, after the ratification of the treaty with Spain,
to be a foreign country within the meaning of the tariff act,
and became a domestic country-" a territory of the United
States "-it is said that if Congress so wills it may be controlled
and governed outside of the Constitution and by the exertion
of the powers which other nations have been accustomed to
exercise with respect to territories acquired by them; in other
words, we may solve the question of the power of Congress
under the Constitution, by referring to the powers that may be
exercised by other nations. I cannot assent to this viewv. I
reject altogether the theory that Congress, in its discretion, can
exclude the Constitution from a domestic territory of the United
States, acquired, and which could only have been acquired, in
virtue bf the Constitution. I cannot agree that it is a domestic
territory of the United States for the purpose of preventing the
application of the tariff act imposing duties upon imports from
foreign countries, but not a part of the United States for the
purpose of enforcing the cQnstitutional requirement that all
duties, imposts and excises imposed by Congress "shall be uniform throughout the United States." How Porto Rico can be
a domeitic territory of the United States, as distinctly held in
DeLima v. Bidwell, and yet, as is now held, not embraced by
the words "throughout the United States," is more than I can
understand.
We heard much in argument about the "expanding future of
our country." It was said that the United States is to become
what is called a "world power;" and that if this Government
intends to keep abreast of the times and be equal to the great
destiny that awaits the American people, it M.9t be allowed to

exert all the power that other nations are accustomed to exercise. My answer is, that the fathers never intended that the
authority and influence of this nation should be exerted otherwise than in accordance with the Constitution. If our Government needs more power than is conferred upon it by the Constitution, that instrument provides the mode in which it may
be amended and additional power thereby obtained. The People of the United States who ordained the Constitution never
supposed that a change could be made in our system of govern-

DOWNES v. oBIDWELL.
Us. JusTicE HAnLAN,

dissenting.

ment by mere judicial interpretation. They never contemplated
any such juggling with the words of the Constitution as'would
authorize the courts to hold that the words "throughout the
United States,"1 in the taxing clause of the Constitution. do not
embrace a domestic "territory of the United States" having a
civil government established by the authority of the United
States. This is a distinction which I am unable to make, and
which I do not think ought to be made when we are endeavoring to ascertain the meaning of a great instrument of government.
There are other matters to which I desire to refer. In one
of the opinions just delivered the case of Neely v. Renke, 180
U. S. 119, is cited in support of the proposition that the provision of the Foraker act here involved was consistent with the
Constitution. If the contrary had not been asserted I should
have said that the judgment in that case did not have the slightest bearing on the question before us. The only inquiry there
was whether Cuba was a foreign country or territorr within
the meaning not of the tariff act but of the act of June 6, 1900,
31 Stat. 656, c. 793. We held that it was a foreign country.
We could not have held otherwise, because the United States,
when recognizing the existence of war between this country and
Spain, disclaimed "any disposition or intention to exercise sovereignty, jurisdiction or control over said island except for the
pacification thereof," and asserted "its determination, when
that is accomplished, to leave the g6vernment and control of
the island to its people." We said: "While by the act of
April 25, 1898, declaring war between this country and Spain,
the president was directed and empowered to use our entire land
and naval forces, as well as the militia of the several States to
such an extent as was necessary, to carry such act into effect,
that authorization was not for the purpose of making Cuba an
integral part of the United States, but only for the purpose of
compelling the relinquishment by Spain of its authority and
government in that island and the withdrawal of its forces from
Cuba and Cuban waters. The legislative and executive branches
of the Government, by the joint resolution of April 20, 1898,
expressly disclaimed any purpose to exercise sovereignty, juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAw, dissenting.

diction or control over Cuba ' except for the pacification thereof,' and asserted the determination of the United States, that
object being accomplished, to leave the government and control
of Cuba to its own people. All that has been done in relation
to Cuba has had that end in view, and, so far as this court is
informed by the public history of the relations of this country
with that island, nothing has been done inconsistent with the
declared object of the war with Spain. Cuba is none the less
foreign territory, within the meaning of the act of Congress,
because it is under a Military Governor appoinited by and representing the President in the work of assisting the inhabitants
of that island to establish a government of their own, under
which, as a free and independent people, they may control their
own affairs without interference by other nations. The occupancy of the island by troops of the United States was the
necessary result of the war. That result could not have been
avoided by the United States consistently with the principles
of international law or with its obligations to the people of
Cuba. It is true that as between Spain and the United States
-indeed, as between the United States and all foreign nations
-Cuba, upon the cessation of hostilities with Spain and after
the Treaty of Paris was to be treated as if it were conquered
territory. But as between the United States and Cuba, that
island is territory held in trust for the inhabitants of Cuba to
whom it rightfully belongs, and to whose exclusive control it
will be surrendered when a stable government shall have been
established by their voluntary action." In answer to the suggestion that, under the modes of trial there adopted, Neely, if
taken to Cuba, would be denied the rights, privileges and immunities accorded by our Constitution to persons charged with
crime against the United States, we said that the constitutional
provisions referred to "have no relation to crimes committed
without the jurisdiction of the United States against the laws of
a foreign country." What use can be made of that case in order
to prove that the Constitution is not in force in a territory of
the United States acqpired by treaty, except as Congress may
provide, is more than I can perceive.
There is still another view taken of this case. Conceding

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
Mn. JusTicE

HIALAw,

dissenting.

that the National Government is one of enumerated powers to
be exerted only for the limited objects defined in the Constitution, and that Congress has no power, except as given by that
instrument either expressly or by necessary implication, it is
yet said that a new territ6ry, acquired by treaty or conquest,
cannot become incorporakdinto the United States without the
consent of Congress. What is meant by such incorporation
we are not fully informed, nor are -we instructed as to the precise mode in which it is to be accomplished. Of course, no territory can become a State in virtue of a treaty or without the
consent of the legislative branch of the Government; for only
Congress is given power by the Constitution to admit new
States. But it is an entirely different question whether a domestic "territory of the United States," having an organized
civil government, established by Congress, is not, for all purposes of government by the Nation, under the complete jurisdiction of the United States and therefore a part of, and incorporated into, the United States, subject to all the authority
which the National Government may exert over any territory
or people. If Porto Rico, although a territory of the United
States, may be treated as if it were not a part of the United
States, then New Mexico and Arizona may be treated as not
parts of the United States, and subject to such legislation as
Congress may choose to enact without any reference to the restrictions imposed by the Constitution. The admission that no
power can be exercised under and by authority of the United
States except in accordance with the Constitution is of no practical value whatever to constitutional liberty if, as soon as the
admission is made-as quickly as the words expressing the
thought can be uttered-the Constitution is so liberally interpretated as to produce the same results as those which flow
from the theory that Congress may go outside of the Constitution in dealing with newly acquired territories, and give them
the benefit of that instrument only when and as it shall direct.
Can it for a moment be doubted that the addition of Porto
Rico to the territory of the United States in virtue of the treaty
with Spain has been recognized by direct action upon the part
of. Congress ? Has it not legislated in recognition of that treaty

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JUSTICE HLA_", dissenting.

and appropriated the money which it required this country to
pay?
If, by virtue of the ratification of the treaty with Spain, and
the appropriation of the, amount which that treaty required
-this country to pay, Porto Rico could not become a part of the
United States so as to be embraced by the words "throughout
the United States," did it not become "incorporated" into the
United States when Congress passed the Foraker act? 31 Stat.
77, c. 191. What did that act do? It provided a civil government for Porto Rico, with legislative, executive and judicial departments; also, for the appointment by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States,
of a "governor, secretary, attorney general, treasurer, auditor,
commissioner of the interior and a commissioner of education."
 17-25. It provided for an executive council, the members
of which should be appointed by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate.  18. The governor
was required to report all transactions of the government in
Porto Rico to the President of the United States.  17. Provision was made for the coins of the.United States to take the
place of Porto Rican coins.  11. All laws enacted by the
Porto Rican legislative assembly were required to be reported
to the Congress of- the-United States, which reserved the power
and authority to amend the same.  31. But that was not all.
Except as otherwise provided, and except also the internal revenue laws, the statutory laws of the United States, not locally
inapplicable, are to have the same force and effect in Porto Rico
as in the United States.  14. A judicial department was
established in Porto Rico, with a judge to be appointed by
the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.  33. The court, so established, was to be known as
the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico, from
which writs of error and appeals were to be allowed to this
court.  34. All judicial process, it was provided, "shall run
in the name of the United States of America, and the President of the United States."  16. And yet it is said that Porto
Rico was not "incorporated" by the Foraker act into the United States so as to be part of the United States within the

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
MR. JUSTICE HAMLAN, dissenting.

meaning of the constitutional requirement that all duties,
imposts and excises imposed by Congress shall be uniform
"throughout the United States."
It would seem, according to the theories of some, that even
if Porto Rico is in and of the United States for many important
purposes, it is ye not a part of this country with the privilege
of protesting against a rule of taxation which Congress is expressly forbidden by the Constitution from adopting as to any
part of the "United States." And this result comes from the
failure of Congress to use the word "incorporate" in the Foraker act, although by the same act all power exercised by the
civil government in Porto Rico is by authority of the United
States, and although this court has been given jurisdiction by
writ of error or appeal to reexamine the final judgments of the
District Court of the United States established by Congress for
that territory. Suppose Congress had passed this act: "Be it
enacted by the Senate and Hfouse of Representatives in Congress
assembled, That Porto Rico be and is hereby incorporated into
the United States as a territory," would such a statute have
enlarged the scope or effect of the Foraker act? Would such
a statute have accomplished more than the Foraker act has
done? Indeed, would not such legislation have been regarded
as most extraordinary as well as unnecessary?
I am constrained to say that this idea of "incorporation"
has some occult meaning which my mind does not apprehend.
It is enveloped in some mystery which I am unable to unravel.
In my opinion Porto Rico became, at least after the ratification of the treaty with Spain, a part of and subject to the jurisdiction of the United States in respect of all its territory and
people, and Congress could not thereafter impose any duty, impost or excise with respect to that island and its inhabitants,
which departed from the rule of uniformity established by the
Constitution.

