OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

s, MR. JusTICE WHITE and MR. JusTICE
R. JusTIcE S RAdissented.

PEoKHA

LANTRY v. WALLAOE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
1901.-Decided May 27,1901.
No. 180. Argued March 11,
This action was brought by the receiver of anational bank under Rev. Stat.
ยง 5151, providing that share holders of every such association shall be held
individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another,
for all contracts, debts and engagements of such association, to the

amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the
amount invested in such shares.
Assuming that the defendant became a shareholder in a national bank in
consequence of fraudulent representations of the bank's officers, two
questions are presented for determination: 1, Whether such representations, relied updn by defendant, constituted a defence in this action,
brought by the receiver only for the purpose of enforcing the individual
liability imposed by ยง 5151, Rev. Stat., upon shareholders of national
banking associations? which question is answered in the negative; and,
2, Can the defendant, 1 ecause of frauds of the bank whereby he was induced to become a purchaser of its stock, have a judgment against the
receiver, on acounterclaim for money paid by him for stock, to be satisfied out of the bank's assets and funds in his control and possession?
which question is also answered in the negative.
The present action is at law, its object being to enforce a liability created
by statute for the benefit of creditors who have demands against the bank
of which the plaintiff is receiver. If the defendant was entitled, under
the facts stated, to a rescission of his contract of purchase, and to a cancellation of his stock certificate, and, consequently, to be relieved from
responsibility as a shareholder of the bank, he could obtain such relief
only by a suit in equity to which the bank and the receiver were parties.
Whether a decree based upon the facts set forth in the answer, even if established in a suit in equity, would be consistent with sound principle,
or with the statute regulating the affairs of national banks, and securing
the rights of creditors, is a question upon-which this court does not express an opinion.
The purchase of this stock by the bank under the circumstances was ultra
vires, but that did not render the purchase void.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

2Xr. C. ff. Sterry for plaintiffs in error. MrT. Eugene Hagen
and .r1. I E. Lahert were on his brief.
frh. WViliam C. Cochran for defendant in error. .1r1. J.
XeD. THmbZe and X1r1.W. I. Waace were on his brief.
ME.

JusTICE

lnAi" delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the receiver of the Missouri National Bank of Kansas City, Missouri, under section 5151 of-the
Revised Statutes, providing that the shareholders of every national banking association shall be held individually responsible,
equally and ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts,
debts and engagements of such association, to the amount of
their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the
amount invested in such shares.
The case was determined in the Circuit Court upon demurrer
to the answer and cross-petition of the defendant Lantry, and
the action of the court in sustaining the demurrer and giving
judgment for the plaintiff was affirmed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, Judge Thayer delivering the opinion of the court.
97 Fed. Rep. 865. Judge Sanborn dissented for the reasons
set forth in his dissenting opinion in Scott v. latimer, 89 Fed.
Rep. 843, 857-862; 60 U. S. App. 720, 743-451, which was the
case recently decided by this court under the title of Scott v.
Dewee8e, 181 U. S. 202.
The petition set forth the appointment by the Comptroller
of the Currency on the 3d day of December, 1896, of the plaintiff Wallace as receiver of the bank. It alleged that at the
time of the bank's failure the defendant was the owner and
holder of two hundred shares of its stock of the par value of
$100 each; that on the 30th of July, 1897, it appearing to the
satisfaction of the Comptroller that it was necessary to enforce
the individual liability of stockholders, as prescribed by sections 5151 and 5234 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
that officer made an assessment upon shareholders for $250,000
to be paid by them ratably on or before the 30th of- August,
1897; and that he had made demand upon stockholders for

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

$100 upon each share of capital stock held and owned by them
respectively at the time of the failure of the bank.
The defendant made two separate defences. In setting out
the first defence he denied that he was then or had ever been
the owner of the two hundred shares of the stock referred to
in the petition otherwise than as set forth by him.
The case made by the answer of the defendant was substantially as follows:
A short time prior to April 18, 1896, D. V. Rieger, president
of the bank, and who had been such from its organization,
solicited the defendant and one Calvin Hood to purchase some
shares of the stock of the bank and become stockholders. He
persistently urged upon them that it was the desire of the bank
to have them own its stock and their names connected with it,
as they were men of means and had a large business acquaintance in the State of Kansas, and their connection with the bank
would be of benefit to it by attracting and securing a large
amount of Kansas business otherwise not obtainable.
In the preliminary negotiations for the purchase of the stock
Rieger represented that the bank was in a sound, healthy financial condition, free from debts, earning large profits, and paying dividends, and that he was ready and willing to submit to
them a detailed statement showing its financial condition.
In consequence of his statements the defendant and Hood
called upon Rieger at the banking house of the bank with a
view of investigating its condition.
During such preliminary negotiations Rieger continued to
act as president of and for the bank, and all statements made
by him during the negotiations were made in his capacity as
president of the bank, with its knowledge, consent and authority.
The defendant and Hood informed Rieger that they had
been induced by him to investigate the condition of the bank
with a view of purchasing some of its shares, and they called
on him for a full and complete history and detailed account of
its business and financial condition. He at once promised to
submit to them a faithful statement and history of the bank
from its organization, and agreed to submit such.statement to

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

any expert bank examiner they might select, if they desired
him to do so.
The defendant together with Hood then entered upon such
investigation which covered a period of several weeks-Rieger
representing at the time that the bank was originally organized
with a capital stock of $500,000, all of which had been actually
paid for by the subscribers thereto and the money deposited as
required by law; that some time in July, 1893, on account of
the extreme stringency in money matters and panics, the bank
suspended, but upon full investigation by the Comptroller of
the Currency,. and a full report of the national bank examiner
submitted to that officer, it was permitted to resume business;
that the Comptroller required the bank to reduce its capital
stock to .the extent of $250,000, to cover any loss it might have
sustained previous to that time; and that this left outstanding
the sum of $250,000 of the capital stock, all of which had been
actually issued and paid for by the shareholders of the bank
at that time.
Rieger submitted to the defendant a report by the Comptroller in support of his statements, which was in words and figures
as follows: "This bank [referring to the Missouri National
Bank of Kansas City] suspended on the 17th inst., because of
the run on the part of its depositors. There was nothing in its
condition to warrant this run or occasion suspicion as to its insolvency. It seems to have been prudently managed and its
resources are unusually free from items of questionable value,
there being no bad debts. The bank is solvent and should be
permitted to resume."
He also submitted to defendant a bulletin issued by the Comptroller, dated July 28, 1893, which was in words as follows:
"The Missouri National Bank of Kansas City, Missouri, having complied with the conditions imposed by the Comptroller
of the Currency, and its capital stock being unimpaired, has
this day been permitted to reopen its doors for business. The
bank opens with plenty of money on hand, and is wholly solvent and safe."
He represented to the defendant that the statements contained in the above report and bulletin were. absolutely true and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

correct, and that the bank had been frequently examined after it
resumed business in July, 1893, by bank examiners and experts,
who uniformly and truthfully reported the bank in good, healthy
and prosperous condition, and entirely free from bad loans or
unsecured paper; that all the paper held by the bank was fresh,
clean paper and well secured, and that the interest on its securities had been promptly paid, and there was not among its assets
a single item or piece of paper that had not been secured or
kept alive as provided by the banking laws of the United States.
A list of the securities and assets of the bank was submitted to
the defendant by Rieger, he stating that each and every item on
the list was worth its face value and was fully secured, and that
the bank was and had been since its organization doing a large
and profitable business, accumulating a large surplus and paying
an annual dividend of six per cent to the stockholders.
After defendant received -the above statements from Rieger
he secured the services of two expert bank examiners to whom.
Rieger made the same statements and representations about the
assets and condition of the bank, thereby inducing them to believe such statements to be true and to so report to the defendant. Relying upon such representations, defendant agreed with
Rieger, as president, to purchase certain shares of its capital
stock, which the latter represented was the property of the bank,
and which he represented had been theretofore acquired in a
lawful way, and paid cash therefor, receiving from him "a certificate of stock dated the 18th day of April, 1896, and numbered 611, and purporting to be issued by the bank and under
its seal as of that date, and that this certificate represented the
two hundred shares of stock which the defendant supposed he
was purchasing, being the same stock mentioned and described
in plaintiff's petition, for this defendant never at any time nor
upon any occasion purchased or attempted to purchase any
other stock of said bank for himself, and never at any time received for himself any certificate of stock purporting to be a
certificate for stock of said bank other than the said certificate
numbered 611." The bank received the money so paid by the
defendant for the stock, namely, the sum of $20,000, and the
same was for the use and benefit of the bank.

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant continued to be the holder of such certificate
of stock, without the knowledge or the means of knowing that
the bank was insolvent, until on or about the 2d day of December, 1896. From the time of its delivery to him the bank was
apparently doing a very large and prosperous business, having
a daily average of about $1,500,000 deposits, and apparently
on an average in good bills receivable about $1,300,Q00.
But
owing to the vast number of hooks and the complicated system
of bookkeeping kept by the bank, and the artful manner in
which its insolvency was and had been secreted by its officers,
no one except the officers having knowledge of its condition
could or would have supposed from any investigation made
within any reasonable limit of time that the bank was insolvent, or that any bills receivable were fictitious, fraudulent or
dead paper, or that any of the representations made by the president of the bank were false and untrue, or that it was the purchaser of a large amount of its own stock.
On or about December 2, 1896, there were rumors of the
insolvency of the bank. Immediately after learning of such
rumors the defendant began to make the most diligent efforts
to ascertain the cause thereof, and to ascertain. its actual condition. During such investigation, which was only a day prior
to the bank's suspension, its president, cashier and other officers
persistently insisted that it was in a good, healthy financial
condition, and was perfectly solvent, as they had represented
it to be. But the defendant was unable to ascertain at that
time any information showing the real and actual condition of
the bank beyond the representations of its officers.
On the 3d of December, 1896, the receiver of the bank appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency took the actual
and exclusive control and possession of the bank and its assets,
books, papers and records, and excluded every one, including the
officers of the bank and the defendant from the right or opportunity of making any inspection of such books, records, papers
or assets. Although repeatedly requested to give to the defendant and his associates an opportunity of making a careful andcomplete investigation of the affairs and condition of the bank
after the same had passed into the possession of the plaintiff as

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court

such receiver, the latter persistently refused and denied such
request, and after the bank was placed in the hands of the receiver the defendant called upon him and demanded access to
the books, papers and documents of the bank, there being no
other source from which he could ascertain the real history of
the bank and its business transactions or its real condition. He
frequently called upon the receiver and asked him for information as to its real history and actual condition, but the only
information he could get from that officer was that the bank
was solvent and under his management would pay all of its
debts, liabilities and obligations without making any assessment or call upon the stockholders. The receiver continued to
make the statement that the bank was in a solvent condition,
up to the time the order of assessment was issued by the Comptroller as alleged in the petition. By reason of the statements
and representations made by the receiver the defendant was
led to believe and did believe that the bank was solvent and
would pay all its obligations, and that its embarrassments were
due to the complication of business matters and would only
be temporary.
The defendant also alleged in his answer that on or about
September 1, 1897, upon repeated requests, the Comptroller
gave to defendant and his associate Hood permission to inspect
the assets, books and records of the bank, and to secure all information possible as to its actual condition, and also permission
to see the reports of the examinations made under the direction
of the Comptroller and the receiver; and that thereupon for
the first time after the appointment of the receiver the defendant was permitted to and did make a careful and thorough examination into the actual condition and affairs of the bank; that
as a result of that investigation defendant for the first time ascertained the actual condition of the bank and its affairs, and for
the first time learned that the representations made by Rieger
about its condition were knowingly false, fraudulent and untrue,
and were made by him as president of the bank with full knowledge of the bank and the directors and the managers thereof
that they were false, fraudulent and untrue and for the purpose of inducing the defendant and Hood -to invest in the capital stock of the bank;

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
pInion of the Court.

That at -no time after its organization in 1891 was the bank
solvent or able to meet its debts; that no part of its original
capital stock was ever actually paid for, as required by the banking laws, nor was any part of the re'duced capital stock of $250,000
ever paid for; that the stock had in many instances been issued
to irresponsible parties and worthless notes taken therefor; that
at the time the bank was represented by IRieger to be in good,
sound financial condition it had on hand and included as part of
its good assets fraudulent, fictitious and worthless paper greatly
in excess of its capital stock; that there was at the tine fraudulently concealed and covered up, in paper -represented to be
good, $50,000 of Rieger's personal indebtedness absolutely worthless; and that the bank never from its organization earned a dividend, but had paid out on dividends over $70,000 in order to
conceal and cover up its actual condition; that Rieger when he
made the above representations knew the stock to be absolutely
worthless and that the capital stock had never been properly issued or paid for; that a large portion of the stock was claimed
to be owned by the bank, and that the bank had on hand notes
and paper that were fraudulent, fictitious and worthless in a
greater amount than its entire capital stock ; and that with full
knowledge of its absolutely insolvent condition he represented
the bank to be in good condition in order to induce defendant
to purchase the two hundred shares of the capital stock and defraud him of the $20,000 ; that at the time of such purchase the
defendant believed the statements made to him to be absolutely
true in every particular, and was governed by them in such belief; but that such stock was not at any time of any value
whatever;
That by reason of the facts above stated and set forth no
consideration was ever received by the defendant from the
bank for the payment of the $20,000 at the time of the purchase
of said stock;
That immediately after the investigation permitted by the
Comptroller, and on or about the 27th of October, 1897, he
called at the banking house of the bank, where its affairs were
being adjusted by the receiver, but finding only the- receiver
in possession and custody of the bank, its assets, books, records

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and affairs, and being unable to find any officer of the bank,
he tendered to the receiver said certificate of stock numbered
611, above referred to, for cancellation, notifying and informing him that because of the fraud and deceit that had been
practiced upon him, he disaffirmed the contract of purchase or
pretended purchase of stock, and demanded that the receiver
receive the certificate, cancel it and repay to the defendant the
sum of $20,000 paid by him as above stated, or such proportionate part thereof as he would be entitled to receive as a
creditor of the bank for that amount; but such tender and demand the receiver refused to accept or accede to; and,
That, from the time the bank went into the hands of the receiver until the filing of the answer, there had not been any
officer of the bank living or residing in Missouri upon whom
any service of summons or other process could be had in any
suit that might have been commenced against the bank in
Missouri, save and except only the receiver as representing the
bank, and that since December 3, 1896, the bank had no usual
place of business whatever in Missouri where process could be
left or served upon any person conducting the bank's business,
save and except as process might be served upon the plaintiff
as such receiver.
For a second and further defence the defendant alleged that
prior to and during the negotiations with him and Hood, the
president, cashier and other officers of the bank, knowing well
its insolvency, purchased or pretended to purchase from stockholders or alleged stockholders, with the funds of the bank,
shares of its outstanding capital stock in order to prevent exposure by the stockholders owning such shares of its actual
condition and the threatened throwing of such shares on the
market at prices that would advertise the bank's insolvency;
that in order to prevent an open and apparent violation of law,
as well as to deceive the public and the Comptroller of the
Currency and his associates and employ6s, the officers of the
bank engaged in this transaction and in transactions of buying
or attempting to buy such shares of its own stock so outstanding, would cause the certificates of stock purchased or pretended
to be purchased from the parties holding the same to be en-

LANTRY v. WALLACE.

Opinion of the Court.

dorsed by those to whom the certificates were issued, either in
blank or in the names of the president, cashier or some one of
the clerks or other parties connected with the bank, and would
then procure a delivery of such endorsed certificate, paying for
the same with money belonging to the bank, or by surrendering notes held by it against such parties for such stock, or by
payment of money and surrender of notes; that then to account for the funds so used, the parties to whom the certificates
would be assigned, or whom the bank pretended were the owners of them, would make a promissory note or notes to the bank
for the amount of money used in the purchase of such stock,
such note or notes being payable to the bank and unsecured
except as the certificates of stock were issued to secure the
same; that all stock purchased or attempted to be purchased
by the officers of the bank was paid for out of its funds and
notes taken from its officers, agents and servafits to the bank
to represent the funds so used;
That each and every one of the persons engaged in this transaction and who executed any or all of the notes referred to was
at the time and ever since had been absolutely and hopelessly
insolvent, to the full knowledge of every officer of the bank
engaged in these transactions; that such pretended or attempted
purchase of shares of stock was made by the bank directly with
the owners or holders thereof and with the people in whose
names the stock stood, to the knowledge of each one of the
persons owning or holding the stock or in whose name it stood,
and that none of the transactions concerning the negotiations
for the pretended purchase of stock was made to or with the
owners, holders or the persons in whose names it stood by any
employ~s in whose names the certificates were taken or to
whom the certificates were delivered in blank, except in the
case of the president and cashier, who in such negotiations and
pretended purchases were, to the knowledge of those with
whom they dealt, acting for and on account and in the name
of the bank;
That in some instances, and perhaps all, the certificates of
stock surrendered to the bank were cancelled, and new certificates issued to irresponsible persons, who were to hold the
VOL. oLxxxx-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

same for the use and benefit of the bank; that owing to the
fact that the entire history of these transactions, so far as it
appeared in writing, was and is contained in the books, records
and papers of the bank in the sole custody of the receiver, the
defendant was unable to give a more detailed statement and
history of the transactions, or to state from whom all the purchases were made, or to whom certificates were assigned, or by
whom held, or to whom they might have been transferred;
That none of said stock was taken or purchased or procured
by the bank to, prevent any losses or loss upon debts previously
contracted in good faith or purchased in any way authorized by
law, but the same was purchased by the bank with its funds for
the purpose of preventing the stock from being sold in open
market, and to prevent any investigation being made as to the
actual condition of the bank by the parties owning the same;
that none of the parties to whom new certificates of stock were
issued have paid anything for it, nor did they pay or cause to
be paid the notes executed to the bank, nor did they intend to
pay the notes when they were executed, because they were
executed with the fraudulent purpose of concealing the stock
purchased by the bank;
That at the time of the negotiations for the purchase of said
stock, and at the purchase thereof, the bank had purchased with
its funds, in the manner set forth, about $80,000 of the $250,000
of the reduced capital stock of the bank;
That during said negotiations with the president and other
officers of the bank by the defendant and Hood, and at the time
of the purchase of said stock, the president and other officers of
the bank represented to them that all of its capital stock had
been subscribed for and issued to actual purchasers in good faith,
and was then held and owned by such parties as stockholders
of the bank, except an amount of the capital stock which the
bank then had on hand which had been taken in by it to prevent a loss on indebtedness previously contracted in good faith,
and had been so taken without violating the banking laws of
the United States; that defendant believing those statements
purchased of the bank two hundred shares of its capital stock

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the par value of $20,000, which sum he paid therefor, and a
certificate was issued to him by the bank; and,
That at the time of the purchase or attempted purchase by
him of said stock for which the certificate was issued, the president and other officers of the bank, in order to have its books
show coriectly the amount of the outstanding stock, caused
some or all of the parties who held certificates of stock in their
names that had been purchased for and on account of the bank
to surrender to the bank enough. of such cbrtificates for cancellation,.so that the certificate issued to the defendant could be
issued therefor and in the place thereof, and immediately upon
the surrender of such certificates to the officers of the bank,
and without the knowledge of the defendant, the certificates
were cancelled by the bank-to an amount sufficient to enable it
to issue the certificate so received by defendant; and that the
parties who held said stock never at any time-received the purchase money paid by the defendant for it, but the same was retained and kept by the bank. Wherefore defendant demanded
that the action be dismissed.
The defendant also filed a cross-petition and counterclaim,
incorporating therein by reference all the allegations of his
first and second defence. He alleged that by reason of the
facts stated and the fraud and deceit practiced upon him by
the bank and its officers, he has been damaged in the sum of
$20,000, with interest from April 18, 1896. He further alleged that he had presented such claim to the receiver for
allowance as a claim against the bank, and that the same had
been rejected and refused by the receiver. He therefore
prayed judgment against the bank for the above sum with
interest, and asked that the same be paid ratably by the receiver out of the a~sets and funds of the bank in his control
and possession.
We have given a full statement of the averments of the defendant's pleadings bebause in an attempt to condense them
something might be omitted that was deemed by the plaintiff
in error essential to his case, and because the questions presented for consideration may be regarded as important.
Assuming that the defendant became a shareholder in conse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

quence of the fraudulent representations of the bank's officers,
as set forth in the answer and cross-petition or counterclaim, two principal questions are presented for determination: 1. Whether such representations, relied upon by the
defendant, constituted a defence in the present action brought
by the receiver only for the purpose of enforcing the individual liability imposed by section 5151 of the Revised Statutes
upon the shareholders of national banking associations. 2. Can
the defendant, because of the frauds of the bank whereby he
was induced to become a purchaser of its stock, have a judgment against the receiver on the counterclaim in this action
for the money paid by him for stock, to be satisfied out of the
bank's 4ssets and funds in his control and possession?
The present action is beyond question one at law. Its object
is to enforce a liability created by statute for the benefit of creditors who have demands against the bank of which the plaintiff
is receiver. The defendant stood upon the books of the bank
as a shareholder at the time it was placed in the hands of the
receiver and he was accorded the privileges appertaining to
that position. He claims exemption from the responsibility
attaching to him, under the statute, as a shareholder upon the
ground that in consequence of the frauds practiced upon him
he was entitled to disaffirm, and that he had upon due notice
to the receiver disaffirmed, the contract under which he purchased the stock in question. He seeks to have the certificate
received by him treated as cancelled. Clearly such a defence
is of an equitable nature, and could not be recognized and sustained except in some proceeding to which the bank, at least,
was a party. If the defendant was entitled, under the facts
stated, to a rescission of his contract of purchase, and to a cancellation of his stock certificate, and consequently to be relieved
from all responsibility as a shareholder of the bank, he could
obtain such a relief only by a suit in equity to which the bank
and the receiver were parties.
The defendant alleges that he tendered to the receiver the
certificate of stock received by him for cancellation, notifying
and informing the latter that, because of the fraud and deceit
practised upon him by which he was induced to purchase or

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court

attempt to purchase the stock represented by the certificate, he
disaffirmed the contract of purchase or pretended purchase of
the stock, and demanded that the receiver receive the certificate
and cancel it and repay the sum of twenty thousand dollars
paid by him, or such proportionate part thereof as he would
be entitled to receive as a creditor of the bank for that amount,
which tender and demand the receiver refused to accept or
accede to. Such tender was an idle ceremony and added nothing to the rights of the defendant; for the receiver had no
power to accept or cancel the certificate or to relieve the defendant from the responsibility attaching to him as one appearing upon the books of the bank as a shareholder and to whom
had been accorded by the bank the privileges of a shareholder.
His duty was to take charge of the assets of the bank and to
enforce such assessment upon shareholders as was made by the
Comptroller in virtue of the statute.
N~or could the bank, after its suspension and the appointment
of a receiver, have assumed to discharge the defendant from
any liability attaching to him as a shareholder. Upon the
failure of the bank the rights of creditors attached and could
not be affected by anything that the bank or its officers might,
after such failure, have done or omitted to do. In Earle v.
Pennsylvania, 178 UJ. S. 449,455, we held that when a national
bank suspends and is placed in the hands of a receiver the
entire control and administration of its assets are committed to
the receiver and the comptroller, subject to whatever rights
of priority, if any, may have been previously acquired by proceedings lawfully instituted against the bank before its suspension. So that the only way in which the defendant could have
effectively raised the question of his liability as a shareholder,
arising from frauds committed by the bank or its officers before
its suspension whereby he was induced to become a shareholder,
was by a suit in equity against the bank and the receiver. Instead of pursuing that course, he sought by interposing an equitable defence to defeat this action at law brought by the receiver
under the statute. That cannot be done, because under the
Constitution of the United States the distinction b-etween law
and equity is recognized, so that in actions at law in a Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the United States equitable defences are not permitted.
So, also "if the defendant," this court has said, "have equitable
grounds for relief against the plaintiff, he must seek to enforce
them by a separate suit in equity." Nforthern Pac2iiA Railroad v. Paine,'119U. S. 561, 563. See also Bennett v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669; ThoMpeon v. RailroadCompani s, 6 Wall.
134; Scott v. Nl.eely, 140 -U. S. 106; Scott v. Arrmtrong, 146
U. S. 499, 512.
We must not be understood as expressing any opinion upon
the question whether the defendant could have been discharged
from liability as a shareholder if the facts stated in his answer
by way of defence had been established in a separate suit in
equity. Whether a decree based upon the facts set forth in the
answer, even if established in a suit in equity brought against
the bank and the receiver after the appointment of a receiver,
would be consistent with sound principle or with the statute.
regulating the affairs of national banks and securing the rights
of creditors, is a question upon which we do not now express
an opinion. We mean at this time only to adjudge that the
facts set forth in the answer present grounds of relief which
cannot be made available by way of defence in this action at
law, and if sufficient to protect the defendant against the liability attaching to him as a shareholder, must be alleged and
proved in a suit in equity to which 'the bank and the receiver
are made parties.
Some of the observations made in Scott v. Deweese, 181 U. S.
202, are quite applicable to the present case. That was an
action at law to enforce the individual liability imposed by
section 5151 of the Revised Statutes. The defendant in that
case sought to escape such liability upon the ground, in part,
that he had been induced by false representations of the bank's
officers to accept a certificate for a certain amount of its increased capital stock. 1o suit had been instituted to cancel
the certificate or to rescind the subscription of stock. The
court said: "The present suit is primarily in the interest of
creditors of the bank. 'It is based upon a statute designed not
only for their protection but to give confidence to all dealing
with national banks in respect to their contracts, debts and.

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

engagements, as well as to stockholders generally. If the subscriber became a shareholder in consequence of frauds practiced
upon him by others, whether they be officers of the bank or
officers of the Government, he must look to them for such
redress as the law authorizes, and is estopped, as against creditors, to deny that he is a shareholder, within the meaning of
section 5151, if at the time the rights of creditors accrued he
occupied and was accorded the rights appertaining to that position." Whether the defendant in that case could have been
relieved from liability as a shareholder and had his subscription
of stock cancelled, if he had in good faith and in due time before
the suspension of the bank instituted proceedings to obtain relief,
was not decided.
The defendant, however, contends that the present suit is not
embraced by the rule just announced because, he insists, the
purchase by the bank of its stock-which he wa induced there-.
after by its fraud to purchase from it-was not simply voidable
but was absolutely void; consequently, the sale to him of such
stock was void and he did not by his purchase and by taking a
certificate of stock become a shareholder within the meaning
of section 5151.
It is true that the statute declares that no national bank
shall be the purchaser or holder of any of its own shares of
capital stock. Rev. Stat. ยง 5201. But will a violation of this
provision by the bank relieve from liability one who holds a
certificate of its stock and enjoys the right of a shareholder?
The statute forbids a national bank to lend money upon real
estate as security. Rev. Stat. ยง 5137. Nevertheless, this court
has frequently held that the borrower cannot escape liability
for the repayment of the money so borrowed, nor dispute the
right of the bank to enforce the security taken in violation of
the statute; that it was for the Government and not for the
borrower to complain of the bank's departure from the rule
prescribed by statute. Scott v. _)eweese, 181 U. S. 202, and
authorities there cited.
In _Yational Bank v. Btewart, 107 U. S. 676, 677, it appeared
that a bank had loaned money on the security of its shares of
stock held by the borrower. The debt not having been paid,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the bank sold the stock and applied the proceeds to the payment of an equal amount of the debt. The stockholder then
sued the bank to recover the value of the stock, relying on section 5201 of the Revised Statutes forbidding a national bank
to make any 1an or discount on the security of the shares of
its own capital stock. The trial court held that as the statute
forbade the bank to accept its own shares of stock as security
for money loaned, the plaintiff was entitled to recover. The
judgment was reversed by this court, which held that the statute imposed no penalty, either on the bank or borrower, if h
loan was made in violation of its provisions; and that if the
prohibition could be urged against the validity of the transaction by any one except the Government, it could only be done
while the security was subsisting in the hands of the bank.
So in Scott v. .Deweese above cited, which involved a construction of section 5205 providing that no increase of a bank's
capital stock shall be valid until the whole amount of such increase shall have been paid in, and until the Comptroller certifies that the amount of the increase has been duly Paid in as
part of the capital of the association. This court said: "The
statute does not, in terms, make void a subscription or certificate of stock based upon increased capital stock actually paid
in, simply because the whole amount of any proposed or authorized increase has not in fact been paid into the bank. . . .
That the bank, after obtaining authority to increase its capital,
issued certificates of stock without the knowledge or approval
of the Comptroller and proceeded to do business upon the basis
of such increase before the whole amount of the proposed increase of capital had been paid in, was a matter between it and
the Government under whose laws it was organized, and did
not render void subscriptions or certificates of stock based upon
capital actually paid in, nor have the effect to relieve a shareholder, who had become such by paying into -the bank the
amount subscribed by him, from the individual liability imposed by section 5151."
In view of these decisions it cannot be held that the purchase
by the bank of its own shares of stock was void. It was of
course a matter of which the Government by its officers could

LANTRY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

take cognizance; and it may be that it was a matter of which
stockholders, having an interest in the proper administration of
the affairs of the bank, could complain in a proceeding instituted by them to restrain the bank from violating the statute.
But, when the violation of the statute has occurred, it is not a
matter of which a shareholder can complain in order that he
may be relieved from the liability attaching to hini as a shareholder and which the receiver seeks to enforce under the orders
of the Comptroller. In the present case Judge Thayer, delivering the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, well said:
"In considering the second defence which was interposed by
the defendant, it is important to bear in mind that the two hundred shares of stock which he purchased from the bank was
not void stock, but was stock which, according to the averments
of the answer, had once been issued to other persons and had
been reacquired by the bank by purchasing it from such other
persons to prevent them from throwing it on the market at
ruinous prices. It is necessary to infer from the averments of
the answer that this stock had once passed the scrutiny of the
Comptroller, and had been outstanding and had been held by
other persons since the organization of the bank in the year
1891. The purchase of this stock by the bank under the circumstances disclosed by the answer was doubtless ulravires,
but the purchase in question did not render the stock void. In
purchasing it the bank made an unlawful use of its funds, for
which the officers concerned in the transaction could have been
held responsible; as for any other unlawful act, if the corporation had sustained damage; but in point of fact, by the sale of
the stock to the defendant that portion of its capital which had
been dissipated by the purchase was restored by the resale, and
no loss seems to have been incurred. We are at a loss to understand how this transaction on the part of the bank can operate to relieve the defendant from his liability as a stockholder
in a suit brought by the receiver to recover a stock assessment
which was levied solely for the benefit of corporate creditors.
The sale of the stock to the defendant after the bank had purchased the same was not unlawful, since it operated to restore
that part of the capital that had been retired, and to that ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court,

tent repaired the wrong which might otherwise have been done
to the bank's .creditors." 97 Fed. Rep. 865, 868.
It only remains to inquire whether, in any view of the case,
the cross-petition or counterclaim can be sustained. We think
not. The receiver sued in this case for the benefit of creditors
who, it must be assumed upon this record, knew nothing of the
circumstances under which the defendant became a shareholder.
They trusted the bank and those who appeared on the list of
shareholders required to be kept by section 5210 of the Revised
Statutes, which list, that section declares, "shall be subject to
the inspection of all-the shareholders and creditors of the association." Referring to that section, this court, in Pauly v.
Stat-e Loan & Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606, 621, 622, said: "Manifestly, one, if not the principal, object of this requirement, was
to give creditors of the association, as well as state authorities,
information as to the shareholders upon whom, if the association becomes insolvent, will rest the individual liability for its
contracts, debts and engagements." Pullman v. Ullton, 96
U. S. 328, 330, 331 ; .NationalBank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628, 631.
"It is true that one who does not in fact invest his money in
such shares, but who, although receiving them simply as collateral security for debts or obligations, holds himself out in the
books of the association as the true owner, may be treated as
the owner, and therefore liable to assessment, when the association becomes insolvent and goes into the hands of a receiver..
But this is upon the ground that by allowing his name to appear
upon the stock list as owner he represents that he is such owner;
and he will not be permitted, after the bank fails and' when an
assessment is made, to assume any other position as against
creditors. If, as between creditors and the person assessed, the
latter is not held bound by that representation, the list of stockholders required to be kept for the inspection of creditors and
others would lose most of its value."
We perceive no ground whatever upon which the defendant
can have a judgment upon his cross-petition or counterclaim
against the receiver. That officer had nothing to do with the
fraudulent transactions of the bank prior to its suspension.
His duty was to take charge of its assets, and have them admin-

HOOD v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

istered according to the rights of parties existing at the time of
such suspension. Whether, if the defendant claimed a judgment against the bank or its officers for the alleged fraud or
deceit of the latter officers, he could participate in the distribution of the proceeds of the stock assessment until all the contract obligations of the bank had been met, was not decided
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. That question'was wisely
reserved for decision when it should arise and become necessary
to be decided. It was deemed by that court only necessary to
adjudge that the receiver was entitled to a judgment against
the defendant, and that the latter was not entitled in this action
to a judgment against the receiver on account of frauds committed by the bank or its officers. In that view we concur.
Perceiving no error of law in the record, the judgment below is
Affirmed.

HOOD v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 179. Argued March 19,1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

Lantry v. Wallace, ante 536, followed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
The counsel were the same as in Zntiry v. Wallce, and the
two cases were argued together.
MR. JUSTICE

I[AAx delivered the opinion of the court.

The pleadings in this case are the same as in Latm' v. Vallace, just decided. The demurrer to the answer and cross-petition of Hood was sustained in an elaborate opinion by Judge
Phillips, holding the Circuit Court. 89 Fed. Rep. 11. The

