LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

127

Opinion of the Court.

or in any other, so far only as administered in its courts, or
adopted by its own laws and usages. The Lottawanna, 21
Wall. 558, 572; The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355, 369; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 444; Ralli
v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 407.
Question certified answered in the affirmative.

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE CQURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 179. Argued January 11, 1898.-Decided April 11, 1898.

On the authority of Louisville Water Company v. Clark, 143 U. S. 1, which
is affirmed, it is held that the exemption from taxation acquired by the
Louisville Water Company under the act of Kentucky of April 22, 1882,
c. 1349, was not withdrawn except from the day on which the act of May
17, 1886, known as the Hewitt Act, took effect; and the company cannot
be held for taxes which were assessed and became due prior to September
14, 1886, when that act took effect.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. L. Burnett for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James P. Helm for defendant in error.
Bruce was with him on the brief.

Mr. -Helm

MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the Commonwealth of Kentucky to enforce a lien in its favor upon certain real and
personal property of the Louisville Water Company, a Kentucky corporation; which lien, it was alleged, was for taxes
amounting to $12,875 for the year 1886. The property upon
which the State claimed this lien included the pipes, mains,
buildings, reservoirs, engines, pumping stations, etc., belonging to the Water Company.
The company denied its liability to state taxation for the
year 1886 or for any year subsequent to the 22d day of April,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

1882, the date of the passage of an act to which we will
presently refer.
In the court of original jurisdiction a judgment was rendered for the Commonwealth, and that judgment was affirmed
in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
The history of the legislation in Kentucky in reference to
this company appears in Louisville IFater Corpany v. Clak-,
143 U. S., 1, a suit involving the question of the liability of
the company for state and county taxes for the year 1887.
The Water Company was incorporated in 1854 without any
exemption of its property from taxation. But, as stated in
that case, it was made its duty to furnish water to the city for
the extinguishment of fires and the cleansing of streets, upon
such terms "as might be agreed between itself and the municipal authorities;" and, the latter assenting, "the Water
Company ivas to have the exclusive right to furnish water to
the inhabitants of Louisville, by means of pipes and aqueducts,
upon such terms and for such time as might be stipulated between it and the city." Act of March 6, 1854, c. 507, SessActs, 1853-4, vol. 2, p. 121.
By an act approved February 14, 1856, it was provided that
"all charters and grants of, or to corporations, or amendments
thereof, and all other statutes, shall be subject to amendment
or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless a contrary intent
be therein plainly expressed: Provided,That whilst privileges
and franchises so granted may be changed or repealed, no
amendment or repeal shall impair other rights previously
vested." 2 Rev. Stats. Kentucky, 1860, 121.
Subsequently, by an act approved April 22, 1882, which took
effect from its passage, it was made "the duty of the Louisville Water Company to furnish water to the public fire cisterns and public fire plug. or hydrants of the city of Louisville
for fire protection, free of charge." But the same act provided: "The sinking fund of the city of Louisville being the
owner of the stock of the Louisville Water Company, and said
Water Company by virtue thereof is the property of the city
of Louisville, thjerefore the Louisville Water Company is
hereby exempt from the payment of taxes of all kinds, of

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

129

Opinion of the Court.

whatever character, state, municipal or special." Sess. Acts,
1882, vol. 2, p. 915, c. 1349.
On the 17th of May, 1886, the general assembly of Kentucky passed a general revenue statute - commonly known as
the Hewitt statute -which did not take effect until September 14, 1886, after taxes were assessed for 1886. It was conceded in the case of Louisville Water Comipany v. Cla'k, above
cited, that the property of the Water Company was subject to
taxation under that statute, unless it was exempted from taxation by the above act of April 22, 1882.
The contention of the Water Company was that the exemp.tion from taxation given by the act of 1882 could not be withdrawn by subsequent legislation without violating the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States. This contention made it necessary to inquire whether that exemption was
in fact withdrawn, and if so, whether the statute withdrawing
it impaired the obligation of any contract the company had
with the State by the act of 1882.
This court held that the exemption allowed by the act of
1882 was withdrawn by the revenue statute of 1886; and
that, as the Water Company's exemption was acquired in
1882 subject to the power of amendment or repeal reserved
by the above act of 1856- which saved, whenever that power
was exerted, all rights previously vested- the State could, as
it did by the revenue statute of 1886, withdraw the exemption
given in 1882.
But the question remained whether the withdrawal of the
exemption could take effect while the company was under an
obligation imposed upon it by the act of 1882, to furnish
water to the public fire cisterns and public fire plugs or
hydrants of the city of Louisville for fire protection, "free of
charge." The court was of opinion that the contention of the
Water Company, that the general statute of 1886 impaired the
obligation of its alleged contract, could not be fully disposed
of without determining the question just stated. It therefore
said :
"It is, however, contended that the exemption from taxation could not be withdrawn while the Water Company
.VOL. CLXX-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

remained under the obligation imposed by the first section
of the act of 1882 to furnish water to the city for fire protection, free of charge. But no such obligation remained after
the passage of the act of 1886, which, as we have seen, had
the effect to withdraw the immunity from- taxation granted
by the second section of the act of 1882. In determining the
object and scope of the act of 1882, we must look at all of its
provisions. The Water Company was under a duty by its
*charter, passed before the act of 1856, to furnish water for the
extinguishment of fires and the cleansing of streets, not free of
charge, but upon such terms as might be agreed upon by it
and the city. And the legislature certainly did not assume
to impose upon it the obligation to furnish water, for fire protection free of charge, except in connection with the grant to
it of immunity from taxation. Accepting, however, the benefits of this exemption from taxation, it became bound to
supply water for public purposes, free of charge. But that
obligation remained only so long as the exemption continued
in force. The act of 1882 is to be regarded as an entirety,
and meant nothing more than that the company should furnish water for fire protection, free of charge, so long as the
immunity from taxation continued. This view is in harmony
with the act of 1856, which expressly declares that whilst
privileges and franchises granted to corporations, after its
passage, could be changed or repealed, no amendment or
repeal should impair other rights previously vested. The
effect of the withdrawal of the immunity from taxation was,
therefore, to leave the Water Company in the position it was
in before the passage of the act of 1882 in respect to its right
to charge for water furnished for public fir cisterns, fire plugs
or hydrants." 143 U. S. 15.
It was thus adjudged that the statute of 1886 did not affect
the company's exemption from taxation so long as the act of
1882 was in operation; in othei- words, the exemption, by
force of the act of 1882, continued until the statute of 1886
took effect, but no longer. Under this view, the company
was held liable to pay taxes assessed for 1887, although not
liable for taxes accruing before the statute of 1886 took effect.

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

131

Opinion of the Court.

But it is contended that this court should accept the views
expressed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in the former
case as to the scope and effect of the act of 1882. Clark v.
Louisville Water Co., 90 Kentucky, 515, 519, 523. In that
case two questions were raised in the state court: first, that
if it were true that the legislature was moved to the passage
of the act of 1882 upon the idea of the rendition of a public
service, the company rendered no such public service as the
constitution of Kentucky contemplated, when it declared, in
its Bill of Rights, that "no man or set of men are entitled to
exclusive, separate public emoluments or privileges from the
community, but in consideration of public services;" second,
that this was not the reason for the passage of that act, and
that the exemption :from taxation was unsupported by any
valid consideration, or such- as the constitution recognized.
The court waived any consideration of the first question stating that there was a difference of opinion upon it-and
held that the sole consideration which moved the legislature
to pass the act of 1882 was the fact that the city of Louisville
owned the stock of the Water Company. Touching that question the Court of Appeals of Kentucky said in the former case:
"The fact that the furnishing of the water may incidentally
protect from fire the public buildings of the State will not
support the exemption. The. privilege-was not conferred, as
the legislature declared, and, as we have otherwise shown,
for governmental purposes, but merely for a reason which
will not support it. It arose out of considerations relating to
the private and pecuniary advantage o'f the city, and in which
the State at large had no interest." Again.: "If it be said
that the exemption should be upheld'if. it be, in fact, supported by any valid consideration, although the recited one
be invalid, we reply that the real consideration, and the one
which moved the parties to the transaction, is to be regarded.
The one acted upon by the legislature, and expressed in the
apt, and which must have been understood by the city, was
the simple fact that it owned the stock in the Water Company.
This was not a valid consideration, and we have already seen
that mere incidental protection of the public buildings does

OCTOBER TER-J, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

not aid the matter. The so-called contract was, therefore,
void at its inception. Instead of being impaired in any way
forbidden by law, it never had any existence; and it seems to
us well that we feel at liberty to so declare, because we have
a general law taxing water companies, and if one company be
exempt, that of any other city has an equal right to ask the
privilege. A statute exempting one is certainly open to the
objection of impolicy, if, indeed, it be not such unequal and
partial legislation as is forbidden by law."
The grounds upon which the state court overruled the contention of the Water Company in the former case were not
overlooked.
And it was, in effect, there adjudged, as the
above extract from the opinion of this court shovs, that the
exemption given by the act of 1882 was, partly at least, in
consideration of the agreement of the company to furnish
water to the public fire cisterns, plugs and hydrants "free of
charge," and not as provided in the company's charter, upon
such terms as might be agreed upon between it and the city;
that this obligation of the company continued while its exemption from taxation continued; and, consequently, that
such exemption, being a vested right under the act of 1882,
to be withdrawn only by statute, having a prospective operation, could not be withdrawn except as to taxes accruing after
the statute of 1886 took effect.
It is to be obseived that the Court of Appeals in its opinion in the present case states that the authority for reporting
to the county court clerk the tax list -for 1886 of property
omitted to be listed with the auditor, was to be found in the
Hewitt bill which was passed, as we have seen, after the
enactment of the act of 1882.
The argument in behalf of the Commonwealth in the present
case, in effect, calls for a reconsideration of what was said in
the former case. We do not regard such reconsideration as
necessary; and upon the authority of the decision in the
former case, we adjudge that the exemption from taxation
acquired by the Water Company under the act of 1882 was
not withdrawn except from the day on which the statute of
1886 took effect. It results that the company cannot be held

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

133

Syllabus.

for taxes which were assessed and became due prior to September 14, 1886, when the Hewitt act took effect. The petition of the Commonwealth of K entucky should have been
dismissed.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remandedfor
further _proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY dissented.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 16.

Argued January 6, 7, 1898. -Decided

April 18, 1898.

In an action against the maker of a bond, given to indemnify or insure a
bank against loss arising from acts of fraud or dishonesty on the part
of its cashier, if the bond was fairly and reasonably susceptible of two
constructions, one favorable to the bank and the other to the insurer,
the former, if consistent with the objects for which the bond was given,
must be adopted.
Under the condition of the bond in this case, requiring notice of acts of
fraud or dishonesty, the defendant was entitled to notice in writing of
any act of the cashier which came to the knowledge of the plaintiff of a
fraudulent or a dishonest character as soon as practicable after the plaintiff acquired knowledge; and it is not sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's
right of action upon tle policy to show that the plaintiff may have
had suspicions of dishonest conduct of the cashier; but it was plaintiff's duty, when it came to his knowledge, when lie was satisfied that
the cashier had committed acts of dishonesty or fraud likely to involve
loss to the defendant under the bond, as soon as was practicable thereafter to give written notice to the defendant: though he may have had
suspicions of irregularities or fraud, he was not bound to act until he
had acquired knowledge of some specific fraudulent or" dishonest act that
might involve the defendant in liability for the misconduct.,
When tie bank suspended business, and the investigation by the examiner
commenced, O'Brien ceased to perform the ordinary duties of a cashier;
but within the meaning of the bond, he did not retire from, but remained
in, the service of the employer during at least the investigation of the
bank's affairs and the custody of its assets by the national bank examiner, which lasted until the appointment of a receiver and his qualification. Held, that the six months from "the death or dismissal or retirement of the empl6y6 from the service of the employer," within which

