UNIT7D STATES v. COE.
Statement of the Case.

do not think it is, and are of opinion that the limitation didnot commence to run in this case until the motion for new
trial was overruled.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause remandedforfurtherproceedings.

UNITED STATES v. COE.
APPEAL

FROM

No. 8.

THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND

Argued March 14, 15, 189.-

CLAIMS.

Decided May 23, 1898.

After a careful examination of all the acts of the Mexican authorities upon
which the appellee claims that his title to the grant in question in this
case is founded, the court arrives at the conclusion that the officers

who made the grant had no power to make it; and the decree of the
Court of Private Land Claims establishing it is reversed, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings.

Tnis suit was 6riginally instituted February 2, 1892, by
the Algodones Land Company, under provisions of an act
entitled "An act to establish a Court of Private Land Claims
and to provide for the settlement of private land claims in certain States and Territories," approved March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26
Stat. 854.
Pending the litigation, the Algodones Land Company conveyed the property to Earl B. Coe, and upon motion the action
was revived in his name.
The basis of the claim is an alleged grant, which shows:
That one Fernando Rodriguez, on January 4, 1838, at Iermosillo, presented a petition to the treasurer general of the state
of Sonora, Mexico, stating that he had sufficient means to settle and cultivate a tract of vacant desert land, on the northern
frontier of the state, situated between the Colorado and Gila
rivers, said lands including the tract from the southern side
of the Gila River, in front of the junction of the same with the
Colorado River, as far as the crossing (paso) of the Algodones,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

and from said point following the eastern margin of the Colorado River as far as the junction of the same with the Gila,
a distance of five leagues.
"Wherefore, in the name of the sovereign authority of the
state," he formally registered the same and asked that a person be 'appointed to make the measurements and valuation
and the necessary publications, "as required by law."
He also offered at the proper time to furnish satisfactory
evidence as to his ability to pay the just taxes (derecho) into
the public treasury "It being understood, sefior treasurer, that the registry that
I now make is under the condition that the settlement and occupation of the said vacant lands by me shall be when the notorious condition and circumstances of the region of the country
in which said lands are situated may permit the same to be
done; since the said vacant lands are situated in a country
desert and uninhabitable on account of the hostility of savages;
it being well known that a settlement made by the Spanish
government ind the desert country of Colorado was entirely
destroyed in a short time by the Yurna Indians and other
savages, etc."
Thereupon a commissioner was appointed by the treasurer
general, who was directed to ascertain whether the grant
would conflict with -the rights of any.other parties; also to
survey and appraise the lands and offer the same for sale under
the provisions of certain designated laws of the state.
This conmissioner, in the performance of-theduties assigned
him, caused the land to be appraised and surveyed, and there-,
after offered the same for sale af public outcry on each day
for thirty.consecutive days.
In his petition Rodriguez- offered to pay for the land the
amount at which it should be appraised, and no other person
having bid at any of the public offers, the record of the proceedings was returned to the treasurer general for final action.
That officer thereupon referred the matter to the promoter
fiscal of the public treasury, who upon a review of the proceedings, declared that Rodriguez ought to be admitted to a
composition with the treasury of the state for said lands, and

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Statement of the Case.

recommended that three public offers be made, closing his report with the following language:
"This is the report of the undersigned fiscal. Your honor
(the treasurer general) will do what is proper in the premises."
The treasurer general thereupon ordered that three public
offers of sale be made of said lands in the manner established
by law. The "junta de almoneda," or board of sale, thereupon proceeded to make three public offers of sale on consecutive days, and on the third offer declared Rodriguez to
be the purchaser.
Thereafter the treasurer general executed a formal instrument in writing, in which, after referring to the proceedings
thereto had, he recites as follows:
"Wherefore in the exercise of the faculties conceded to me
by the laws, decrees and regulations and the superior existing
orders in relation to lands, by these presents, and in the name
of the free, independent sovereign state of Sonora, as well as
that of the august Mexican nation, I concede and confer
upon, in due form of law, the Sefior Don Fernando
Rodriguez,.
"The five square leagues, and adjudicate the same to him
under the conditions which have been admitted as equitable
and just by interested party, the Seiofr Don Fernando
Rodriguez, that is, that he shall settle and cultivate said
lands so soon as the circumstances surrounding that distant
and desert portion of the state may permit him to do so, in
view of the imminent risk and danger there is on account of
the savages, but when the said lands shall once be settled and
cultivated, they shall be kept in condition, and that they
shall not be unoccupied and abandoned for any time; and if
the same shall be abandoned for the space of three consecutive years, and any one else denounce said lands, in that
event, after the necessary proceedings, they shall be adjudicated anew to the highest bidder; excepting as is just, those
years in which the abandonment was occasioned by the
invasion of the enemies, and this only for the time that this
condition of things exists," etc.
The "junta de almoneda," or board of sale, consisted of

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

certain officers, among whom was the treasurer general. The
powers of the board with reference to the sale of public lands
were conferred and defined by the laws of the central Mexican government.
. r.. Matthew G. Reynolds, special assistant to the Attorney General for appellant. X.1r. Solicitor General was on his
brief.
.Mr. A. M. Stevenson for appellee. -Mr. S. L. Car2penter
and Mr. Frederick Hall were on his brief.
M. JUSTI . ICEKENNA, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court
We shall assume the genuineness of the title papers. It
was so found by all the judges of the court below and,
notwithstanding some irregularities in them, we are disposed
to concur in the finding.- The question which remains is, did
the officers who made the grant have the power to do so?
Section 4 of the act establishing the Court of Private
Land Claims provides that the petition of petitioners "shall
set forth fully the nature of their claims to the lands, and
particularly state the date and form of the grant, concession,
.warrant or order of survey under Which they claim, by
ivhom made, . . . and pray in such petition that the
validity Qf such title or claim may be inquired into and
decided."
In conformity to the act the petition in this case, after
alleging ownership of the land, proceeds as follows:
"Your petitioner further represents that it owns, holds
and possesses said land under and by -virtue of a certain
instrument of writing, now and hereafter designated as a
grant title, bearing date the 12th day of April, 1838, duly
made and executed by and on behalf of the state of Sonora,
in the republic of Mexico, under and by virtue of article two
(2) of the sovereign decree, number seventy (70) of the 4th of
August, 1824, therein conceding to the state the revenues

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

(rentas) which by said law are not reserved to the general
government, one of which is the vacant land in the respective
districts pertaining to the same; and thereunder the honorable
constituent congress of Sonora and Sinaloa passed a law,
being a law numbered thirty (30), bearing date 20th of May,
1825, and whereunder there was subsequent legislation passing
other decrees, considering the same matter, and being embodied in sections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of chapter ninety of the organic law of the treasury, being law numbered twenty-six (26)
of the second of July, 18341."
The source of the title is therefore alleged to be in the
state of Sonora, and the basis of its authority is explicitly
given.
(1.) Article two of the sovereign decree number seventy
of the 4th of August, 1824.
(2.) A law passed by the constituent congress of Sonora
and Sinaloa, being number thirty and bearing date 20th of
May, 1825.
(3.) Other decrees, being embodied in sections 3, 4, 5, 6
and 7 of chapter ninety of the organic law of the treasury,
being law numbered twenty-six of the 2d of July, 1834.
The petition then proceeds to allege, that under and by
virtue of said laws and decrees such proceedings were thereunder regularly and lawfully had as that the government of
the state of Sonora, by its officers duly authorized by the
laws aforesaid, and of said state, duly and regularly and for a
good and valuable consideration, to wit, the sum of four hundred dollars, ($400,) in the lawful money of the state, and for
other good and valuable considerations, in said grant title set
forth and described, did on the 12th .dayof April, 1838, sell and
convey to one Seflor Don Fernando Rodriguez the land hereinbefore mentioned, and more particularly hereinafter described.
The allegation or claim then is a grant from the state of
Sonora. There is no claim of a grant from the Mexican
government. The grant, however, recites that it is done "in
the name of the free and independent sovereign state of
Sonora as well as of the august Mexican nation."
It is conceded that the ownership of the public lands was in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Spain and passed to Mexico upon its independence, and
afterwards vested in the Mexican confederation or republic.
In Republic of Texas v. Thorn, 3 Texas, 499, 501, Justice
Hemphill said:
"That the right of eminent domain over the public lands
was originally vested in the federal government of Mexico
is, perhaps, not now subject to question. The confederacy of
the Mexican states was not formed, originally, by a constitutional compact between the several separate independent
states, nor by a grant of powers originally vested in the
several provinces, which afterwards constituted the states of
the union. The public lands of the United States of the
north, before the acquisition of Louisiana and Florida, belonged originally to the several States, and became Federal
property by purchase, or voluntary cession from the States.
But, in the Mexican union, the general government claimed,
originally, the property in the public domain. It is true that
under former governments the provincial authorities had exercised certain powers of control over the public lands, but
this was -in subordination to the central or supreme authority
of the country, whether vested in the crown, or representeal
by the vice royalty of New Spain, or in the sovereign provincial governing juntas, in the Emperor Iturbide, or the
other authorities which succeeded, before the assemblage of
the constituent congress which finally adopted the federal
system, and out of the municipal subdivisions of the territory
formed the states of the confederation."
If the title was in the Mexican union, how did it get into
the states? There was no law explicitly conveying it. It is
claimed, as alleged in the petition, by virtue of the sovereign
general decree numbered seventy of the 4th of August, 1824,
and the recital of the grant is:
"Whereas article II of the sovereign general decree No. 70,
of the fourth of August, 1824, conceded to the states the revenue (rentas) which by said law are not reserved to the national
government, one of which is the vacant land in the respective
districts pertaining to the same, in consequence of which the
honorable constituent congress of Sonora and Sinaloa passed

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

the law, No. 30, of the twentieth of May, 1825, and also subsequent legislations passed other decrees concerning the same
matter, which dispositions have been embodied in sections 3,
4, 5, 6 and 7 of chapter 90 of the organic law of the treasury
No. 26, of the 11th of July, 1834."
The decree of August 4, 1824, seems to be a revenue measure simply. We quote part of it, including sections 9 and 11,
upon which special stress is laid:
1824.
"Classfication of general and special revenues.
"The sovereign general constituent congress of the United
States of Mexico has deemed it proper to decree:
"1. That import and export dities already fixed, and those
which may be hereafter fixed under any denomination in the
ports and on the frontiers of the republic, pertain to the general revenues of the federation.
"2. The import duty of fifteen per cent which shall be collected at the said ports and frontiers upon the tariff valuation,
augmented by one fourth part upon foreign goods, which, on
account of this duty, shall be free from local tax (alcabala) in
the interior.
"3. The duty on tobacco and gunpowder.
"4. The local tax (alcabala) on tobacco at the places where
it is raised.
"5. The revenue from the post offices.
"6. The revenue from the lottery.
"7. The revenue from salt mines.
"8. The revenue from the territories of the federation.
"9. The national property, in which are included that of
the inquisition and the tempoyalities, and all other rural and
urban estates which now belong, or which may hereafter
belong, to the public treasury.
"10. The edifices, offices and lands attached to these,
which now belong, or which formerly belonged, to the general
revenues, and those which have been paid for for two or more
of those which formerly were provinces, are subject to the
disposal of the federal government.
" DECREE

OF AUGUST 4,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"11. The revenues which are not included in the foregoing
articles belong to the states."
This law was passed between the dates of the constitutive
act and the adoption of the constitution, the latter event taking place in October. It is claimed that nothing is said in the
provisions of the decree preceding the eleventh article regarding the public lands, and that hence it is asserted that they
are assigned to the states by that article. It is besides contended that the colonization act of August 18, 1824, confers
the right on the states to dispose of the vacant lands within
their borders. This contention is supported by Goode v. MeQueen's Heirs, 3 Texas, 241; Cham bers v. Fisk, 22 Texas,
5041; Milcox v. Chamlbers, 26 Texas, 180.
But if it be true that the state had rights in and powers of
disposition of the public lands, these rights and this power
could be surrendered, and it is contended by the appellant
that they were surrendered by the constitution of 1836. Preceding this' constitution, October 3, 1835, a law was passed
abolishing state legislatures, and establishing departmental
councils. (Reynolds, 195.) This law contained the following
provision:
"5. All the subordinate employ~s of the states also shall
continue for the presefit, but the places now vacant or that
shall become vacant shall not be filled, and they as well as
the offices, revenues and branches of the service they manage are subject to'and at the disposal of the supreme government of the nation, through the proper governor."
On the same day and as part of the same law the President
made regulations, articles 10, 12 and 13 of which are as
follows:
"10. In everything relating to the department of the treasury the governors and the respective officers shall proceed in
accordance with the laws, regulations and orders of each state,
in so far as may be compatible with the new organization of
said revenues for t-e future.
"12. Said governors, in mattefs relating to the revenues,
shall communicate directly with the supreme government

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

through the secretary of the treasury, to whom they shall
forward all documents and statements and consult when they
consider necessary, being careful to cite the laws, orders and
proceedings (expedientes) there may be on the matter.
"13. Until the attributes of the government and departmental boards in what relates to the treasury are declared by
law, said governors shall make no sales of land (fincas) or property (bienes), nor contracts nor extraordinary expenses for
said department, without the previous approval of the supreme
government."
Certainly, as far as this law could -affect it, there could be
no sales "without the previous approval of the supreme government."
Following this law and these fegulations a law was enacted
establishing bases for a new constitution. The provisions
which are pertinent to our inquiry are as follows:
"8. The national territory shall be divided into departments on the bases of population, locality and other contributing circumstances. Their number, extent and subdivision
shall be given in detail in a constitutional law.
"9. For the government of the departments there shall
be governors and departmental boards; the latter shall be
elected by popular vote in the manner and number the law
shall provide, and the fornmer shall be appointed periodically by the supreme executive power, upon nomination by
said boards.
"10. The executive power of the departments shall reside
in the governors in subordination to the supreme executive of
the nation. The departmental board shall be the council of
the governor; they shall be charged with determining and
promoting whatever conduces to the welfare and prosperity
of the departments, and shall have the economic, municipal,
electoral and legislative powers the special law for their
organization shall provide, being in the matter of the exercise
of the latter class subordinate and responsible to the general
congress of the nation.
"14.

A law shall systematize the public exchequer ifh all
VOL. CLXX-44

OCTOBER TERiM:, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

its branches; shall establish the method of accounts; shall
organize the tribunal for the revision of accounts and regulate the economic and contentious jurisdiction in this department."
The constitution of 1836 has no provision in regard to the
public lands, nor does it define the duties of the minor administrative officers. As to divisions into departments it enacts
as follows:
"SixTH LAw. - Divisions of the territory of the republic
and internal government of its towns.
"ART. 1. The republic shall be divided into departments
according to the eighth law of the organic bases. The departments shall be divided into districts, and the districts into
partidos.
"ART. 2. The divisions into departments shall be made by
the first constitutional congress during the months of April,
May and June of the second year of its sessions; and it shall
do so by a law that shall be a constitutional one.
"ART. 3. During the remaining portions of that same year
the departmental assemblies shall divide their own departments into districts, and the districts into partidos. They
shall report to congress for approval of the same. Until the
divisions stated in the two foregoing articles shall be made,
the territory of the republic shall be temporarily divided by a
secondary law."
By Art. 1 of Law No. 1807, December 3, 1836, the Mexican
territory was divided into as many departments as there were
states, with certain modifications which did not affect Sonora.
3 Mexican Statutes, 258. The effect of the constitution and
laws necessarily was the destruction of the states as such.
The government theL ceased to be federal in form, and
became centralized in character. The power of Sonora as a
state, therefore, was extinguished. We have said that the
constitution of 1836 has no provision in regard to the public
lands, but the laws passed under it deal with them in such
manner as to preclude the further rights of the states as such
over them.
On January 17, 1837, a law was passed (Reynolds, 210)

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

establishing a national bank and creating a fund for redeeming certain currency.
Articles two and three are as follows:
"2. The government, without loss of time, shall establish
and provide regulations for a national bank, with the principal object of redeeming copper coin, the management of
which shall be entrusted to persons elected by the different
classes of society, in the manner said regulations shall provide, and who shall not be dependent on the government
other than to render thereto an annual report of their administration.
"3. There are adjudicated to the bank for a redemption
fund :
"First. All the real property of the nation that exists in all
the territory of the republic."
On April 12, 1837, a law was passed (Reynolds, 223) the
seventh article of which is as follows:
"1ART. 7. For greater security in the payment of the capital and interest of the consolidated fund, the government of
Mexico especially mortgages, in the name of the nation,
100,000,000 acres of public lands in the departments. of
California, Chihuahua, New Mexico, Sonora and Texas, as a
special guaranty of said fund, until the total extinction of the
credits; but if any sale of these mortgaged lands should be
made, it shall be, at least, at the rate of said four acres to the
pound sterling, and the proceeds thereof shall be paid by the
purchaser to the agents of the government in London, from
whom only he can receive the corresponding warrant, and the
latter shall employ the proceeds of the same to pay the bonds
of the new consolidated fund, which shall also be received in
payment of said lands at the current price of said bonds in
the market."
On April 17, 1837, a decree was promulgated (Reynolds,
224) creating the office of superior chief of the treasury, and
providing for the manner of making purchases, sales and
contracts on behalf of the nation, articles 1, 2, 4, 37, 73, 76
and 92 of which are as follows:
"ARTICLE 1. Until the general congress establishes the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

revenues that are to form the national exchequer of Mlexico,
the revenues, taxes and property of which the supreme
government is in possession, and the revenues, taxes and
property which the departments established or acquired
under the federal system, and which existed at the time
of the publication of the decree of October 3, 1835, shall
continue.
"2. The revenues, taxes and property which by the law of
the 17th of last January were assigned to the national bank
are excepted from the provisions of the last article until it
fulfils its object."
"4. Superior chiefs of the treasury shall be located in each
department with the powers designated in this decree. All
the employes of the treasury in their respective districts, in
the instances and manner which shall be designated, shall be
subordinate to them."
"37. It is the duty of the departmental treasurers:
"To muster the troops that may be in the capital, to issue
to them their vouchers, to make abstracts of the muster and
estimates, and to discharge, in thedepartment of war, the
powers given to the commissaries general and auditors of
the treasury by the regulations of July 20, 1831, which for
the present remain in force in all that is not opposed to this
decree and subsequent laws."
"73. All the purchases and sales that are offered on
account of the treasury and exceed $500 shall be made
necessarily by the board of sales, which, in the capital of
each department, shall be composed of the superior chief of
the treasury, the departmental treasurer, the first alcalde,
the attorney general of the treasury and the auditor of the
treasury, who shall act as secretary. Its minutes shall be
spread on a book vhich shall be kept for the purpose,
and shall be signed by all the members of the board, and a
copy thereof shall be transmitted to the superior chief of the
treasury for such purposes as may be necessary and to enable
him to make a report to the supreme government."

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

"'76. The minutes of- the board shall be spread on the
proper book, which shall be signed by all the members
thereof, and an authenticated copy transmitted to the supeto
rior chief of the treasury to enable him to make a report
the supreme government when the case requires it."
The powers that by various laws are given to the
"92.
exercommissaries general and the subcommissaries shall be
their
and
treasury
the
of
chiefs
cised in future by the superior
decree,
this
with
subordinates, in so far as they do not conflict
for in that respect all existing laws stand repealed."
for
The regulations of July 20, 1831, referred to, provide
de
"junta
sales,
the organization of the board of public
are
133
and
132
almoneda," and its powers. Sections 131,
as follows:
" ART. 131. But in order to hold such meetings it is necessary that the sales or purchases to be made must be announced
of placards
to the public, at least eight days before, by means
their
to be posted at prominent and conspicuous places, having
cirlargest
the
having
newspapers
in
also
contents published
the commisculation, if there be any such papers in the place,
more essenthe
both
notices
said
in
saries being careful that
to
pertaining
instructions
necessary
tial circumstances and the
the matter be inserted."
sale
Article 132, which prescribes the manner in which the
follows:
as
is
shall be conducted, which said article
the
"ART. 132. Once that the meeting shall be opened and
bids
crier,
public
the
corresponding proclamations made by
of the
legally made shall be admitted until the closing day
bidder
highest
salewhen it shall be declared in favor of the
whatwith
by a majority of the meeting. This act, together
on
placed
ever else took place at the auction sale, will be
record in a book kept by the commissaries or subcommissaries
together
for that purpose, all the members signing therein,
(the
who
notary,
a
with
or
witnesses,
with the attending
with
notary) shall moreover write the other deeds connected
then
place,
the
in
notary
no
be
there
the transaction. In case

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

a clerk, brought for the purpose by the commissary general,
shall reduc6 to record the act and decision of the meeting."

Article 133, which is as follows:
"ART. 133. When the term prescribed by law expires the
commissaries or subcommissaries shall send the expediente,
together with an accompanying report, to the supreme government, without whose approval the sale, purchase or contract cannot be carried into effect."
If the title to the vacant lands or the right to dispose of
them belonged to the State of Sonora, the junta de almonedas
had no function to perform in regard to them; in other words,
it was a national instrumentality, not a state instrumentality.
If, however, the vacant lands became the property of the
national government by the constitution of 1836, and could
be disposed of by or through the junta de almonedas, the procedure required by the law creating it would have to be followed. This law provided that sales and purchases made by
the board (junta) should be published for at least eight days
beforehand, and by placards which shall be posted in the most
public and frequented places, and shall be inserted in the
newspapers of the greatest circulation, if there be any in the
place, the notice to contain the more essential circumstances
and the necessary ingtructions pertaining to the matter.
These provisions are not shown to have been complied with,
and the record precludes any presumption that they were.
There are other laws of the national government which are
inconsistent with the -rights of the states after 1836, to dispose of the public lands. That of December 7, 1837, is of that
character; also that of September 15, 1837. The law of December 7, 1837, provides as follows:
"First. To witness or vise, in person in the capitals and by
the ciYil authority in each one of the other places in the department, the monthly and annual cash sta~ements made by the
several chiefs of the offices of the treasury and to report without delay to the supreme government the omissions and abuses
they may observe,
"Second. To preside over the boards of sale and of the treas-

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

ury, with power to defer the resolutions of these latter until,
in the first or second session thereafter, the matter under consideration is more thoroughly examined into."
The law of September 15, 1837, provided for a convention
between English bondholders of Mexican bonds and the Mexican government, (Reynolds, 227,) section seven of which reads
as follows:
"7. For greater security in the payment of the principal
and interest of the consolidated fund, the Mexican government,
in the name of the nation, specifically mortgages 100,000,000
acres of public lands in the departments of the Californias, Chihuahua, New Mexico, Senora and Texas, as a special guarantee of said fund until a total extinction of the credits; but if any
sale of the mortgaged lands should be made it shall be made
at least at the rate of said four acres to the pound sterling,
and the proceeds shall be paid by the purchaser to the agents
of the government in London, from whom only he can receive
the corresponding inscriptions, and they shall use the proceeds
of the sale to redeem the bonds of the new consolidated fund,
which may also be received in payment of said lands at the
price said bonds have in the market.
"The Mexican government, besides the general mortgage
contained in this article, expressly reserves, by a public decree,
25,000,000 acres of the lands of the government in the departments of closest communication with the Atlantic, and which
appear most suitable for colonization from the outside. Said
lands shall be specially and exclusively set aside for the deferred
bonds, in case it is desired to exchange them for lands, and,
if the government sell them, the proceeds therefrom shall be
devoted to the redemption of said bonds."
On June 1, 1839, a law was passed approving the abovenamed convention, (Reynolds, 232,) and article 3 of this law
is as follows:
"3. With respect to the colonies that may be established by
virtue of the convention, the government shall see that the existing laws on colonization, or those that may be enacted hereafter, are observed in so far as they are not contrary to the
convention itself."

OCTOBER TERMT,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

It is not clear from the brief of appellee that he claims that
the state had the power of disposition of the lands under the
colonization laws. The petition does not claim it, nor is the
grant in words based upon it. By the law of August 18, 1824,
there was reserved to the general congress a power to prohibit
colonization "to the individuals of some particular nation."
This no doubt was directed to "individuals" from the United
States. In pursuance of this power the general congress promulgated a law dated April 25, 1835, article two of which
was as follows:
"A.T. 2. In the exercise of the powers reserved to the
general congress in article 7 of said law of August 18, 1824,
the frontier and littoral states are prohibited from alienating
their vacant lands for colonization until the regulations to be
observed in carrying it out are established."
Between the date of the law and the grant in this case no
regulations to be observed in carrying out colonization were
established. On the contrary, by a law passed April 4, 1837,
all colonization laws were certainly modified and may be
repealed. The law was as follows:
"The government, in concurrence with the council, shall
proceed to make effective, the colonization of the lands that
are or should be the property of the republic, by sales, leases
or mortgages, and shall apply the proceeds (which in the first
case shall not be less than $1.25 per acre) to the payment of
the national debt, already contracted or which shall hereafter
be contracted, always reserving enough to meet its obligations
to the soldiers who took part in the war of independence, and
for the remuneration and gifts congress may grant to Indian
tribes and nations, and those who assisted in the restoration
of Texas, and it shall not be compromised by the laws heretofore enacted on colonization, which enactments are all repealed
in so far as they conflict with this law, but the prohibition of
article 11 of the law of April 6, 1830, shall remain in force."
As has already been stated, the grant recites that it was
made "in the name of the free and independent and sovereign
state of Sonora as well as that of the august Mexican nation."
This, it is contended, authenticates the power of the granting

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

officer, and Chief Justice Marshall in Delassus v. United States,
9 Pet. 117, 134, is quoted:
"A grant or concession made by that officer, who is by
law authorized to make it, carries with it yrima facie evidence that it is within his power. No excess of them, or
departure from them, is to be presumed. He violates his
duty by such excess, and is responsible for it. He who
alleges that an officer entrusted with an important duty has
violated his instructions must show it."
So also it was said by this court in Strother v. Lucas, 12
Pet. 410, that"Where the act of an officer to pass the title to land according to Spanish law is done contrary to the written order
of the king, produced at the trial without any explanation, it
will be presumed that the power has not been exceeded, and
that it was done according to some order known to the king
and his officers, though not to the subjects, and courts ought
to require very full proof that he had transcended his powers
before they so determine it."
These principles were asserted of Spanish titles in the Territories of Louisiana and Florida. They are disputable in their
application to titles under the Mexican laws. United States
v. Cambuston, 20 How. 59. But we need not dispute them,
for the proof in this case satisfies their requirement. It is
ample to show that the national laws were not pursued, and
besides it is conceded that at the time of the grant the state
of Sonora was in rebellion against the nation. It and its
officers therefore were opponents of the national authority,
not its instruments; while declaring independence of it, they
could not claim to act for it and convey its title.
The appellee further contends that the national government
approved the title of Rodriguez. The laws which have been
quoted provide that when the property had been knocked
down to the highest bidder a minute or report of the proceedings was required to be made and transmitted to the
supreme government, either directly under the regulations of
1831, or first to the supreme chief of the treasury under the
act of April 17, 1837, and the sale could not be executed until

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the approval of the supreme government. By supreme government was meant the national government, and hence the
approval of the governor of Sonora, which the record shows,
was not sufficient. The certificate of the governor is limited
and significant-

"Spreme Government of t/ie free State, D. E . 0. N. R?. A.
"This supreme authority approves the title which your
honor has issued on yesterday in favor of the Sefior Don Fernando Rodriguez, a resident of Hlermosillo, for five square
leagues of land in front of the confluence of the rivers Gila
and Colorado, and the Paso de los Algodones, on the northern
frontier of the state. I say this to you in reply to your note
of yesterday reiterating the consideration of my regard.
"God and liberty.
"Arispe, April 13, 1838.
LEONARDO ESCALANTE."
It is contended, however, that a communication of an
officer of the state of Sonora to an officer of the general government made in 1847, and a certificate of the governor of
Sonora given two days later, justify the presumption that the
sale had been approved by the general government. We give
them in full:
"To the treasurer general of the state:
" Jose Maria Mendoza, provisional commissary general of
the state of Sonora, certifies that on this day he has directed,
under a separate cover, and as a special matter, to his excellency the minister of state, by del despacho de hacienda of
the republic, an official communication, of which the following is a copy:
'General Commissary Department of the State of
Sonora:
'Sip.: The Sefior Don Fernando Rodriguez, a resident
of the city of Hiermosillo, has presented to me the title
which was issued in his favor by the general treasury
of the ancient state, on the twelfth of April, 1838, for
five square leagues of vacant lands for cultivation, reg-

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

istered by the said Rodriguez, contiguous to the rivers
Gila and Colorado, in front of the confluence of the
same, and the point named Paso de los Algodones, of
the said river Colorado, in the northern part of this
state, and which were for him surveyed, valued and
were sold by the Junta de Almonedas, and were adjudicated in the manner as shown by the (testilnonio autorizado) certified copy, which I have the honor to
transmit to your excellency to the end that the same
may be presented to his excellency the President of
the republic, for which purpose the said Sefior Rodriguez has presented the said title to me of the lands
situated in front of the confluence of the Gila and Colorado rivers and the Paso de los Algodones of the
Colorado.
' I have the honor to repeat to your excellency the
consideration of my regard.
JosE MARIA MENDOZA.
'God and liberty.
'UREs, June 6, 1847.
'To his excellency the minister of state del despacho
de hacienda de la Republica Mexico.
'In witness whereof I give this at the request of the
interested party Don Fernando Rodriguez, at Ures, the
capital of the state of Sonora, on the sixth of June,
1847.
'JOSE

MARIA MENDOZA.'

"The licendiado, Jose de Aguilar, governor of the state of
Sonora, certifies in due form of law that the present title,
which includes five square leagues of land contiguous to the
rivers Gila and Colorado, in front of the confluence of the
same, and also to the point named El Paso de los Algodones,
of the said river Colorado, on the northern frontier of the
state, measured and adjudicated in the year 1838 to Don Fernando Rodriguez, 'a resident and native of Hermosillo, was
legally issued by the late Jose Justo Milla, contador of the
general treasury of the state, and legally encharged with the
said treasurer's office at the date referred to; and that in

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

virtue of which he was competently authorized to for expedientes of lands, to measure and adjudicate the same and to
issue titles therefor; and also that his signature, those of his
assistants and the seal stamped on said title are the same that
they are accustomed to use in their official acts, and with
which they ha-.c legalized all their official acts of like nature.
Finally he certifies that the approval of the government, which
is attached to the title and the certificate of Don Jose Maria
Mendoza, are legal, and that their signatures are such as they
have used in their official acts, and as such are entitled to all
faith and credit, judicially or extrajudicially.
"And at the request of the interested party I give this in
Guaymas, on the eighth of June, 18417.
"JosE

DE

AGUILAR."

These do not establish the presumption claimed for them.
The letter to the Mexican minister of state is dated nine
years subsequent to the sale and grant to Rodriguez. It,
should have preceded the grant. Had it done so some presumption of approval might then have been deduced from
the grant of the performance of precedent conditions. The
approval of the government stated in the certificate of Governor Jose de Aguilar manifestly refers to the approval of
his predecessor, Leonardo Escalante, and not an approval by
the general government. There is no other approval "which
is attached to the title and the certificate of Don Maria
Mendoza."
There was introduced in evidence an ex parte affidavit
alleged to have been made in 1881 before the treasurer general of the state of Sonora by one Matias Moran and one
Antonio Corrillo. Who these persons- were is not stated.
Matias has no identification but his name. Antonio Corrillo
is designated "citizen"
Of this paper the following testimony was given by Bartol6me Rochin, keeper of the archives
of the treasury at Hermosillo:
"Q. 41. In whose handwriting is this paper?
"A. It is in the writing of the same Mr. Telles, who was
the same treasurer general.

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. 42. When was Mr. Telles treasurer general?
"A. It is not mentioned the date here, but I have a great
many documents that tell (after looking), '77 or '78.
"Q. 43. Has this paper been with the records of the treasurer general's office since you have had charge of the office?
"A. Yes, sir; I took this document from the archives of
the treasurer general's office."
The following is as much of the affidavit as we think necessary to quote:
"I, Manuel Diaz, as treasurer general of the state of
Sonora, Mexican republic, acting by notary public, appeared
Matias Moran and citizen Antonio Corrillo, of this precinct,
who do say that, being personally present in the treasury
office for the purpose of gi'ving (11) compliance to the foregoing disposition or order of the governor of the state, proceeded to examine, one by one, the signatures of which are
contained in the expediente that forms the title to the lands
situated between the Colorado and Gila rivers, that in the
year 1838 was adjudicated to Don Fernando Rodriguez, in
that of 1847 was approved by the supreme government of
the nation, as a result of the examination we have made of
the original expediente above referred to, the lines with
which it is written and the signatures that accompany (?)it,
we are able to certify."
This affidavit is very questionable. It was testified to be
in the handwriting of a Mr. Telles, who, it was also testified,
was treasurer general in 1877 and 1878, and was taken from
the archives by the witness who produced it. At whose instance it was taken, or for what purpose, does not appear,
except that it is recited in it that the persons who made it
were personally present "for the purpose of giving coinpliance to the foregoing disposition or order of the governor
of the state." What disposition or order is not explained.
The language of the paper is very ambiguous. It is not clear
whether it is the notary who,acting for Manuel Diaz, treasurer general, or the deposing witnesses, who recite that the
title was in the year 1838 adjudicated to Don Fernando Rodriguez, and in that of 18-7 was approved by the supreme

702

OCTOBER TERMr, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

government of the nation. But even if by the latter, it is
distinctly not their testimony, but only an assumption preceding- it. This testimony comes afterwards, and is confined
to the verification of certain sionatures.
Ifollowsfron these views that the decree of the Court of
_Private Land Claims shoulc be and it is reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings.
MR. JUSTIOE GRAY concurred in the result.

MR. JCSTICE BREWER, AR. JCSTIc BPOWN, -ATP. JUSTICE
SiIRis and -Al. JUSTICE PEcCxnAX dissented.

