OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

States, and he also argues that the indictment is wholly defective under that section.
Whether the facts might or might not warrant an indictment under such section, it is not now necessary to decide, for
the reason that we hold the indictment good under section
5456, because we regard postage stamps belonging to the
United States as being included in the section in question as
personal property, and therefore the subject of larceny.
The action of the jury in returning a verdict of guilty upon
the first and second counts and being silent as to the fifth was
equivalent to a verdict of not guilty as to that count. See
cases cited by Mr. Justice White in Selvester v. United States,
170 U. S. 262.
For the reasons already given, we think the judgment is
right, and that it shouldbe
.Affirmed.

HAVNOR v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 22T.

Argued April 21, I$93. -

Decided May 9, 1M9i.

It was essential, in order to confer jurisdiction on this court, in this
case,

that the chief judge of the Court of Appeals of the State
of New York,

or his lawful substitute, or a justice of this court should have allowed

the writ and signed the citation; and as the writ was signed
by a judge

as "asso. judge, Court of Appeals, State of New York," and there
was
nothing in the record warranting the inference that he was, at that
time,
acting as chief judgepro ten. of that court, the writ is dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Albert 1. Sire, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Asa Bird Gardiner,for defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error seeks the reversal of a judgment of the

HAVNOR v. IEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals of the State of New York, which affirmed
a judgment of an appellate division of the Supreme Court of
that State, holding valid a judgment entered in the court of
special sessions for the city and county of New York, sentencing the plaintiff in error upon a conviction for violation
-ofa statute of the State of New York prohibiting any person
from carrying on or engaging in the business of "barbering"
on the first day of the week. The record having been remitted by the Court of Appeals to the Supreme Court of the
State, the writ of error was directed to the latter tribunal.
The correctness of the ruling of the Court of Appeals,
upholding the validity of the statute referred to, was vigorously attacked in argument, emphasis being laid on the fact
that three judges dissented from the opinion of the court,
two of whom (Judges Gray and Bartlett) delivered opinions.
We are unable, however, to pass upon the question pressed
upon our notice as to whether the statute referred to is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, for the reason
that the Court of Appeals of the State of New York is composed of a chief judge and several associate judges, and the
writ of error in this case was allowed and the citation signed
by an associate judge, who did not purport to act as chief
judge or chief judge pro tern. of the court. The signature to
the allowance of the writ was as follows: "Edward T.
Bartlett, Also. Judge, N. Y. Court of Appeals;" while following the signature to the citation was the designation:
"Asso. Judge, Court of Appeals, State- of New' York."
There is nothing contained in the record warranting an
inference that the associate judge was at the time acting as
chief judge pro tern. of the court. True it is, that there is
contained in the record, at the end thereof, an affidavit verified
by counsel for plaintiff in error on July 29, 1896, stating that
the deponent was informed and believed that the chief judge
of the Court of Appeals was then abroad- in Europe and
would be for some space of time to come, while- the writ of
error was allowed and the citation signed on the 6th of
August following. The affidavit purperts to have been filed
with the papers in the case in the Supreme Court of New

OCTOBER TERMV, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

York on September 2, 1896. It manifestly, however, in no
particular justifies the inference that the associate justice who
allowed the writ was, at the time of such allowance, the chief
judgepro tern. of the Court of Appeals. It was essential, in
order to confer jurisdiction on this court, that the chief judge
of the Court of Appeals of New York or his lawful substitute
or a Justice of this court should have allowed the writ and
signed the citation.
Thus, it is provided in the Revised Statutes as follows:
"SEC. 999. When the writ" (of error) . . . "is issued
by the Supreme Court to a state court, the citation shall be
signed by the Chief Justice, a judge, or chancellor of such
court, rendering the judgment or passing the decree complained of, or by a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States, and the adverse party shall have at least thirty days'
notice."
The provision referred to was contained in the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat.
73, 86, and section 7 of the act of February 5, 1867, c. 29, 14
Stat. 387. It was construed in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 14 Wall.
26, where the court, taking notice sua sponte of the fact that
there had been no proper allowance of a writ of error, said

(p. 27):
"Writs of error to the state court can only issue when one
of the questions mentioned in the 25th section of that act was
decided by the court to which the writ is directed, and in
order that there may be some security that such a question
was decided in the case, the statute requires that the citation
must be signed by the Chief Justice or judge or chancellor of
the court rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained of, or by a Justice of the Supreme Court of the'United
States. It has been the settled doctrine of this court that a
writ of error to a state court must be allowed by one of the
judges above mentioned, or it will be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, and the case before us raises the question whether
the writ has been allowed by the judge authorized to do so.
"The Supreme Court of Iowa, which rendered the judgment complained of, is composed of a chief justice and three

HAVNOR v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

associate justices, and this writ is allowed by one of the associate justices.
"We are of opinion that the act of Congress requires that,
when there is a court so composed, the writ can only be
allowed by the chief justice of that court, or by a Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States. In case of a writ to
a court composed of a single judge or chancellor, the writ may
be allowed by that judge or chancellor, or by a Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States.
"The result of this construction of the statute is that the
associate justice of the Supreme Court of Iowa who allowed
the present writ had no authority'to do so, and it is accordingly dismissed."
The Bartemeyer ease was approvingly referred to in Butler
v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52, 55, where the court, speaking through
Mr. Chief Justice Ftller, said:
"Section 999 of 'the Revised Statutes provides that the
citation .shall be signed by the chief justice, judge or chancellor of the court rendering the judgment or passing the decree
complained of, or by a Justice of this court; and it was held
in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 14 Wall. 26, that when the Supreme
Court of a State is composed of a chief justice and several
associates, and the judgment complained 'of was rendered by
such court, the writ could only be allowed by the chief justice
of that court or by a Justice of this court."
In Butler v. Gage, however, the judge 9llowing the writ
described himself as "Presiding Judge of the Supreme Court
of the State of Colorado." As the constitution of Colorado
provided that when the chief justice was absent, the judge
having the next shortest term should preside in his stead, and
as the record showed that the chief justice was absent at
the time the writ was allowed, and counsel conceded that the
judge who allowed the writ had the next shortest term to
serve, it was held that the writ was properly allowed.
Upon the facts appearing in the case at bar, however, it is
manifest that the writ of error was not properly allowed, and
it must be
Dismissed.

