OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

RHODES v. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 21.

Argued February 23, 1895. - Decided May 9, 1898,

Section 1553 of the code of Iowa, which provides that "if any express
company, railway company or any agent or person in the employ of any
express company, or of any common carrier, or any person in the employ
of any common carrier, or if any other person shall transport or convey
between points, or from one place to another within this State, for any
other person or persons or corporation, any intoxicating liquors, without
having first been furnished with a certificate from and under the seal of
the county auditor of the county to which said liquor is to be transported
or is consigned for transportation, or within which it is to be conviyed
from place to place, certifying that the consignee or person to whom said
liquor is to be transported, conveyed or delivered, is authorized to sell
such intoxicating liquors in such county, such company, corporation or
person so offending, and each of them, and any agent of said company,
corporation or person so offending, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined in the sum of one hundred dollars for each offence and pay costs
of prosecution, and the costs shall include a reasonable attorney fee to be
assessed by the court, which shall be paid into the county fund, and
stand committed to the county jail until such fine and costs of prosecution are paid," cannot be held to apply to a box of spirituous liquors,
shipped by rail from a point in Illinois to a citizen of Iowa at his residence in that State while in transit from its point of shipment to its delivery to the consignee, without causing the Iowa Law to be repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
Moving such goods in the station from the platform on which they are put
on arrival to the freight warehouse is a part of the interstate commerce
transportation.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

fr. Robert Jatherfor plaintiff in error.

ir. _3ilton .Remley, attorney general of the State of Iowa,
for defendant in error.
M . JusTIC. WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company
was, in 1891, a common carrier, incorporated under the laws of

RHODES v. IOWAk
Opinion of the Court.

Illinois, and operated among others a line of railway from
Dallas, Illinois, to Burlington, Iowa, and beyond said point.
The Burlington and Western Railway Company was, at the
same date, a common carrier, incorporated under the laws of
Iowa, and operated a line of railway from Burlington, Iowa,
to Oskaloosa in that State, with stations at intervening points,
one of which was Brighton in Washington County. Both of
these corporations had a depot at Burlington, which they
jointly used. The two carriers had, at the time stated and
for years previous thereto, between themselves joint freight
tariffs, by which transportation, under a single through way
bill, was given to merchandise from any station on either of
the lines to any station on the line of the other.
In August, 1891, the Dallas Transportation Company delivered to the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad at Dallas,
Illinois, a wooden box stated to contain groceries consigned to
William Horn, Brighton, Iowa. It bad been the habit of the
agent of the Dallas company before this date to ship intoxicating liquors over the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy. The
box in. question was receipted for as through freight and was
billed through in accordance with the custom above stated,
was taken to Burlington, Iowa, there delivered to the Burlington and Western company, by whom it was carried to
Brighton. On its arrival there, the package was placed by
the trainmen on the station platform, and shortly afterwards
the plaintiff in error, who was the station agent of the Burlington and Western, in the discharge of his duties opened the
door of the freight house and moved the box into a freight
warehouse, which was about six feet from the platform. In
about an hour thereafter the box was seized by a constable
under a search warrant, on the ground that it contained intoxicating liquors, which proved to be the truth, and subsequently
the liquor was condemned and ordered to be destroyed, and
the order was executed. At the time of the seizure the freight
charge due to the railways was unpaid. It was admitted that
there was nothing on the package to notify the receiving railway of its contents, unless such knowledge can be imputed
from the nature of the previous dealings of the Dallas com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

pany with the railway. There was, however, testimony
showing that the railroad agent who moved the box from the freight
platform to the warehouse had reason to know or suspect
that
it contained liquor since it was proven that, before the arrival
of the box at Brighton, a mail carrier called at the station
and asked for a package consigned to William Horn,
stating
that one was expected from Dallas, and that it would contain
intoxicating liquor.
The plaintiff in error was proceeded against by information
before a justice of the peace, charging him with the unlawful
transportation of intoxicating liquors conveyed from Burlington to Brighton, Iowa. This prosecution was under the
provisions of the statutes of the State of Iowa, to which we
shall
hereafter refer. He was convicted and sentenced to
pay a
fine of $100. An appeal from this sentence was taken
to the
district court, where it was affirmed, in which court, among
other defences, it was alleged that the package in question
was not subject to the jurisdiction of the State of Iowa,
because at the time of its removal from the platform
to the
freight warehouse it was in course of interstate commerce
transportation. The district court having affirmed the
conviction, an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of
the
State of Iowa, where the judgment below was also affirmed.
State v. Rhodes, 90 Iowa, 496. To this judgment of affirmance this writ of error is prosecuted.
The sole question presented for consideration is whether
the
statute of the State of Iowa can be held to apply to the
box
in question whilst it was in transit from its point of shipment,
Dallas, Illinois, to its delivery to the consignee at the point
to
which it was consigned. That is to say, whether the law
of
the State of Iowa can be made to apply to a shipment
from
the State of Illinois, before the arrival and delivery
of the
merchandise, without causing the Iowa law to be repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
In Bowman v. Ckicago &: fforthwestern Railway, 1888,
125
U. S. 465, this court was called upon to determine the validity
of a statute of the State of Iowa, ivhich it was asserted
was
repugnant to the third clause of section 8 of article I of
the

RHODES v. IOIVA.
Opinion of the Court.

Constitution of the United States, because its provisions
amounted to a regulation of interstate commerce. The facts
upon which the controversy then presented arose were briefly
as follows: Kegs of beer were offered in the State of Illinois
to a common carrier operating a line of railway in the States
of Illinois and Iowa. The beer was consigned to a point in
Iowa, and the carrier refused to receive it, on the ground that
the statute of Iowa made it unlawful to bring intoxicating
liquors within the limits of that State, except when accompanied with a specified certificate, which the Iowa law provided should be granted under particular and exceptional
conditions. The one by whom the beer was tendered to the
carrier in the State of Illinois thereupon sued the railroad company for the damages claimed to have arisen from its refusal
to receive and carry the merchandise. The railway company
defended on the ground that it was justified in its refusal
because of the provision of the Iowa statute. This, on the
other hand, was asserted not to be an adequate defence, because it was claimed that the Iowa statute was wholly void,
as it constituted a regulation of .interstate commerce. The
sole issue arising therefrom was whether the Iowa law protected the refusing carrier, and thus involved determining
whether the statute of the State was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. After great consideration, it
was held that the law of tle State of Iowa, in so far as it
affected interstate commerce, was repugnant to the interstate
commerce clause of the Constitution, and was void. It was
decided that the transportation of merchandise from one State
into and across another was interstate commerce, and was protected from the operation of state laws from the moment of
shipmfent whilst in transit and up to the ending of the journey
by the delivery of the goods to the consignee at the place to
which they were consigned. The court in the course of its
opinion adverted to the question whether goods so shipped
continued to be protected by the interstate commerce clause
gfter their delivery to the consignee and up to and including
their sale in the original package by the one to whom they
had been delivered, but did not decide the question, as it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

not essential to do so. Referring to the subject, however, the
court said (pp. 499-500):
"It might be very convenient and useful in the execution
of the policy of prohibition within the State to extend the
powers of the State beyond its territorial limits. But such
extraterritorial powers cannot be assumed upon such an implication. On the contrary, the nature of the case contradicts
their existence. For if they belong to one State, they belong
to all, and cannot be exercised severally and independently.
The attempt would necessarily produce that conflict and confusion which it was the very purpose of the Constitution by
its delegations of national power to prevent.
"It is'easier to think that the right of importation from
abroad, and of transportation from one State to another, includes, by necessary implication, the right of the importer to
sell unbroken packages at the place where the transit terminates; for the very purpose and motive of that branch of
commerce which consists in transportation is that other and
consequent act of commerce which consists in the sale and
exchange of the commodities transported. .Such, indeed, was
the point decided- in the case of Brown v. .Maryland,12
Wheat. 419, as to foreign commerce, with the express statement, in the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall, that the conclusion would be the same in a case of commerce among the
States. But it is not necessary now to express any opinion
.upon the point, because that question does not arise in the
present case. The precise line which divides the transaction,
so far as it belongs to foreign or interstate commerce, from
the internal and domestic commerce of the State, we are not
now called upon to delineate. It is enough to say that the
power to regulate or forbid the sale of a commodity, after it
has been brought into the State, does not carry with it thu
right and power to prevent its introduction by transportation
from another State."
Subsequently, in Teisy v. Hardin,(1890) 135 I. S. 100, the
question which was thus reserved in the Bowman case arose
for adjudication, and it was held that the right to sell the
imported merchandise in the original package free from inter-

RHODES v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

ference of state laws was protected by the Constitution of the
United States, as.up to such sale the goods brought into the
State were not commingled with the mass of property in
the State. Summing up its conclusions the court said (p.
124): "The plaintiffs in error are citizens of Illinois, are not
pharmacists and have no permit, but import into Iowa beer
which they sell in original packages, as described. Under
our decision in Bowman v. Chicago cf. Railway Co., supra,
they had the right to import this beer into that State, and, in
the view which we have expressed, they had the right to sell
it, by which act alone it would become mingled in the common mass of property within the State. Up to that point
of time we hold that, in the absence of Congressional permission to do so, the State had no power to interfere by
seizure, or any other actioi, in prohibition of importation
and sale by the foreign or non-resident importer."
The statute of the State of Iowa, under which the prosecution now before us was instituted, is as follows:
"If any express company, railway company or any agent
or person in the employ of any express company, or of any
common carrier, or any person in the employ of any common
carrier, or if any other person shall transport or convey
between points, or from one place to another within this
State, for any other person .or persons or corporation, any
intoxicating liquors,- without having first been furnished with
a certificate from and under the seal of the county auditor of
the county to which said liquor is to be transported or is consigned for transportation, or within which it is to be conveyed
from place to place, certifying that the consignee or person to
whom said liquor is to be transported; conveyed or delivered
is authorized to sell such intoxicating liquors in such county,
such company, corporation or person so offending, and each
of them, and any agent of said coappany, corporation or person so offending, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in
the sum of one hundred dollars for-each offence, and pay
costs of prosecution, and the costs shall include a reasonable
attorney fee to be assessed by the court, which shall be paid
into the county fund, and stand committed to the county jail
vOL. CLxx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

until such fine and costs of prosecution are paid. The offence
herein defined shall be held to be complete, and shall be held
to have been committed -inany county of the State, through
or to which said intoxicating liquors are transported, or in
which the same is ,unloaded for transportation, or in which
said liquors are conveyed from place to place or delivered.
It shall be the duty of the several county, auditors of the
* State to issue the certificate herein contemplated to any per.son having such permit, and the certificate so issued shall be
truly dated when issued, and shall specify the date at which
the permit expires, as shown by the county records. Provided, however, that the defendant may show as a defence
hereunde by preponderance of evidence that the character
and circumstances of the shipment and its contents were unknown to him." (Iowa Code, section .1553, paragraph 2410,
iMcClain's Annotated Code of Iowa.)
-This statute is identical with the one which was held to be
unconstitutional in the Bowman case, except that the latter
contained the words "knowingly bring within this State,"
these words having been stricken out by an amendment
adopted after the decision in the Bowman case. In other
words, the statute which was under review in the Bowman
case provided, "if any express company, railway company or
any agent or person in the employ of any express company,
or of any common carrier, or if any other person shall knowingly bring Within this State, or transport or convey between
points or from one place to another within the State," whilst
the statute now before us provides exactly the same thing,
except that the words "knowingly bring within this State"
are omitted. It is hence manifest that the present statute, as
interpreted by the Supreme Court of-Iowa; has exactly the
significance it would have did it contain, the words found in
the act reviewed in the Bowman case. It follows that the
law before us now, as interpreted below, is the exact equivalent of-the statute which has once before been declared by this
court to be repugnant to the. Constitution. This result in
reason is inevitable, since the court below held that the words,
as found in the present law, were not confined to transporta-

RHODES v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of commodities originating within the State, but related to
shipments made from another State. This ruling hence subjects shipments made from another State to the control of
the statute at once on the arrival of the'merchandise within
the territorial limits of the State, and before the completion
of the interstate shipment, as completely as if the words
"bring within this State" were yet in the statute. As it was
held in. the Bowman case that the power to ship Trom one
State into another embraced of necessity the right to have the
goods carried to the -place of destination, and be delivered at
that point to the consignee, it follows that an interpretation
of the present law which gives the State the right to stop the
goods shipped info the State at the state line, and before their
arrival at destination- is directly within the rule announced in
the Bowman case.

The fundamental right which the decision in the Bowman
case held to be protected from the operation of state laws by
the Constitution of the United States was the continuity of
shipment of goods coming from one State into another from
the point of transmission to the point of consignment, and the
accomplishment there of the delivery covered by the contract.
This protection of the Constitution of the United States is
plainly denied by the statute now under review, as its provisions are interpreted by the court below. The power which
it was held in the Bowman case the State did not possess was

that of stopping interstate shipments at the state line by
breaking their continuity and intercepting their course from
the point of origin to the point of consummation. The right
of a State to exert these very powers is plainly upheld by the
decision rendered below. It follows that if the ruling in the
Bowman case is applicable to the question here presented, it
is decisive of this controversy, and must lead to a reversal of

the judgment below rendered. The claim is, however, and it
was upon this ground that the court below rested its judgment, that under and by virtue of the provisions of the act of
Congress of August 8, 1890, c. '728, 26 Stat. 313, the ruling in
the Bowman case is no longer apposite, as the effect of the act
of Congress in question was to confer upon the State of Iowa

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the power to subject to its statutory regulations merchandise
shipped from another State the moment it reached the line of
the State of Iowa, and before the consummation of the contract of shipment by arrival at its destination and delivery
there to the consignee. And it is to this question that the discussion at bar has mainly related, and upon which a decision
of the cause really depends.
It is not gainsaid that the effect of the act of Congress was
to deprive the receiver of goods shipped from another State
of all power to sell the same in the State of Iowa in violation
of its laws, but whilst it is thus conceded that the act of Congress has allowed the Iowa law to attach to the property when
brought into the State before sale, when it otherwise would
not have done so until after sale, on the other hand, it is contended that the act of Congress in no way provides that the
laws of Iowa should apply before the consummation by delivery of the interstate commerce transaction. To otherwise
construe the act of Congress, it is claimed, would cause it to
give to the statutes of Iowa extraterritorial operation, and
would render the act of Congress repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. It has been settled that the effect
of the act of Congress is to allow the statutes of the several
States to operate upon packages of imported liquor before sale.
Ine 1ahrer, 140 U. S.545.
Did the act of Congress referred to operate to attach the
legislation of the State of Iowa to the goods in question the
moment they reached the state lin6, and before the completion of the act of transportation, by arriving at -the point of
consignment and the delivery there to the 6onsignee is then
the pivotal question? The act of Congress is as follows:
"That all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors
or,liquids transported into any State or Territory or remaining
therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall,
upon arrival in such State or.Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such State or Territory, enacted
in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent and in
the same manner as though such liquids or liquors had been
produced in such State or Territory,. and shall not be exempt

RHODES v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in original
packages or otherwise."
The words "shall upon arrival in such State or Territory be
subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such State or
Territory," in one sense might be held to mean arrival at the
state line. But to so interpret them would necessitate isolating these words from the entire context of the act, and would
compel a construction destructive of other provisions contained
therein. But this would violate the fundamental rule requiring that a law be construed as a whole, and not by distorting
or magnifying a particular word found in it. It is clearly contemplated that the word "arrival" signified that the goods
should actually 6ome into the State, since it is.provided that
"all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or liquids
transported into a State oi Territory," and this is further
accentuated by the other provision, "or remaining therein for
use, consumption, sale or storage therein."
This language makes it impossible in reason to hold' that
the law intended that the word "arrival" should mean at the
state line, since it presupposes the coming of the goods into
the State for "use, consumption, sale or storage." The fair
inference from the enumeration of these conditions, which are
all-embracing, is that the time when they could arise was made
the test by which to determine the period when the operation
of the state law should attach to goods brought into the State.
But to uphold the meaning of the word "arrival," which is necessary to support the state law, as construed below, forces the
conclusion that the act of Congress in question authorized state
laws to forbid the bringing into the State at all. This follows
from the fact that if arrival means erbssing the line, then the
act of crossing into the State would be a violation of the state
law, and hence necessarily the operation of the law is to forbid crossing the line and to compel remaining beyond the
same. Thus, if the construction of the word "arrival" be that
which is claimed for it, it must be held that the state statute
attached and operated beyond the state line confessedly before the time when it was intended by the act of Congress it
should take effect.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

But the subtle signification of words and the niceties of
verbal distincti6n furnish no safe guide for construing the act
of Congress. On the co ntrary, it should be interpreted and
enforced by the light of the fundamental rule of carrying out
its purpose and object, of affording the remedy which it was
intended to create, and of defeating the wrong which it was
its purpose to frustrate. Undoubtedly the purpose of the act
was to enable the laws of the several States to control the
character of merchandise therein enumerated at an earlier
date than would have been otherwise the case, but it is
equally iinquestionable that the act of Congress manifests no
purpose to confer upon the States the power to give their
statutes an extraterritorial operation so as to subject persons
and property- beyond their borders to the restraints of their
laws. If the act of Congress be construed as reaching the
contract for interstate shipment made in another State, the
necessary effect must be to give to the laws of the several
States extraterritorial operation, for, as held in the Bowman
case, the inevitable consequence of allowing a state law to forbid interstate shipments of merchandise would be to destroy
the right to contract beyond the limits of the State for such
shipments. If the construction claimed be upheld, it would
be in the power of each State to compel every interstate commerce train to stop before crossing its borders, and discharge
its freight, lest by crossing the line it might carry within the
State merchandise of the character named -covered by the
inhibitions of a state statute. The force of this view is well
illustrated by the conclusions of the court below, where it is
said:
"Was the defendant, in the removal of the liquor, engaged
in transporting or conveying it within the meaning of our
statute? The language of the statute is broad enough to
cover the act of defendant in removing the liquor from the
platform to the freight room of the depot. He was one of the
instruments necessary to complete the act of transportation.
If it be not so, then clearly he is within the terms of the act,
as he conveyed ' the liquor from one point to another within
this State.' His guilt is not to be determined by the distance

RHODES v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

he conveyed the package, but his conveying it any distance was
a violation of the law. With the propriety of legislation, making such an act a crime, and with the severity of the punishment attached to doing the act, we have nothing to do."
If it had been the intention of the act of Congress to provide
for the stoppage at the state line of every interstate commerce
contract relating to the merchandise named in the act, such
purpose would have been easy of expression. The fact that
such power was not conveyed, and that, on the contrary, the
language of the statute relates to the receipt of the goods
"into any State or. Territory for use, consumption, sale or
storage therein," negatives the dorrectness of the interpretation
holding that the receipt into any State or Territory for the
purposes named could never take place. Light is thrown upon
the purpose and spirit of the act by another consideration.
The Bowman case was decided in 1888, the opinion in .Leisy
v. Hardin was announced in April, 1890, the act under consideration was approved August 8, 1890. Considering these
dates, it is reasonable to infer that the provisions of the act
were intended by Congress to cause the legislative authority
of the respective States to attach to intoxicating liquors coming
into the States by an interstate shipment, only after the consummation of the shipment, but before the sale of the merchandise, that is, that the one receiving merchandise of the
character named should, whilst retaining the full right to use
the same, no longer enjoy the right to sell free from the restrictions as to sale created by state legislation, a right which
the decision in Zeisy v. Hardin had just previously deblared
to exist.
This view gives meaning and effect to the language of the
act providing that such merchandise "shall not be exempt
therefrom" (legislative power of the State) by reason of being
introduced therein in "original packages or otherwise."
These words have no place or meaning in the act if its purpose was to attach the power of the State to the goods before
the termination of the interstate commerce shipment.' The
words "original'packages" had, at the time of the passage of
the act by the decisions of this court, acquired with reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to the construction of the Constitution a technical meaning,
signifying that the merchandise in such packages was entitled
to be sold within a State by the receiver thereof, although
state laws might forbid the sale of merchandise of like character not in such packages.
Whilst it is, true that the right to sell free from state interference interstate commerce merchandise was held in Leisy v.
Mardin to be an essential incident to interstate commerce, it
was yet but an incident, as the contract of sale within a State
in its nature was usually subject to the control of the legislative authority of the State. On the other hand, the right to
contract for the transportation of merchandise from one State
into or across another involved interstate commerce in its
fundamental aspect, and imported in its very essence a relation which necessarily must be governed by laws apart from
the laws of the several States, since it embraced a contract
which- must come under the laws of more than one State.
The, purpose of Congress to submit the incidental power to
sell to the dominion of state authority should not without
the clearest implication be held to imply the purpose of subjecting to state laves a contract which in its very object and
nature was not susceptible of such regulation even if the constitutional right to do so existed, as to which no opinion is
expressed. And this view is cogently illustrated by the
opinion in the Bowman case, where it was said (pp. 486-48-7):
"Hlas the law of Iowa any extraterritorial force which does
not belon- to the law of the State of Illinois? If the law of
Iowa forbids the delivery, and the law of Illinois requires the
transportation, which of the two shall prevail? How can
the former make void the latter? In view of this necessary
operation of the law of Iowa, if it be valid, the language of
this court in the case of Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488, is
exactly in point. It was there said: 'But we think it may
safely be said th-at state legislation, which seeks to impose a
direct burden upon interstate commerce, or to interfere directly with its freedom, does' encroach upon thd exclusive
power of Congress. The statute now under consideration, in
our opinion, occupies that position. It does not act upon the

RHODES v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

business through the local instruments to be employed after
coming within the State, but directly upon the business as it
comes into the State from without or goes out from within.
While it purports only to control the carrier when engaged
within the State, it must necessarily influence his conduct to
some extent in the management of his business throughout
his entire voyage. His disposition of passengers taken up
and put down within the State, or taken up within to be
carried without, cannot but affect in a greater or less degree
those taken up without and brought within, and sometimes
those taken up within and put down without. A passenger
in the cabin set apart for the use of whites without the State
must, when the boat comes within, share the accommodations
of that cabin with such colored persons as may come on board
afterwards, if the law is enforced. It was to meet just such
a case that the commercial clause in the Constitution was
adopted. The river Mississippi passes through or along the
borders of ten different States, and its tributaries reach many
more. The commerce upon these waters is immense, and its
regulation clearly a matter of national concern. If each
.State was at liberty to regulate the conduct of carriers while
within its jurisdiction, the confusion likely to follow could not
but be productive of great inconvenience and unnecessaryhardship. Each State could provide for its own passengers
and regulate the transportation of its own freight, regardless
of the interests of others. Nay, more; it could prescribe
rules by which the carrier must be governed within the State,
in respect to passengers and property brought from without.
On one side of the river or its tributaries he might be required
to observe one set of rules, and on the other another. Cominerce cannot flourish in the midst of such embarrassments.
No carrier of passengers can conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or comfort to those employing him, if on
one side of a state line his passengers, both white and colored,
must be permitted to occupy the same cabin, and on the other
be.kept separate. Uniformity in the-regulations by which he
is to be governed from one end to the other of his route is a
necessity in his business, and to secure it Congress, which is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

untrammelled by state lines, has been invested with the
exclusive legislative power of determining what such regulations shall be.'"
And it was doubtless this construction which caused the court
to observe in the opinion in In re .Rahrer,140 U. S. 545, 552,
that the act of Congress "divests them (objects of interstate
commerce shipnent) of that character at an earlier period of
time than would otherwise be the case." We think that interpreting the statute by the light of all its provisions, it was
not intended to and did not cause the power of the State to
attach to an interstate commerce shipment, whilst the merchandise was in transit under such shipment, and until its
arrival at the point of destination and delivery there to the
consignee, and of course this conclusion renders it entirely
unnecessary to consider whether if the act of Congress had
submitted the right to make interstate commerce shipments
to state control it would be repugnant to the Constitution
It follows from this conclusion that as the act for which
the plaintiff in error was convicted, and which consisted in
moving the goods from the platform to the freight warehouse,
was a part of the interstate commerce transportation, and was
done before the law of Iowa could constitutionally attach to
the goods, the conviction was erroneous, and the judgment
below is, therefore,
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAy, with whom concurred

HUARL

MR. JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE BRowN, dissenting.

Mr. Justice Harlan, Mr. Justice Brown and myself are constrained to dissent from this judgment, which appears to us to
deny due effect to the police power, reserved to each State by
the Constitution of the United States, and recognized by Congress in the act of August 8, 1890, c. 728, commonly known
as the Wilson act. 26 Stat. 313.
The purpose and effect of this act may be best understood
by recalling the history of the law upon the subject.
In order to keep this opinion within, reasonable compass,

RHODES v. IOWA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

we shall, in referring to the previous decisipns of this court,
confine ourselves, as far az possible, to those decisions which
directly relate to the traffic in intoxicating liquors.
The regulation of the manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating liquors has always been recognized as a subject peculiarly appertaining to the police power of the several States
respectively. Liconse cases, 5 How. 504:; Bartemeyer v. iowa,
18 Wall. 129; Beer Co. v. -Massachusetts,97 U. S. 25; Foster
v. Kansas, 112 U. S.201; Abigler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623;
.idd v. Pearsou, 128 U. S. 1; .Elenbecker v. Plymouth
County, 134 U. S.. 31.
Upon the question how far the police power reserved to
each State over this subject is affected by the grant to Congress of .he power to regulate commerce among the several
States, there have been conflicting opinions, and even varying
decisions, at different periods.
The earliest cases-which came before this court, concerning
the extent of the police power of each State over intoxicating
liquors within its borders, were Thurlow v. Massachusetts,
Fletcher v. Rhode island and Peirce v. Nfew Hampshire, decided in 1847, and reported under the name of The License
cases, 5 1How. 504.
In Peirce v. .NfewHamrpshire,a statute of New Hampshire,
prohibiting sales of intoxicating liquors by any person without
a license from municipal authorities, and authorizing licenses to
be granted only to persons residing within the State, was held
by all the justices to be constitutional and valid, as applied to
a barrel of intoxicating liquors, brought into New Hampshire
from another State, and sold in New Hampshire by the importer, in the same barrel, unbroken and in the same condition in which it had been brought in -there having been no
legislation of Congress upon the subject.
That decision was afterwards repeatedly cited with approval.
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 730; Beer Co. v. Afassachusetts, 97 U. S.25, 33; .JMobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
691,,'701; .Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 657, 658. And
in several cases the validity of statutes of a State, taxing the
sale of intoxicating liquors brought from another State, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

treated as depending upon the question whether the statutes
made any discrimination. in favor of liquors manufactured
within the State. Htinson v. Zott, 8 Wall. 148; Tiernan v.
Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446,
460. "
The question whether the power of Congress to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States
is exclusive, or only paramount, was a subject of much
diversity of opinion from an early period until 1851, when
this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Curtis, in Cooley v. Board
of lTardens, 12 How. 299, laid down this principle: When the
nature of the particular subject in question is such as to demand a-single uniform rule, operating equally throughout the
United States, the power of Congress is exclusive; but when
the subject is of such a nature as to require different systems
of regulation, drawn from local knowledge or experience, and
conformed to local wants, it may be the subject of state legislation so long as Congress has not legislated. 12 How. 319,
320. The principle there laid down has become fully recognized and established in our jurisprudence. Transportation
Co. v. Parkersburg;107 U. S. 691, 704; Crandall v. .Tevada,
6 Wall. 35, 42; Mobile County v. Eimball, 102 U. S. 691, 701.
Wherever, from the nature of the subject, the power of Congress to regulate commerce is exclusive, the several States, of
course, cannot legislate, even if there has been no legislation
ty Congress; or, as the proposition has been stated in another
form, "where the power of Congress to regulate is exclusive,
the failure of Congress to make express regulations indicates
its will that the subject shall be left free from any restrictions
or impositions; and any regulation of the subject by the
States, except in matters of local concern only, is repugnant
io such freedom." Robbins v. Shelby axing District, 120
U. S. 489, 493.
The theory that the bringing of intoxicating liquors from
one State into another, and the selling of them there in the
-packages in which they had been introduced, are subjects requiring to be regulated by a national and uniform rule, and
therefore within the exclusive power of Congress, and wholly

RHODES v. IOWA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

free from state legislation, was not broached by any member
of the court before the cases of Bowman v. Chicago & fforthwestern Railway, 125 U. S. 465, and Leisy v. Ilardin, 135
U. S. 100.
In Bowman's ease Chief Justice Waite and two other justices dissented, and in Leisy's case three justices dissented ;
and the reasons for and -against the decisions were stated at
It will be
length in the opinions delivered in those cases.
sufficient, for our present purpose, to state the points there
decided.
Each of those cases arose under the statutes of the State of
Iowa, regulating the manufacture, the sale and the transportation of intoxicating liquors within the State.
Bowman v. Chicago & Hortliwestern Railway, decided by
this court March 19, 1888, involved the validity of a provision
of those statutes, (substantially similar to the provision now
before us, as construed by the highest court of the State,) imposing a penalty upon any railroad company or other common
carrier, or any agent of either, or any other person, that
should knowingly bring within the State, or knowingly transport or convey between points or from one place to another
within the State, for any other person or corporation, any
intoxicating liquors, without first having obtained a certificate,
from the auditor of the county to which it was consigned, or
within which it was to be conveyed from place to place, certifying that the consignee was authorized by the laws of Iowa to
sell such liquors. The majority of this court, upon a consideration of the whole statute, frankly recognized that "the
provision in question has been adopted by the State of Iowa,
not expressly for the purpose of regulating commerce between
its citizens and those of other States, bat as subservient to the
general design of protecting the health and morals of its
people and the peace and good order of the State, against the
physical and moral evils resulting from the unrestricted manufacture and sale within the State of intoxicating liquors."
125 "U. S.475, 476. Nevertheless, the provision *as held to
be uficonstitutional and void, as applied to a railroad company
transporting intoxicating liquors into the State from another

'430

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, J.

State, upon the ground that the State "cannot, without the
consent of Congress, express or implied, regulate commerce
between its people and those of the other States of the Union
in order to effect its end, however desirable such a regulation
might be." 125 U..S. 493. The court took pains to distinguish the case from Peirce v. .Vew Hampshire,above cited,

and distinctly reserved the expression of any opinion upon the
question whether the State had the right to regulate or prohibit the sale of the liquor by the importer in unbroken packages after it had been brought within the State. 125 U. S.
479, 499, 500.
But in Leisy v. Hardin, two years later, that question was
distinctly presented for decision; and it was decided that the
provision of the statutes of Iowa, prohibiting the sale of any
intoxicating liquors, otherwise than for pharmaceutical, medicinal, chemical or sacramental purposes, and under a druggist's
license from a county court of the State, was, as applied to a
sale by the importer, and in the original packages, unbroken
and unopened, of such liquors manufactured in and brought
from another State, unconstitutional and void, as repugnant
to the grant by the Constitution to Congress of the power to
regulate interstate commerce. The majority of the court; in
its opinion, delivered by the present Chief Justice, April 28,
1890, treated Peirce v. Hezo Hfampshire as overruled; and
stated its own conclusions as follows: "The plaintiffs in error
hre citizens of Illinois, are not pharmacists, and have no permit, but import into Iowa beer, which they sell in original
packages, as described. Under our decision in Bowman v.
Chicago & Northwestern Railway, they had the right to
import this beer into that State, and in the view which we
have expressed they had the right to sell it, by which act
alone it would become mingled in the coiimon mass of propperty within the State. Up to that point of time, we hold
that, in the absence of Congressional permission to do so, the
State had no power to interfere by seizure, or any other
action, in p'rohibition of importation and sale by the foreign or
non-resident irhporter." And it was said in that opinion that
"the responsibility is upon Congress, so far as the regulation

RHODES v. IOWA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

of interstate commerce is concerned, to remove the restriction
upon the State in dealing with imported articles of trade within
its limits, which have not been mingled with the common mass
of property therein, if in its judgment the end to be secured
justifies and requires such action." 135 U. S. 123, 124.
Thereupon Congress immediately interposed, and by explicit legislation unequivocally manifested its purpose 'that no
silence on its part should give rise to the presumption that it
intended that either the transportation of intoxicating liquors
from one State. into another, or their sale in tbd Jatter State,
even in the packages in which they had been brought, should b-free, and beyond the reach of the police power of the 6tate.
On May 14, 1890, Mr. Wilson, of Iowa, reported to the
Senate, from the Committee -on"the Judiciary, a L-l, which.
as amended upon his motion on May 29, was passed August 3.
1890, enacting that "all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors or liquids, transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or
storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or Territory
be subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such State
or Territory enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to
the same extent and in the same manner as though such
liquids or liquors had been produced in such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of being
introduced therein in original packages or otherwise." Congressional IRecord, 51st Congress, 1st sess. pt. 5, p. 4642; pt.
6, p. 5430; act of August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313.
Soon after the passage of this act of Congress, the question
of its constitutionality and effect was brought before this court
in Rakrer's ca8e, 140 U. S. 545. Intoxicating liquors, which
had been sent, before the passage of this act, by their owners
in Missouri to Rabrer in Kansas to be sold by him on their
account, were, after the passage of the act, sold by him in
Kansas as the agent of the consignors and in the original
packages. This court unanimously held that Rahrer was
liable to be prosecuted for such a sale under statutes of the
State of Kansas, passed in 1889, which made no distinction
between imported and domestic liquors. -

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

The Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the majority
of the court, said: "Congress has now spoken, and declared
that imported liquors or liquids shall, upon arrival in a State,
fall within the category of domestic articles of a similar
nature." 140 U. S. 560. The grant by the Constitution to
Congress of the power to regulate interstate commerce, said
the Chief Justice, "furnishes no support to the position that
Congress could not, in the exercise of the discretion reposed in it, concluding that the dommon interests did not
require entire freedom in the traffic in ardent spirits, enact
the law in question. In so doing, Congress has not attempted to delegate the power to regulate commerce, or to
exercise any power reserved to the States, or to grant a
power not possessed bythe States, or to adopt State laws."
"No reason is perceived why, if Congress chooses to provide
that certain designated subjects of interstate commerce shall
be governed by a rule which divests them of that character
at an earlier period of time than would otherwise be the
case, it is not within its competency to do so." 140 U. S. 561,
562. "Congress did not use terms of permission to the State
to act; but simply removed an impediment to the enforcement of the state laws in respect to imported packages in
their original condition, created by the absence of a specific
utterance on its part. It imparted no power to the State,
not then possessed, -but allowed imported property to fall at
once upon arrival within the local jurisdiction." "This is
not the case of a law enacted in the unauthorized exercise
of a power exclusively confided to Congress, but of a law
which it was competent for the State to pass, but which
could not operate upon articles .occupying a certain situation
until the passage of the act of Congress. That act in terms
removed the obstacle, and we perceive no adequate ground for
adjudging that a reenactment of the state law was required
before it could have the effect upon imported which it had
always had upon domestic property. Jurisdiction attached,
not in virtue of the law of Congress, but because the effect of
the latter was to place the property where jurisdiction could
attach." 140 U. S. 564, 565.

RHODES v. IOWA.
Dissenting Dpinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

The necessary effect of that decision is that the police power as
of each State includes the regulation of the transportation,
territory,
its
within
liquors
well as the sale, of all intoxicating
except so .far as affected by the grant by the Constitution
comto Congress of the power over interstate and foreign
intention
its
manifests
Congress
as
merce; and that, so far
exempthat the interests of such commerce do not require its
this
State,
the
of
power
police
tion from the exercise of the
power is unrestricted.
the
The opinions heretofore delivered in this court upon
not
do
they
although
effect of the act of Congress of 1890,
conState,"
such
in
decide, clearly imply, that the "arrival
the
templated and intended by the act, is an arrival within
JRahrer's
In
territorial limits and jurisdictioAi of the State.
said
case, the Chief Justice, in the passages already quoted,
liquors
that Congress by this act has declared that "imported
of domesshall, upon arrival in a State, fall within the category
"imported
tic articles of a similar nature," and has' allowed
jurisdicproperty to fall at once upon arrival within the local
these
tion." 140 U. S. 560, 564. The natural meaning of
the
within
arrival
upon
liquors,
imported
expressions is that
jurisjurisdiction of the State, become at once subject to its
phrase
the
58,
S.
U.
165
Donald,
v.
Scott
diction. And in.
"upon
used in the opinion of the majority of the court was,
"upon
opinion,
dissenting
the
in
arrival in a State," and,
either
their arrival within the State," without a suggestion in
synonymous,
exactly
not
were
opinion that the two phrases
or that any "arrival within the State" was not an "arrival
in the State." 165 U. S. 99, 102.
meanThe case at bar directly presents the question of the
Con-.
by
used
as
State,"
such
ing of the words "upon arrival in
gress in this act.
Chief Justice Marshall, when discussing the general meaning
arriveI
of the words "arrival" and "to arrive," said: " ' To
moving
object
is a neuter verb, which, when applied to an
to' or
from place to place, designates the fact of 'coming
reachor
to
'reaching' Ione place from another, or of coming
place
the
If
ing a-place by travelling, or moving towards it.
voL. cLxx-

28

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

be designated, then the object which reaches that place has
arrived at it. A person who is coming to Richmond has
arrived when he enters the city. But it is not necessarv to
the correctness of this term, that the place at which the traveller arrives should be his ultimate destination, or the end of
his journey. A person going from Richmond to Norfolk, by
water, arrives within Hampton Roads, when he reaches that
place; or, if he diverges from the direct course, he arrives in
Petersburg, when he enters that town. This is, I believe, the
universal understanding of the term." The Patriot,1 Brock.
407, 411, 412.
If, as Ohief Justice Marshall declared, it is the universal
understanding of the term that it designates the fact of "coining to" or "reaching" a place by travelling or moving towards
it, and does not require that the place at which the traveller
arrives should be his ultimate destination, and consequently
that a traveller arrives in a city or town when he enters that
city or town, it would seem to follow that "arrival in the
State" is complete when the person or the merchandise in
question enters the State.
That such is the meaning of the word "arrival," as used in the
act of Congress now in question, appears to us to be confirmed
by the whole scope and by the obvious purpose of the act.
The act declares and enacts that all intoxicating liquors,
"transported into any State or Territory, or remaining
therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall
upon arrival in such State or Territory" be subject to the
effect and operation of its laws enacted in-the exercise of its
police powers, to the same extent and in the same manner
as though they had been produced in it, "and shall not be
exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in
original packages or otherwise."
The act, in terms, includes all intoxicating liquors "transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein for
use, consumption, sale or storage therein." If it be assumed
that the words, "for use, consumption, sale or.storage therein,"
are not restricted to the next preceding clause, "or remaining
therein," but also extend back- to the earlier clause, "trans-

RHODES v. IOWA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

ported into any State or Territory," still the effect of the
words is to cover all intoxicating liquors, transported into or
remaining in the State for any possible purpose, except that
of being transported through the State to another State or
country. All such liquors are "upon arrival in such State"
to be subject to the operation and effect of the laws enacted
by the State "in the exercise of its police powers," to the
same extent and in the same manner as if the liquors had
been produced within its limits. And it is expressly provided
that intoxicating liquors shall not be exempt from the exercise
of the police powers of the State, "by reason of being introduced therein in original packages or otherwise." The phrases
"transported into any State," "upon arrival in such State,"
and "1introduced therein," would seem to have been used as
substantially equivalent.
The act makes no mention.of arrival at a specific destination or place in the State. Its whole object, as appears upon
its face, as well as from the circumstances which led to its
enactment, is not to define -when a particular voyage or
transit shall be considered at an end; but to assure to the
State, throughout its territorial jurisdiction, the full exercise
of its police powers over the subject of intoxicating liquors.
And we find nothing in the act to indicate an intention on
the part of Congress that the mere fact that intoxicating
liquors, brought by a common carrier into the State, have not
reached their ultimate destination in the State, or been delivered to the consignee, shall exempt them, after coming
within the territorial limits of the.State, from the exercise of
its police powers.
By the statute of the State of Iowa, under which Rhodes
was prosecuted, "if any express company, railway company,
or any agent or person in the employ of any express coinpauy, or of any common carrier, or any person in the employ
of any common carrier, or if any other person shall transport
or convey between points or from one place to another within
this State, for any other person or persons or corporation, any
intoxicating liquors, without first having been furnished with
a certificate from and under the seal of the county auditor of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

the county to which said liquor is to be transported or is consigned for transportation, or within which it is to be conveyed
from place to place, certifying that the consignee or person to
whom said liquor is to be transported, conveyed or delivered,
is authorized to sell such intoxicating liquors in such county,"
the company, agent or person so offending shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of $100 for each offence; and
"the offence herein defined shall be held to be complete and
shall be held to have been committed in any county of the
State, through or to which said intoxicating liquors are transported, or in which the same is unloaded for transportation,
or in which said liquors are conveyed from place to place or
delivered." But it is provided that "the defendant may show
as a defence hereunder by preponderance of evidence that the
character and circumstances of the shipment and its contents
were unknown to him."
McClain's Code of Iowa,  2410.
And it was held by the Supreme Court of the State that, in
order to support the conviction of Rhodes, it must appear
that, when doing the act complained of, he knew that the
box in question contained intoxicating liquor.
The material facts, as appearing by the record, and statedt
in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Iowa, reported 90
Iowa, 496, were as foll6ws:
The intoxicating liquor, which Rhodes has been adjudged
guilty of transporting or conveying from one place to another
within the State of Iowa, in violation of the statute of the
State, was a jug of whiskey, contained and hidden in a wooden
box about a cubic foot in size, marked "W. I.," represented
'to contain groceries, delivered at Dallas in the State of Illinois, by a company doing business at that place, to the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railway Company, and consigned to
one William flown at Brighton in the State of Iowa; and
was carried, under a through way bill, by that railway company: over its road to Burlington in the State of Iowa, and
was there transferred to the Burlington and Western Railway Company, whose road was wholly within the State of
Iowa, and was carried by this company to Brighton. Upon
its arrival at Brighton, it was delivered by the trainmen

RHODES v. IOWA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

upon the.platform of this company's depot; and inunediately
afterwards Rhodes, the -company's station agent at Brighton,
complying with the directions of his employer, carried the
box from .the platform into the freight room of the depot
building, where, on the same day, it was seized by a constable
on a search warrant, being then- held by the company for paynient of the unpaid freight and for delivery to the consignee.
Neither Rhodes nor the company held a permit for the transportation or sale of intoxicating liquors, or a certificat6 from
the county auditor that the consignee was authorized to sell
such liquors.
Rhodes testified that before the arrival of the box a mail
carrier told him he was looking for a box from Dallas for William Hown, and said it was likely to be marked "W. H.," and
would contain alcohol or whiskey; that he told the mail carrier he had not received a box of that description; that the
box arrived the next day; and that he supposed, perhaps, this
was the box the mail carrier told him would come. The Supreme Court of Iowa was of opinion that this testimony clearly
showed that Rhodes knew that the box contained intoxicating
liquors; and its conclusion upon this question of fact is not reviewable by this court. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658;
Egan. v. lart, 165 U. S. 188; Tarner v. .New York, 168 U. S.
90, 95.
Nor does the conclusion of that court, that Rhodes, by moving the box from the depot platform to the freight house, only
a few feet off, transported or conveyed the box from one place
to another within the State, within the meaning of the statute
of Iowa, present any question of law which this court is authorized to review, except so far as the statute, thus construed,
may deprive him of a right under the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
The intoxicating liquor in question was brought by rail
under a through way bill from Dallas in the State of Illinois
to Burlington and Brighton in the State of Iowa. It was carried by the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company (whose road ran from Illinois into Iowa) to Burlington,
and was there delivered to the Burlington and Western Rail-

438

OCTOBER TERIE, 1897.
Syllabus.

way (whose road was wholly in the State of Iowa) and was carried by this company to Brighton, and was there delivered by
its servants upon the platform of its freight station. Taking
into consideration that so much of the transportation as was
performed by an interstate railroad company had been accomplished, and that the remainder of the transportation was by
an Iowa corporation and wholly within the State of Iowa, and
had been so far completed as to land the intoxicating liquor
upon the soil of Iowa, we are of opinion that there had been
Can arrival in such State," so as to subject the
liquor to the
exercise of the police powers of the State of Iowa, within the
letter and the spirit of the act of Congress.

VANCE v. W. A. VANDERCOOK COMPANY (No. 1).
APPEAL FRO.Al THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 514. Argued March 9, 10, 1698.- Decided May 9, 1898.

It is settled by previous adjudications of this court:
(1) That thp respective States have plenary power to regulate the
sale
of intoxicating liquors within their borders, and the scope
and

extent of such regulations depend solely on the judgment of the

lawmaking power of the States, provided always, they
do not
transcend the limits of state authority by invading rights which
are secured by the Constitution of the United States, and
provided further, that the regulations as adopted do not operate
a

discrimination against the rights of residents or citizens of other
States of the Union;

(2)

That the right to send liquors from one State into another, and tie
act of sending the same, is interstate commerce, the regulation
Whereof has been committed by the Constitution of the United
States to Congress, and, hence, that a state law which denies
such

a right, or substantially interferes with or hampers the same, is
(3)

in conflict with the Constitution of the United States;

That the power to ship merchandise from one State into another

carries with it, as an incident, the right in the receiver of
the
goods to sell them in the original packages, any state regulation
to the contrary notwitbstanding; that is to say, that the
goods

