OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO
RAILWAY COMPANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH

SU-

PREM1E JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 421.

Argued January 21, 24, 198.-

Decided Apri 25, 1893.

When it does not appear from the plaintiff's statement of his case, that the
suit was one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
a petition to remove the cause into the Circuit Court of the United States
should be overruled.
The provision in the constitution of Texas of 1869, that the legislature
should not thereafter grant lands to any person or persons, as enforced
against the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company,
the successor of the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railway Conpany, which had received grants of public land under previous legislation to encourage the construction of railroads in that State, involved
no infraction of the Federal Constitution.
A clause in a charter of a railroad company, granting it power to consolidate with or become the owner of other railroads, is not such a vested
right that cannot be rendered inoperative by subsequent legislation.
passed before the company avails itself of the power thus granted.
The question in this case was as to whether the railroad company was entitled to the particular lands in controversy by virtue of the location
thereon of certificates issued for building the road from Columbus to
San Antonio. The ruling was that, as the law stood, no title was acquired thereby, and the State was entitled to recover. But it was also
contended that no recovery could be had because the company had earned
other lands of which it had been, as it alleged, unlawfully deprived. The
Supreme Court of the State held that it was no defence to the suit, by
way of set-off, counter-claim, or otherwise, that the company might have
been entitled to land certificates for road constructed under the law of
1876, and said that it had "never been ruled that the claimant of land
against the State under a location made by virtue of a void certificate
has any equity in the premises by reason of being the possessor of another valid certificate." -Held,that in arriving at this conclusion the
state courts did not determine whether as to those other lands any
vested right of the railway company had or had not been impaired or
taken away; and that this court cannot hold that the company was
denied by the judgment of those courts in this respect any title, right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution or laws of the United
States.

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was a suit commenced on behalf of the State of Texas
against the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway
Company, in the District Court of Brewster County, to recover 1383 tracts of land, containing in the aggregate eight
hundred and seventy-nine thousand and seventy-eight acres,
situated in various counties, and to cancel certificates and
patents issued to the railway company therefor. The railway
company filed a petition for the removal of .the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States, which was overruled. The
company then presented its defences by demurrer, plea and
answer, relying on its charters, and the laws, general and
special, of the State of Texas, by reason wvhereof and action
thereunder, it asserted it had become entitled to the lands in
question; also setting up that it had in 1880 mortgaged the
land in controversy to.-Andrew Pierce and George F. Stone;
that Pierce was dead, and that Stone was the sole surviving
trustee and was a necessary party to the spit; and the grounds
on which it insisted that the State was estopped from recovering the lands; and in its answer prayed for affirmative relief.
The cause was tried, and judgment entered therein in favor
of the State of Texas, and was thereupon carried by appeal to
the Court of Civil Appeals for the Fourth Supreme Judicial
District of the State of Texas, which court then certified the
following statement and questions to the Supreme Court of
the State for adjudication :
"The State of Texas instituted suit against appellant to
cancel certain land certificates and patents issued by the State
to appellant, for land, amounting to 879,078A acres. It was
alleged and proved that the certificates and patents were issued
to the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company, for a portion of its railroad constructed between the Colorado River and Guadalupe River between the time of the
adoption of the constitution of 1869 and the passage of the
act of August 16, 1876 (arts. 4267 to 4277, Rev. Stats.). On
July 27, 1870, by special act of the legislature, appellant was
chartered and recognized as the successor of the Buffalo
Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railway Company. After the
passage of the act of August 16, 1876, and before its repeal,

OCTOBER TERI~r, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

in 1882, appellant constructed about 163 miles of railroad,
from San Antonio westward towards El Paso, for which the
State refused to issue land certificates, the governor refusing
the application for inspection on May 22, 1882, on the ground
that the law granting certificates had been repealed.
"Question 1. Did section 6, article X, of the constitution
of 1869 repeal all laws giving railroad companies the right to
earn lands from the State by the construction of railroads;
and, if so, would this repeal apply as well to the right to earn
lands given through charters as through general laws?
"Question 2. If the above be answered in the negative, did
appellant succeed to the rights of the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos
and Colorado Railway Company by virtue of the special act
of 1870, said, Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railway
Company being restricted by special act of February 11, 1854,
to run its line to Austin ?
"Question 3. If the laws as to land grants to railroads
passed prior to 1869 were repealed by the constitution of that
year, can appellant interpose and maintain in this suit the equitable defence that if the certificates issued for that portion of
the road between the Colorado and the Guadalupe Rivers,
from 1870 to 1876 were illegally obtained that the State is in
no position to ask relief sought by reason of the fact that appellant has earned certificates for said 163 miles of road ?
"Question 4. If the last question be affirmatively answered,
would the fact that at the time the land for the 163 miles west
of San Antonio was earned by appellant, the public lands were
exhausted, affect the equities of the case?"
The Supreme Court was of opinion "that the Galveston,
Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company did not by
virtue of the act of July 27, 1870, acquire the right to earn
lands by the construction of its line to San Antonio." This
answered the second question and rendered an answer to the
first unnecessary.
As to the third question, the Supreme Court was "of the
opinion that it is no defence to an action of the State for the
recovery of the lands involved in this suit, that the company
may have been entitled to certificates for the one hundred and

GALVESTON &c.

RAILWAY v. TEXAS.

Statement of the Case.

sixty-three miles of additional road constructed under the law
of 1876." The fourth question, therefore, required no answer.
The case is reported, 89 Texas, 340.
The opinion of the Supreme Court having been transmitted
to the Court of Civil Appeals, that court proceeded to dispose
of the case, and held that there was no error in the refusal to
remove the cause; that Stone was not a necessary party to the
suit; that the State of Texas was not estopped, by "the illegal acts of the land commissioner in granting the land certificates and of the governor in granting patents to the land,"
from recovering the lands sued, for; and overruled the other
assignments of error in view of the answers of the Supreme
Court to the questions propounded. Thereupon the judgment
of the District Court was affirmed. A motion for rehearing
having been made and overruled, the company applied to the
Supreme Court for a writ of error, which was denied, whereupon a writ of error from this court was allowed by the Chief
Justice of the Court of Civil Appeals.
The Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railroad Company
was incorporated by an act approved February 11, 1850, c: 156,
and authorized to construct and maintain a railroad as therein
described. Laws Tex. 1849-50, pp. 194, 198.
By an act approved January 29, 1853, the route was defined
as follows: "Commencing at.a suitable point on Buffalo Bayou
in the county of Harris, thence running by such course and to
such point or points at or near the Brazos and Colorado Rivers,
or across the same as said company shall deem advisable, with
the privilege of making, owning and maintaining such branches
to said road as they may deem exp3dient." By the second section
of this act there was "granted to said company eight sections
of land, of six hundred and forty acres each, for every mile of
railway actually completed and ready for use," for which the
commissioner of the general land office of Texas was authorized to issue certificates under restrictions mentioned, and upon
location and survey patents were to be issued as provided.
-Special Laws, 1853, p. 3.
On January 30, 1851, the legislature passed a general land
-grant act, entitled "An act to encourage the construction of

OCTOBER TERMg 1897.
Statement of the Case.

railroads in Texas by donations of lands." c. 15. Section 1
provided "that 'any railroad company chartered by the legislature of this State, heretofore or hereafter, constructing
within the limits of Texas, a section of twenty-five miles or
more of railroad, shall be entitled to receive from the State a
grant of sixteen sections of land for every mile of road so
constructed and put in running order." Railroad companies
applying for land under this act were required by section 3 to
cause the land to be surveyed into sections of 640 acres each,
and in square blocks of not less than six miles, and the field
notes of fhe survey and map or maps to be deposited with the
Commissioner of the General Land Office. Section 6 related
to patentg, certificates, surveys, etc.
By section 11 all the alternate or even sections of lands
surveyed in pursuance to the provisions of this act were
"reserved to the use of the State, and not liable to locations,
entries or predmption privileges, until otherwise provided by
law." Section 12 provided: "That the provisions of this act
shall not extend to any company receiving from the State a
grant of more than sixteen sections of land, nor to any company for more than a single track road, with the necessary
turnouts ; and any company now entitled by law to receive a
grant of eight sections of land per mile for the construction
of any railroad, accepting the provisions of this act, shall not
be entitled to receive any grant of land for any branch road;
provided, this act shall not be so construed as to give to any
company now entitled by law to receive eight sections of land,
more than eight additional sections; provided, that no person
or company shall receive any donation or benefit under the
provisions of this act, unless they shall construct and complete
at least twenty-five miles of the road contemplated by their
charter within two years after the passage of this act;" etc.,
and that the act should continue in force for the term of ten
years from the time it shall take effect and no longer. Laws,
1854, p. 11.
On the same day a supplemental act was approved providing that no railroad company benefited by the act should
receive any donation of land under its charter, or under the

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

act of which this was a supplement, for any work not done
within ten years after the passage of th6 act. Laws, 1854,
p. 16.
By a special act of February 4, 1854, c. 45, the charter of
the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railroad Company
was amended, and it was provided that the company should
be "entitled to all the rights, privileges and benefits accruing
from any general law or laws that have or may hereafter be
passed by this State to encourage the constructing of railroads,
in the same manner and to the same extent as if the gauge of
said road was the same now fixed, or which may be hereafter
fixed upon by this State." Spec. Laws, 1854, p. 69. On the
same day another special act was passed providing "that if
the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railroad Company
shall avail themselves of the act to which this is a supplement,
or accept any donation of land from the State, they shall not
be entitled to receive any such donation from the State under
the provisions of this law or any law that has heretofore been
passed for their benefit, for any portion of their road which
shall not be completed and ready for use within ten years
from and after the passage of this act. Provided, that said
company shall restrict themselves to the following route;
viz., to an extension of their existing road to Austin, in the
county of Travis, crossing the Brazos River at any point between the town of Richmond, in Fort Bend County, and
Hidalgo Falls, in Washington County, and with the right of
extending their road from Austin to connect with any road
running north of Austin towards the Pacific Ocean. Provided, such connections be made between the ninety-sixth and
ninety-eighth parallels of longitude; and provided, further,
that said company shall have no right to build branches from
their main road." Spec. Laws, 1854, p. 70.
During the period of the civil war, two laws were passed
which had the effect to relieve the existing railroad companies from the limitations as to time embraced in the. act of
January 30, 1854, until two years after the close of the
-war. Laws, 1862, p. 43, c. 62, Jan. 11, 1862; p. 46, c. 69,
Jan. 11, 1862.

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

On November 13, 1866, an act, c. 174, was approved to this
effect: "That the grant of sixteen sections of land to the mile
to railroad companies, heretofore or hereafter constructing
railroads in Texas, shall be extended, under the same restrictions and limitations heretofore provided by law, for ten years
after the passage of this act." Laws, 1866, p. 212.
The state constitution of 1869 was adopted December 3,
1869, and accepted by Congress March 30, 1870, the sixth
section of a~ticle X of which instrument read as follows:
"The legislature shall not hereafter grant lands to any person
or persons, nor shall any certificates for land be sold at the
land office, except to actual settlers upon the same, and in lots
not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres."
July 27, 1870, the legislature passed an act entitled "An act
supplementary to the act to incorporate the Buffalo Bayou,
Brazos and Colorado Railway Company, and to the other
special acts relating to said company." The preamble recited
"Whereas, on the seventh of July, 1868; ' the roadbed, track,
franchise and chartered rights and privileges' of the Buffalo
Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railway Company were sold on
executions issued on judgments against said company; and on
the twenty-fourth January, 1870, the railroad of said company
from Harrisburg to Alleyton, and its franchise, rights and
other property appertaining thereto, were sold under the provisions of a mortgage or deed of trust made by said company
on the first November, 1860, all of which appears of record;
and whereas, the act of December 19, 1857, Isupplementary
to and amendatory of an act to regulate riilroad companies,'
provides that the- purchasers at such sales, and their associates,
'shall be entitled to have And exercise all the powers, privileges and franchises granted to' the company sold out ' by its
charter, or by virtue of the general law9 of this State;' and
'shall be deemed and taken to be the true owners of said charter and corporators under the same, and vested with all the
powers, rights, privileges and benefits thereof;' and whereas,
the purchasers at said siales, and their associates, have formed
a new compafr under said old name, and have expended large
sums of money in the reconstruction of said railroad, in the

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

purchase and completion of the Columbus Tap Railroad, and
the bridge of the Brazos Iron Bridge Company over the Brazos
River at Richmond; and whereas, said new company desires
to be distinguished by name from said ' sold-out' company, to
,consolidate its property, and to extefnd said lind of railroad."
Section 1 provided:
"That the new company heretofore known as the Buffalo
Bayou, Brazos and' Colorado Railway Company, referred to
in the preamble of this act, shall be hereafter known by the
corporate name of 'The Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company,' and may alter its seal to conform to
its name; provided, that said new company shall be liable to
the State of Texas for the debt of said ' sold-out' company for
loans made to the latter company from the special school
fund, in the same manner and to the same extent as said ' soldout' company was liable ; and that said change of name shall
in no respect impair or affect said liability, or the existing lien
of mortgage of the State upon the railroad of said company as
security for said loaus. Also, provided, that said change of
name shall in no re'spect impair or affect any of the obligations of
said new company to, other parties, or the obligations of other
parties to said new company; all of which may be enforced
by or against said new company under said new name."
Section 3:
"That said new company is hereby authorized to extend
the existing line of railroad owned and operated by said company from Columbus, in .Colorado County, to San Antonio,
in the county of Bexar, within four years from the passage of
this act; and thence to a terminus on the Rio Grande, by such
route as the directors shall deem most feasible, with a branch
from the most suitable point to New Braunfels, in Comal
County, within four years from the passage of this act; or
said new company may connect with any line of railroad that
may be constructed or under construction to San Antonio or
the Rio Grande, south of the latitude of the city of Austin
and the Colorado River instead of building its own lihe beyond the poiht cf such donnection; and may build to and connect with any line of railroad that may be constructed, or

OCTOBER TERATI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

under construction, and designed to form part of any railroad
line to the Pacific, south of the thirty-fifth parallel of latitude;
nothing herein being so construed as to exclude said new company from the right to construct also, any part of the line up
the Colorado Valley, formally designated by said 'sold-out'
company as its route under the provisions of the eleventh section of the act of December 19, 1857; provided, that if the
said road shall not be completed within the time specified in
this section, then this charter shall be forfeited."
Sections 11 and 12:
"SEc. 11. That said new company shall be entitled to the
same- or similar rights and relief, except state aid in bonds,
or indorsement of, or guarantee of interest on bonds, granted
to or provided for any other railroad company by the legislature, and upon the same or similar terms and conditions, so
far as such rights and relief are, in their character, applicable
to said new company or its line or lines of railroad.
"SEc. 12. That nothing in this act shall be so construed as
to deprive any party interested, of the right to disprove any
assiimqd -fact stated in the preamble; provided, that nothing
in this. act contained shall be construed, as reviving or renewing any lakd grant to said company for road hereafter to be
completed -which it does not possess by existing law." Spec.
Lbaws, 1870, p. 45.
Section 6 of Article X of the constitution of 186,9 was subsequently amended, the amendment taking effect M1arch 19,
1873. The section, as amended, read as follows:
"The legislature of the State of Texas shall not hereafter
grant lands except for purposes of internal improvement, to
any. person or persons, nor shall any certificate for land be
sold at the land office, except to actual settlers upon the same,
and in lots hot exceeding one hundred and sixty acres; provided, that the legisrature shall not grant, out of the public
domain, more than'twenty sections of land for each mile of
completed work, in aid of the construction of which land may
be granted; and provided further, that nothing in the foregoing proviso shall affect any rights granted or secured by
laws passed prior to the final adoption of this amendment."

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

August 16, 1876, a general law was enacted entitled "An
act to encourage the construction of railroads in Texas by
donations of lands," whereby it was provided that any railroad
company theretofore chartered or which might be thereafter
organized under the general laws of the State should, upon
the completion of a section of ten miles or more of its road,
be entitled to receive, and there was thereby granted to every
such railroad from the State, sixteen sections of land for every
mile of its road so-completed and put in good running order.
The act prescribed the usual formalities for ascertaining compliance on the part of railroad companies with the provisions
of the act, the issue of certificates, etc. Laws, 1876, 153.
April 22, 1882, the legislature passed an act repealing all
laws in force granting lands for the construction of railroads.
Laws, 1882, 3.
.1r. Joseph Paxton Blair for plaintiffs in error. Mr. James
A. Baker and AHr. R. S. L-ovett were with him on his brief.
Air.1%M. M. Crane, attorney general of the State of Texas,
for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
1. The State of Texas, as owner of the lands in question,
sought by its petition the removal of the cloud cast upon its
title by reason of certain certificates and patents. The petition
averred that those certificates were issued to the railway cornpany for the construction of its road from the town of Columbus to the Guadalupe bridge during a period of time when
there was no law in existence authorizing the issue of land
certificates and patents, and charged that the action of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office of the State in issuing and delivering the certificates, and permitting them to be
located and surveyed upon the lands and returned to and filed
in the General Land Office, and in the issue of the patents,
was had and done wholly without authority of law and in

236'

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of the constitution and laws of the State. It did
not appear from the State's'statement of its case that the suit
Was one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, and the Court of Civil Appeals properly held that the
petition ,to remove the cause into the Circuit Court of the
United States came within the, rule laid down in Tennessee v.
Union and Planters' Bank,. 152 U. S. 454, and subsequent
cases, and that there was no error in overruling the application.
2. The railroad, franchises, rights, and property of the
Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railroad Company had
been sold on execution and under foreclosure, and the purchasers. at the sales and their associates had formed a new
company under the old name. By the act of July 27, 1870,
this new company was given the name of "The Galveston,
Rarrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company," to distinguish it from the " 'sold-out' company ;" was, endowed with
various franchises; and,.among other things, was authorized
to extend the existing line of railroad owned and operated by
the company from Columbus, in Colorado County, to San
Antonio, in the county of ]3exar, and thence to a terminus on
the Rio Grande.
At this time the constitution of Texas provided: "The
legislature shall not hereafter grant lands to any person or
persons, nor shall any certificates for land-be sold at the land
office, except to actual settlers upon the same, and in lots not
exceedinogone hundred and sixty acres."
The certificates and patents in question in this suit were
issuea to the company for a portion of its railroad constructed
between the Colorado and the Guadalupe Rivers, under the
act of July 27, 1870, and before the act of August 16, 1876,
took effect.
Plaintiff in error contends that by virtue of the charter of
the old company and the amendments thereto, and the general laws, prior to 1869, it had a vested and contract right to
receive and hold these lands, which was impaired or of which
it was deprived, in violation of section ten of Article I of the
Constitution of the United States, and section one of the Four-

'GALVESTON

&c. RAILWAY o. TEXAS.

Op-nion of the Court.

teenth Amendment thereof, by section six of Article X of the
state constitution of 1869, as given effect by the state courts.
The Supreme Court of Texas considered the legislation at
length in replying to the questions propounded by the Court
of Civil Appeals.
Conceding, for the purposes of argument, that the original
company acquired a right to sixteen sections of land per mile
of constructed railroad under the general law of January 30,
1854, and the special acts amendatory of its charter; that this
right was preserved by the general law of November 13, 1866;
and that section six of A-rticle X of the constitution of 1869
did not operate to repeal either of those acts in respect of the
right of existing companies to lands in aid of the construction
of the lines of road specifically defined in their charters, the
cotirt was nevertheless unable to conclude that after the constitutional provision took effect an act of the legislature which
authorized the company to change its former route and to
construct a different line of road would carry with it the right
to acquire land by the construction of the new line.
In its view the law of January 30, 1854, applied only to
companies then chartered, and was intended to grant lands
for the construction of those roads only which the companies
were authorized by their charters to build. And while in the
absence of any constitutional inhibition on granting lands in
aid of railroads, it might be that legislative authority to a
company to change its line could properly be treated as carr'ying with it the privilege of earning lands for the construction
of the new line, this did not follow as to new routes authorized
after such land grants had been forbidden by the fundamental
law. "And here the act of February 4, 1854, supplementary
to the act of the same date which extended the privileges of
the law of January -30, 1854, to the company, restricted those
privileges to the line to Austin and to the extension of that
line. If then the new company had succeeded to the right to
acquire lands by the construction of the line fixed by the supplementary act, the construction of a different road in the exercise of the power given by the act of 1870 could not involve
an obligation to furnish lands in aid of such construction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

And the court said: "The company, before the passage of
the act of 1870, had no right to acquire lands by the building
of a railroad to San Antonio; to complete that right, a new
grant was requisite; but at that time the legislature was prohibited in the broadest terms from making any grant whatever. It matters not that the transaction may be looked upon
as being somewhat in the nature of an exchange, and that the
building of the new line may have involved a grant of no
more, or even of less land, than may have been acquired by
the construction of the old line. It involved a grant of land
as to the new line and that the legislature had no right to
make. Let us state the proposition in another form. If it
were the right of the company, under the existing laws, to
acquire lands by doing a specific thing, the legislature having
no power under the constitution to make any grant of lands,
could not confer upon it the right to earn lands by doing
another-a different thing.
"So far we have discussed the question as if in passing the
act of 1870 the legislature had intended to transfer the right
of the company as to the lands to be acquired, from the old
to the new line. But we find nothing in the act which manifests such an intention. On the contrary, the 12th section
of the act as above quoted indicates, that it was not the purpose in any manner to extend the existing rights of the
company with reference to the acquisition of lands from the
State.
"It is to be noted that the 3d section of the act of 1870 not
only authorized the company to change its route so as to run
to San Antonio, instead of Austin, but in addition thereto
reserved to it the right to build upon the route formerly designated by the sold-out company. It is evident, therefore, that
to concede to the company the right to earn lands by the construction of the new line involves a new and additional grant
-a
grant which the legislature, under the constitution of
1869, could have made neither expressly nor by implication."
Railway Company v. State, 89 Texas, 340, 354; Quinlan v.
Houston & Texas CentralRailway, 89 Texas, 356; Galveston,
Harrisburg"b San Antonio Railway v. Texas, 81 Texas, 572.

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

In our judgment the constitutional provision as thus enforced
involved no infraction of the Federal Constitution.
The Galveston Company was not identical with the Buffalo
Bayou Company, but a new company in succession to the old.
The Buffalo Bayou Company became entitled to the benefits of the general law of Januar-y 30, 1854, by the first of the
special acts of February 4, 1854, but by the supplemental
special act of that date was restricted to the route to Austin,
"with the right of extending their road from Austin to connect with any road running north of Austin towards the
Pacific Ocean; provided, such connections be made between
the ninety-sixth and ninety-eighth parallels of longitude; and
provided further, that said company shall have no right to
build branches from their main road."
Construing these two acts together, as we must, the contract between the State and the Buffalo Bayou Company
would appear to have been that the company would build a
line of road to Austin and northerly to some line of road going
west to the Pacific Ocean, and the State would give the company sixteen sections of land per mile, but the company was
restricted to the particular line and had no right to build
branches from the main line. The State did not contract
with the old corporation to build the road from Columbus
to San Antonio, and the new company could not claim to
earn lands by building this road, by virtue of what the old
company had been empowered to do. The old company did
not possess the right by existing law to build the road in question or branch lines, and the authority to construct it was not
given until July 27, 1870, at which time the constitution of
Texas forbade the granting of lands to railroad companies.
And if there were no contract prior to July 27, 1870, to give
land for the construction of a line of road from Columbus to
San Antonio and thence west, the constitution of 1869 could
not operate to impair any such.
But it is said that the right to a land grant of sixteen sections per mile under the act of 1854 had bccome a corporate
franchise of the Buffalo Bayou Company, exercisable on every
mile of road it might construct under competent legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

authority; that it was subject in the first instance to a restriction as to route, which the legislature could at any time remove, and did remove by the act of July 27, 1870 ; and that
the privilege of earning lands for the construction of the new
line was included in the grant of authority to construct itThis is to assert that the Buffalo Bayou Comipany acquired
by the legislation of 1854 a vested right to lands for the construction of whatever line of road, other than that then authorized and defined, it might in the future be empowered to
build, though in the meantime the power to grant lands had
been withdrawn from the legislature.
It is impossible to assent to such an application of the doctrine of vested rights. That subject was much considered and
the authorities cited in Pearsall v. Great 2orther. IRailwayf
Company, 161 U. S. 646, and it was there held that a clause
in a charter of a railroad corporation granting it certain
powers to consolidate with or become the owner of other
railroads was not such a vested right that it could not be
rendered inoperative by a subsequent statute passed before
the company had availed itself of the power granted. Provisions granting such rights or powers to a corporation, as
observed in Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 163 U. S. 416,
425, "do not partake of the nature of a contract, which cannot for that reason be in any respect altered or the power
recalled by subsequent legislation. Where no act is done
under the provision and no vested right is acquired prior to
the time when it was repealed, the provision may be validly
recalled, without thereby impairing the obligation of a contract."
The Supreme Court of Texas did not hold that the right to
construct the line defined in the second special act of February
4, 1854, and to earn lands by such construction, was affected
by the constitutional provision ; but held, ir. effect, that there
could be no obligation, express or implied, to bestow lands for
the construction of lines of road not authorized to be constructed until after the adoption of that provision.
. The road from Columbus to San Antonio had not only not
been constructed in 1869, but its construction had not been

GALVESTON &c. RAILWAY v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

authorized ; and no principle of contract or vested rights intervened to defeat the power of the State in 1869 to modify or
even repeal the general law of 1854.
Argument was earnestly made at the bar that by reason of
the amendment of section six of article X of the constitution
of 1869 in 1873, and the subsequent passage of numerous acts
granting land in aid of railroad construction, this company
was entitled under section eleven of the act of July 27, 1870,
which gave it the same rights or relief granted to other companies, to receive the certificates in controversy even though
it was not entitled to them under previous legislation. That
section apparently refers to existing rights or relief, and not
to such as might afterwards be acquired or obtained. But
this was matter of construction for the state courts, and was
disposed of by the decision of the Court of Civil Appeals, on
whose attention the point was pressed, though no allusion is
made to it in the opinion of that court.
3. The constitutional amendment of 1873 having relieved
the legislature of the restriction imposed by the constitution
of 1869, the act of August 16, 1876, granted to railroad companies, on the completion of ten miles or more'of their roads,
sixteen sections of land for every mile so completed and put
in good running order. On April 22, 1882, an act was passed
repealing "all laws or parts of laws now in force granting
lands or land certificates to any person, firm, corporation or
company for the construction of railroads, canals and ditches."
This act stated that the exhaustion of. the public domain subject to location created an imperative public necessity for the
act to take effect on its passage; and the record shows that
there was a deficiency in the public domain, August 31, 1882,
of 6,136,615 acres.
'After August 16, 1876, the railway company constructed
its road between San Antonio and El Paso, amounting to
623.14 miles, much the largest portion thereof prior to April
22, 1882. No land certificates were issued or located for the
construction of the road between these points. The company
contended that by the construction of its road between San
Antonio and El Paso it acquired under the-act of August 16,
VOL. CLXX-16

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

1876, a contract and vested right to sixteen sections of land
for each mile of road so constructed; that the issue of certilicates had been prevented by the passage of the act of April 22,
1882; and that, consequently, that act impaired the obligation
of the contract created by the act of August 16], 1876, and divested the company of its right to lands in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States. And further insisted
that it was entitled to avail itself in this suit of this alleged
unlawful deprivation not merely as a set-off or counter-clainm
agdinst the State, but as an absolute defence.
I The case in this aspect is briefly this: The railway company
sought and obtained certificates for building the road from
Columbus to San Antonio, and had them located on the lands
in question. But at that time the state constitution forbade
the granting of lands for railway construction and the issue
of certificates therefor, and the State brought suit for the
recovery of the lands and the cancellation of the illegally
issued muniments of title, which went to a decree in its
favor.
The question was as to whether the railroad company was
entitled to the particular lands in coiltroversy by virtue of the
location thereon of certificates issued for building the road
from Columbus to San Antonio. The ruling was that, as the
law stood, no title was acquired thereby, and the State was
entitled tb recover. But it was also contended that no recovery could be had because the company had earned other
lands of which it had been, as it alleged, unlawfully deprived.
The Supreme Court of the State held that it was no defence
to the suit, by way of set-off, counter-claim, or otherwise, that
the, company might have been entitled to land certificates for
road constructed under the law of 1876, and said that it had
"never been ruled that the claimant of land against the State
under k location made by virtue of a void certificate has any
equity in the premises by reason of being the possessor of
another valid certificate."
In arriving at this conclusion the state courts did not determine whether as to those other lands any vested right of the
railway company had or had not been impaired or taken

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY v. TEXAS.

243

Statement of the Case.

away; and we cannot bold that the company was denied by
the judgment of those courts in this respect any title, right,
privilege or immunity secured by"the Constitution or laws of
the United States.

Judgment affirmed.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COM1-

PANY v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVTL APPEALS FOR THE SECOND SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 406. Argued January 24, 25, 1898.-

Decided April 25, 1898.

In Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Bailway Go. v. Texas, ante, 226, the
grants of land repealed by the operation of Section 6 of Article X of the
constitution of Texas of 1869, were grants to aid in the construction of
lines of railway not authorized until after that provision took effect ;
whereas, in this case, the grants which are claimed to be affected by it were
grants made prior to the adoption of that constitution, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of the road from Brenham to Austin. Held,
that that constitutional provision, as thus enforced, impairs the obligation'
of the contract between the State and the railway company, and cannot
be sustained.
Argument was urged on behalf of defendant in error that the particular
lands sued for are situated in what is known as the Pacific reservation,
being a reservation for the benefit of the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company, created by a special act of May 2, 1873, and hence, that though
the certificates were valid, they were not located, as the law required, on
unappropriated public domain. This question was not determined by
either of the appellate tribunals, but, on the contrary, their judgments
rested distinctly on the invalidity of the certificates for reasons involving the disposition of Federal questions. This court therefore declines
to enter on an examination of the controversy now suggested, on this
point.

THIS was a suit instituted by the State of Texas in the District Court of Nolan County, Texas, Fbruary 3, 1890, to
recover of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company
and the purchaser under it, sixteen sections of land of 640

acres each, located in that county by virtue of certificates
issued by the State to the railway company. It was alleged

