OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

furnishing of essential and necessary current supplies, not sold
upon mere personal credit, against the surplus income arising
(luring the operation of the road under the direction of a court
of equity.
In view of the conclusion which we have reached, none of
the other matters urged in argument need be noticed. The
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals being in consonance
with the views we have expressed, the decree of that court is
AJ/b'med.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHrAm and AIR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, lot
having heard the argument, take no part in this decision.

SMITH

v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 212. Submitted April 20, SgS.-Deelded

May9, 155.

When an entryman goes to the public land office for the purpose of obtaining public land, and is told by the receiver that his proofs cannot be tiled
or accepted unless and until he pays the purchase price of the land, which
he thereupon does, he makes such payment to the receiver as a public
officer of the United States, and not to him as the agent of the entrynan,
and the payment is to be regarded as one made to the Government and as
public money, within the meaning of the law and of any bond given for
the faithful discharge of the duties of his office by the receiver, and for
his hodestly' accounting for all public funds and property coming Into ii,
hands.

THIS action was brought against Frederick W. Smith and
the sureties on his official bond as receiver of public moneys
inthe Tucson land district in the Territory of Arizona. The
bond was dated MIarch 7, 188S, and the condition therein was
that "if the'said Frederick W. Smith shall, at all times during his holdiug and remaining in said office, carefully discharge the duties thereof, and faithfully disburse all public
moneys, and honestly account, without fraud or delay, for

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the same and for all public funds and property which shall
or may come into his hands, then the above obligation to be
void and of no effect; otherwise, to remain in full force and
virtue."
Smith was appointed receiver on the 28th of February,
1887, and remained such receiver until the latter part of
November, 1889, when he was removed and Charles R. Drake
was appointed his successor, who assumed the duties of the
office and took charge of the books and papers on December
3, 1889. The Government claimed that the condition of the
bond had been violated by.the failure of Smith to faithfully
disburse all public moneys and to honestly account for the
same, and that he was indebted to the Government by reason
thereof in various sums, amounting to over $19,000. During
the time of Smith's incumbency there was either no register
of the land office in the Tucson district, or the person occupying that position was in such ill health as to be unable to
attend to the duties of the office. Smith was himself also in
ill health during 1889. Owing to these facts'the business of
the office ran largely behind, and there were so many persons
presenting their proofs and making their payments to. Receiver Smith, before he was ready to pass upon the sufficiency
of such proofs and before the-register had acted upon any of
them, that a large sum of money thereby accumulated in the
hands of the receiver, amounting at the time he was removed
from office to about the sum of $40,000. Prior to the time
when the receiver was removed from office in November 1889,
no final action had been taken by him or the register in regard
to any of the applications involved in this record.
Before his removal it had been the custom of the Land
Department not to permit the giving of any receipt by a
receiver, for money paid him by an applicant for entry, until
such application had been finally acted upon by the receiver
and the register, and then, if favorably decided, the custom
was for the receiver to charge himself in his account with the
Government with the amount of the money which had already
been paid him by the applicant. If the application were not
favorably acted upon, it was then the custom of a receiver to

OCTOBER TERMA,

1897.

Statement of the Case.

return the money to the applicant. This was authorized by
the Government.
An agent of the Government came to Tucson after the
receiver's removal and on examining his books stated that
the receiver did not owe the Government anything. One of
the sureties on the receiver's bond had heard of the receipt
of these moneys by Smith, and had obtained from him
$25,000, being part, of the moneys which Smith had received
as above mentioned. While in possession of this money the
surety saw the agent of the Government and inquired if
there were any charges against the receiver, his principal, and
that he wanted to know so that he might use the money Smith
had paid him to repay the Government any amount that might
be found due on an accounting, and he was told by the agent
that Smith's accounts were all right, and that he did not owe
the Government a dollar. It is claimed that thereafter the
$25,000 were refunded to the entrymen who had made payments to Smith, until the amount was exhausted.
In April, 1890, there was still a very large accumulation of
cases in the Tucson office where proofs had been made and
filed with Smith, and moneys had boen paid to him, while receiver, as the purchase price of the lands desired and no final
receipts had been giveh by him or his successor. In this condition of affairs the Commissioner of the General Land Office
wrote the following letter:
"Letter ' M.
"1DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,
11GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
"W SHINGTON D.C. April 30, 1890.

"Register and Receiver, Tucson, Arizona.
"SIR: I enclose herewith a statement as taken from the records of your office, showing the final proofs now in your office
awaiting examination on which the money in payment for the
same was paid to Fred. W. Smith, the late receiver, and was
by him appropriated to his own use and never accounted for
to the United States. You are instructed to examine all the
final proofs now in your office, as shown by the accompanying

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

list, and if the- same is found sufficient, you will request the
parties in interest to furnish an affidavit, properly attested,
showing that they did pay the money to Fred. W. Smith, and
whether the same was paid by draft or check. If the parties
can furnish certified copies of these drafts or checks from the
cashier of the bank 9howing the same, you will obtain these
copies and allow the entries as of date when proof and payment werb 'made. You will refer on the entry papers and
upon your records to this letter by initial and date as your authority therefor. The receiver will enter upon the books of his
office, under the account of Fred. W. Smith, late receiver, the
amount of purchase money received for each class of entry.
You will give to said entries a half number corresponding to
the time when said proof Was accepted and prepare supplemental abstracts of the same, noting thereon, 'Allowed by
letter "M" of April 30,' and purchase money is to be charged
to Fred. W. Smith, the late receiver. You will then prepare
an account current, Form 4-105, thereof and certify therein
that the transaction reported appears from the records of your
office. The receiver will send a duplicate receipt to the entrymen in accordance with the instructions herein contained, noting on the receipt, as his authority, this letter by initial and
date, and after you have carefully examined all of these papers
as instructed in this letter, you will forward them to this office
for future consideration.
"The decision of this office heretofore has been against the
allowance of an entry where the money be payable to the receiver of public moneys if the moneys were not properly accounted for or deposited to the credit of the Treasurer of the
United States; but, as a matter of equity, in view of the general circular of this office, which provides that proof without payment must in no case be accepted or received by register
and receiver, and in view of the fact that entrymen had made
their payments in accord with this circular issued by this office,
it is the cipinion of this office that the entries should be allowed. I am aware that the views herein expressed are in
conflict with the practice above referred to, but my understanding of the law and convictions of equity are so strong and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

clear that, reluctant as I am to change the former practices, I
feel myself compelled to do so in this case. I therefore hold
that the moneys paid by entrymen to Fredrick W. Smith, receiver, and received by him in his official capacity as such,
were public moneys within the meaning and intent of the law,
and the payment to him was a payment to the Government.
The recourse of the United States is under the official bond of
Mr. Smith, and, as suit has already been instituted for the
recovery of the amount received by him, the entries should be
allowed without further delay.
"Very respectfully,
WILLIAM STONE,
"Assistant Commissioner."
Pursuant to the directions contained in the above letter, the
receiver, M-fr. Drake, issued, in all cases where the proofs were
satisfactory, final receipts to the various entrymen who had
made applications for entry and paid their money to Smith
while he was receiver, and the payments to Smith in such
cases were recognized as payments to the Government.
Upon the trial of the action in the Arizona court judgment
for nearly six thousand dollars was given for the United States
for the amount found to be due by the jury in cases where
payments had been made to Smith and the final proofs had
been favorably decided upon by his successor. That judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory,
and the defendants brought the case here for review.
.M[r.I.

. Payson and .Mr.
W. 1. Barnes for appellants.

-Mr. Solicitor General and M.
pellees.

Felix Brannigan for ap-

MR.JUSTICE PEoKHAM, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question to be determined in this case is, whether,
under the circumstances above set forth, the moneys received
by Receiver Smith, and to recover which the action herein

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

was commenced, were public moneys within the meaning of
the law and the bond given by the receiver.
The moneys paid to the receiver were paid upon the making of proofs by the entrymen under various statutes of the
United Stat6s providing for the sale of the public lands, such
as the statute relating to preemptions, Rev. Stat. §§ 2257-2288;
the statute relating to homesteads, Rev. Stat. §§ 22S9-2317;
the statute relating to the sale of desert lands. Act of
March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377. In the course of the
proceedings under these acts and in the examination of the
proofs submitted, various questions of fact arise and are to be
decided by the register and receiver, who are to be satisfied
of the existence of the necessary facts mentioned in the
statute, and of the regularity and sufficiency of the proofg.
When so satisfied the register issues his certificate to that
effect, and the receiver gives what is known as a "final
receipt," and upon the two papers the patent finally issues.
There must be the favorable action of both register and
receiver before the final papers issue, but such action need
not be. simultaneous. The receiver may act at one time and
the register at another, but both must act before the case is
concluded and the papers signed upon which the patent is subsequently issued. Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 314; Potter v.
United States, 107 U. S. 126.
The statutes are-somewhat general in their provisions as to
the time of payment of the purchase price of the lands, merely
providing that the entries desired may be made upon satisfactory proof being made to the register and receiver and "upon
paying to the United States the minimum price of such land."
The statutes do not provide that the entryman shall not pay
the money before the final decision is made determining the
sufficiency of his proofs, but they simply provide that when
the register and receiver are so satisfied and upon payment of
the money, entry may be made. The matter of the time of
payment, so long as it is made before the entry, is thus left
for regulation by the department having the matter in charge.
Such regulations are made under § 161 Rev. Stat., permitting
each head of a department to prescribe regulations, not incon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

sistent with law, for the government of his department and
the conduct of its officers and clerks, etc.
Acting under the authority of section 161, the General
Land Office provided by its general circular with regard to
the time when payment for public lands sold should be made,
and directed "that proofs without payment must in no case
be accepted." This regulation did not refer to "final" acceptance of proof, resulting in a favorable decision upon the
application. The statutes already provided that it was only
upon payment that the entry might be made. -The regulation
referred to the taking of the proofs at all. It cotild only mean
that no proof proffered by an entryman should be received
without payment of the purchase price of the land which he
desired to purchase. The probable purpose of the rule was to
prevent the unnecessary examination of proofs in cases where
they might be found tQ be satisfactory and yet the purchase
price should not then be forthcoming. Whatever the reason,
the direction was plain and unambiguous, and it absolutely
forbade the reception of the proofs of the entryman unless at
the same time he paid the purchase price to the receiver for
the lands which he proposed to buy. Thus the entryman
could not make his proofs and leave them with the receiver
for him and the register. subsequently to act upon them, unless
the entryman at the tim6 of making his proofs and leaving
them for future examination and decision paid the purchase
price for the lands. This regulation is not inconsistent with
or in violation of the statutes in regard to payment. As we
have observed, the payment must by statute be made before
entry is allowed, but the particular time is not stated. The
regulation above mentioned then comes in, the effect of which
is to prevent the acceptance of proof Without payment, and
the payment must therefore be made when the proof is offered,
and it may be some time before it is favorably acted upon by
both register and receiver. Thus under provision of law and
pursuant to valid requirements of the Land Office the entryman
is compelled to pay his money at the time he proffers his
proofs and before final action upon them is taken by the two
public officers designated in the statutes. When the entryman

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

goes to the public land office for the purpose of obtaining the
land he desires, and is told that his proofs cannot be filed or
accepted unless and until he pays the purchase price of the
land, which he thereupon does, he makes such payment to the
receiver as a public officer, acting in the line of his duty, and
it is safe to say that the entryman is without any thought or
intention of paying the money to such receiver as his own
private agent, to be kept by that agent in trust until the proofs
are satisfactory, and to be then paid by him to the Governinent; nor are the circumstances of that nature which would
lead to the belief that in making such payment the entryman
is in fact trusting to the good faith and integrity of the receiver as his agent and that he does not regard himself as
dealing with a public officer of the Government. The law
accords with the fact. How can it be said that the money
which he pays does not become public money upon such payment, when he pays it pursuant to law as the purchase price
of land which he desires to buy and the money is exacted from
him by the Government before any final action is taken upon
his application? What difference does it make that the Government comes undbr an obligation to repay the money to the
man in case the proofs are not finally accepted? The money
is none the less public money when paid to this public official
pursuant to law and under the direction and by reason of the
regulations of the Land Office. See King v. United States, 99
U. S. 229.
As the party taking the money is a public officer, and as be
exacts the payment, and such exaction is in pursuance of a
regulation of the General Land Office, and is consistent with
and authorized by law, it seems to us that the money thus
paid is received by the receiver as public money and in his official capacity, and he is neitber in law nor in fact the agent of
the entryman. If the proofs are unsatisfactory and the money
is returned, it is returned by the receiver as a public officer and
as the agen.t of the Government, and the money is returned
by the Government through its agent.
The custom of the Land Office at the time in question not
to have such money appear in the accounts of the receiver

OCTOBER TERf 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

with the Government until after the proofs had been passed
upon by both register and'receiver and a final receipt given,
does not affect the character of the money so paid. The
receiver receives the money as a public offlcer pursuant to the
provisions of law. While in the hands of the receiver it remains public money, received by him by virtue of his office, and
the money belongs to the Government as between it and the
receiver, although it may be under obligations to return the
same to the entryman in case his proofs were rejected. When
the Government authorized the return of the money by the
receiver, in making such return he acted as its agent and not
as the agent of the entryman, and the payment was not by
the receiver in his personal capacity.
It is true that on some occasions prior to the execution of
this bond it had been decided by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office that under the law the money paid to a
receiver by an entryman before the final determination of his
application and a certificate given by the register was not,
public money, but was paid by the entryman to the receiver
as his own agent, and that until the proofs were favorably
passed upon and a final receipt given, the money in the hands
of the receiver was at the risk of the entryman; it was received by the receiver in his personal capacity as a private
individual, and if 'not properly paid over recourse for the
money must be had against the receiver personally by the
parties aggrieved. Such was the case of -lathikessen v. Wird,
6 L. 0. Decs. 713. This rule was upheld by the Secretary of
the Interior.
The decision does not refer to the regulation made by the
department that no proof shall be accepted from the entrymen without payment of the money. - This regulation is a
most vital part of the whole proceeding, and instead of the
moneys not being payable to the receiver until an entry had
been allowed by the register and a certificate given, the regulation of the department distinctly provided that payment of
the purchase price was to be insisted upon as a condition precedent to the acceptance of proofs at all. The decision of the
department was not in any sense a regulation under section

SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

161 of the Revised Statutes, but was the opinion of the Secretary upon the law and regulations as they existed. Such
opinion is entitled to and it receives great respect and consideration by this court, but it is not binding upon us as a valid
regulation of the department and cannot be so regarded.
We are unable, for the reasons already stated, to concur
with the opinion of the Commissioner.
These distinctions between the acts of the receiver as an
alleged agent of the entryman in receiving the money prior to
the decision upon the sufficiency of the proofs, and the same
receiver as agent of the Government in the keeping of public moneys. ought not to be created by any refined reasoning.
Fairprotection of the entryman in his dealings with the Government. ought to be given when possible. There can be no
doubt of the fact that the entryman has no idea of any such
distinction, nor can there be any doubt of the fact that when
he pay the money to the receiver he supposes he is paying it
to the Government through its public officer, and by reason
of provisions of law and the regulations of the department.
Public money in the sense of the law, and as used in this
bond, is money which legally comes to the receiver by virtue
of his office and as a public officer and while carrying out the
duties of his office, and he cannot be permitted to say that it
was not public money when so received. Being public money,
he is bound to account.
Is there any alteration of this liability caused by his removal from office before he has finally accounted for the
moneys he received on these various applications? -We think
not. The applications are to be acted upon by the register
and receiver; that is, by those persons who at the time of
such action hold these offices. It is not a matter personal to
the individual who receives the money, and_ therefore When the
person receiving the money is removed C-wn office before the
proofs are finally acted upon by the register and receiver, and
action is subsequently had by the receiver's successor in office,
and the proofs are finally accepted by such successor and by
the register, the Government is as much bound by such acceptance as if it had been acknowledged by the receiver who

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

received the money, and his obligation to account for the
money which he received still remains in full force and is not
altered in the slightest degree by the fact of his removal from
office. As the agent of the Government he received it, and
upon the acceptance of the proofs and final receipt it becomes
the duty of the Government to issue lhe patent, and the fact
that its agent had not paid the money over to it would constitute no defence to its obligation to issue the patent when
the proofs were found satisfactory.
There may have been no breach of the bond at the time of
his removal from office, but the liability of the receiver to
account remained, and the bond continued in force until he
had fully accounted and thus had fulfilled all the conditions of
his bond. His repayment to the entryman, after his removal,
in case the proof were rejected, would be an accounting pro
tanto to the Government, the repayment being authorized and
recognized by it as the fulfilment to that extent of the duty
of the Government to make such repayment.
In this view the liability of the defendant and his sureties
does not depend at all upon the letter written by the Commissioner and set forth in the above statement of facts. The
letter simply officially recognized the duty of the receiver who
then occupied the office to issue the final receipt when the
officials were satisfied with the proofs and the money had
been theretofore paid to Smith. Although before the writing
of the letter the Land Office had not recognized its obligation
to issue patents under the circumstances developed in this case
and had refused to issue them unless it were again paid the
money, that practice, as we have said, did not alter the law
and dill not take away or affect the obligation and liability
of the Government to issue the patent when the proofs were
found satisfactory.
Setting the letter aside, the liability of the Government
remains the same, the character of the money received by the
receiver remains the same, and the liability of himself and his
sureties is of the same nature and of the same degree without
the letter as with it. This, therefore, is no case of -an alteration of the Jaw or of the obligations of the bond made subse-

STUART v. EASTON.
Syllabus.

quently to the time of its execution, and we are not called
upon to discuss the question as to how far alterations of the
regulations or of the law may affect the continued obligation
of the obligors in a bond like this.
Substantially the same question that we have been discussing arose in the case of Meads v. United States, decided in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, in July, 1897, and
reported in 54 U. S. App. 150; also in 81 Fed. iRep. 684.
The case was heard before Circuit Judges Taft and Lurton,
and District Judge Clark, and conclusion arrived at in that
case is in accord with that which we have come to herein.
There is no question of estoppel in the case. The surety
had possession of some $25,000 of the moneys collected by
the receiver, and when the agent of the Government said that
the receiver did not owe it a- dollar, the surety repaid to' the
various entrymen the amounts that they had paid, as far as
the money went. In doing so, he lessened by that amount
the liability of the sureties on the bond, and there is no proof
that any portion of the indebtedness for which this judgment
was recovered was represented in those payments.
We think this case was correctly decided, and the judgment
is, therefore,
_____

_

4ffrmed.

STUART v. EASTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 197.

Argued April 12, 13, 1898.-Decded May 9, 1898.

The construction and legal effect of a patent for land is matter for the
court, and evidence to aid in that construction is incompetent.
The clear intent of the act of the Province of Pennsylvania of March 11,
1752, authorizing trustees to acquire the land in question, was, that while
the legal estate in fee in the land should be acquired by the trustees, the
beneficial use or equitable estate was to be in the inhabitants of the
county; and the provision following the authorization to acquire
the land, "and thereon to erect and build a court house and prison," was

