OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

towns, for their representatives were in the legislature and
took part in the proceedings by which the act -was passed.
So they had an opportunity to be heard, if such hearing was
necessary, prior to the enactment of the law. These are all
the questions made by counsel. We see nothing in the proceedings which can be said to be in violation of any provisions
of the Federal Constitution, and therefore the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut is

Affdrmed.

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 154.

Submitted February 23, 1898. -Decided

May 2, 1898.

In 1860 Congress granted a quantity of land in New Mexico, in fulfilment
of a grant of non-mineral lands made by Mexico before its transfer, the
land to be selected by the grantees, and the surveyor general to survey
and locate the land selected, and thus determine whether it was such as
the grantees might select. The grantees made their selection, and after
considerable correspondence as to the forms of the application and as to
the evidence that the selected lands were not mineral lands, the surveyor
general, under the direction of tie Land Department, approved the selection, and made the survey and location. The Land Department approved
the survey, field notes and plat, and the partics were notified thereof, hut
no patent was issued, as Congress had not provided for such issue. The
Land Department noted on its maps that this tract bad been segregated
from the public domain, and had become private property, and so reported
to Congress, and that body never questioned .the validity of its action.
The grantees entered into possession, fenced the tract, and paid all
taxes assessed upon it as private property by the State. Held, that the
action taken by the Laud Department was a finality, and that the title
passed, all having been done which was prescribed by the statute.
Such approval entered upon the plat in the Land Department by the surveyor general, under the directions of that department, was in terms
"subject to the conditions and provisions of section 6 of the act of
Congress, approved June 21, 1860." Held, that such limitation was
beyond the power of executive officers to impose.

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

Tuis was an- action of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Colorado on July
3, 1893, to recover possession of a certain tract in Saguache
County, in the State of Colorado, described as follows:
"Section twenty-two (22), township one (1) north, one (1)
east, according to the plat of said Baca Grant No. 4, as filed and
recorded in the office of the county clerk and recorder of said
Saguache County, and including in said section twenty-two
certain mineral bearing property designated by the defendant
as the Eastern Star Mine, with other mining lands adjacent
thereto within said section twenty-two."
After answer a trial was had before a jury, which resulted
in a verdict under instructions of the judge for defendant.
Upon this verdict judgmefit was entered, May 22, 1895.
Thereupon the plaintiff sued out a writ of error from the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. On March
30, 1896, that court certified certain questions. Upon an examination of those questions and after argument of counsel,
this court, on December 22, 1897, ordered a certiorari to
bring up the entire record, and upon such entire record the
case was submitted for consideration.
The premises in question are within the limits of the so
called Baca Grant INo. 4. The plaintiff is the owner of that
grant, and the question presented is as to the validity and
extent of his title. Prior to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
between Mexico and the United States of date February 2,
1848, by which New Mexico and other territory in the southwest was ceded to this Government, Mexico had made some
quite extensive grants of tracts of land within the territory
ceded. Since then Congress has provided for the several portions of the ceded territory different modes of determining the
validity and extent of those grants. By the act of July 22,
1854, c. 103, 10 Stat. 308, the office of surveyor general for
the Territory of New Mexico was created, and, by section 8,
it was .made his duty to examine into all claims for lands
within the limits of that Territory and to make full report
thereof to Congress. In pursuance of this authority the surveyor general examined and reported upon various claims, and

OCTOBER TERMr, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

on June 21, 1860, Congress passed an act, c. 167, 12 Stat. 71,
confirming several of them. There were two opposing claimants for a large tract of land in the vicinity of the town of
Las Vegas. In settling the dispute between them Congress
enacted, in section 6:
"SEc. 6. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful
for the heirs of Luis Maria Baca, who make claim to the said
tract of land as is claimed by the town of Las Begas [Vegas],
to select instead of the land claimed by them, an equal quantity of vacant land, not mineral, in the Tqrritory of New
Mexico, to be located by them in square bodies, not exceeding
five in number. And it shall be the duty of the surveyor general of New Mexico to make survey and location of the lands
so selected by said heirs of Baca when thereunto required by
them: Provided, however, that the right hereby granted to
said heirs of Baca shall continue in force during three years
from the passage of this act, and no longer."
On July. 26, 1860, a letter of instructions was issued by the
Land Department to the surveyor general of New Mexico in
reference to these private land claims. In that letter, after
directing a survey of the Las Vegas grant, and a determination of the area thereof, the instructions were as follows:
"The exact area of the Las Vegas town tract having been
thus ascertained, the right will accrue to the Baca claimants
to select a quantity equal to the area of the town. tract elsewhere in New Mexico of vacant land, not mineral, in square
bodies not exceeding five in number.
"You will furnish them with a certificate, transmittin - at
the same time a duplicate to this office, of their right and the
area they are to select in five square parcels. Should they
select in square forms according to the existing line of the
public surveys, the matter may be properly disposed of by
their application duly-endorsed and signed with your certilicate designating the parts selected by legal divisions or subdivisions, and so selected as to form five separate bodies in
square form. Then the certificate thus endorsed is to be noted
on the records of the register and receiver at Santa F6, and
sent on here by those officers for approval. Should the Baca

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

claimants select outside of the existing surveys, they must give
such distinct descriptions and connection with natural objects
in their applications to be filed in your, office, as will enable
the deputy surveyor when he may reach the vicinity of such
selections in the'regular progress of the surveys, to have the
selections adjusted as near as may be to the lines of the public
surveyk, which may hereafter be established in the region of
those selections.
"In either case the final'condition of the certificate to this
office, must be accompanied by-a statement from yourself
and register and receiver that the land is vacant and not mineral."
The survey made of thl grant to the town of Las Vegas
showed an acreage of 496,446.96 acres, a certificate of which
fact was given to the heirs of said Baca.
On December 12, 1862, the following selection was filed
with the surveyor general of New Mexico:
"SANTA Fi, NEw

"To Surveyor General

JOHN

A.

IMxIco, Dec. 12, 1862.
surveyor general of

CLARK,

New Mexico:
"I, John S. Watts, attorney of the heirs of Luis Maria
Baca, have -this day selected, as one of the five locations
belonging to the said heirs under the sixth section of the act
of Congress approved June 21, 1860, a tract of land in the
Territory of :New Mexico, described as followis:
"Beginning at a point on the eastern edge of the valey of
San Luis, whe're the, thirty-eighth parallel of north latitude
crosses the base of the snowy range, dividing the waters of
the rivers Arkansas and Del Norte; thence east along- said
parallel, four and one half miles; thence south along a meridian line twelve miles, thirty-six (chains) and forty-four links
distance; thence west at a right angle twelve miles, thirty-six
chains and forty-four links distance; thence north to the said'
stepifed par'Tllel of latitude; thence east-with said parallel to
the.lace of beginning.
"I'further- state that the said land is entirely vacant, not
claimed by any one, is not mineral, but located for purposes

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of arable and pastoral agriculture, and is within the limits of

the Territory of New Mexico as established in the organic
act. I hereby accordingly make application for the survey
and location of the tract of land in accordance with the provisions of the above act of Congress.
t e
H
"JOH1 S. WATTS,
"Attorney for -ei s of Luis -faria Baca."

Prior to this time the Territory of Colorado had been organized and a portion of the Territory of New Mexico included
within its boundaries, and the land described in this application
was within the territory thus included in Colorado. The surveyor general of New Mexico, on the receipt of th is application,
forwarded it to the Land Department at Washington, and al6
transmitted a copy to the surveyor general of Colorado. The
surveyor general of Colorado, writing on February 24, 1863,
to the Land Department, informed it of the receipt of the
copy above referred to, and at the close of his letter made this
statement:
"I suppose this selection has been made by ex-Governor
Gilpin, as he told me last summer he was in possession of one
of the Baca 'floats,' and should locate it as this is located,
for the reason that, in his opinion, it would cover rich minerals
in the mountains."
In reply the Land Department, on March 13, 1863, wrote as
follows:
"It is necessary before the application can be approved by
this office, that it be accompanied, by the certificates of the
surveyor general and the register and receiver that the land
selected is vacant and not mineral. This is in accordance with

our instructions to the surveyor general of -NewMexico, extracts from which were furnished your office in our communication of June 7, 1862; especially should the character of the
location as to minerals be carefully ascertained after the important statement of ex-Governor Gilpin, which you communicated in your official letter to this office. Whenever you shall
acquire good and satisfactory information that the lands included in this selection are vacant and not mineral, to enable

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

you to do so, you will transmit to this office your official certificate setting forth these facts.
"You will also correspond with the register and receiver of
Colorado, when they enter upon their official duties, communicating to them the substance of this communication, and call
upon them to furnish their certificate, when able, under the
same conditions that your own is to be furnished under, which
when received you will forward to this office."
During the year 1863 ex-Governor Gilpin, who had become
the owner, or at least interested in this location, made application to the surveyor general of Colorado for a survey of the
tract. As the land was beyond the limits of the public surveys then completed, the surveyor general made a contract
with deputy surveyor A. Z.' Sheldon for its survey, and forwarded the same-to the Land Department for approval. On
November 2, 1863, that office wrote to the surveyor general
disapproving of the contract, and adding:
"In your letter dated the 10th March last transmitting the
application of the attorney of said heirs for the location of this
claim, you say, ' I suppose this selection has been made by exGovernor Gilpin, as he told me last summer he was in possession of one of the Baca floats, and should locate it as this is
located, for the reason that, in his opinion it would cover rich
minerals in the mountains.'
"Upon the receipt of your letter you wer.e expressly informed, under date of the 13th March, 1863, that before the
application could be approved it must be accompanied by the
certificates of the surveyor general and the register and receiver that the land is vacant and not mineral,and I then took
occasion to communicate the following explicit instructions:
'Especially should the character of the locations as to minerals
be carefully ascertained after the important statement of exGovernor Gilpin, which you communicated in your official letter to this office. Whenever you shall acquire good and satisfactory information that the lands included in the selection are
vacant and not mineral, to enable you to do so, you will transmit to this office your official certificate setting forth these
facts.'

OCTOBER, TER-M, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"In our communication of the 7th June, 1862, you were
also furnished with extracts from our instructions to the surveyor general of New Mexico, referring to the location of
these claims, in which it was plainly indicated that should selections be made outside of the existing surveys, the survey
thereof mugt be postponed until the vicinity is reached by the
regular progress of the public surveys. You will be guided in
your official acts by our instructions, which are full and explicit, in relation to the location of the claims referred to.
The contract and instructions for the survey of the above mentioned claim are herewith returned."
On December 12 the surveyor general wrote to the Land
Office a letter containing this statement:
"Six: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the 2d of November last disapproving of the contract
for the survey of Grant No. 4 of the floats belonging to the
heirs of Luis Maria Baca.
"I herewith transmit my certificate that the lands are ' not
mineral and are vacant.' You refer to a letter of the former
surveyor general of this district, in which he says that he
supposes that this location was made by Mr. Gilpin 'for the
reason that in his opinion it would cover rich mineral lands.'
I do not believe that at the time Mr. Case wrote that letter he
had the least idea that the float as located covered any mineral lands. I have signed the accompanying certificate partly
from my Qwn knowledge of the country, but mostly for the
following reasons:
"1st. The discoveries of gold thus far go to show that the
gold lands of Colorado commence at the base of Long's Peak
and extend in-a course about 300 west of south to the headwaters of the San Juan, covering a belt, of country about 30
miles in width of which the line indicated will be near the
western boundary; outside of this no gold or silver lodes have
been discovered.
"2d. The grant is located on the great line of travel between Denver and Santa F(, and thousands of experienced min-ers have been travelling over the Sangre de Christo and Mosca
passes and have found no gold or other valuable minerals.

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

"3d. In the summer of 1860 a party of one hundred and
fifty miners from here under one Roeder went to the San Luis
valley and prospected the whole of the Sangre de Christo
range, but found no gold anywhere on the eastern run of the
park. Many of the men who were in this expedition have
been in my employ, and from them I have had this history of
the expedition.
"Such are the grounds on which I have signed the certificate, and to me they are satisfactory."
He enclosed in it certificates of himself and the register and
receiver of the local land office in the following language:
"DENVER, C. T., December 5, 1863.

"SIR: This is to certify that from good and sufficient evidence I am perfectly satisfied that the land on which the heirs
of Luis Maria Baca have located their Grant No. 4, in the
San Luis valley, and marked out by a survey made by Albinus
Z. Sheldon in November, 1863, is not mineral and is vacant.
JOHN PIERCE,
"Very truly, your ob't servant,
"Surveyor General of Colorado and Utah."
"COLORADO TERRITORY, GOLDEN CITY, December 5, 1863.
"SIR: This is to certify that from good and sufficient evidence we are perfectly satisfied that the land on which the
heirs of Luis Mlaria. Baca have located their Grant No. 4, in
the San Luis valley, and marked out by a survey made. by
Albinus Z. Sheldon in November, 1863, is not mineral and is
G. N. CHILcorr,
vacant.
"Register Land Offlce, Colo. Dist.
"*O. B. CLEMENTS,
"Receiver Land Ofice, Colo. Ty."

To this letter the Land Office replied on January 16, 1864,
stating"The evidence furnished by you is not sufficient in the
opinion of this office, to prove that the selection No. 4 does
not cover valuable mineral deposits. Your certificate is not
based upon actual knowledge of the facts, but upon the infor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

mation and conclusions deduced from reasoning. This kind
of proof is not deemed sufficient when large public interests
may be involved, and the character of the location is made
still more doubtful by the statement of ex-Governor Gilpin
officially communicated to this office by Surveyor General
Case, that there are mineral lands in that locality.
"The statement of the register and receiver required in our
instructions is also wanting.
"The approval of the selection will stand suspended until
some satisfactory proof is obtained upon the points indicated."
On Fe'bruary 12, 1864, the Land Office again wrote to the
surveyor general the following letter:
"Joum. PEROe, Esq., surveyor general, Denver City, Colo.
"Sir: I have considered your report of the 14th December
last, respecting the survey made in November, 1863, b3
Deputy Surveyor Albinus Z. Sheldon, of what is known as the
Luis Maria Baca float, in San Luis Park, in Colorado, and containing 92,293 acres.
"You transmit your certificate 'that the lands are not
mineral and are vacant,' and state under specific heads 'the
grounds on which' you 'have signed the certificate' and
which are satisfactory to you. You report further that 'the
survey as made by Mr. Sheldon is probably as near perfect as
can be made, as the mountains at the northeast corner of the
,grant are inaccessible at any time of the year.'
"The act of Congress approved 21st June, 1860, U. S. Statutes at Large, vol. 12, page 71, chap. 167, confers authority
for the location of the said Baca float in the then Territory of
New Mexico, but now a part of Colorado Territory.
"The said statute makes it the 'duty of the surveyor general of New Mexico,' now in your jurisdiction, ' to make survey and location of the lands so selected by the heirs of Baca
when thereunto required by them,' with a proviso making a
three years' limitation to the statute.
"You further report that you have refunded to Mr. Gilpin
the money placed in your ' hands and he has paid for the survey as a private survey, though he has permitted' you Ito

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

make an abstract of the field notes which' you ' have placed on
file in' the surveyor general's office.
"This part of the proceedings is irregular. Under statutory
requirements it is obligatory upon private claimants to pay
for the survey of confirmed private claims, but the work must
be done under the usual obligations and responsibilities both
of deputies and surveyor general.
"The difficulty, however, may be avoided, by pursuing the
following course: The original field notes, duly verified and
authenticated, must be filed in the surveyor general's office of
Colorado; upon bringing these to the usual satisfactory tests,
and finding the same all regular and correct you are authorized in virtue of the aforesaid sixth section of the said act of
21st June, 1860, to approve the said survey, but in your certificate of approval you will -add the special reservation stipulated by the statute, but not to embrace mineral land nor -to
interfere with any other vested rights if such exist.
"The statute does not order the issue of a patent. The
aforesaid law of 21st June, 1860, with your plat approved in
the manner indicated, will therefore constitute the evidence of
title.
"You will take care so to arrange the matter that hereafter when in the gradual progress of the lines of the public
surveys they shall reach the Baca location they shall be properly connected therewith and so appear on the township plats."
And again, on February 26, 1864, the Land Office sent the
following to the surveyor general:
"Sim: At the request of William Gilpin, Esq., I herewith
transmit the following papers, to wit:
"First. Mr. Gilpin's application for the survey of Grant
No. 4 of the heirs of Baca, dated October 3, 1863.
"Second. Surveyor general's estimate of the cost of said
survey, dated October 5, 1863.
"Th ird. Surveyor general's receipt for $600, deposited by
Mr. Gilpin to pay for the above survey, October 6, 1863.
"Fourth. Certificate of the register and receiver at Golden
City, Colorado, that the lands covered by the said Grant No. 4
are not mineral -and are vacant, December 5, 1863.
VOL. cLxx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"Fifth. The field notes of the boundary lines of the above
grant, together with plat thereof.
"These papers were deposited in this office by Mr. Gilpin
and are transmitted to you for such action as you shall deem
proper in the premises in accordance-with the views expressed
in our communication to you, dated the 12th instant."
Thereupon the field notes of the survey with the certificate
of the surveyor and his assistants were duly filed in the suryeyor general's office and approved by him, his certificate of
approval being in these words:
"The f6regoing field notes of the survey of Grant No. 4,
heirs of Luis Maria Baca, executed by Albinus Z. Sheldon,
under his'contract of the 7th day of October, 1863, having
been critically examined, the necessary corrections and explanations made, the said field notes and the survey they
describe are hereby approved."
In the general description accompanying the field notes is
this statement by the deputy surveyor:
"This grant contains every grade of land from the most
productive to the most sterile. La 'Trois Tetons' and the
Ohatillon Creeks have each rich bottom lands, from one half
of a mile to a mile in width, extending nearly to the mountains. About six miles from the mountains the bottoms rapidly widen until along the west boundary they become almost
an unbroken savannah, thickly covered with grass, red-top and
other varieties, some of which is five feet in height.
"The grant contains about forty thousand (40,000) acres
which may be classed as first rate. The balance, excepting
the sand hills in the southeast corner (about six square miles)
and the extreme mountain portion (say ten square miles) is
good grazing land; and between the Chatillon and Arenas
Creeks affords a rich growth of gramma grass.
"The Ohatillon leaves the mountains at a point nearly equidistant between the noi.;n and south boundary lines, and runs
in a due westerly direction until it is lost in the savannah above
meritioned- - Theser creeks are timbered about five miles.
There is considerable good pine near the base of the mountains and firs higher up. Along the -streams are cottonwoods

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

(sweet cottonwoods) of considerable size. There is no stone
except in the vicinity of the mountains. These are composed
mainly of a dense and fine grained granite varying to sienite
and gneiss. Near their base is found a very compact conglomerate, parti-colored, and presenting more than the beauties of
the mosaic art. Saw fragments of limestone (jurassic) but none
in position. Saw no indications of the precious metals or minerals of any kind, unless the presence of iron may be inferred
from the fluctuations of the needle set forth in the notes."
The map of the survey was also filed and approved by the
surveyor general. A copy of the map, with the certificate of
approval, is on page 324.
On March 29, 1864, the surveyor general forwarded to the
Land Office a transcriipt of the field notes and plat of the survey with his approval entered thereon, the receipt whereof
was acknowledged by the Land Office In a letter of date May
4, 1864, which letter is as follows:
"JOHN PIEROE,

Esq., surveyor general, Denver City, C. T.

"SIR: Your letter of March 29 last, transmitting transcript
and field notes of the. survey of Grant iNo. 4, of the heirs of
Luis Maria Baca, has been received at this office."
These were all the proceedings had at the time in reference
to the location, survey and transfer of title of this grant.
Subsequently, and on January 14, 1868, application was made
for a patent, and declined by the Land Office in these words:
"SIR: Referring to your application of 12th inst. for the
issuing of patent for the tract of land in Colorado known
as 'Baca Tract No. 4,' I have to state that the selection
authorized by the sixth section of the act of 21st June, 1860,
(Stats. vol. 12, page 72,) has been made, and. the survey executed and reported to this office, but as no provision is made
in the statute for the issuing of patent, the survey and statute
are the only authorized evidences of title, this office having no
authority to issue patents unless the statute expressly orders
the same, which, is not done in the Baca case, but 'that a
grant may be made by a law as well as a patent pursuant to
a law is undoubted (6 Or. 128); a confirmation by a law is as

AAP o.- r f,r S MR VE YoF GAN I' N0

'r/7-t'C

43

4,9 4A~7__

4-4

OF

THE HE/ASY

14

OF

,0I

X. 0

Q. Mf

f

niet
-Scale tA 6a ma

I

.i

o on, id

19t0UC-0 fVROAw

one 7"e to omincA
of ofZu2J#
~k&
Iz
ei,-d
COZ~adOY r7;99ry 0,5
wdrAscontiezct
da,;
WeMe 'c
c ut z;/8o.
anpro6ed
October I&63 239 Ct-ictz? Coorzrma& o~~~

Szorveo

6en1ra* QJ~c

-Den7ZiVer IrCl-

.

, iZOINVPIER

18 11864 S
32-4

of.,~je

- Gerl. C01o. 2KZ1Z&1

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

fully to all intents and purposes a grant, as if it contained in
terms a grant de novo.'"
Again, in March, 1879, a further application was made
through the surveyor general of Colorado for a patent. This
application was denied, and the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, in his letter declining to issue a patent, after
reciting the history of the grant, stated:
"After the selection, but previous to the location, the Commissioner of the General Land Office instructed the surveyor
general of Colorado that, as the statute did not authorize the
issuing of a patent, the act of June 21, 1860, and the plat
approved by the surveyor general would constitute the evidence of title.
"There is no doubt that the Government may convey and
vest the legal title without issuing a patent as effectually as
may be done by patent. (Larriviere v. Madegan, 1 Dillon,
455; Grignon v. Astor, 2 Howard, 319; 3 Opinions of Att'y
Ger. 350.)
"The surveyor general was authorized by the act to locate
only vacant non mineral land. Unless the contrary appeared
it would be presumed from the act of locating that the surveyor general determined the land was not mineral. But before locating, the surveyor general had expressly found and
certified that this land was not mineral.
"It is now alleged that the land is mineral; that the surveyor general approved the plat of survey ' subject to the conditions and provisions of section six of the act of Congress,
approved June 21, 1860,' and that, therefore, the grantees cannot hold the land under that act.
"The conditions and provisions of the act of June 21, 1860,
were as respects this question, that the selection and location
should be on land determined at the time of such location,
when the title passed, to be non mineral land.
"The act did not intend that if at any subsequent time in
the remote future, mineral should be discovered, the title
should be unsettled, or that the title should be the subject of
controversy through all time, as often as any one might choose
to allege its mineral character.

OCTOBER TERM-,

1897.

Statement of the Case.

"The surveyor general did not undertake, and had no
po wer, to impose conditions not in the act.
"If after fifteen years the question as to the mineral
character of the land may be reopened, why may it not be
raised again after the lapse of any number of years? If the
question may be reopened as to the land granted under the
provisions of the act of June 21, 1860, why may it not as to
land acquired under the homestead, preemption and other acts
of Congress? Would such titles ever be considered s.ecure?
"The question as to the mineral or non mineral character
of this land has been passed upon by competent authority;
the title has passed from the Government and vested in private individuals; this office has no authority to reopen the
question; the land cannot longer be regarded as a part of the
public domain.
"Mr. Gilpin, who claims this tract of land as the assignee
of the Baca heirs, makes personal application for a patent.
It is not claimed that the granting act authorized a patent to
issue, but that it is authorized by section two of the act approved March 3, 1869 (15 Stat. 342), and by section 2447,
1Rev. Stat.- U. S. But those provisions authorize a patent to
issue only when claims to land have been confirmed by law;
that is, where an act of Congress recognizes a claim to specific
land, and does not apply to cases where the acts of Congress
only authorize a claim to be made thereafter to land without
regard to any specific tract or parcel of land. This office can
'issue patents only where it is authorized by some act of Congress. The application of Mr. Gilpin for a patent must therefore be refused."
Subsequently, and on June 28, 1884, in response to inquiries
as to whether prospectors would be allowed to hold any mineral discoveries made on said location, the Land Office replied
as follows:
"In the case of location No. 4, in question, the surveyor
general having first ascertained and determined that the land
selected was vacant and non mineral, surveyed and located it,
and approved the plat of the location, March 18, 1864, and this
approved plat,. in the absence of any proyision of law for

SHAW, v. KELLOGG.
Statement of the Case.

the issuing of patent, became the evidence of title in the
owner of the land so located.
"1On a subsequent application by Governor Gilpin for a
patent, it was contended, before this office, that mineral
existed in some part of the location, and therefore the grantee
could not hold the land under the act. The matter was fully
considered and the following conclusions reached:
"The conditions and provisions of the act of June 21, 1860,
were, as respects this question, that the selection and location
should be on land determined, at the time of such location,
when title passed, to be non mineral.
"1The act did not intend that if at any subsequent time, in
the remote future, mineral should be discovered, the title
should be unsettled, or that the title should be the subject
of controversy through all time, as often as one might choose
to allege its mineral character.
"The surveyor general did not undertake, and had no
power to impose conditions not in the act.
"The question as to the mineral or non mineral character
of the land has been passed upon by competent authority;
the title has passed from the Government and vested in private
individuals, and this office has no authority to reopen the question; the land can no longer be regarded as a part of the
public domain.
"You will see by the foregoing that the land in question
was determined, in 1864, by the surveyor general, whose province and duty it was, to be non mineral; the location was
then perfected and the title passed. Whether prospectors will
be allowed to hold any mineral discoveries thereon, prior to or
since 1880, must probably rest between them and the holders
of the location No. 4."
And again, on June 8, 1889, in response to a similar application the acting commissioner replied as follows:
"In determining the various questions involved in the case,
this office on March 21, 1879, decided that the character of the
land -involved had already been determined, and the niatter,
therefore, was res adjudicata.
"The question as to the mineral or non mineral character

OCTOBER TERN:, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of this land has been passed upon by competent authority;
the title has passed from the Government and vested in private individuals. This office has no authority to reopen the
question. The land can no longer be regarded as a part of
the public domain, etc.
"The case has, therefore, become final so far as this office
is concerned."
In the annual report of the surveyor general of Colorado of
the proceedings of his office, dated October 1, 1864, which was
transmitted to Congress in the report of the Secretary of the
Interior for 1864, it is stated :
"During the month of November, 1863, deputy surveyor A.
Z. Sheldon made a survey of Grant :No. 4 of the heirs of Luis
Maria Baca, as located by William Gilpin, attorney for said
heirs, under the act of June 21, 1860. The survey was made
under the usual guarantee of its accuracy, and the field notes
returned to this office for approval. Under instructions from
the General Land Office dated February 12, 1864, that survey
and location were approved, subject to the conditions and restrictions above referred to."
And in the report of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office of the same year, and inclided in the same report to
Congress, it is also stated:
"In Colorado Territory the returns of surveys for the last
fiscal year consist of correction, parallel, township and sectional lines, with fifty miles of private grant embracing over
431,000 acres of public ]ands. Also 92,292 acres in the fourth
location of the Las Vegas grant, as confirmed by the act of
21st June, 1860, to the heirs of Luis M[aria Baca, the premises
formerly falling within the limits of New Mexico, but now of
Colorado."
In the same volume is found a map accompanying the report
of the Secretary of the Interior, which shows Baca Grant
No. 4 segregated from the public domain, and it was admitted
by counsel that all government maps issued from that time to
this make a similar showing of the segregation of this tract.
The plaintiff and those under whom he claims have been in
continfious and actual possession of this Baca Grant No. 4 since

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

at least 1869 ; in 1881 a fence was built entirely around the tract
except for a little distance in the northeast corner, where the
-precipitous character of the mountains created a natural fence,
and from that date onward to the present time it has remained
under enclo.ure; and the plaintiff and his grantors have paid
the annual taxes levied thereon by the State of Colorado,
amounting, since the year 1877, to $66,000.
In 1876 Frangois Herard and two associates discovered a
mineral vein, which they named the "Eastern Star," and on
June 16 of that year filed a certificate of location in the proper
office; but in 1877, upon ascertaining that this mineral location
was within the limits of the Baca grant, they abandoned the
mine. In 1879 the owners of the grant leased this mine to
one William Young, but he immediately thereafter threw up
the lease. In 1883 the mine was again leased to the Gold
Legion Mining and Milling Company, but this company soon
abandoned the lease. In 1887 the defendant took a verbal
lease from the manager of the grant for three months, at the
expiration of which time he sought a renewal of the lease, but
was refused. Subsequently to this refusal he took possession
of the property, and has remained in such possession ever since.
And it is this mine, with the adjacent ground, the possession
of which was sought to be recovered by this action.
Edward 0. WFolcott and Mr. Joel F. Taile for plaintiff
.Mr.
in error.
-Mr.John 1. Smith for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In 1860, in settlement of a claim under a Mexican grant to
land in the vicinity of Las Vegas, Congress passed an act giving to the claimants an equal amount of land, to be by them
selected elsewhere in the Territory of New Mexico, stipiflating
that the land should be vacant and non-mineral and should be
located within three years in square bodies not exceeding five

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in number. Within the three years they selected and located
the tract in question as one fifth of the land to which they were
thus entitled. They applied to the proper officers of the
United States to take such steps as would perfect their title.
More than, thirty-four years ago the Land Department took its
final action. Since then it has continuously treated the tract
as private land, and refused to recognize it in any way as part
of the public domain; within the same year, 1864, in which it
took its final action, it reported the fact thereof to Congress,
and that body has never in any way questioned the rightfulness of the action taken. And now at the end of this lapse of
time the title is challenged, and challenged upon propositions
which,.if sustained, establish that the owners have never had,
and do not now have, nny certain title to a single foot of the
land, and this although they have been in undisturbed possession all these years, and have paid taxes to the state authorities amounting to $66,000 at least and probably more.
The party who challenges the title of the plaintiff to the particular portion of the tract in controversy in this suit entered
at first into possession of it as a tenant, and when at the termination of his lease ue was refused a continuance thereof, took
steps to maintain a possession and assert a right adverse to
his former landlord. It is undoubtedly true that settled rules
of law cannot be ignored because in any particular case their
application works apparent harshness. At the same time the
result to. which the contentions of the defendant lead- may
well compel a careful examination of them.
These contentions are that Congress granted only non-mineral lands; that this particular tract is mineral land, and
therefore by the terms of the act is not within the grant;*
that no patent has ever been issued, and therefore the legal
title has never. passed from the -Government; that the Land
Department never adjudicated that this was non-mineral land,
but on the contrary simply approved the location, subject to
the conditions and provisions of the act of Congress, thereby
leaving the question of title to rest in perpetual abeyance upon
possible future discoveries of minerals within the tract.
In examining these contentions it is well to consider first

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of Congress of June 21, 1860, and the circumstances
under which it was passed. For, as said in Winona & St.
Peter Railroad v. Barney, 113 U. S. 618, 625, in reference to legislative grants, "they are to receive such a construction as will carry out the intent of Congress, however
difficult it might be to give full effect to the language used
if the grants were by instruments of private conveyance. To
ascertain that intent we must look to the condition of the
country when the acts were passed, as well as to the purpose
declared on their face, and read all parts of them together."
This act was a final disposition by Congress of certain claims
under Mexican grants for lands situate in the Territory of
New Mexico. The circumstances and, character of these
claims had been reported to Congress by the surveyor general
of the Territory. Some of" them were confirmed as reported
and in toto, and, as stated in Tameling v. U. S. Feehold &
Emigration Go., 93 U. S."644, Xaxwell Land Grant case, 121
U. S. 325, and other cases, such confirmation operated as a
grant de novo, and took effect at once as a relinquishment by
Congress of all rights of the United States to the premises.
Others were 'confirmed in part and for only fractions of the
areas claimed, and as to them, by section 2, it was made "the
duty of the surveyor general of New Mexico immediately to
proceed to make the surveys and locations authorized and
required by the terms of this section." Another claim was
not confirmed, but leave was given to the claimant to bring
suit, with a proviso that if the suit should not be instituted
within two years the claim should be presumed to have been
abandoned; and in respect to the claim 'before us the right
of location was to continue in force for three years and no
longer. Obviously, the thought was that these claims should
not only be finally but speedily disposed of. It was not contemplated that the title should remain unsettled, a mere float
for an indefinite time in the future.
As the amount of the Las Vegas claim was large, and as
the claimants were required to make their lo6ations "in 'square
bodies, not exceeding five in number," each location would
necessarily be of a tract of considerable size; in fact, each one

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

was nearly 100,000 acres. The tract thus located was as a
whole to be non-mineral.. No provision was-made for indemnity lands in case mineral should be found in any section or
quarter section. So that when the location was perfected the
title.passed to all the lands or to none.
It will also be perceived that Congress did not permit this
location to be made anywhere in the public domain, but only
.-within the limits of the Territory of New Alexico. It. was
not like a military land warrant, subject to location upon any
public lands, but only a grant which could be made operative
within certain prescribed and comparatively narrow limitslimits hot even so broad as those of the territory ceded by
-Mexico. There were then but few persons living in New
Mexico; it contained large areas of arid lands; its surface
was broken by a few mouitain chains, and crossed by a fcv
streams. It was within the limits of this territorY, whose
condition and natural resources were but slig-htly known, that
Congress authorized this location. The grant was made in
lieu of certain specific lands claimed by the Baca heirs in the
vicinity-of Las Vegas, and it was the purpose to permit the
taking of a similar body of land anywhere within tile limits
of New Mexico. The'grantees, the Baca heirs, were authorized to select this body of land. They were not at liberty to
select lands already occupied by others. The lands must he
vacant. Nor were they at liberty to select lands which were
'then known to contain mineral. Congress (lid not intend to
grant any mines or mineral lands, but with these exceptions
their right of selection was coextensive with the limits of New
Mexico. We say" lands then known to contain mineral," for
it cannot be that Congress intended that the grant should be
rendered nagatory by any future discoveries of mineral. The
selection was to be made within three ylears. The title was
then to pass, and it would be an insult to the good faith of
Congress to suppose that it did not intend that the title when
it passed should pass absolutely, and not contingently upon
subsequent discoveries. This is in accord with the general rule
as to the transfer of title to the public lands of the United
States. In cases of homestead, preemption or townsite entries,

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

the law excludes mineral lands, but it was never doubted that
the title once passed was free from all conditions of subsequent
discoveries of mineral. As wvas said in Defeback v. Hawke,
115 U. S. 392, 404, where this matter was considered:
"We also say lands knowrn at the time of their sale to be
thus valuable, in order to avoid any possible conclusion against
the validity of titles which may be issued for other kinds of
land, in which, years afterwards, rich deposits of mineral may
be discovered. It is quite possible that lands settled upon as
suitable only for agricultural purposes, entered by the settler
and patented by the Government under the preemption laws,
may be found, years after the patent has been issued, to contain valuable minerals. Indeed, this has often happened.
We, therefore, use the term known to be valuable at the time
of sale, to prevent any doubt being cast upon titles to lands
afterwards found to be different in their mineral character
from what was supposed when the entry of them was made
and the patent issued." See also Colorado Coal Co. v. United
States, 123 U. S. 307.
How was the character of the land to be determined, and
by whom . The surveyor general of New Mexico was directed to make survey and location of the lands selected.
Upon that particular officer was cast the specific duty of seeing that the lands selected were such as the Baca heirs were
entitled to select. It is not strange that he was the one
named; for, in the original act of 1854, which made provision for the examination of these various claims, the duty of
such e.:amination was cast upon the same officer, and he was
there required "to ascertain the origin, nature, character and
extent of all claims to lands under the laws, usages, and customs of Spain and Mexico; and, for this purpose, may issue
notices, summon witnesses, administer oaths and do and perform all other necessary acts in the premises," and it was
upon his report that Congress acted. Further, he was the
officer who, by virtue of his duties, was most competent to
examine and pass upon the question of the character of the
lands selected. We do not mean that Congress thereby
created an independent tribunal outside of and apart from the

OCTOBER TERM, .1897.
Opinion of the Court.

general Land Department of the Government. On the contrary, the act of 1854 provided that he should act under instructions from the Secretary of the Interior, and so undoubtedly in proceeding to make survey and location as required by
section 6 of the act of 1860, he was still subject to the control
and direction of the Land Department; but while he was not
authorized by this section to act in defiance or independently
of the Land Department he was the particular officer charged
with the duty-of making survey and location, and it was for
him to say, in the first instance at least, whether the lands so
selected, and by him surveyed and located, were lands vacant
and non-mineral. This is in accord with the views of the
Land Department, as appears from the official letter of June
28, 1884, written in response to an application for the right to
make mineral locations within the tract, in which the Commissioner, after stating what had taken place, added: "You
will see by the foregoing that the land in question was determined, in 1864, by the surveyor general, whose province
and duty it was, to be non mineral; the location was then
perfected and the title passed."
It is also worthy of note that Congress did not consider
that there was any great probability of the discovery of mineral wealth in New Mexico. By the act of 1860 it confirmed
various claims, amounting to millions of acres; confirmed
them absolutely and without Any reservation of mines then
icnown or to be thereafter discovered within their limits. And
this, although under Spanish if not under Mexican law, all minerals were perpetually reserved from such grants. 1 Rockwell's Spanish and Mexican Law, p. 49,'secs. 1, 2 and 3, pp.
l 2, 113 and 114. It made no appropriation for the exploration of the claims to be thereafter located, and although
it required the completion of this locatioii within three years,
it made but meagre appropriation for surveys, the appropriation in 1860 for surveying both the public lands an4"private
land claims in INew Mexico being only $10,000. Act of June
25, 1860, c. 211, 12 Stat. 104, 108.
It will also be perceived that the surveyor general, as well
as the register and -1eceiver of the land office, each certified

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

that the land was tion-mineral. These certificates were their
decision to that effect. They w.ere made in accordance with
the original instructions sent out by the Land Department in
July, 1860, and in this respect they were all that was required
by those instructions, which were "in either case [that is,
whether the selection is either within or outside the existing
surveys] -the final condition. of the certificate to this office
must be accompanied by a statement from yourself and the
register and receiver that the land is vacant -and not mineral."
Thus the proper officer decided that the land was non-mineral,
and accompanied the report of the survey and location with
all the certificates and statements required by the original instructions from the Land Department.
But it is said that, the attention of the Land Department
having been called to the fact that this location was made
upon lands supposed to contain minerals, it was not satisfied
with the requirements it had originally made; was not content with the certificates demanded of the gurveyor generai
and the register and receiver, and expressly disapproved the
evidence in fact furnished thereby, and, also, that while it
finally authorized an approval of the survey and location, it
directed that the certificate of approval should contain the
special reservations nam6d in the statute; that is, that the
-lodation should not embrace mineral lands. It is undoubtedly
true that the suspicions. of the Land Department were aroused
by the report that was made as to the supposed character of
the land embraced within this location, and that by its letter
of January 16, 1864, it held that the evidence furnished as to
the character of the land was not sufficient. This letter criticises the certificate of the surveyor general on the ground
that, as appeared from an accompanying letter, it was based
not solely upon his personal knowledge, but upon "information and conclusions deduced from reasoning." It also notes
the fact that the certificate of the register and receiver required by the instructions was wanting. There is a seeming
conflict between the statements in this letter and the records
of the surveyor general's office. The latter indicate that the
certificate of the register and receiver was forwarded with the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

certificate of the surveyor general, while the letter of the Commissioner says that the former was lacking. This apparent
contradiction may arise from the fact that the certificate of
the register and receiver was sent in a different enclosure, or
perhaps it was overlooked by the Commissioner of the Land
Office. At any rate, it was about that time, at least, sent to
the Land Department, for, as appears from the letter of February 26, it was returned by that department to the surveyor
general. Obviously the Land Department, after sending the
letter of January 16, reconsidered its action. It had received
the certificate of the register and receiver, and had before it
all the certificates required by the original letter of instructions, and instead of continuing the suspension of an approval
for further proof, as indicated by the letter of January 16, it
wrote, on February 12, to close the matter up, pointing out
how all the difficulties' which stood in the way could be removed. This letter notes the fact that by the statute it is
made the duty of the surveyor general to make the survey
and location. It contains no disapproval of the cerfificates
or evidence furnished; authorizes him to approve the survey,.
although it directs that to his certifiate of approval he "add
the special reservation stipulated by the statute, but not to
embrace mineral lands." It further notifies him that the
statute does not provide for a patent, and that the law with
the plat approved by him in the manner indicated will constitute the evidence of title. Thereupon the surveyor general
proceeded to approve the survey, his certificate of approval
being absolute and unconditional. He also approved the plat,
though his certificate of approval to that was made as required
by the letter of February 12, "subject to the conditions and
provisions of section 6 of the act of Congress approved June
21, 1860." He also forwarded to the Land Department the
field notes, the survey and the plat with his certificates of
approval attached, and they were received and' filed by the
department without objection. But one conclusion can be
deduced from these proceedings, and that is that the Land
Department, perceiving that its original instructions had been
strictly complied with; that no money had been appropriated

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

by Congress for actual exploration of the lands; that no way
was open for securing further evidence as to their character;
that the time within which any other location could be made
had passed; that it was the right of the locators to have the
question settled and the title confirmed or rejected, ordered
the closing of the matter, the passage of the title, and sought
to protect the interests of the Government and guard against
any criticism of its action by directing an entry in the certificate of approval that it was made subject to the conditions
and provisions of the act of Congress.
In this three things are to be noticed: First, that the surveyor general, the officer specially designated to make the
survey and location, the one primarily charged with the duty
of determining its character, decided that the land was nonmineral. His certificate to that effect is unqualified. His
certificate of approval to the field notes and the survey is the
same. So far, therefore, as his action is concerned, there was
an adjudication that the land.ywas non-mineral. Second, the
Land Department directed that the matter be closed, specified
how it should be closed, and received and filed without question the report of the surveyor general's action. Third, the
only qualification or limitation is found in the direction of
the Land Department, followed by the action of the surveyor
general in adding to his certificate of approval of the plat the
proviso that it is "subject to the conditions and provisions of
section 6 of the act of Congress of June 21, 1860." There
was no reservation of the matter for further consideration in
the Land Department or by the surveyor general. There
was a finality so far as they were concerned.
What is the significance of, and what effect can be given to
the clause inserted in the certificate of approval of the plat that
it was subject to the conditions and provisions of the act of
Congress? We are of opinion that the insertion of any such
stipulation and limitation was beyond the power of the Land
Department. Its duty was to decide and not to decline to
decide; to execute and not to refuse to execute the will of
Congress. It could not deal with the land as an owner and
prescribe the conditions upon which title might be transferred.
VOL. cLxx-22

OCTOBER TERf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

It was agent and not principal. Congress had made a grant,
authorized a selection within three years, and directed the surveyor general to make survey and location, and within the
general powers of the Land Department it was its duty to see
that such grant was carried into effect and that a full title to
the proper land was made. Undoubtedly it could refuse to
approve a location on the ground that the land was mineral.
It was its duty to decide the question -a duty which it could
not avoid or evade. It could not say to the locator that it
approved the location provided no mineral should ever thereafter be discovered, and disapproved it if mineral were discovered; in other words, that the locator must take the
chances of future discovery of minerals. It was a question
for its action and its action at the time. The general statutes
of Congress in respect to homestead, preemption and townsite
locations provide that they shall be made upon lands that are
non-mineral, and in approving any such entry'and issuing a
patent therefor could it be tolerated for a moment that the
Land Department might limit the grant and qualify the title
by a stipulation that if thereafter mineral should be discovered
the title should fail? It cannot in that way avoid the responsibility of deciding and giving to the party seeking to make
the entry a full title to the land or else denying it altogether.
As said in Deffeback v. Ilawke, supra, 406:
"The position that the patent to the plaintiff should have
contained a reservation excluding from its operation all buildings and improvements not belonging to him, and all rights
necessary or proper to the possession and enjoyment of the
same, has no support in any legislation of Congress. The land
officers, who are merely agents of the law, had no authority to
insert in the patent any other terms than those of conveyance,
with recitals showing a compliance with the law and the conditions which it prescribed."
Further, it must be noticed that the Land Department has
since 1864 again and again decided that the action then taken
was final, that the land had been segregated from the public
domain and become private property. Thus, so far as the
judgment of the executive branch of the government is con-

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

eerned, the finality of the action taken in passing the title has
been settled. But we may go further. As appears by the
report of the surveyor general and of the Land Department,
transtfi-itted to Congress in 1864, the fact that this land had
been finally appropriated to the claim of the Baca heirs was
disclosed. Mention of that fact was also made in subsequent
reports to that body, and yet from that time to the present
Congress has taken no action in the matter, and has thus by
its silence confirmed the proceedings of the Land Department.
Defendant relies largely on the decision of this-court in Barden v. NortLern Paciftc Railroad,154 U. S. 288, in which it
was held that lands identified by the filing of the map of definite location as within the scope of the grant made by Congress to that company, although" at the time of the filing of
such map not known to contain any mineral, did not pass
under the grant if before the issue of the patent mineral was
discovered. But that case, properly considered, sustains rather
the contentions of the plaintiff. It is true there was a division
of opinion, but that division was only ag to the time at which
and the means by which the non-mineral character of the land
was settled. The minority were of the opinion that the question was settled at the time of the filing of the map of definite location. The majority, relying on the language in the
original act of 1864 making the grant, and also on- the joint
resolution of January 30, 1865, which expressly declared that
such grant should not be "construed as to embrace mineral
lands, which in all cases shall be and are reserved exclusively to
the United States," held that the question of mineral or nonmineral was open to consideration up to the time of issuing a
patdnt. -But there was no division of opinion as to the question that when the legal title did pass- and it passed unquestionably by the patent - it passed free from the contingency.
of future discovery of minerals.
Referring to the contention that if the question of mineral
was open for consideration until the issue of a patent there
would be great uncertainty in titles, the court said (pp. 326-7):
"We do not think that any apprehension of disturbance in
titles from the views we ass6rt need arise. The law places

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

under the supervision of the Interior Department and its subordinate officers, acting under its direction, the control of all
matters affecting the disposition of public lands of the United
States, and the adjustment of private claims to them under
the legislation of Congress. It can hear contestants and decide upon the respective merits of their claims. It can investigate and settle the contentions of all persons with respect to
such claims. It can hear evidence upon and determine the
character of lands to which different parties assert a right and when the controversy before it is fully considered and
ended, it can issue to the rightful claimant the patent provided
by law, specifying that the lands are of the character for
which a patent is authorized."
It quoted these words from. the opinion in- Smelting Company v. -Yen, 104 U. S. 636, 640:
"The execution and record of the patent are the final acts
of the officers of the Government for the transfer of its title,
and, as they can be lawfully performed only after certain
steps have been taken, that instrument, duly signed, counter-,
signed and sealed, not merely operates to pass the title, but
is in the nature of an official declaration by that branch of fthe
Government to which the alienation of the public lands, unler
the law, is entrusted, that all the requirements preliminary to
its issue have been complied with. The presumptions thus
attending it are not open to rebuttal in an action at law."
And added (329-330):
"There are undoubtedly many cases arising before the
Land Department in the disposition of the public lands where
it will be a matter of much difficulty on the part of its oflicers
to ascertain with accuracy whether the lands to be disposed of
are to be deemed mineral lands or agricultural lands, and in
such cases the rule adopted that thcy will be considered
mineral or agricultural, as they are more valuable in the one
class or the other, may be sound. The officers will be governed by the knowledge of the lands obtained at the time is
to their real character. The determination of the fact by
those officers that they are one or the other will be considered
as conclusive.

SHAW v. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is true that the patent has been issued in many instances
without the investigation and consideration which the public
interest requires; but if that .has been done without fraud,
though unadvisedly, by officers -of the Government charged
with the duty of supervising and attending to the preparation
and issue of such patents, the consequence must be borne by
the Government until by further legislation a stricter regard
to their duties in that respect can be enforced upon them.
The fact remains that under the law the duty of determining
the character of the lands granted by Congress, and stating it
in instruments transferring the title of the Government to the
grantees, reposes in officers of the Land Department."
But, it is said, no patent was issued in this case, and therefore the holding in the Barden case, that the issue of a patent
puts an end to all question, does not apply here. But the
significance of a patent is that it is evidence of the transfer of
the legal title. There is no magic in the word "patent," or in
the instrument which the word defines. By it the legal title
passes, and when by whitsoever instrument and in whatsoever
manner that is accomplished, the same result follows as though
a formal patent were issued. I? the7ford v. Greene, 2 Wheat.
196, 206; Bryan v. Forsyth,19 How. 334: ; Langdeau v. Hlanes,
21 Wall. 521, 531, in which this court said: "If the claim be to
quantity, and not to a specific tract capable of identification, asegregation by survey will be required, and the confirmation
will then immediately attach the title to the lands segregated."
The land passes out of the jurisdiction of the Land Department.
The grant has then become complete, and the only remedy
for any wrong in the transfer of such title is through the
courts, and not in the Land Department. .Michigan Land &
Lumber Company v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592, and cases cited
in the opinion. In this case the Land Department refused
to issue a patent; decided that it had no power to do so, and
that the title was complete without one. It would seem
strange to hold that the lack of a patent left the question of
mineral an open one when there was no authority for the
issue of a patent, when it was in fact refused and when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

title passed the same as though a patent had issued. There
was not at the time of these transactions, and has not since
been, any statute specifically authorizing a patent for this
land. Sec. 2447, Rev. Stat. taken from the act of December
22, 1854, c. 10, 10 Stat. 599, applies only to the case of a claim
to land "which has heretofore been confirmed by la-w." And
the same may be said as to the special act of March 3, 1869,
c. 152, 15 Stat. 342.
Here there had been no claim confirmed to any tract of land, but only the grant of a right to
locate. In that respect it was like a land warrant, subject to
location anywhere within the specified territorv. As to land
warrants, however, there is a specific provision for the issue of
patents. Rev. Stat.  2423. The Land Department was, therefore, technically right when it said that the statute did not
order the issue of a patent, and that the case was one in which
the granting act with the approved survey and location made a
full transfer of title. Very likely if a patent had been issued
the courts would not have declared it void, but have sustained
it as the customary instrument used by government to make
a transfer of the legal title. C'arter v. Ruddy, 166 U. S.493.
But as there was no statute in ternis authorizing a patent, it
was not within the power of the locators to compel the issue
of one. No court wobld by mandamus order such issue in
the absence (of a specific and direct statute requiring it. So
when the department tefused to issue one the locators had no
alternative but to accept'that which the statute had provided
as the means of acquiring and the evidence of title, and that
must be treated as having all the efficacy of-a patent.
Summing up the whole matter it results in this: Congress
in 1860 made a grant of'a certain number of acres, authorized
the grantees to select the la~id within three years anywhere in
the Territory of New M1exico, and directed the surveyor general of that territory to make survey and location of the land
selected, thus casting upon that officer the primary duty of
deciding whether the land selected was such as the grantees
might select., They 'selected -this tract. Obeying the statute
and the instructions issued by the Land Department, that
officer approved the selection and made the survey and loca-

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
Syllabus.

tion. The Land Department, at first suspending action, finally
directed him to close up the matter, to approve the field notes,
survey and plat, and notified the parties through him that
such field notes, survey and plat, together with the act of
Congress, should constitute the evidence of title. All was
done as directed. Congress made no provision for a patent
and the Land Department refused to issue one. All having
been done that was prescribed by the statute, the title passed.
The Land Department has repeatedly ruled that the action
then taken was a finality. It has noted on all maps and in its
reports that this tract had been segregated from the public
domain and become private property. It made report of this
to Congress, and that body has never questioned the validity
of its action. The grantees entered into actual possession and
fenced the entire tract. They have paid the taxes levied by
the State upon it as private property,.amounting to at least
$66,000. While the approval entered upon the plat by the
surveyor general under the direction of the Land Department
was in terms "subject to the conditions and. provisions~of section 6 of the act of Congress, approved June 21, 1860," such
limitation was beyond the power of executive officers to
impose.
We are of opinion that at this late day the title of the
locators and their grantees is not subject to challenge, and
that it is a full, absolute and unconditional title.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed and the case remandedfor a new trial.

THOMPSON v. UTAH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No.553.

Argued March 4, 7, 1898.-Decided April 25, 1898.

The provision in the constitution of the State of Utah, providing for the
trial of criminal cases, not capital, in courts of general jurisdiction by a
jury composed of eight persons, is ex post -factoin its application to felonies committed before the Territory became a State.

