WILLIAMS v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

evidence we are precluded from considering, if there was any
evidence proper to go to the jury in support of the verdict.
Crumplon v. United Siates, 138 U. S. 361; Moore v. United
States, 150.U. S. 57, 61.
In this case there was certainly evidence proper to go to the
jury.
There is no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Aflrmed.

WILLIAMS v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 531.

Argued and submitted March 18, 1898. -D

ecided April
25, 1898.

The provisions in section 241 of the constitution of Mississippi prescribing
the qualifications for electors; in section 242, conferring upon the legislature power to enact laws to carry those provisions into efrect; in section 244, making ability to read any section of the constitution, or to
understand it when read, a necessary qualification to a legal voter; and
of section 264, making it a necessary qualification for a grand or petit
juror that he shall be able to read and write; and sections 2358, 3643 and
3644 of the Mississippi Code of 1892, with regard to elections, do not,
on their face, discriminate between the white and negro races, and do
not amount to a denial of the equal protection of the law, secured by
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution; and it has not been
shown that their actual administration was evil, but only that evil was
possible under them.
AT June term 1896 of the Circuit Court of Washington
County, Mississippi, the plaintiff in error was indicted by a
grand jury composed entirely of white men for the crime of
murder. On the 15th day of June he made a motion to
quash the indictment, which was in substance as follows,
omitting repetitions and retaining the language of the motion
as nearly as possible:
Now comes the defendant in this cause, Henry Williams by
name, and moves the Circuit Court of Washington County,
Mississippi, to quash the indictment herein filed and upon

OCTOBER TERAM, 1897.
Statement of tile Case.

which it is proposed to try him for the alleged offence of
murder: (1) Because the laws by which the grand jury was
selected, organized, summoned and charged, which presented
the said indictment, are unconstitutional and repugnant to
the spirit and letter of the Constitution of the United States
of America, Fourteenth Amendment thereof, in this, that the
Constitution prescribes the qualifications of electors, and that
to be a juror one must be an elector; that the Constitution
also requires that those offering to vote shall produce to the
election officers satisfactory evidence that they have paid
their taxes; that the legislature is to provide means for enforcing the Constitution, and in the exercise of this authority
enacted section 3643, also section 364-1 of 1892, which respectively provide that the election commissioners shall appoint
three election managers, and that the latter shall be judges of
the qualifications of electors, and are required "to examine on
oath any person duly registered and offering to vote touching his qualifications as an elector." And then the motion
states that "the registration roll is not primafacie evidence
of an elector's right to vote, but the list ot those persons having been passed upon by the various district election managers
of the county to compose the registration book of voters as
named in section 2358' of said code of 1892, and that there
was no registration books of voters prepared for the guidance
of said officers of said county at the time said grand jury was
drawn." It is further alleged that there is no statute of the
State providing for the procurement of any registration books
of voters of said county, and (it is alleged in detail) the terms
of the constitution and the section of the code mentioned, and
the discretion given to the officers, " is but a scheme on the
part of the framers of that constitution to abridge the suffrage of the colored electors in the State of Mississippi on
account of the previous condition of servitude by granting
a discretion to the said officers as mentioned in the several
sections of the constitution of the State and the statute of
the State adopted under the said constitution, the use of said
discretion can be and has been used in the said Washington
County to the end complained of." After some detail to the

WILLIAMS v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

same effect, it -is further alleged that the constitutional convention was composed of 134: members, only one of whom
was a negro; that under prior laws there were 190,000 colored voters and 69,000 white voters; the makers of the new
constitution arbitrarily refused to submit it to the voters of
the State for approval, but ordered it adopted, and an election to be held immediately under it, which election was held
under the election ordinances of the said constitution in
November, 1891, and the legislature assembled in 1892 and
enacted the statutes complained of, for the purpose to discriminate aforesaid, and but for that the "defendant's race
would have been represented impartially on the grand jury
which presented this indictment," and hence he is deprived of
the equal protection of the*laws of the State. It is further
alleged that the State has not reduced its representation in
Congress, and generally for the reasons aforesaid, and because
the indictment should have been returned under the constitution of 1869 and statute of 1889 it is null and void. The
motion concludes as follows: "Further, the defendant is a
citizen of the United States, and for the many reasons herein
named asks that the indictment be quashed, and he be recognized to appear at the next term of the court."
This motion was accompanied by four affidavits, subscribed
and sworn to before the clerk of the court, on June 15, 1896,
to wit:
1st. An affidavit of the defendant, " who, being duly
-sworn, deposes and says that the facts set forth in the foregoing motion are true to the best of his knowledge, of the language of the constitution and the statute of the State mentioned
in said motion, and upon information and belief as to the other
facts, and that the affiant verily believes the information to
be reliable and true."
2d. Another affidavit of the defendant, "who, being first
duly sworn, deposes and says: That he has heard the motion
to quash the indictment herein read, and that he thoroughly
understands the same, and that the facts therein stated are
true, to the best of his knowledge and belief. As to the existence of the several sections of the state constitution, and the

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

several sections of the state statute, mentioned in said motion
to quash, further affiant states: That the facts stated in said
motion, touching the manner and method peculiar to the said
election, by which the delegates to said constitutional convention were elected, and the purpose for which said objectionable
provisions were enacted, and the fact that the said discretion
complained of as aforesaid has abridged the suffrage of the
number mentioned therein, for the purpose named therein;
all such material allegations are true, to the best of the ailiant's knowledge and belief, and the fact of the race and color
of the prisoner in this cause, and the race and color of the
voters of the State whose elective franchise is abridged as alleged therein, and the fact that they who are discriminated
against, as aforesaid, are citizens of the United States, and that
prior to the adoption of the said constitution and said statute
the said State was represented in Congress by seven Representatives in the lower House, and two Senators, and that since
the adoption of the said objectionable laws there has been no
reduction of said representation in Congress. All allegations
herein, as stated in said motion aforesaid, are true to the best
of affiant's knowledge and belief."
3d. An affidavit of John H. Dixon, " who, being duly sworn,
deposes and says that he had heard the motion to quash the
indictment filed in the Henry Williams case, and thoroughly
understands the same, and that he has also heard the affidavit
sworn to by said Henry Williams, carefully read to him, and
thoroughly understands the same. And in the same manner
the facts are sworn to in the said affidavit, and the same facts
alleged therein upon information and belief, are hereby adopted
as in all things the sworn allegations of affiant, and the facts
alleged therein, as upon knowledge and belief, are made
hereby the allegations of affiant upon his knowledge and belief."
4th. An affidavit of 0. J. Jones, " who, being duly sworn,
deposes and says that he has read carefully the affidavit filed
in the John .Dixon case sworn to by him (said 0. J. Jones),
and that he, said affiant, thoroughly understands the same,
and adopts the said allegations therein as his deposition in

WILLIAMS v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

this case upon hearing this motion to quash the indictment
herein, and that said allegations are in all things correct and
true as therein alleged."
The motion was denied and the defendant excepted. A
motion was then made to remove the cause to the United
States Circuit Court, based substantially on the same grounds
as the motion to quash the indictment. This was also denied
and an exception reserved.
The accused was tried by a jury composed entirely of white
men and convicted. A motion for a new trial was denied,
and the accused sentenced to be hanged. An appeal to the
Supreme Court was taken and the judgment of the court
below was affirmed.
The following are the assignments of error:
1. The trial court erred in denying motion to quash the
indictment, and petition for removal.
2. The trial court erred in denying motion for new trial,
and pronouncing death penalty under the verdict.
3. The Supreme Court erred in affirming the judgment of
the trial court.
The sections of the constitution of Mississippi and the laws
referred to in the motion of the plaintiff in error are printed
in the margin.'
I The three sections of article 12 of the constitution of the State of
Mississippi above referred to read as follows:
Section 241. " Every male inhabitant of this State except idiots, insane
persons and Indians not taxed, who is a citizen of the United States, twentyone years old and upwards, who has resided in this State two years, and
one year in the election district, or in the incorporated city or town in
which he offers to vote, and who is duly registered as provided in this
article, and who has never been convicted of bribery, burglary, theft, arson,
obtaining money or goods under false pretences, perjury, forgery, embezzlement or bigamy, and who has paid, on or before the 1st day of February of
the year in which he shall offer to vote, all taxes which may have been
legally required of him, and which he has had an opportunity of paying
according to law for the two preceding years, and who shall produce to the
officer holding the election satisfactory evidence that he has paid said taxes,
Is declared to be a qualified elector; but any minister of the Gospel in
charge of an organized church shall be entitled to vote after six months'
residence in the election district, if otherwise qualified."

OCTOBER TERMT, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

.Mr.
Cornelius J. Jones for plaintiff in error.
.Xi% . B. Mitchell, for defendant in error, submitted on
his brief.
Section 242. " Tie legislature shall provide by law for the registration
of all persons entitled to vote at any election, and all persons offering to
register shall take the following oath or affirmation: ' I,-,
do solemnly swear (or affirm) that i am twenty-one years old (or I will be before
the next election in this county) and that I will have resided in this State
two years and election district of county for one year next
preceding fhe ensuing election (or if it be stated in the oath that tileperson
proposing to register is a minister of the Gospel in charge of an organized
church, then it will be sufficient to aver therein two years' residence in the
State and six months i said election district) and am now in good faith a
resident of the same, and that I am not disqualified from voting by reason
of having been convicted of any crime named in the constitution of this
State as a disqualification to be an elector; that I will truly answer all
questions propounded to me concerning my antecedents so far as they
relate to my right to vote, and also as to my residence before my citizenship in this district; that I will faithfully support the Constitution of the
United States and of the State of Mississippi, and will bear true faith and
allegiance to the same.
So help me God.' In registering voters in cities
and towns not wholly in one election district the name of such city or town
may be substituted in the oath for the election district. Any wilful and
corrupt false statement in said affidavit, or in answer to any material question propounded as herein authorized shall be perjury."
Section 244. "On after the first day of January, A.D. 1892, every elector
shall, in addition to the foregoing qualifications, be able to read any section
of the constitution of this State; or lie shall be able to understand the same
when read to him, or give a reasonable interpretation thereof. A new registration shall be made before the next ensuing election after January the
first, A.D. 1892."
Section 264 of article 14 of the constitution of the State of Mississippi,
above referred to, reads as follows:
Section 264. "No person shall be a grand or petit juror unless a qualified
elector and able to read and write; but the want-of any such qualification
in any juror shall not vitiate any indictment or verdict. The legislature
shall provide by law for procuring a list of persons so qualified, and the
drawing therefrom of grand and petit jurors for each term of the Circuit
Court."
The three sections of the Code of 1892 of the State of Mississippi, above
referred to, read as follows:
Section 2358. How list of jurors procured. -"
The board of supervisors
at the first meeting in eachyear, or a subsequent meeting if not done at the
flrst, shall select and make a list of persons to serve as jurors in the Circuit

WILLIAMIS v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

Mit. JUSTICE .MCKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question presented is, are the provisions of the constitution of the State of Mississippi and the laws enacted to enforce
the same repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States? That amendment and its
effect upon the rights of the colored race have been considered
by this court in a number of cases, and it has been uniformly
held that the Constitution of the United States, as amended,
forbids, so far as civil and political rights are concerned, discriminations by the General Government, or by the States,
against any citizen because of his race; but it has also been
held, in a very recent case, to justify a removal from a state
court to a Federal court of a cause in which such rights are
alleged to be denied, that such denial must be the result of
the constitution or laws of the State, not of the administration
of them. Nor can the conduct of a criminal trial in a state
court be reviewed by this court unless the trial is had under
some statute repugnant to the Constitution of the United
Court for the next two terms to be held more than thirty days afterwards,
and as a guide in making the list, they shall use the registration books of
voters; and it shall select and list the names of qualified persons of good
intelligence, sound judgment and fair character, and shall take them as
nearly as it conveniently can from the several election districts in proportion to the number of the qualified persons in each, excluding all who have
served on the regular panel within two years, if ther(5 be not a deficiency
of jurors."
Section 3643. Managers of election appointed. -" Prior to every election
the commissioners of election shall appoint three persons for each election
district to be managers of the election, who shall not all be of the same
political party, if suitable persons of different political parties can be had in
the district, and if any person appointed shall fail to attend and serve,
the managers present, if any, may designate one to fill his place, and if the
commissioners of election fail to make the appointments, or in case of the
failure of all those appointed to attend and serve, any three qualified electors present when the polls should be opened may act as managers."
Section 3644. Duties and powers of managers. -"The managers shall
take care that the election is conducted fairly and agreeably to law, and they
shall be judges of the qualifications of electors, and may examine on oath
any person duly registered and offering to vote touching his qualifications
as an elector, which oath any of the managers may administer."

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

States, or was so conducted as to deprive the accused of some
right or immunity secured to him by that instrument. Upon
this general subject this court in Gibson v. alississippi, 16,2
U. S. 566, 581, after referring to previous cases, said: " But
those cases were held to have also decided that the Fourteenth
Anendment was broader than the provisions of section 611
of the lRevised Statutes;- that since that section authorizd
the removal of a criminal prosecution before trial, it did not
embrace a ease in which a right is denied by judicial action
during a trial, or in the sentence, or in the mode of executing"
the sentence; that for such denials arising from judicial action
after a trial commenced, the remedy lay in the reviso T P)wer
of the higher courts of the State, and ultimately in the power
of review which this court may exercise over their judgments
whenever rights, privileges or immunities claimed under the
Constitution or laws of the United States are withheld or
violated; 'and that the denial or inability to enforce in the
judicial tribunals of the States rights secured by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United States
to which section 641 refers and on account of which a criminal
prosecution may be removed from a state court, is primarily,
if not exclusively, a denial of such rights or an inability t,enforce them resulting from the constitution or laws of the
State rather than. a denial first made manifest at or durina
the trial of the case."
It is not asserted by plaintiff in error that either the constitution of the State of its laws discriminate in terms against
the negro race, either as to the elective franchise or the privilege or duty of sitting on juries. These results, if we understand plaintiff in error, are alleged to be effected by the
powers vested in certain administrative' officers.
Plaintiff in error says:
"Section 241 of the constitution of 1890 prescribes the
qualifications for electors ; that residence in the State for two
years, one year in the precinct of the applicant, must be
effected; that he is twenty-one years or over of age, having
paid all taxes legally due of him for two years prior to 1st
day of February of the year he offers to vote. Not having

WILLIAMS v. 'MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

been convicted of theft, arson, rape, receiving money or goods
under false pretences, bigamy, embezzlement.
"Section 242 of the constitution provides the mode of
registration. That the legislature shall provide by law for
registration of all persons entitled to vote at any election, and
that all persons o' ering to register shall take the oath ; that
they are not disqualified for voting by reason of any of the
crimes named in the constitution of this State; that they will
truly answer all questions propounded to them concerning
their antecedents so far as they relate to the applicant's right
to vote, and also as to their residence before their citizenship
in the district in which such application for registration is
made. The court readily sees the scheme. If the applicant
swears, as he must do, that he is not disqualified by reason of
the crimes specified, and that he has effected the required
residence, what right has he to answer all questions as to his
former residence? Section 244 of the constitution requires
that the applicant for registration after January, 1892, shall be
able to read any section of the constitution, or he shall be able
to understand the same (being any section of the organic law),
or give a reasonable interpretation thereof. Now we submit
that these provisions vest in the administrative officers the full
power, under section 242, to ask all sorts of vain, impertinent
questions, and it is with that officer to say whether the questions relate to the applicant's right to vote; this officer can
reject whomsoever he chooses, and register- whomsoever he
chooses, for le is vested by the constitution with that power.
Under section 244 it is left with the administrative officer to
determine whether the applicant reads, understands or interprets the section of the constitution designated. The" officer
is the sole judge of the examination of the applicant, and
even though the applicant be qualified, it is left with the
officer to so determine; and the said officer can refuse him
registration."
To make the possible dereliction of the officers the dereliction of the constitution and laws, the remarks of the Supreme
Court of the State are quoted by plaintiff in error as to their
intent. The constitution provides for the payment of a poll

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tax, and by a section of the code its payment cannot be corn
pelled by a seizure and sale of property. We gather from
the brief of counsel that its payment is a condition of the
right to vote, and in a case to test whether its payment was
or was not optional, Ilatclif v. Beale, 20 So. Rep. S65, the
Supreme Court of the State said: "Within the field of permissible action under the limitations imposed by the Federal
Constitution, the convention swept the field of expedients, to
obstruct the exercise of suffrage by the negro race." And
further the court said, speaking of the negro race: "By reason of its previous condition of servitude and dependencies,
this race had acquired or accentuated certain peculiarities of
habit, of temperament, and of character, which clearly distinguished it as a race from the whites. A patient, docile
people; but careless, landless, migratory within narrow limits,
without forethought; and its criminal members given to furtive offences, rather than the robust crimes of the whites.
Restrained by the Federal Constitution from discriminating
against the negro race, the convention discriminates against
its characteristics, and the offences to which its criminal members are prone." But nothing tangible can be deduced from
this. If weakness were to be taken advantage of, it was to
be done " within the field of permissible action under the
limitations imposed by the Federal Constitution," and the
means of it were the alleged characteristics of the i. ,grorace,
not the administration of the law by officers of the State.
Besides, the operation of the constitution and laws is not
limited by their language or effects to one race. They reach
weak and vicious white men as well as weak and vicious black
men, and whatever is sinister in their intention, if anything,
can be prevented by both races by the exertion of that duty
which voluntarily pays taxes and refrains from crime.
It cannot be said, therefore, that the denial of the equal
protection of the laws arises primarily from the constitution
and laws of Mississippi, nor is there any sufficient allegation
of an evil and discriminating administration of them. The
only allegation is "
by granting a discretion to the
said officers, as mentioned in the several sections of the con-

WILLIAMS v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution of the State, and the statute of the State adopted
under the said constitution, the use of which discretion can
b3 and has been used by said officers in the said Washington
County to the end here complained of, to wit, the abridgment of the elective franchise of the colored voters of Washington County, that such citizens are denied the right to be
selected as jurors to serve in the Circuit -Court of the county,
and that this denial to them of the right to equal protection
and benefits of the laws of the State of Mississippi on account
of their color and race, resulting from the exercise of the discretion partial to the white citizens, is in accordance with
and the purpose and intent of the framers of the present con"
stitution 'of said State.
It will be observed that there is nothing direct and definite
in this allegation either as to means or time as affecting the
proceedings against the acdused. There is no charge against
the officers to whom is submitted the selection of grand or
petit jurors, or those who procure the lists of the jurors.
There is an allegation of the purpose of the convention, to
disfranchise citizens of the colored race, but with this we have
no concern, unless the purpose is executed by the constitution
or laws or by those who administer them. If it is done in the
latter way, how or by what means should be shown. We
gather from the statements of the motion that certain officers
are invested with discretion in making up lists of electors, and
that this discretion can be and has' been exercised against the
colored race, and from these lists jurors are selected. The
Supreme Court of Mississippi, however, decided, in a case presenting the same questions as the one at bar, "that jurors are
not selected from or with reference to any lists furnished by
such election officers." Dixon v. The State, iNov. 9, 1896, 20
So. Rep. 839.
We do not think that this case is brought within the ruling
in Yick Vo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356. In that case the
ordinances passed on discriminated against laundries conducted in wooden buildings. For the conduct of these the
consent of the board of supervisors was required, and not for
the conduct of laundries in brick or stone buildings. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

admitted that there were about 320"laundries in the city and
county of San Francisco, of which 240 were owned and conducted by subjects of China, and of the whole number 310
were constructed of wood, the same material that constitutes
nine tenths of the houses of the city, and that the capital
invested was not less than two hundred thousand- dollars.
It was alleged that 160 Chinamen were arrested, and not
one of the persons who were conducting the other eighty
laundries and who were not Chinamen. It was also admitted
"that petitioner and 200 of his countrymen similarly situated
petitioned the board of supervisors for permission to continue
their business in the various houses which they had been
occupving and using for laundries for more than twenty
years, and such petitions were denied, and all the petitions of
those who were not Chinese, with one exception of Mrs. Uary
-Meagles, were granted."
The ordinances were attaoked as being void on their face,
and as being within the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment, but even if not so, that they were void by reason of
their administration. Both contentions were sustained.
Mr. Justice Matthews said that the ordinance drawn in
question "does not describe a rule and conditions for the
regulation of the use of property for laundry purposes, to
which all similarly situated may conform. It allows without
restriction the use for such purposes of buildings of brick or
stone; but as to wooclen buildings, constituting all those in
previous use, divides the owners or occupiers into two classes,
not having respect to their personiL character and qualifications for. the business, nor the situation and nature and
adaptation of the buildings themselves, but merely by an
arbitrary line, on one side of which are those who are permitted to pursue their industry by the mere will and consent
of the supervisors, and on the other those from whom that
consent is withheld, at their mere will and pleasure." The
ordinances, therefore, were on their face repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment. The court, however, went further
and said: "This conclusion and the reasoning on which it is
based are deductions from the face of the ordinance, as t0 its

WILLIAMS v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary tendency and ultimate actual operation. In the
present cases we are not obliged to reason from the probable
to the actual, and pass upon the validity of the ordinances
complained of as tried merely by the opportunities which
their terms afford of unequal and unjust discrimination in
their administration. For the cases present the ordinances in
actual operation, and the facts shown establish an administration directed so exclusively against a particular class of
persons as to warrant and require the conclusion that, whatever may have been the intent of the ordinances as adopted,
they are applied by the public authorities charged with their
administration, and thus representing the State itself, with a
mind so unequal and oppressive as tc amount to a practical
denial by the State of that equal protection of the laws which
is secured to the petitioners, as to all other persons, by the
broad and benign provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States. Though the law
itself be fair on its face and impartial in appearance, yet, if it
is applied and administered by public authority with an evil
eye and an unequal hand, so as practically to make unjust
and illegal discriminations between persons in similar circumstances, material to their rights, the denial of equal justice is
still within the prohibition of the Constitution. This principle of interpretation has been sanctioned in Henderson v.
Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259; Chy Lung v. Freeman,
92 U. S. 275; Ex _parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Neal v.
Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; -and Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113
U. S. 703."
This comment is not applicable to the constitution of Mississippi and its statutes. They do not on their face discriminate between the races, and it has not been shown that their
actual administration was evil, only that evil was possible
under them.
It follows, therefore, that the judgment must be
Affirmed.
VOL. CLXX-15

