KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
Syllabus.

past offence, and makes that, and that alone, the substantial
ingredient of a new crime, and the conviction of it years ago
the conclusive evidence of that new crime. It will be observed
that this statute includes any and all felonies- not only those
committed in connection with the profession of medicine and
surgery, but any and every felony in the whole catalogue of
Prime, whether committed here or in another jurisdiction. Its
design is to deprive convicted felons of the right of practising
at all. Clearly it acts directly upon and enhances the punishment of the antecedently committed offence by depriving the
person of his property and right and preventing his earning
his livelihood in his profession, only because of his past, and
in this case expiated, offence against the criminal law. The
prisoner has committed no new crime except that which the
statute has created out of the old. He had absolutely the
right to practise medicine the day before that statute was
passed. His former conviction entailed the punishment of
imprisonment and disfranchisement as a voter, but it did not
take away his property in the right to earn his living on the
expiration of his imprisonment, by engaging in the profession
of which he was and is a member. His civil rights were not
extinguished, but only suspended, during his imprisonment.
2 Rev. Stat. 701, ยง.19; Penal Code, ยง 710."
I concur entirely in these views, and must withhold my
assent to the opinion of the majority.

KIRWAN v. AEURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEA.LS FOR THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 5 0. Submitted March 28, 1898. -Decided

April 25, 1898.

An interlocutory order of a Circuit Court for the issue of a temporary injunction, having been taken on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
was there affirmed, and an order was Issued for temporary injunction.
An appeal from this was taken to this court. ileld, that this court has
no jurisdiction, and that the appeal must be dismissed.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

SIMoN J. Murphy and others filed a bill against P. H.
Kirwan, as United States Surveyor General for the District
of Minnesota, and Thomas 1H. Crosswell, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Minnesota, which
alleged in substance that complainants were the owners of
certain lands on the shores of Cedar Island Lake, in St. Louis
County, Minnesota, specifically described in the bill; that the
township in which the lands lie was surveyed in 1876, and the
survey approved by the United States Surveyor General for
Minnesota and by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office; that prior to April 1, 1887, all the lands in the township were sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States
according to the official plat of the survey, and patents
therefor were issued to the various purchasers and entrymen ;
that Cedar Island Lake is in fact smitiler than it is represented
to be on the plat, and that several of the fractional lots owned
by complainants about said lake contain more land than is
represented, while as to some of the lots the waters of the
lake extend upon the areas shown by the plat to be land ; that
the lands owned by complainants, lying between the meander
line and the actual shore line of the lake now claimed by
defendants to be unsurveyed, are of the value of two thousand
dollars. The bill further averred that complainants became
the owners of the lands described, with other lands, by virtue
of mesne conveyances from the patentees; that they paid a
valuable consideration for each parcel and purchased the same
in good faith, believing the titles of their grantors extended to
the lake, in reliance upon the government plat, and being in
ignorance of any fraud or mistake in the survey. It was then
stated that proceedings had been had to secure a resurvey of
the lands -between Cedar Island Lake and the old meander
line, and that on October 31, 1893, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office directed a resurvey, which order was
affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior, and final instructions for such resurvey given to the Surveyor General, November 5, 1896; that Kirwan, Surveyor General of Minnesota,
thereupon let the contract to make the survey to his codefendant, Thomas H. Crosswell, a deputy surveyor, who

KIR VAN v. MURPHY.
Statement of the Case.

was about to commence such survey. All which orders were
charged to be void, and it was prayed that defendant Kirwan
be enjoined from entering into any contract for the survey of
the lands described or from surveying the same, and that the
boundaries of the lands be defined by decree and established,
and complainants be protected in the use and enjoyment of
such lands, extending to and including the shores of Cedar
Island Lake, and to the centre of said lake; and that defendant Kirwan and his successors be perpetually enjoined from
surveying the same, etc. Affidavits and exhibits were filed
in support of the bill. A rule to show cause was issued and
argument had on the application for a terrporary injunction,
and the matter taken under advisement, whereupon defendants, January 11, 1897, filed their joint answer to the bill.
The answer set up that in 1876, under authority from the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, a contract was
made by the then Surveyor General of Minnesota with a
deputy surveyor to make a survey of certain lands in the
township in question; that thereafter, on certain pretended
field notes of the survey returned by the deputy surveyor, a
plat of the land was made by the Surveyor General and filed
with the Commissioner; that no survey was iin fact made;
that the exterior boundaries of the land only were run; that
no divisions into sections or smaller subdivisions were attempted ; that no streams or bodies of water were meandered;
that the field notes were false and fictitious, and the plat
thereon based false and incorrect.
The answer alleged that about twelve hundred acres of the
township were never sold, disposed of or patented, and were
still unsurveyed land belonging to the government, and lying
between the shore of Cedar Island Lake and certain enumerated government lots, a part of which lots had been
pptented and conveyed to complainants; that by the plat
made from the deputy's field notes, all of said unsurveyed
land is indicated as being a part of Cedar Island Lake. In
1893 an application of certain settlers upon this intervening
tract for a survey thereof, so as to enable them to enter the
lands as homesteads, was made, and the Secretary of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Interior, after many hearings, complainants being represented, adjudged the former survey fraudulent, and in 1696
a resurvey of the tract was ordered, in accordance with which
defendant Kirwan, as Surveyor General of the United States,
entered into a contract with Crosswell, a deputy surveyor, on
December 10, 1896, to survey and subdivide the hands.
On January 22, 1897, complainants filed a replication.
The Circuit Court, on April 3, 1897, granted coinplainants'
prayer for a temporary injunction, and an injunction was
ordered to issue, on bond being filed, restraining defendants
"during the pendeney of the above entitled action or until the
further order of this court from entering into any contract or
perfecting a contract partially entered into for the survey of
the lands hereinbefore described, or any part thereof, or from
surveying the same or causing the same to be surced."
From this order defendants appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and, after argument, that
court ordered, adjudged and decreed " that the order and
decree of the said Circuit Court awarding a temporary injunction in this bause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed without
costs to either party in this court September 27, 1897."
From this decree, appellants in that court, defendants
below, prayed and were allowed an appeal to this court,
which, having been docketed, appellees now move to dismiss.
-Mr. Henry IN Copp and Air. S. D. Luckett for the motion.

-Mr.Solicito' Genera and -Mr. IF. J. lughes opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the sixth section of the act of M-'arch 3, 1S91, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals are made final in that court in the classes of cases
therein enumerated, of which the present is not one, and it is
provided that in all cases not made final, there shall be of
right, within one year, an appeal or writ of error or review of

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

the case by this court, where the matter in controversy exceeds one-thousand dollars exclusive of costs.
But this applies only to final orders, judgments or decrees.
Young v..Grundy, 6 Cranch, 51; Keystone iron Company v.
.Martin, 132 U. S. 91; .MloLish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661 ; American,Construction Company v. Jacksonville Railtway Company,
148 U. S. 372, 378.
The order sought to be reviewed was simply an interlocutory
order of the Circuit Court for the issue of a temporary injunction, which order was affirmed by the. Circuit Q6urt of
Appeals without direction. If we should take jurisdiction,
it is this order we should revise in also reviewing that of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and our mandate would go directly
to the Circuit Court. Zouiville & 2asliville Railroad v.
Behlner, 169 U. S. 644.
In Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, it was held
that the Circuit Courts of Appeals on an appeal from an interlocutory order or decree of the Circuit Courts granting an
injunction and ordering an accounting in a patent suit, might
consider and decide- the case on'its -merits, and thereupon
render or direct a final decree dismissing the bill; and this
course might be pursued in other cases. Mills v. Green, 159
U. S. 651. Here however, the Court of Appeals did not
finally determine tle case by its judgment, and whether the
temporary injunction should be made permanent or not, was
left to the Circuit Court to decide when the final decree was
entered.
And we may add, that in concluding its opinion, the Circuit
Court of Appeals said: "In view of- these, considerations, we
are not satisfied that an error was committed in awarding a
temporary injunction. It cannot be said, we think, that the
injunction was improvidently issued, and the order appealed
from is therefore affirmed." 49 U. S. App. 658.
Moreover, by section six, the Circuit Courts of Appeals 'are
empowered to iteview final decisions of the District and Circuit Courts, except where cases are carried, under section five,
directly to this court, but, by the seventh section, as amended
by the act of February 19, 1895, 28 Stat. 666, c. 96, jurisdicVOL. CLXX-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

tion is given to the Courts of Appeals from appeals from interlocutory orders in injunction proceedings. And it was
under that section that the appeal was taken to the Court of
Appeals in this case.
But there is no provision in the act of March 3, 1891, or
any other act, authorizing an appeal to this court from interlocutory orders or decrees, and whether certiorari would lie is
a question that does not arise. In re Tamnpa Suburban Ra;lq'oad Company, 168 U. S. 583.
4pp2eal dieinissed].

HUMES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR TIE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 150.

Submitted February 21, 189).- Decided April 25, 1b9.

It is again decided that it is no ground for reversal that the court below
omitted to give instr; - ions which were not requested by the defendant.
T'he charge of the trial court was sufficiently full and elaborate.
It is again held that this court cannot consider an objection that the verdict was against the weight of evidence, if there was any evidence
proper to go fo the jury in support of the verdict:

THE plaintiff in error was indicted for violating section 5486
of the Revised Statutes of the United States. The indictment contained nine counts. They, respectively, charged the
withholding and detention of certain sums of money for pension fees in excess of the amount allowed by the statute to be
charged, to wit, the first, third, fifth, seventh and ninth counts ;
that defendant withheld, respectively, from William Anderson,
Isaac Bloodson, Ann Galloway and Whitfield Pryor the several sums of $486.40, $517.20, $120.13, $116 and $15.80; the
second, fourth, sixth and eighth counts charged that he "did
demand from said persons, respectively, the said several sums."
The jury returned a verdict of guilty as to the first and third
counts, a verdict of not guilty as to the second, fourth, seventh,

