HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

board, it can do so by complying with the statute and stating
wberein it complains of such decision. If it make no conplaint, it may be regarded as satisfied with the decision as
made.
As the Government in this case took no proceedings
to review the decision of the board of general appraisers,
it cannot be heard to object to an affirmance of such decision.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 29.

Argued January 28, 1897. -Decided

May 23, 1S93.

In the spring of the year 1825, when the grant of public land in controversy
in this suit was made, the territorial deputation of New Mexico had no
authority to make such grant.

THIS action was begun by appellant Hayes to obtain the
confirmation of an alleged complete and perfect title to a tract
of land of the area of 130,138.98 acres, situated in the county
of Socorro, Territory of New Mexico.
In his petition Hayes averred that his alleged title was
derived by mesne conveyances through one Antonio Chavez,
to whom, on March 3, 1S25, while the land was a part "of
the public domain of the Rep ublic of .Mexico," a grant was
made of the tract in question by the governor and departmental assembly "of the Territory of New Mexico." The
exhibits attached to the petition, however, show, and counsel for. the appellant admits in his brief, that the correct
designations of the officials intended to be referred to were,
respectively, the "political chief" and "territorial deputation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The testirnonio furnished Chavez, as translated from the
original Spanish, is reproduced in the margin.
1 Testimnonio.
Office of Secretary of the most excellent provincial deputation of the Territory of Santa F6, of New Mexico.
Public session of the 16th day of February and 3d day of March, 1825.
I, the undersigned, secretary of the most excellent provincial deputation
of the territory of Santa F6, of New Mexico, do certify that in book second,
wherein appears recorded the journal of the proceedings of its excellency,
on page 41 of the book, it appears there was report made to said honorable
body upon a petition, the tenor whereof, copied letter for letter, is as
follows :
"MOST EXCELLENT SIR: 1, Antonio Chavez, a republican citizen of the
United Mexican States, and a resident of the town of our Lady of Belem,
jurisdiction of this province of New Mexico, in the most ample and due
legal form appear before your excellency and state, that finding myself very
much crowded in the possession of my property and its appurtenances, as
vell in the pasturing of my stock as in the extension of agriculture, and
desiring to remove to another place of greater capacity, with the honest
purpose of enlarging both businesses, I apply to the superior wisdom of
your excellency, to the end that, if such should be your high pleasure, you may
deign to assign and adjudge me the tract called the San Lorenzo Arroyo,
whose description and boundaries are: On the south the ranche of Pablo
Garcia; on the north the little tableland of the Alamillo; on the east or
vest the Jara spring; and -on the west or east the river known as the Del
Norte; and the said laud referred to in my petition being so uninviting,
uncultivated, desolate and bleak, I earnestly believe, from your superior
discernment, that your excellency, having in view and considering the
matter, will have presented to you no obstacle to the granting, the adjudgilg and the assigning of the same to me; for, besides its contributing by
cultivation and improvement to the beneflt and security of the surrounding
individuals, there will result to the province in general a great assistance
and relief, inasmuch as at this point will be frustrated and prevented the
incursions, ambushes and assaults of the enemies of our quietude and
peace, who often invade and attack; and it will stop the exportation, deterioration and decrease of the little live stock they have left for the subsistence of the inhabitants and families of this needy province; wherefore
I ask and pray that your excellency grant me what I pray for, whereby I
will receive favor, grace and justice. I declare not to act with dissimulation, and as may be necessary, etc.
"AN TONIO CHIAVEZ."

Session of the 16th day of February, 1825.
This document- will pass to the honorable the political chief of this
territory in order that, in continuation, lie report whether the land that this

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The juridical act evidencing the delivery of possession
was read in evidence from a duly certified copy of the
record thereof made on the records of the probate court
party asks for pertains to that of the settlements of Socorro and-Seviletta,
and whether it is embraced in the same, and also whether, though it pertain
to
to the settlements, it may, on account of their great extent, be granted
the petitioner without injury to a third party.
ANTONIO ORTIZ, President.
JosiE FRANCISCO BACA.
JosE FRANCISCO ORTIZ.
rPDRo BAUTISTA PINO.
JUAN BAUTISTA VIGIL, Secretary.

MATIAS ORTIZ.

Antonio
MOST EXCELLENT SIR.: It is certain that the application of
and a
Chavez, a resident of Belem, refers to a part of the tract of Socorro
on
that
certain
also
is
it
but
Seviletta,
to
belongs
portion of that which
account of the great extent of both tracts and it being where their possesresults
sions separate, far from being injurious to those settlements, there
to them a benefit, for the reasons which I will proceed to state, as follows:
a
The first and most important is the increase of the population to such
and
degree that it will afford means to the said settlements of Socorro
the savages,
Seviletta by guarding a portion of the entrances and exits of
the
who, though at peace, come to rob as those at war endeavor to harass
to
that
second,
The
them.
near
or
surrounding
those
or
same settlements
lands for
the resident of the'said new settlements there remain most ample
granted
pastures, fields, uses and transits, so that the land which may be
occasion
to Chavez will cause them not the least scarcity, as on another
that granted to Sabinal did not to Belem, or even to Seviletta itself, thou-h
said
It was an appurtenance' of the first. The third, that making to the
that the
Chavez the grant lie asks would produce the emulation desired, so
may be
desirable vacant lands of the Bosque del Apache and San Pascual
greatest
settled, which lands upon the one and the other bank present the
lands
advantages to stock raisers and farmers, for, although they may have
locusts
in the centre of other settlements, these from their age are full of
of Anand worn out by constant cultivation. Fourth. That the petition
tonio Chavez has in it more of necessity than of effectation or covetousness,
inasmuch as from that individual the Navajo tribe has taken the greater
its propart of his live stock, and lie requires a tract from which, through
during
suffered
has
lie
losses
the
from
himself
stablish
re
ductiveness, to
the war with the said tribe. Fifth, that the slightest damage not resulting
probto Socorro and Seviletta from the grant which Chavez asks, it is very
have a place
able that the people there, for their poverty is well known, will
and
where they may get employment which may furnish them subsistence
deplorable
which (like their neighbors, who are subject to the same, almost,
condition) they lack.

OCTOBER TERMA,

1897.

Statement of the Case.

of the county of Socorro, and is also reproduced in the
margin.'
It was averred that after receiving possession as aforesaid,
1 For all these reasons and many others, which I omit in order not to
trouble your excellency, I am of opinion that the petition of Antonio Chavez
may be acceded to at once, to which the people of the settlements aforesaid
will make no objection, unless some peevish person or other enemy of the
welfare of his fellow-creatures should unjustly persuade them with pretexts
which never lack against that which is not wanted. This is what I can
report to your excellency in compliance with what was resolved and in
accordance with the practical knowledge I have in the matter. God preserve your excellency many years.
Santa F6, 25th of February, 1825.
BARTOO ME BACA.

Session of the 3d day of March, 1825.
Book two of the journal of the most excellent territorial deputation of
New Mexico, on the 43d page thereof, says the reading of two reports was
proceeded with, which his excellenck the political chief then presented
uon the petitions of Antonio Chavez and Pedro Jose Perea for lands, and
this honorable body being advised thereof resolved that there be adjudged
to the two individuals the land they ask, filing in the office of the secretary
of this honorable body the original expedients, as is provided, ordered
and customary in similar cases and furnishing the parties interested the
corresponding testirnonto, which will serve them as title, and with which
Antonio Chavez will present himself to the alcalde of Socorro that he may
place him in possession, and Pedro Jose Perea to Juan Esteban Pino,
esquire, for the same action.
This agrees faithfully and legally with the original from which, as due
testimony and by direction of the most excell'nt territorial deputation
of New Mexico, I have taken the present copy, of which there has been
furnished the parties interested the corresponding testirnonio, which will
serve them as title.
Santa F, March 5, 1825.
Jr.tx BAUTISTA VIGIL, Secretary.
(Vigil's Rubric.)
Fees for all that has been done, twenty dollars.
1, Juan Francisco Baca, citizen and constitutional alcalde of the jurisdiction of San Miguel del Socorro, under the authority conferred upon me
in the premises, proceeded on the twentieth of April, of the year one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, to place in possession the citizen
Anto. Chavez upon the land that he applies for; and in obedience to the
order which, under date of the fifth of March of the said year, said Chavez,
a resident of the. district of Santa Maria de Belem, presented me, borne
upon the grant he exhibited to me from the most excellent provincial
deputation of this Territory of New Mexico, with a report of the political

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Chavez resided upon and cultivated the lands, and held and
claimed the same as his private property in "fee simple absolute," free from all conditions or charges, "occupying the same
openly, continually, notoriously, peaceably and exclusively"
until his death, the date of which is not stated, when his
widow succeeded to the title, and similarly possessed and
occupied the tract until October 26, 1850, "when she duly
conveyed all and singular the said tract of land upon a pecuniary consideration to Rafael Luna, Anastacio Garcia and
Ramon Luna." Similar allegations as to possession, claim of
ownership and cultivation were made concerning the subsequent conveyances in the claim of title.
It was averred that two reports upon the Chavez grantthe earlier favorable' the other unfavorable - were communicated to Congress by surveyors general for New Mexico; and
it was further averred that prior to the making of the second
report a committee of the House of Representatives reported
chief, which accompanies said grant, directing me to proceed to place
Chavez in possession of the land he asks; in consideration whereof, I
should proceed, and I did proceed, with two aldermen of this ayuntamiento,
and two residents of this district, to whom I caused to be exhibited the
order and the grant, the former being Anselmo Tafoya and Marcos Baca,
and the latter being the citizens Jose Lioniclo Silva and Augustin Trugillo,
and as such alcalde did place the citizen Antonio Chavez in possession on
the said land which he applies for,. performing the ceremonies the laws require of me, assigning-him for landmarks on the north, where the small
tableland of the Alamillo begins; on the east, the del Norte River; on the
south, a small forked cedar tree in the middle of the bend of the Pablo
Garcia ranch, commonly so called, this little cedar being on the same side
with the main road which is travelled toward said Socorro, on the side of the
meadow; on the west, the spring known as the Jara spring. As alcalde
aforesaid, in pursuance of direction, and in virtue and in form of law, I
took the said Chavez by the hand and led him over his land, and he, in
observance of the customary ceremonies, shouted, "Long endure the
nation and our independence, and long live the sovereign," and he shouted
and plucked up herbs, cast stones, and they praised the name of God, and
by authority I left the party interested in peaceable possession, and I,
under the authority which is conferred on me, authenticated and signed
this, with two witnesses in my attendance, to which I certify on said day,
Ju i FRANcIsCO BACA.
month and year.
Attending: VINCENTE SILBA.
Attending: JULIAN OaCANA. (X.)
VOL. CLXX-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

back to that body a bill to confirm the claim, with a recommendation that it pass as amended. What, if any, action was
taken thereafter by CongresS, is left to conjecture.
It was also averred that the grant 'had been correctly
surveyed by the United States, under the direction of the
surveyor general for New Mexico, and a map showing the
extent and boundaries of the tract was filed with the petition.
About 20,000 acres of the land lying in the eastern portion of
the tract delineated on the map was formerly appurtenant to
the towns of Sorocco and Seviletta, referred to in the report
of the political chief set out in the testimonio.
In substance, the answer of the United States averred that
the grant'to Chavez was void for want of authority in the granting body, and, further, that if the grant was valid, the survey
did not correctly show the western boundary, and the area of
the tract was much less than was claimed in the petition.
.The Government' also denied that the land granted was
possessed, cultivated and occupied by Chavez and those claiming under him, as averred in the petition. An answer was
also filed on behalf of the Atlantic and Pacific Railway
Company, in which it set up title under its charter to oddnumbered sections of land within the limits of the premises
described in the petition, and prayed that the petition of
plaintiff be dismissed as to such sections.
Testimony was taken in the cause, and, after hearing, the
Court of Private Land Claims entered a decree rejecting the
grant and dismissing the petition. An application for a
rehearing having been refused, an appeal to this court was
allowed. The transcript of record contains a stipulation on
behalf of the United States, admitting that on the trial "the
petitioner proved sufficient proprietary interest in the subjectmatter of this litigation to enable him to present and prosecute
his petition herein."
_Hr. John H. Knaebel for appellant.
Mr. 2lfatt/ew G. Reynolds for appellees.
General was on his brief.

Yr. Solicitor

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The main question presented by the contention of the
parties is as to the power of the territorial deputation of
New Mexico, in the sprint of 1825, to make grants of public
lands situated within the boundaries of that territory. We
therefore pretermit an examination of the controverted issues
as to possession in order to first address ourselves to the fundamental legal question upon which the decision of the cause
substantially depends. To understand the issue to be considered it is necessary to recall a few f.acts connected with the
overthrow of th6 dominion of Spain in Mexico and the establishment in the latter country of an independent government.
After the successful revolution by which Mexico was
severed from the control of the crown of Spain, and following
the deposition of the Emperor Iturbide, a representative body
was assembled, which was known as the constituent Congress
of Mexico, and this body adopted, on January 31, 1824, what
is termed the constitutive act. In that instrument New Mexico vas recognized as a state of the federation, and in article 7
it was provided that the .territories of the federation should
be directly subject to the supreme power which, in article 9,
was divided into legislative, executive and judicial. 1 White
New Rocopilacion, p. 375; Reynolds' Spanish and Mexican
Laws, p. 33.
Under the provisions of the constitutive act what has been
styled the general constituent Congress was elected, and on
July 6, 1824, it was decreed that "the province of New Mexico remains a territory of the federati6n." Reynolds, p. 117.
Subsequently, on August 18, 1824, the same Congress adopted
a general colonization law which, in articles 11 and 16, vested
the supreme executive power with sole authority to regulate
and control the disposition of public lands in the territories.
On October 24, 1824, the general constituent Congress
adopted a permanent constitution, which, in article 5, enumerated, isone of the parts of the federation, the "territory of
Santa F6 of New Mexico." .Reynolds, p. 121.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

It is manifest that the necessary effect of the decree of
July 6, 1824, the colonization law of 1824, and of the constitution of October 24-, 1824, was to deprive the officials of a
territory of the power to dispose of the public lands,,even
though it be arguendo conceded that such power had theretofore been possessed by the officials who exercised authority
within the area which was made a territory by the constitution.
But it is earnestly and elaborately argued that, as by the
constitutive act New 1exico was recognized as a state of
the federation, the Congress could not subsequently constitutionally reduce New Mlexico to the rank of a mere territory,
and that'this court, in disposing of this case, must therefore
disregard the Mexican constitution and hold that, as a state,
New Miexico succeeded to the sovereignty and dominion of all
the lands within its borders which formerly belonged to the
king or crown of Spain, and, further, that we must in substance assume the acts of the officials who made the grant in
question to have been those of state officials. The position
thus taken, however, is so utterly in conflict with the facts
and is so inconsistent with the case made by the petition as
hardly to be entitled to serious notice.
Not only, as we have stated, had New lexico been declared a territory prior to the passage of the colonization law
of August 18, 1824, but such status has been reiterated in the
fifth article of the Constitution of October, 24, 1824. Moreover, it is averred in the petition that the grant for which
confirmation is sought was made by the "Republic of Mexico," through the territorial deputation of New Mexico, and
it is specifically alleged that the land granted was prior to
the making of the grant part of the public domain of the republic. And the muniments of title to the original grantee,
put in evidence on- behalf of the petitioner, support these
averments, and clearly show a recognition of and execution
by New *exico of its status as a territory imposed by the
decree of July 6, 1824, and the constitution of the following
October. Thus, in the preamble of the testintonio, it is recited that the official who certifies to it, his certificate being

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Opiniou of the Court.

dated March 5, 1S25, is "secretary of the most excellent
provincial deputation of the territory of Santa F of New
Mexico," and it will be remembered that this was the exact
designation of the territory employed in the Constitution of
October 4, 1824. On February 16, 1825, in referring the petition to the political chief for report, the territorial deputation
alluded to that official as the political chief of the "territory."
Again, in the extract from the journal of March 3, 1825, the
record is referred to as "book two of the journal of the most
excellent territorial deputation of New Mexico;" and in the
juridical act the deputation is styled the "provincial deputation of this territory of New Mexico.'"
In this condition of the record there can be no reason suggested for our entering upon an inquiry as to whether New
Mexico might, in 1825, have rightfully insisted that it was a
state and not a territory of the federation, nor are we at all
concerned with the question as to what, if any, rights in
public lands were vested in a Mexican state in the year mentioned. The grant upon which, if at all, petitioner was entitled to relief in the court below was not made by state
officials, did not purport to be a grant from a state, and was
manifestly intended not to be such.
The lands covered by the grant being public lands of the
nation, and not being subject to grant by the authorities of
the territory of New Mexico, it follows that the title upon
which the claimant relies vested no right in him and was
clearly not within .the purview of the act of Congress conferring jurisdiction on the Court of Private Land Claims, for
obviously it cannot be in reason held that a title to land derived from a territory which the territ6rial authorities did not
own, over which they had no power of disposition, was regularly derived from either Spain or M exico or a state of the
Mexican nation.
The contentions by which the plaintiff in error seeks to
avoid the controlling effect of the foregoing considerations
are as follows: 1st. That the territorial government of _Kew
Mexico had power to dispose of the public lands of the nation
because it is not affirmatively shown that the colonization law

OCTOBER TERMA,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

of the 18th of August, 1824, had been promulgated in New
Mexico at the time the grant in question was made. 2d. Because even if it be conceded that the authorities of the territory were without inherent legal power to have made the
grant, nevertheless there is a presumption that they were
authorized to make it by the chief executive power of the
Mexican nation, or that their action in making it was subsequently ratified by the like authority. 3d. That any defect
in the title of the plaintiff in error is barred by prescription.
4th. That whatever may be the want of title in the plaintiff
in error 's to all the lands embraced in the grant except the
portions thereof taken from lands appurtenant to the towns
of Socorto and Seviletta, as to such lands there clearly is no
want of title, because it is certain that as to such lands there
was power vested in the authorities of the territory to make
grant of the same, and hence, at least to the extent that lands
of this character were embraced within the grant, there should
be a confirmation. We will consider these contentions in the
order stated.
1st. Whilst it is true the record does not affirmativ-ely show
that the colonization law of 1824: bad been promulgated in the
territory of New Mexico at the time the grant in question was
made, it by the strongest implication gives rise to the inference
that it had been. Besides, the legal presumption of promulgation arises in the absence of proof to the contrary. The
granting papers show on their face that the constitution
adopted subsequent to the colonization law had been promulgated in New Mexico, and the inference of fact is fairly deducible that such also was the case as to the earlier law of
1824. The constitution of Mexico in article 16, paragraph 13,
made it the duty "of the supreme executive power to cause
to be published, circulated and observed, the laws and the
general constitution." 1 White New IRec. 398. In the absence of proof the presumption of omnia 9,ita creates the
But the question
inference that the duty was performed.
of promulgation is an immaterial one. By the constitution
New Mexico was a territory. The grant itself, as we have
seen, discloses this to be the fact, and describes the lands as

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

those 'of the nation. Whatever may be the foundation for
the claim that the states of the Mexican nation in virtue of
their autonomy succeeded to the right of disposition of the
public lands of the nation, as to which we express no opinion,
clearly such power did not obtain as to the territories, and
therefore whether or not the colonization law was promulgated becomes irrelevant, since the imposing of a territorial
status on New Mexico by the constitution operated to restrict
that territory to such powers alone as a territory might lawfully exercise, and therefore had the effect of depriving it of
the power to alienate the national domain.
* 2d. The claim that because by the colonization law of 1824;
the chief executive was authorized to dispose of the public
domain, and by the regulation of 1828, adopted to carry out
the law of 1824, the executive delegated to certain territorial
officers power to grant lands, therefore the presumption must
be deduced that the act of the territory in granting the public
lands in question was either sanctioned by the executive at
the time of the grant or at a date subsequent thereto, was
duly ratified by such' authority, is without merit.
By the first subdivision of the thirteenth section of the act
creating the Court of Private Land Claims that court and this
court on appeal are expressly prohibited from allowing any
claim under the act "that 'shall not appear to be upon a title
lawfully and regularly derived from the Government of Spain
or Mexico, or from any of the States of the Republic of
Mexico having lawful authority to make grants of land."
This manifest limitation upon the power of the court in
lpassing upon ihe validity of an alleged complete grant
requires that the court shall not adjudge in favor of validity
unless satisfied from the inherent evidence contained in the
grant, or otherwise, of an essential prerequisite to validity, viz.,
the .authority of the granting officer or body to convey the
public domain.
In this respect the act of 1891 is materially different from
the statutes construed' in .the Arredondo case, 6 Pet. 691.
That case concerned a grant by the king of Spain of land in
Florida. The statutes under'-which the court exercised juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

diction enjoined, among other things, as guides or rules of
decision in passing upon a claim, "the stipulations of any
treaty, and proceedings under the same; the several acts of
Congress in relation thereto;" etc. In view of provisions of
this character, the court, beginning on page 722, devoted
much attention to the question, "Whether the several acts of
Congress relating to Spanish grants do not give this grant,
and all others which are complete and perfect in their forms,
'legally and fully executed,' a greater and more conclusive
effect as evidence of a grant by proper authority." Reviewing such acts, the conclusion was reached that it was
the intention of Congress that a claimant should not be
required to offer proof as to the authority of the officials
executing a public grant, but that the court should, in
deciding upon a claim, assume as a settled principle that a
public grant is to be taken as evidence that it issued by
lawful authority. (P. 729.) And in the Peralta case, 19
How. 343, in a proceeding under the act of March 3, 1851,
relating to lands in California, the doctrine of the Airedodo
case was -applied.
But in the act of- 1S91 the court is required to be satisfied
not simply as to the regularity in form, but it is made
essential before a grant can be held legally valid that it must
appear that the title was "lawfully and regularly derived,"
which imports that the court must ba satisfied, from all the
evidence, that the official body or person assuming to grant
was vested with authority, or that the exercise of power, if
unwarranted, was subsequently lawfully ratified.
Controlled, as we are, by the grant of power conferred by
the act of Congress, we are unable when the record discloses
that the grant was not "lawfully and regularly derived
from any state of the Republic of Miexi'co having authority
to make grants," to hold that it should nevertheless be confirmed because, although the proof convincingly shows that
the grant does not conform to the requirements of the act of
Congress, the grant yet must be held valid because of a supposed legal presumption. Indeed, if a legal presmnption on
the subject could be indulged in, the granting papers would

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

not authorize it to be invoked. They make no reference
whatever to the colonization law, contain no allusion to the
quantity of land contained in the tract granted, and if its area
was as now claimed the tract contained nearly three times the
maximum quantity of land designated in the twelfth article
of the colonization law of 18241, or which was authorized by
the regulations of 1828. Ift the grant made in 1825 could be
measured by the power for the first time conferred on territorial officers in 1828, such an unreasonable and retroactive rule
would not help the grant. It was not in accord with the
regulations of 1828, and hence finds no support from those
regulations. United States v. Vigil, 13 Wall. 449, 452. Further, while it is reasonable to presume that any order or
decree of the supreme executive of Mexico conferring authority to alienate the territorial lands or ratifying an unauthorized grant to the extent authorized by law was made matter
of official record, the petition does not aver, and the grant
does not recite, nor was there any evidence introduced showing a prior authorization or subsequent ratification. In fact,
it was not even shown that at or about the time of the grant
the territorial deputation habitually assumed to grant lands,
particularly under circumstances which would justify an inference that the supreme executive was informed of such procedure.
3d. The contention that the land has been acquired by prescription is based upon the theory that the time for prescription ran against the government of Mexico, and to support
this claim it is said that under the Spanish law, whilst
prescription did not run against the king on subjects relating
to his prerogative or inherent governmental authority, that
with reference to the mere ownership of the public domain,
the king, the Spanish nation and the national government of
Mexico as their successor, were subject to the bar of the
statute of limitations like any private individual. But a decision as to the soundness of this proposition is wholly unnecessary for the purposes of this cause. By the Spanish law
prescription was divided into ordinary and extraordinary.
The term of the ordinary prescription as to immovable prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Op'nion of the Court.

erty was ten years, (Partidas 3, Law 18, Title 29,) and the
term for immovable property by the extraordinary prescription was thirty years. (Partidas 3, Law 16, Title 29.) But
the requisites for the ordinary prescription were, 1st, good
faith; 2d, just title; 3d, continued and uninterrupted possession for the time required by law. (Hall, p. 30 ; 2 White, 83;
Orozoco, Legislation and Jurisprudence on Public Lands,
Mexico, 1895, vol. 1, p. 300.) The just. title required did not
include a title which was absolutely void and derived from
one who by operation of law bad no power whatever to dispose of the property. (Partidas 3, Law 11, Title 20.) In
speaking on these provisions of the Partidas,.Schmidt, in his
Civil Law of Spain and Mexico (p. 290), says: "It is also
necessary that the contract by which the property was
acquired should be a valid contract. Hence, a thing acquired
by purchase, donation or any other contract made with an
insane person cannot be acquired by prescription; nor property obtained from a minor or any other mode which the law
holds invalid; but even in such cases the prescription of thirty
years applies as is explained in paragraph 1 of the next section."
The provisions in the Partidas as to the distinction between
the ordinary and the extraordinary prescription and the requirements essential to the former were substantially common
to the civil law countries. Their practical equivalent was
found in the Roman law. L. 24, C. de rei Vindicat., L. 4, C.
derprxacript.longi termp. They obtained in the intermediary
law. They were reproduced in the Code iNapoleon, Art. 2265.
They are also adopted in the Louisiana Code. La. C. C.
3478 et seq. to 3484. Under all these systems, in interpreting
the meaning of what is meant by just title, it has invariably
been held that they do not embrace a title made by one who
by operation of law had absolutely no power to coney. In
spealdng on this subject in Francoise v. Delaronde, 8 Martin,
(La.) 619, where it was claimed that a'sale, made at a time
when the Spanish law was dominant, of a mior's property by a
tutor, when b3r law the tutor had no authority to sell, could be
the-basis of the ten years' prescription because the purchaser

HAYES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

was in good faith and the deed was a "just title," the court,
speaking through Matthews, J., said:
"From the order of the judge, it is presumable that the
defendant believed that he gained a just and legal title to
the lot, under the act of sale, supposing that all the formalities
required by law had been complied with. In this he mistook
the law: for the manner of sale and forms required by law
were not pursued; et nunquam in usucapionibus,Juris error
possessoriprodest. ff. eod. lib. 3, 31.
"However much the commentators of the Roman law have
differed the one from the other, and the same person from
himself at different periods, on the subject of mistakes of law,
they seem to agree in this, that jurls error is never a good
foundation for acquiring property. 2 Evans' Pothier, 409,
d'Aguesseau's dissertation, 2."
Pothier, in his treatise on Prescription (No. 85), says:
"In order that a possessor can acquire by prescription the
thing which he possesses (speaking of course of the short or
ordinary prescription) it is essential that the title from which
his possession proceeds should be a valid title. If his title is
void, a void title being no title, the possession which proceeds
from it is a possession without title which cannot operate
prescription."
In referring to the opinion of d'Argentr~e, that a title absolutely void for want of legal power could not be the basis of
a ten-year prescription, Troplong, in his treatise on Prescription, says, vol. 2, p. 905 :
"1This truth is so palpable that it cannot be contested. It
has been acceded to by all the writers, whether civilist or canonist. It stands out plainly in the exposition of the reasons for
the adoption of the title of prescription (in the Code Napoleon)
given by M. Bigot de Preameneu. No one, said he, can believe in good faith that he possesses as owner, if he has not a
just title; that is to say, a title which would in its nature be
translative of the right of property, and which is otherwise
valid. It would not be valid if it was contrary to law, and
even -although it be void only for a defect of legal form, it
could not authorize prescription."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

And this reasoning at once suggests the necessary relation
between the requirement.of good faith and that of just title.
In the Roman law the latter was substantially a mere resultant of the former. Marcad6 Prescription, p. 194 ; Ducaurroy
Inst., t. 1, p. 382 et sey.
Where the want of just title is the result of a legal incapacity oil the part of the seller, such a cause not only operates
to render the title not just in legal intendment, but deprives
the contract of the essential ingredients of legal good faith.
"If then," says Marcad6 (p. 201), "believing your vendor to be
the owner when he was not, you knew he was a minor, an interdict, or otherwise incapable of selling, you could not then
buy from him with the conviction that the contract was true
and regular, and you could not therefore prescribe by ten
years."
But here the deed on its face purported to be a conveyance
of the domain of the nation by a territory thereof. The want
of power in the territory was the resultant of the constitution
and laws of the nation, and was therefore an incapacity by
operation of law, with knowledge of which the grantee was
chargeable. Thus, not only did the just title not arise, but
the essential element of legal good faith was wanting. And
these twofold consequences, that is, want of legal good faith
and the absence of just title which necessarily arise where a
sale is made of the public domain, by one wholly without
'authority to make it, is clearly stated by Orozoco:
"The title is lacking, because a void title cannot be alleged
nor be made to serve to prove the just cause of possession.
producit efeetu n. For, as Pothier
Quod nullum est nullump
may acquire, by prescription,
possessor
a
that
says, 'in order
that the title from
indispensable
is
it
possesses,
he
the thing
title.' If his
legitimate
a
be
proceeds
possession
which the
title, and the
a
considered
be
cannot
title
title is void, a vid
without
possession
a
is
same
the
from
possession that proceeds
prescription.
produce
title, which cannot
"The just cause is lacking, because this is nothing else than
a proper title to transfer dominion, and a void title does not
transfer it.

HAYES

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

"Finally, good faith is lacking, because this is based not on
an error of fact, which may be excusable in us, but we can
never take advantage of error as against law. .unquam in
usucpaionibisjurls errorpossessori prodest. Junis ignorantiam in usucapione negatur prodesse: facti vero ignorantiam
prodesse constat."
As the ordinary prescription could not apply, and as the
necessary time for the extraordinary prescription under
the Spanish law had not run at the time of the acquisition of
the territory by the United States, and as, clearly, whatever
may have been the rule as to the operation of prescription
against the Spanish or Mexican governments, it did not run after
the treaty against the United States, it follows that the claim
of prescription is without foundation. We have discussed this
question upon the hypothesis that the record showed such
possession prior to the cession to the United States as would
have authorized the running of prescription if there had been
good faith and a just title, but because we have done this we
must not be considered as so deciding or even so intimating.
4th. Nor is there merit in a contention made with respect
to the portions of the land granted which were carved out of
lands appurtenant to the towns of Socorro and Seviletta. It
is asserted that, at least as to these lands, the power to grant
existed in the territorial deputation. This claim proceeds on
the hypothesis that a land law of the Spanish Cortes of January 4, 1813, (Reynolds, p. 83,) was in force in New Mexico in
March, 1825. This law looked to the reduction to private
ownership of "all public or crown lands, and those of the
municipal domains and revenues, . . . except the necessary commons of the town."
One half of the public and crown lands of the monarchy,
excepting town commons, were reserved, in article VI, for
lucrative alienation; while provision was made in clauses IX
et seq. for disposition. of the remaining public and crown lands,
or of the farming lands of the municipal domain, in small
tracts, the grants to be made by the common councils of such
towns, subject to the approval of the provincial deputation.
While counsel contends that this law empowered the legis-

OCTOBER- TERAI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

lative bodies of the province, known as the provincial deputations, to dispose of the surplus lands of towns, that law does
not expressly confer such authority. Article 4, which is relied
upon, merely requires the deputations to make report to the
Cortes as to the time and manner of carrying out the provisions of the law, to aid the Cortes in deciding what is best.
Besides, this law of 1813 was held in United States v. TTallejo,
1 Black, 541, to be inoperative in Mexico after the enactment
of the colonization law of 1824, and we are clearly of opinion
that, as applied to a Territory, if entitled to the construction
claimed for it-by counsel for plaintiff in error, it was obviously
repugnant to and inconsistent with the supreme power over
the Territories reserved to the national government, particularly with the sweeping powers over lands in the Territories
vested by the law of 1824 in the supreme executive power of
the republic.
Moreover, if the town lands could have been granted under
the supposed authority of the law of the Cortes of January 4,
1813, that law treated such lands as in the category of crown
lands. The granting papers in evidence also warrant the inference that the landswere so regarded. Even then, though they
were appurtenant to towns, they were subject to the disposition of the Spanish crown as part of the public domain, and
authority to sell was not within the scope of territorial
authority. United States v. $ante _Fj, 165 U. S. 675, 708;
'United States v. Sandoval, 167 U. S. 278; Rio Ai'riba land
and Cattle Co. v. United States, 167 U. S. 298. Lands of this
character being a part of the public domain they were subject
necessarily to the authority of the Mexican nation, and the
territorial officers were as absolutely void of right to sell them
as they were to sell any other part of the public lands of the
nation.
Of course the fact, if it be such, that the present claimant
was a bonafde purchaser in good faith, who, in reliance upon
the action of Congress with reference to similar grants expended large sums of money on the faith of the validity of
the title which he supposed he had acquired, cannot influence
the action *ofthis court. As said in Crepin v. United States,
168 U. S.208,_218:

THE CARIB PRINCE.
Statement of the Case.

"If there be any hardship to the petitioners in the rejection
of this grant, they must apply for relief to another department of the Government. We are bound by the language of
the act creating the Court of Private Land Claims."
The decree of the court below is
-Affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE SHIRAs dissented.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the decision.

THE CARIB PRINCE.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 45.

Argued March 7, 8, 169S. -Decided

May 23, 1S98.

Under the settled doctrine of this court, that the concurrent decisions of
two courts upon a question of fact will be followed unless shown to be
clearly erroneous, this court accepts as indisputable the finding that the
Carib Prince was unseaworthy at the time of the commencement of the
voyage in question in this case, by reason of the defect in the tank referred to in its opinion.
The condition 9f unseaworthiness so found to exist was not within the
exceptions contained in the bill of lading, and, under the other facts
disclosed by the record, the ship owner was liable for the damages
caused by the unseaworthy condition of his ship; and there is nothing
in the act of February 19, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, commonly known as
the Harter act, which relieved him from that liability.
The provision in that act exempting owners or charterers from loss resultIng from "faults or errors in navigation or in the management of the
vessel," and from certain other designated causes, in no way implies
that because the owner is thus exempted when he has been duly diligent,
the law has thereby also relieved him from the duty of furnishing a seaworthy vessel.

THE Carib Prince, an iron and steel steamer, ms built in
England in tho spring of 1893, for the carriage of passengers
1The docket title of this case is "Josephine IV. V1uppermna
ship Carib Prince, her engines &c., Ernest Legge, Claimant."

v. The Steam-

