OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

after the discovery of a loss for which the company was liable,
nor within six months after the expiration or cancellation of
the bond. We cannot assent to these propositions. It must
be assumed from the verdict that, within the meaning of the
bond, the loss was discovered the latter part of May, and that
written notice of it was given as soon thereafter as was practicable. As, for the reasons heretofore stated, O'Brien (lid not
retire from the service of the bank prior at least to December
29, 1891, it is clear that the objection under consideration is
not well taken. Under the facts found, it must be held that
proper notice of the loss was given as soon as practicable
after the discovery of the fraud of O'Brien and within six
months after his retirement from the service of his employer,
and that the claim was made in such form as to reasonably
informthe company of its nature. When received, no objection was made that notice of it was not served in time, nor
that it was not sufficiently full to indicate the grounds upon
which the receiver would proceed against the company upon
its bond.
Having considered all the questions which, in our judgment, need to be examined, and perceiving no error of law in
the record to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the
Surety Company, the judgments of the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals are
4ffirmed.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 169. Argued January 7, 15.-Decided April 18, 1698.
This was an action upon a bond guaranteeing a national bank against loss
by any act of fraud or dishonesty by its president. The bond was similar
in its provisions to the one referred to in the case preceding this, and
contained among other provisions the following: " Now, therefore, in
cobnsideration," etc.,
. . .
"1it is hereby declared and agreed, that

subject to the provision herein contained, the company shall, within

AMERICA.N SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

161

Opinion of the Court.
three months next after notice, accompanied by satisfactory proof of a
loss, as hereinafter mentioned, has been given to the company, make
good and reimburse to the employer all and any pecuniary loss sustained
by the employer of moneys, securities or other personal property in the
possession of the employS, or for the possession of which he is responsible, by any act of fraud or dishonesty, on the part of the employd, in connection with the duties of the office or position hereinbefore referred to,
or the duties to which in the employer's service he may be subsequently
appointed, and occurring during the continuance of this bond;.Aud discovered during said continuance, or within six months thereafter, and
within six months from the death or dismissal or retirement of the employ6 from the service of the employer. It being understood that a
written statement of such loss, certified by the duly authorized officer or
representative of the employer, and based upon the accounts of the employ6, shall be primafacie evidence thereof." Held,
(1) That this language was susceptible of two constructions, equally reasonable, and that the one most favorable to the insured should be
accepted, namely, that the required written statement of loss arising from the fraud or dishonesty of the president of the bank,
based upon its accounts, was admissible in evidence, if suit was
brought, and was prima facie sufficient to establish the loss.
(2) That within the meaning of the bond in suit, the president of the
bank remained in its service at least up to the day on which the
receiver took possession of books, papers and assets.

Tn.n case is stated in the opinion.
Mi!r. Henry C. Willcox and -Mr. Walter D. Davidge for plaintiff in error. .Mr. Walter .D. Davidge, Jr., was on their brief.
-Mr. Edward Winslow Paige for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTIcE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by the receiver of the California National
Bank of San Diego, California, upon a bond given July 1,
1891, by the American Surety Company of New York, to indemnify that banking association against loss by any act of
fraud or dishonesty on the part of John W. Collins in connection with the duties of the office or position of president
of the above bank, or the duties to which in the employer's
(the bank's) service he might be subsequently appointed, and
occurring during the continuance of the bond, "and disVOL. cLxx--11

"162

OCTOBER TERMS, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

covered during said continuance or within six months thereafter and within six months from the death or dismissal or
retirement of the employ( [Collins] from the service of the
employer."
The bond in this case is similar to the bond of the Surety
Company, of like date, insuring the fidelity and integrity o'f
George N. O'Brien, as cashier of the bank, and which was
involved in the preceding case of American Surety Co. v.
Pauly (No. 1), ante, 133. With a few exceptions the questions
of law raised by the assignments of error in the present case
are conclhded by what was determined in that case.
1. It is contended that the receiver did not comply with
the provision in the bond requiring written notice to the
company "of any act on the part of the employ6, which may
involve a loss for which the company is responsible hereunder,
as soon as practicable after the occurrence of such act shall
have come to the knowledge of the employer." The import
of this provision was considered in the former case. The
material inquiry here is whether notice was given to the
company of the acts of fraud and dishonesty on the part of
Collins of which complaint is made as soon as practicable
after the occurrence of such acts came to the knowledge of
the receiver.
The evidence was very conflicting as to the time when the
receiver first became aware of the fraudulent acts of Collins
as president of the bank. The first written notice by the
receiver to the company of any claim under Collins' bond
arising out of fraudulent or dishonest acts on his part was
given May. 23, 1892. The terms of that notice appear in
the opinion in the former case. There was evidence tending
to show that, although the receiver bad redson in the months
of January, February, March or April, 1892, to believe that
there were irregularities on the part of Collins, as president
of the bank, he did not become aware of any specific acts of
fraud or dishonesty by him until the expert bookkeeper employed to exafnine the bank's books informed him a few days
prior to May 23, 1892, that he had discovered false entries
showing fraud and dishonesty on the part of both Collins and

AMERICAN

SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

163

Opinion of the Court.

O'Brien. The conflict in the evidence upon the issue as to
the time when the receiver first acquired knowledge of the
frauds in question was submitted to the jury under instructions to which in our judgment no objection can properly be
made. The court instructed the jury that it was incumbent
upon the receiver to satisfy them by a fair preponderance of
evidence that he notified the company of any act on thu part
of Collins "likely to involve a loss for which the company
might become responsible as soon as practicable after the act
came to his knowledge." It said: "No w ,, it was not incumbent upon the plaintiff to give notice as soon as practicable
after he may have had suspicions of dishonest conduct on the
part of the president, but it was his duty when he became
satisfied that the president had committed some specific act
of fraud or dishonesty which was likely to involve the defendant in loss to give notice in writing., This provision does
not require that the notice shall be given immediately, but
it requires that it shall be given with reasonable promptness
after the discovery, and it is a question of fact for the jury to
say upon the evidence, in view of the particular circumstances
of the case, whether such a notice has been given with reasonable promptness. The notice in this case was given on the 23d
day of May, 1892, and it will become necessary for you to inquire and determine when it was that knowledge came to the
plaintiff, when he became ch'argeable with knowledge that
the president had committed some specific act of fraud or
dishonesty likely to render the defendant liable upon its
bond."
Again: "The testimony of Mr. Bloodgood, you will recail,
which, if I remember it correctly, is to the effect that he
entered upon the investigation of the facts in reference to the
president's accounts and the misapplication of funds by him
about the first of April, and completed that investigation
some time in May, and as soon as he completed it, he then
informed the plaintiff of the result. Now, I will charge you,
as matter of law in this case, that if the plaintiff had made
discovery of any specific act which he believed might render
the defendant liable for loss prior to the first day of May,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

1892, the notice was not given with reasonable promptness;
but if a discovery was not -made until after that time, then
you can say and decide as a question of fact, whether or not
it-was given with reasonable promptness, having been given
on the 23d day of IMay."
These instructions were rather more favorable to the Surety
Company than were those on the same point in the suit on
the bond guaranteeing the fidelity and integrity of the cashier
of the bank.
In our judgment, for the reasons stated in the opinion in
the former case, it was proper to instruct the jury that the
receiver need not have given the required notice on mere suspicion as to acts by Collins involving fraud or dishonesty on
his part as president of the bank, but was bound to do so
only when satisfied that he had committed some specific act
of fraud or dishonesty likely to involve loss to the company.
Nor was it error to leave it to the jury to say whether under
the proof, and looking at all the circumstances, a notice given
May 23d of a loss discovered after May 1st was given with
reasonable promptness.
2. It is insisted that the instructions of the trial court in
reference to the effect to be given to the written statement
of loss made by the receiver were erroneous. The provision
in the bond, upon which this contention rests, is in these
words: "Now, therefore, in consideration," etc., . . . "it
is hereby declared and agreed, that subject to the provision
herein contained, the company shall, within three months
next after notice, accompanied by satisfactory proof of a loss,
as hereinafter mentioned, has been given to the company,
make good and reimburse to the employer all and any pecuniary loss sustained by the employer of moneys, securities or
other personal -property in the possession of the employS, or
for the possession of which he is responsible, by any act of
fraud, or dishonesty, on the part of the employ6, in connection with the duties of the office or position hereinbefore
referred to, or the duties to which in the employer's service
he miy be subsequently appointed, and occurring during the
continuance of this bond, and discovered during said continu-

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

165

Opinion of the Court.

ance, or within six months thereafter, and within six months
from the death or dismissal or retirement of the employ6
from the service of the employer. It being understood that
a written statement of such loss, certified by the duly authorized officer or representative of the employer, and based upon
the accounts of the emnploy6, shall be prima facie evidence
thereof."
The court said to the jury: "Now, there is a provision in
the policy to the effect that a written statement of loss, certified by the duly authorized officer or representative of the
employer (receiver of the bank in this case) and based upon
the accounts of the employer, shall be prima facie evidence
thereof. In view of that condition of the policy, I instruct
you that the plaintiff has established a _prima facie case
against the defendant, because he gave the written statement
of loss, and subsequently transmitted to the defendant a copy
of the account upon which it was based. Nevertheless, the
{e might have
plaintiff has offered additional evidence.
rested his case upon the proof that he had complied with this
condition of the policy which I have read to you and insisted
then that it was incumbent upon the defendant to show that
the bank had not sustained a loss within the terms of the
policy. But the plaintiff has seen fit to produce further
evidence. I am not going to call your attention to that evidence in any detail. Suffice it to say that it tends to prove
that on or about the 13th of October the president of the
bank procured a discount of certain notes of the bank with
the customers' notes belonging to the bank as collateral, to
the amount altogether of about $45,000; that about that time
he sent telegrams in cipher to the cashier of the bank at San
Diego; that about that time the cashier caused a credit to be
given in the president's personal account for items amounting
to about $45,000; that when the bank failed the apparent
balance to the credit of the president in his private account
was about $11,000, showing that he had drawn out about
$34,000 of the $45,000 which had been placed to his credit on
the 13th or 14th of October. It is insisted that this evidence
authorizes and requires you to find that the president obtained

OCTOBER TERAI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

an improper credit, and by means thereof appropriated more
than $25,000 of the funds of the bank.
"I shall not allude to the evidence which has been given of
other improper credits which it is alleged were given to the
president in his personal account with the bank. They are
only important as tending to characterize the nature of the
transactions of October 13th and 14th, and as tending to show
the total loss sustained by the bank through its president.
But the question for you to determine is, whether by reason
of these improper credits of the 13th and 14th of October the
defendant became liable for a loss within the meaning of the
terms of the policy. Was that a fraudulent or dishonest transaction on the part of the president?. If it was not, the
plaintiff is not entitled to recover. If it was a mere irregularity on his part, an honest irregularity, or if he was not
aware of the fact that these credit items were passed to his
account, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. You must
find that when he drew this money out he knew, or had
reason to believe, that these items had been credited to his
account; and you must find that in drawing out the money
on those credits he was actuated by a fraudulent or dishonest
mind. If, upon the evidence in This case, you can come to
the conclusion that he believed that if the directors of the
bank hd known of these transactions they would have acquiesced and regarded them as entirely satisfactory, why,
then it is your duty to find that he was not actuated by a
'dishonest motive, and therefore his acts in appropriating this
money were not fraudulent and dishonest. The burden is
upon the plaintiff to satisfy you by a fair preponderance of
evidence of the truth of this issue. Fraud is not to be legally
presumed, and the law presumes that every man acts honestly
until the contrary is shown. On the other hand, fraud or dishonesty is a condition of the mind. It is incapable of direct
evidence. It must always be found from circumstance.
There is no way in which the plaintiff could show in what
state of mind Mr. Collins was while these transactions were
taking place, unless he could produce him as a witness on the
stand and elicit the truth.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

167

Opinion of the Court.

"Well, as I have said before, the plaintiff has made aprima
.facie case upon this issue because he has complied with that
condition of the policy which prescribes that the written
statement of claim shall be prima facie evidence of a loss
within the terms of the policy. Now, it is for you to say,
upon the other evidence in the case, which has been elicited
principally upon the cross-examination of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether the defendant has overcome that case. If
you conclude that the defendant has overcome that presumption, and, upon all the evidence before you, that the transactions in controversy are as consistent with the theory of honesty
on the part of the president as of his dishonesty or fraud, then
the defendant will be entitled to your verdict."
The Surety Company insists that the provisions of the bond
referring to the written statement of loss relate exclusively to
the presentation of the claim to the company and its acceptance
or rejection thereof, and not to the use of such statement as
independent evidence in any suit brought for the recovery
of such loss; in other words, it is argued, the company was
willing in its consideration of the claim of loss to accept as
.primafacie proof of the claim the statement of loss, duly
certified and based upon the accounts of the employer, but
did not waive its right, if sued, to demand such proof as was
necessary in law to sustain it. The bond may be susceptible
of this construction. But is it not also susceptible of the construction placed upon it by the trial court? If the Surety
Company intended that the written statement of loss certified
by the duly authorized officer or representative of the employer, and based upon the accounts of the employer, should
be prima facie evidence only of the right of the employer to
bring suit on the bond if its claim of loss was not paid, it
should have so expressly declared. But that was not done.
The company agreed to pay any loss covered by the bond
within three months next after notice, accompanied by "satisfactory proof of a loss." But that no doubt might arise as to
what was satisfactory proof of loss, and that the obligee'might
be assured of the prompt settlement of any claim it might
make under the bond, if accompanied by proper proof of loss,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

carq was taken to express the inderstanding that a written
statement of such loss, duly certified, "and based upon the
accounts of the employer," should be prima facie evidence
"thereof,"-that is, evidence of "such loss." In our judgment,
the Circuit Court of -Appeals correctly held that the interpretation placed upon the bond by the trial court was the natural
one. The company might well have agreed that, in the event
of suit, a written statement of loss arising, from the fraud or
dishonesty of the employ6, and "based upon the accounts of
the employer," should be sufficient, nothing appearing to the
contrary,to establish the loss; and this for the reason that
such accounts if the claim wa disputed and made the subject
of suit, .would be open to examination by the company. The
employer could not base its statement of loss on its own accounts, and then withhold such accounts from inspection by
the obligor on the bond:
If the latter construction of the bond be not clearly right,
it cannot be said to be inconsistent with its provisions. And
it would be going very far to say that the construction given
to it by the company was so clearly right that a different
construction would be unreasonable or entirely inadmissible.
We have then a contract so drawn as to leave room for two
constructions of its provisions, either of which, it may be conceded, is reasonable, one favorable to the company, and the
other favorable to the bank and most likely to subserve the
1urposes for which the bond was given. In such a case
the terms used must be interpreted most strongly against
the party who prepared the bond and delivered it to the party
for whose protection it was executed. It has been so held in
the case just decided.
3. We have seen that the company agreed to reimburse the
bank for loss "by any act of fraud or dishbnesty" on the part
of Collins as president of the bank in connection with the
duties of his office, occurring during the continuance of the
bond, and discovered during said continuance or within six
months thereafter, -and within six months from the death or
dismissal or retirement of the employ6 from the service of
the employer.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

169

Opinion of the Court.

As evidence of the dismissal or retirement of Collins from
his position as president of the bank, the company refers to
paragraph VI of the original bill of particulars filed by the
receiver:
"VI. The following is the date of the dismissal or retirement of said John W. Collins and of the discovery of the
acts of fraud or dishonesty referred to as alleged in the ninth
paragraph of said complaint:
"' The said J. W. Collins ceased to act as president of the
said California National Bank upon the same going into insolvency and coming into the possession of the Comptroller of
the Currency of the United States, which took place December 12, 1891; that on the 29th day of December, 1891,
Frederick N. Pauly, the- plaintiff herein, qualified as the
receiver of said bank, and took full possession of its assets
unaer his trust, and that the acts of fraud and dishonesty
referred to in paragraph -9of said complaint were discovered
during the months of February and March, 1892."
Paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of the complaint were as follows:
"IX. That on or about June 18, 1892, and as soon as practicable after the occurrence of the aforesaid wrongful acts of the
said Collins, this plaintiff duly mailed at San Diego, California,
in an envelope addressed to the said defendant at its office in
the city of New York, a notice, in writing, of the acts of
fraud and dishonesty of said Collins, and a written statement
of the loss sustained by said bank by reason of the acts of
fraud and dishonesty of said Collins, certified by the plaintiff
and based upon the accounts of said Collins, and presented
satisfactory proofs of the loss sustained by said bank by reason
of the acts of said Collins during the continuance of said bond,
and duly demanded from this defendant that this defendant
make good atid reimburse to this plaintiff the sum of twentyfive thousand dollars, the amount of pecuniary loss sustained
by said bank by reason of the acts of fraud and dishonesty
of said Collins, being the amount conditioned to be paid by
the terms of the said guarantee bond heretofore mentioned.
X. That the said defendant received each and all of the papers
mentioned in paragraph nine of this complaint within at least

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ten days after the date of mailing thereof, as alleged in paragraph nine of this complaint. XT. That the said defendant
'has retained in its possession each and all of the papers mentioned in paragraph nine of this complaint since the receipt
thereof by said defendant, and has never up to the time of
the commencernent of this action objected thereto, either to
this plaintiff or to said bank, as not being sufficient as a
notice or statement of loss or proof of loss, as provided by
the said bond heretofore mentioned, nor has said defendant
raised any objection of any kind or nature whatsoever thereto,
either to this plaintiff or to the said bank." The following
entry appears in the record: 11Plaintiff amends his bill of particulars, by omitting all of sixth after. first paragraph and
inserting in lieu thereof, that the date of dismissal or retirement was the first of March, 1892; that the acts of fraud and
dishonesty referred to in paragraph 9 of said complaint were
discovered between the 1st and 23d of May, 1892; and amends
his complaint-by striking out paragraphs 10 and 11 and inserting in lieu thereof, that between the 22d day of May, 1892,
and the -18th of June, 1892, and again on the 24th of June,
1892, and as soon- as practicable after the discovery of the
aforesaid wrongful acts of the said Collins, this plaintiff duly
notified the defendant in writing at his office in the city of
New York, and on the 24th of June, 1892, and as soon as
practicable after the discovery of said acts, presented to the
defendant a claim in writing for the losses occasioned by such
acts of' the said J. W. Collins. And the plaintiff has duly
performed all the acts and things which the employer in and
by said bond was obligated to do; all of which notices and
claims were received and accepted by the defendant as in all
things sufficient and in time. Plaintiff thereupon duly demanded from defendant that it make good and reimburse to
plaintiff the sum of $25,000 and interest towards the amount
of pecuniary loss sustained by said plaintiff by said acts."
Independently of the statement in the receiver's original
bill of particulars (which, after being filed, was modified as
just stated,), there is no direct evidence in the record that
Collins ceased to be president of the bank by any formal act

AMERICA-N SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

171

Opinion of the Court.

on his part. He died March 3, 1892. It is true that he does
not appear to have performed, or that he attempted to perform, any distinct act as president after the suspension of the
bank on November 12, 1891. We have held, in the other
case, that the mere suspension of the bank on November 12,
1891, followed by an investigation of its affairs by a national
bank examiner, did not have the effect to retire O'Brien from
his position as cashier. The same rule must be applied in the
case of the president of the bank, whose functions were only
suspended while the affairs of the bank were being investigated by a national bank examiner. The Circuit Court of
Appeals well said, in support of this view, that if at any time
before the receiver took possession on the 29th of December,
1891, the parties interested in the bank had made good its
deficit and the bank examiner had restored its assets, no new
appointment as president would have been necessary. In the
former case there was evidence showing that O'Brien was, in
fact, continued in the service of the receiver until about
March 2, 1892, and that he claimed compensation for his
services. On the day last named he left or retired from that
service. There is no evidence in this case that Collins was
formally retained by the receiver in his service. But even
if, for that reason it were held that he retired from the service of the employer, when the receiver qualified on December 29, 1892, still the six months from the "retirement of the
employ6 from the service of the employer" would not have
expired until June 29, 1892. It is sufficient in this case to
adjudge that Collins, within the meaning of the bond, was
in the service of the bank up at least to the date on which
the receiver took possession, and that his fraudulent acts were
discovered and notice thereof given within six months after
that date. The acts of fraud and dishonesty complained of
were discovered a few days prior to May 23, 1892, and notice
thereof to the company was given on that day, and was followed by a claim or proof of loss mailed June 24, 1892, and
received by the company July 1, 1892. Such are the'facts
which the verdict of the jury must be taken to have established. And if it be further true, as the verdict imports, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

the notice of May 23, 1892, was given as soon as practicable
after the occurrence of the alleged fraudulent acts came to
,the knowledge of the receiver, then the loss was discovered
during the continuance of the bond and "within six months
retirement of the employ6 from the service
from the
of the employer." And if the.bond is to be regarded as having expired upon the death of Collins, it also results that the
claim of loss was made within the time required.
The objection that error was committed in admitting in evidence Collins' ledger account, and proof of alleged prior frauds,
as well as evidence showing the extent of Collins' indebtedness
to the bank, is not well taken: The case was fairly tried, and
there is no ground for supposing that any error of law was
committed by the trial court.
The judgments of the Circuit Court and of the Circuit Court
of Appeals are

A ijirmned.

MR. JUSTIcE WHrTE, with whom concurred
SHiRAS and LR. JusTcI PEcKHAm, dissenting.

MR. JusTIcE

The plaintiff in error was surety on a bond guaranteeing
the faithful discharge by Collins of his duties as president of
the bank. The object of the suit is to enforce the penalty
of the bond, on the ground that the president, whose conduct
is guaranteed, had been unfaithful, and hence that the surety
had beconae liable.
On the trial of the cause the court instructed the jury that
by the terms of the bond the burden of proof was shifted
from the plaintiff (the receiver of the bank) to the defendant
(the Surety Company), and that the former was entitled to
recover against the latter without makihg any proof whatever of its claim if it had been shown that a proof of loss
made in accordance with certain requisites specified in the
bond had been transmitted to the Surety Company; that
is to say, the jury .were instructed that in case a proof of loss
in a particular form had been made, its legal effect- was to
create a rule of evidence to govern in any litigation as to the

AMAERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

173

Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

bond which might thereafter arise between the parties. The
result of this conclusion was to hold that the normal rule by
which, in judicial proceedings, the burden is cast on a plaintiff to establish his case was dispensed with, and therefore
that the Surety Company, when sbed under the contract, was
called upon to establish the negative fact that it did not owe,
ind if it did not do so, a verdict was to be rendered against
it. These conclusions of the trial court were affirmed by the
Court of Appeals, and upon their correctness the validity of
the judgment rendered below necessarily depends.
That there may be no mistake as to what was held by the
trial court in its charge to the jury and iyhat was decided by
the Court of Appeals in affirming that charge, I excerpt passages from the charge of the trial court and the opinion of
the appellate court.
In its charge to the jury the trial court said:
"Now, there is a provision in the policy to the effect that
a written statement of loss, certified by the duly authorized
officer or representative of the employer (receiver of the bank
in this case) and based upon the accounts of the employer
shall be primafacie evidence thereof. In view of that condition of the policy, I instruct you that the plaintiff has established a prima facie case against the defendant, because

he gave the written statement of loss, and subsequently transmitted to the defendant a copy of the account upon which
it was based.
"Well, as I have said before, the plaintiff has made aprimna
facie case upon this issue because he has complied with that
condition of the policy which prescribes that the written statement of claim shall be primafacie evidence of a loss within
the terms of the policy. Now, it is for you to say, upon the
other evidence in the case, which has been elicited principally
upon the cross-examination of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether
the defendant has overcome that case. If you conclude that
the defendant has overcome that presumption, and, upon hMl the
evidence before you, that the transactions in controversy are
as consistent with the theory of honesty on the part of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

president as of his dishonesty or fraud, then the defendant
will be entitled to your verdict."
The reasoning of the Court of Appeals, in affirming these
irstructions, was as follows:
"III. The court charged the jury that the 'plaintiff has
established a _prima facie case against the defendant, because
he gave the, written statement of loss, and subsequently transmitted to the defendant a copy of the account upon which
it was based.' To this and to its repetition, in other words,
defendant duly excepted.
"This part of the charge was based upon a provision of the
bond which reads as follows: 'It being understood that a
written statement of such loss, certified by the duly authorized
officer or representative of the employer, and based upon
the accounts of the employer, shall be prima facie evidence
thereof.'
"It is contended that this does not mean that such statement
shall be prima facie evidence in an action upon the bond;
that ' no such contingency was in the minds of the parties;'
that it only refers to a consideration by the company of the
question whether it will pay without suit; that it only indicates in what way the preliminary proof of a loss shall be
made to the company; but neither the phraseology of the
clause, nor its collocation with the rest of the bond, thus
restricts its meaning. It is certainly open to the construction
put upon it by the trial judge; such construction is a most
natural one ; nor is there anything extraordinary or startling
in an agreement by the company that it pay upon proof in a
prescribed form being made to it, nor in its agreeing to accept
such proof as prima facie sufficient to entitle the insured to a
recovery in case of default. Conceding that it is also open
to a construction which would confine it as plaintiff in error
contends, it would be at least ambiguous, and it is elementary
law that all obscurities and ambiguities in a policy of insurance are to be resolved against the underwriter who has
himself drafted the instrument. There was no error, therefore, in the charge in the particular complained of."
The opinion of this court just announced affirms the correct-

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY .v.PAULY (No. 2).

175

Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

ness of the foregoing propositions; and, because it does so, I
am unable to give my assent to it.
The necessary effect of the construction given to the contract is to decide that by its terms the receiver of the bank
was entitled to recover on the contract of suretyship for an
alleged default of the president, whose fidelity the contract
guaranteed, without making any legal proof whatever of. the
fact of a loss. This consequence inevitably results from holdihg that, on its being made to appear that the bank had
furnished a formal proof of loss under the contract, it was
consequently entitled to recover witlout any proof of its
right to do so. The contract did not require the bank in
making the particular form of proof referred to in the bond
as acceptable for the considerati6n of the Surety Company to
verify it under oath, nor did it exact that it should be supported by any legal evidence whatever. Hence, by the contract, the bank could fulfil all the requirements referred to
in that instrument as to the particular formal proof alluded
to by simply making an unsworn statement to the guarantee
company of what it claimed to be due, accompanying that
statement with excerpts from the books of the bank. But as
this mere unsworn statement of claim is now held by the
court to constitute, in an action which might thereafter be
brought to recover upon the bond, affirmative evidence of the
liability of the Surety Company, which casts upon the latter
the burden of showing that it did not owe, I submit that the
ruling now made is exactly what I understand it to be -that
is, a decision that under this contract the regular course of
judicial proceedings between parties litigant is overthrown
and a new rule is introduced, by which, when demand is made
against tha Surety Company, the person making the demand
is relieved from proving the justice of his claim; and, on the
contrary, the person against whom it is made, though called
in as a defendant, is compelled as such to affirmatively establish the negative fact that it is not liable. So novel, so extreme, and, as it seems to me, so unjust a result, should not, in
my opinion, be maintained unless the terms of the contract
unmistakably make that construction necessary. Instead of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

this being the case, I think that not only the letter but the
manifest purpose of the contract, as shown by its context,
refutes the extreme construction now affixed to it. The
provisions of the bond, which are pertinent to the question
under consideration, are as follows:
After reciting the parties to the contract, that is, the American Surety Company of New York as party of the first partf
Collins, as president of the bank, as party of the second
part, and the bank as party of the third part, the bond
states the employment of Collins in the capacity of president
of the bank, and the application made to the Surety Company
to guarantee the faithful performance of his duties. The bond
then stipulates as follows:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the sum of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, lawful money of the United
States of America, in hand paid to the company, as a premiun for the term of twelve months ending on the first day
of July, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-two, at 12
o'clock noon, it is hereby declared and agreed, that subject
to the provisions herein contained, the company shall, within
three months next after notice, accompanied by satisfactory
proof, of .a loss, as hereinafter mentioned, has been given to
the company, make good and reimburse to the employer all
and any pecun'iary loss sustained by the employer, of moneys,
securities or other personal property in the possession of the
employ6, or for the possession of which he is responsible, by
any act of fraud or dishonesty on the part of the emplov, in
connection with the duties of the office or position hereinbefore referred to, or the duties to which in the employer's
service he may be subsequently appointed, and occurring
during the continuance of this bond, and discovered during
said continuance, or within six months thereafter, and within
six months from the death or dismissal, or retirement of the
employ6 from the service of the employer. It being understood that a written statement of such loss, certified by the
duly authorized officer or representative of the employer, and
based upon the accounts of the employer, shall beyrimafacie
evidence thereof."

AIfERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

177

Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

It is, I submit, plainly shown by the foregoing language
that the Surety Company reserved the right to decline to
admit the validity of and to pay without suit any claim made
upon the bond, unless notice of-the loss was given accompanied
by "satisfactory proof" thereof. The words, "satisfactory
proof," must have some meaning. But, in reason, the only
effect now given to them is that the proof of loss must have
been sitisfactory to the one who made it; that is, that the parties to the contract meant tosay that, whenever the bank was
satisfied it had a claim, the fact of its being so satisfied was
sufficient to relieve it of all obligation to prove such claim,
and to cast upon the Surety Company the duty of sh6wing
that the bank was not warranted in asserting a right to recover. The deduction to which the construction thus referred
to leads is a conclusive demonstration of its unsoundness.
Indeed, if it were the true one, the words "satisfactory proof"
have no place in the contract, for it follows that, if the bank
preferred a claim under the bond, it would do so because it
was satisfied it had a claim, and, therefore, satisfactory proof
of a loss under the construction given to it, if it means anything, means only this, that the bank was to be the sole
judge of whether a claim existed in its favor, and that this
judgment of the bank in advance in its own favor was to
be the determinative rule, controlling not only the mind of
the guaranty company, but regulating any judicial proceeding which might thereafter arise concerning the obligations
created by the contract. But, manifestly, the words, "after
notice, accompanied by satisfactory proof, of loss," referred
not to the bank by whom the claim was to be made as the
person to whom the proof should be satisfactory, but to the
Surety Company against whom the claim might be asserted.
In other words, the contract plainly declares that the Surety
Company only agrees to pay within three months next after
notice accompanied by satisfactory proof of loss, that is, by a
proof of loss with which it was satisfied. But it is said that,
whatever may be the meaning of the particular clause in the
contract to which I have just referred, it is controlled by the
concluding sentence found in the excerpt which has been made
VOL. CLXX-12

OCTOBER TERM\,

1897.

Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

from the bond. Between the sentences relating to the satisfactory proof of a loss and that relied upon, the contract
contains an enumeration of the character of acts which the
bond is intended to guarantee against, and affixes certain limitations of time within which the acts therein referred to must
have been discovered. These stipulations intervening between
the one as to satisfactory proof and the one relied upon as
modifying or controlling the former, bear no relation to the
matter under consideration, and, therefore, may be omitted
from view for the purposes of the question in hand. To test,
then, the correctness of the construction now upheld I eliminate these intervening stipulations and bring into juxtaposition
the provision as to satisfactory .proof and the subsequent
language which it is claimed destroys the legal effect of the
prior clause. The contract thus arranged would then read as
follows:
"The company shall within three months next after notice,
accompanied by satisfactory proof of a loss, as hereinafter
mentioned, has been given to the company, make good and
reimburse to the employer all and any pecuniary loss sustained
by the employer.
It being'understood that written
statement of such loss certified by the duly authorized officer
or representative of th6 employer and based upon the accounts
of the employer shall beprimafacie evidence thereof."
Construing the whole of this clause,,it strikes me that its
purport is free from real difficulty. The first provision reserves a full right to the company to reject a claim provided
the proof is not satisfactory to it of the fact of the loss; the
second provision stipulates that the company is bound to treat
a statement made in a particular form as being presumptive
evidence which must be considered by it in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the loss itself was established to its
satisfaction. In other words, the one provision, that of satisfactory proof of a loss, refers to the state of mind of the
corporation which is to result from the proof in order that it
may admit the validity of the claim without suit; the second
relates merely to the form in which a claim may be preferred,
and provides that if it is preferred in that form the company

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

1"9

Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

shall be put to a decision as to whether its substantive effect
as evidence is satisfactory to it. Consider also the object of
the stipulation. The ninety days for voluntary payment of
the claim could only begin to run after the furnishing of the
proof of loss. The company, however, had a right to pass
upon the sufficiency of such proof, not merely as to form, but
as to its probative effect, whether it constituted satisfactory
evidence of the liability of the Surety Company or not; and
in order to exclude all question as to the period when this
time should commence, a stipulation was inserted that proof
presented in a particular form would be accepted as _rima
facie or presumptive evidence of the fact of a loss. The
stipulation, therefore, that a particular form of proof when
furnished to the company should beyrimafacie evidence, did
not amount to a declaration by the company that it would
also be "satisfactory proof" within the meaning of the previous clause. To say that it did would be to give to the words
"prima facie" the meaning of "conclusive."
Can it be
doubted that under the contract the company would have
had a right to call upon the bank to make a sworn statement
or comply with other reasonable requirements, although the
bank had made the formal statement referred to? Clearly
not, I submit. In other words, then, the Surety Company,
despite the receipt of the written statement referred to,
retained the right to determine whether it satisfactorily proved
or established the fact of a loss. The difference between the
two clauses is that which must ever exist between form and
substance, and the failure to appreciate this fact is exemplified
in the reasoning of the Court of Appeals, where it was declared that the provision as to "satisfactory proof" amounted
to an agreement by the Surety Company that it would pay
"upon proof in a prescribed form being made fo it," and that
the stipulation as to the furnishing of a written statement
based upon the accounts of the bank was an agreement "to
accept such proof as _prima facie sufficient to entitle the
insured to a recovery in case of default." And the necessary
consequence of this ruling was to hold that the right to judge
whether there bad been a loss under the contract 7as taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, Peckham, JJ.

away from the company, and that it was bound to make a
voluntary payment upon the mere unsworn statement of the
party making the claim based upon the accounts of the bank,
even though, upon investigation, it developed that the accounts
of the bank were utterly unreliable and manifestly insufficient
as the foundation of a claim.
It being in reason unquestionable that the company only
agreed to pay without suit in case the evidence presented to
it was satisfactory as proof, can it be held that its agreement
that a certain form of proof should be treated by it in its
consideration of the claim as prima facie evidence of the loss,
constituted a contract to accept the designated form as proof,
having the effect to overthrow the previous express stipulation
and as denying the right of the Surety Company to decline
to pay without suit if the proof in its opinion did not satisfactorily establish the loss? In other words, that the implied
stipulation, that a certain class of proof when tendered to the
company for the exercise of its judgment should be treated
as sufficient in form, should be construed as meaning that it
should be regarded- as adequate in substance, and as establishing a right to payment of the loss.
As I have said, it seems to me the two provisions of the
bond are harmonious, 'and are susceptible of a construction
which will give a fair and reasonable effect to both. They
ought not, therefore, to be so 6onstrued as not only to make
the one destroy the other, but so as to give a significance to
the contract never intended by the parties, and thereby to
overthrow the elementary rule governing all judicial proceedings, that is, that upon the one who makes a claim there rests
the burden of establishing it.
That the parties did not intend by the contract to create a
rule of evidence to govern any suit which might aTise on the
bond is in addition shown by another and subsequent provision of the contract, wherein it is stated that an action or
suit to recover upon the bond shall be barred if not brought
within a year from the presentation of the claim. If the purpose of the contracting parties had been to regulate and control subsequent proceedings in the courts growing out of the

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).

181

Dissenting Opinion: White, Shims, Peckham, JJ.

contract, the natural place to have expressed that purpose
would hae been in the clause of- the contract treating of
actions upon the bond. But no such stipulation is therein
found.
It is, of course, unquestioned that many authorities hold
that where there is an ambiguity in a contract of insurance a
reasonable doubt as to its construction will be resolved in
favor of the insured, because the policy is presumed to have
been drawn by the officers or agents of the insurer. But
granting arguendo that this rule applies to a contract of
suretyship of the character of that under consideration, I
know of no case which pushes the principle to the extent of
holding that the express provisions of a contract must be
destroyed and thereby a liability be enforced against the
insurer, not in harmony with the contract, in conflict with its
spirit, in violation of the manifest intention of the parties and
productive of great injustice. In other words, that where by
the express terms of a contract the insurer agrees to pay without litigatior only where the proof of the validity of the
claim is satisfactory to him, that it is to be held that because
he has declared that in making up his judgment as to whether
the evidence is satisfactory he will treat a statement of the
loss certified by the claimant as prima faci evidence, he
thereby renounces his right to form a judgment as o the
satisfactory nature of that evidence. Indeed, the doctrine
goes not only to the extent of depriving the insurer of his
right to pass judgment upon the evidence submitted, but it
causes the contract to operate beyond the minds of the contracting parties and to control the judgment of any judicial
tribunal subsequently called to pass upon a controversy
arising upon the bond. Does not this follow from the fact
that it is declared that the stipulation that a statement made
by the claimant in a particular form'shall be -prima faoie
evidence, not only nullifies the provision that the whole proof
must be satisfactory to the person against whom the claim is
made, but also compels a court to say that although no legal
proof whatever under the'rules of evidence has been offered
at the trial on behalf of the claimant, yet that the liability of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant has been established, and there must be a judgment against him, unless he conclusively shows that no loss
had been sustained by the plaintiffs.

KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
KIPLEY v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 586, 601. Submitted March 14,1S98. -Decided April18, 198.

When the jurisdiction of this court is invoked for the protection, against
the final judgment of the highest court of a State, of some title, right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution or laws of the United

States, it must appear expressly or by necessary intendmeut, from the
record, that such right, title, privilege or immunity was specially "set
up or claimed" under such Constitution or laws; as the jurisdiction of

this court cannot arise in such case from inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as to place it beyond question thut the
party bringing the case up intended to assert a Federal right.
MIfOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward C. Akin, attorney general of the State of
Illinois, .Mr.
George I. Smith, Mr. Frank P. Blair and AMr.
MAlurry Nelson, J'., for the motion.
Mir. CharlesS. Thornton opposing.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

daelivered the opinion of the court.

The attorney general of Illinois filed in the Supreme Court
of Illinois, at its June term 1897, an original petition against
Joseph Kipley, superintendent of police of the city of Chicago,
and Adolph Kraus, Dudley Winston and Hempstead Washburne, commissioners appointed under the act of the legislature of Illinois in force on and after lAarch 20, 1895, entitled
"An act to regulate the civil service of cities."

