OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

WAGONER v. EVANS.
EVANS v. WAGONER.
APPEL

FRO

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.

Nos. 252, 262.

- Decided May 23, 198.
Submitted April 29, 1599.

Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264, affirmed and followed to the point that " the
act of the legislative assembly of the Territory of Oklahoma of March 5,
1895, which provided that I when any cattle are kept or grazed or any
other personal property is situated in any unorganized country, district
or reservation of this Territory, such property shall be subject to taxation in the organized county to which said country, district or reservation is attached for judicial pui'poses,' was a legitimate exercise of the
Territory's power of taxation, and when enforced in the taxation of
cattle belonging to persons not resident in the Territory grazing upon
Indian reservations therein, does not violate the Constitution of the
United States."
Prior to the passage of that act there existed no power in the authorities
of Canadian County to tax property within the attached reservation;
and, as- such authority was first given by that act, it could only be
validly exercised on-property subjected to its terms after its enactment.
Taxes, otherwise lawful, are not invalidated by the fact that the resulting
benefits are unequally shared.

IN November, 1895, D. Wagoner, W. T. Wagoner and S. B.
Burnett filed in the district court of Canadian County, Territory of Oklahoma, a petition against Neil W. Evans, as treasurer, and I. M. Cannon, as sheriff, and Osborn, Hutchinson and
Vasey, as county commissioners of Canadian County, asking
to enjoin the said defendants from levying or collecting certain taxes upon herds of cattle and horses belonging to the
complainants, and by them kept and grazed on the Kiowa
and Comanche Indian reservation which is a part of the
Territory of Oklahorna, but not embraced in any organized
county of that Territory. In pursuance of the act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. S1, that Indian reservation
was attached to Canadian County for judicial purposes, and
by an act of March 5, 1895, of the territorial legislature, the
authorities of any county to which any reservation had been

WAGONER v. EVANS.
Counsel for Wagoner.

attached for judicial purposes were authorized to assess taxes
upon any cattle or other personal property kept or situated
within such reservation. The petition alleged that, in pursuance of the said act, the defendants were proceeding to
assess and collect taxes for the years 1892 to 1895, both inclusive; that, for several reasons set forth in the petition, the
said act of March 5, 1895, was invalid, and that said defendants were proceeding without warrant of law. To this petition a demurrer was filed, which was overruled, and thereupon
the defendants filed answers, admitting that they were proceeding to levy and collect taxes as complained of in the
petition, and alleging that their action in the premises was
in pursuance of a valid statutory enactment of the territorial
legislature.
An agreed statement of the facts was filed, and the cause
was submitted to the court upon the petition, answer and
statement of facts, and thereupon the court found that the
defendants were fully authorized by the laws of Oklahoma
Territory to collect from the petitioners taxes for territorial
and judicial purposes for the year 1895 only, but that they
were without authority to collect from the petitioners taxes
for county, township or other than the territorial and judicial
purposes. It was, therefore, decreed by the court that the
defendants were authorized aid permitted to collect those
parts of the tax which were for territorial and judicial purposes for the year 1895 only, and enjoined them from collecting any part of the taxes which were for county, township or
other than territorial or judicial purposes, and no taxes whatever for the years 1892, 1S93 and 1894.
From this decree both parties appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Oklahoma, which, on September 4,
1896, affirmed the decree of the District Court.
From that decree of affirmance both parties were allowed
an appeal to this court by the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of the Territory.
r. A. ff. Garland and Mr. R. C. Garland for Wagoner
and others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

.fXr. Fred. Beali, i1. Amos Green and -Mr. C. .M. Green
for Evans and others.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The appeal of Wagoner and others, owners of cattle kept
by them on the Indian reservation attached to Canadian
County, brings up the same questions which were considered
and determined by us at the present term in the case of
Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264.
That was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma, involving the validity of the territorial
act of March 5, 1895, c. 43,'which subjected cattle, kept and
grazed in any unorganized country, district or reservation, to
taxation in the organized county to which said country, district or reservation is attached for judicial purposes, an~l it
appears in the present record that the Supreme Court of the
Territory regarded that case as identical in principle with the
present one. Our examination of the records in the two cases
has brought us to the same conclusion.
We therefore deem it unnecessary to again discuss at
length questions so recently disposed of. The main contentions are that by reason 'of the treaty relations existing
between the'United States and. the Indian tribes resident oil
the reservations it is not competent for the territorial legislature of Oklahoma to subject cattle within those reservations
to taxation, even although such -cattle are owned by persons
other than Indians; and that the legislature of Oklahoma
cannot validly empower the authorities of an organized county
to tax personal property situated in a reservation attached to
such county for judicial purposes.
In Thomas v. Gay it was held that there was nothing in
the treaties between the United States and the Indians
occupying these reservations which disabled the United
States from bringing the reservations within the limits of the
Territory of Oklahoma; that taxing personal property of
persons other than Indians, and situated within the reserva-

WAGONER

v. EVANS.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, did not impair the rights of person or property pertaining to the Indians; and that the taxation of cattle kept for
grazing purposes upon the reservations, under leases duly
authorized by act of Congress, was not a violation of the
rights of the Indians, nor an invasion of the jurisdiction and
control of the United States over them and their lands.
No additional fact is presented to distinguish the present
case from that one, in the particular now under consideration,
except that the United States authorities made it a condition
on which the owners of cattle should have a right to obtain
grazing leases from the Indians that they should employ
Indians in herding their cattle. It is said that the purpose
of that condition was to alienate the Indians from their tribal
relatjons and to incline them to peaceful pursuits. Such may
have been the object, but we are unable to see that such a
clause in these grazing leases has any bearing on the power-of
the Territory to'exercise the power of taxation. It is, indeed,
contended that to permit the Territory to tax the cattle would
tend to discourage the making of such leases, and thus deprive
the Indians of the advantages coming to them. This seems
to us too indirect and far-fetched an incident to affect our
conclusions.
in Tionzas v. Gay it was further held that the -power to
legislate delegated to the territorial legislature included the
right to pass and enforce laws for the assessment and collection of taxes; that the act of March 5, 1895, was a valid
enactment, under which it was competent for the taxing
authorities of an organized county to levy and collect taxes
on personal property situated within the attached reservations, and belonging to other persons than Indians.
These considerations cover and dispose of the contentions
urged on behalf of the owners of the property taxed, and their
appeal is accordingly dismissed.
It remains to consider the appeal of the taxing authorities
of Canadian County.
They object, in the first place, to that portion of the decree
below which restrains them from the collection of taxes for
the years 1892, 1S93-and 1894. They point to a provision

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

contained in the act of March 5, 1S95, enabling the special
assessor to assess or reassess property that at any time has, by
oversight or negligence, or for any other cause, escaped taxation; and they contend that the act of 1895 was an amendatory statute, and intended to cure a supposed defect in the
then existing laws, and cases are cited in which it has been
held that such curative statutes can have a retrospective effect,
and enable the authorities to assess and collect taxes on property which should have been theretofore assessed.
It is sufficient to say that, prior to the passage of the act of
March 5, 1895, there existed no power in the authorities of
Canadian County to tax property within the attached reservation. Such authority was first given by that act, and could
only be validly exercised on property subjected to its terms
after its enactment.
Another objection on behalf of the county officers to the
decree below appears to us to be well taken. It respects that
feature of the decree which restricts the collection of taxes
for the year 1895 to those imposed only for territorial and
judicial purposes, and forbids the collection of taxes imposed
for county purposes.
The same question arose in the case of Thomas v. Gay, and
the conclusion there ieached, upon an examination of the
authorities, both state and federal, was, that it cannot be
maintained that those whose cattle are within the protection
of the laws of Oklahoma, but are situated on a reservation,
receive no benefit from the expenditures of public moneys in
the organized county to which the reservation is attached.
Cases cited, wherein the power of municipal organizations to
tax property outside of their boundaries has been denied, are
not applicable when the power is conferred by a general law,
enacted by a legislature having jurisdiction over the subject.
Nor are taxes, otherwise lawful, invalidated by the allegation,
or even the fact, that the resulting benefits are unequally
shared.
The appeal is sustained in this particular,and the decree of
the S&Treme Gourt qf the Territory is reversed, and the
cause remanded to that court with directions to reverse

PROVIDENT TRUST CO. v. MERCER COUNTY.

593

Statement of the Case.

the decree of the District Court in so far as it restrainsthe
county authorities from collecting taxes for county purposes for the year 1895, and to affirm the rest of that
decree. The costs in No. 252 to be paid by the appellants,
and in -No. 262 by the appellees.

PROVIDENT LIFE & TRUST COMPANY v. MERCER
COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
Argued Aprl 29, May 2, 1898.-

Decided May 28, 1899.

The transactions with the county of Mercer, which resulted in the delivery of the bonds of the county to the railroad company, were had in
the utmost good faith.
Barnum v. Okolona, 148 U. S. 393, reaffirmed to the point "that municipal
corporations have no power to issue bonds in aid of railroads, except by
legislative permission; that the legislature, in granting permission to a
municipality to issue its bonds in aid of a railroad, may impose such conditions as it may choose; and that such legislative permission does not
carry with it authority to execute negotiable bonds, except subject to
the restrictions and conditions of the enabling act." But when the good
faith of all the parties is unquestionable, the courts will lean to that construction of the statute, which will uphold the transaction as consummated.
The provision in the act authorizing the issue of Mercer County bonds
to the Louisville Southern Railroad Company, when its railway should
have been so completed "through such county that a train of cars shall
have passed over the same, was fully complied with when the railroad
was so completed, from the northern line of the county to Harrodsburg,
that a train of cars passed over it ; but, even if this construction be
incorrect, it must be held that when the trustee, in whose hands the
county bonds were placed in escrow, adjudged that the condition prescribed for their delivery had been complied with, and delivered the
bonds to the railroad company, the company took such a title as, when
the bond was' transferred to a bona fide holder, would enable him to
recover against the county, even if the condition had in fact not been
performed.

ONi May 15, 1886, the general assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky passed an act, c. 1159, Private Acts,
VOL. cLxX-38

