HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

In respect of the motion to discharge the rule and all proceedings against the respondents it need only be said that- it
could have been denied upon the ground that the questions
sought to be raised by it might more properly arise upon
demurrer, plea or answer. Its denial did not have the effect
to bring any Federal question into the record to be determined. It may also be observed that no exception was taken
to the action of the state court in relation to this motion.
This court having no jurisdiction to reexainine the final
judgments of the state court in these cases, the motion to dismiss the writs of error is sustained.
Dismissed.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO TIE COURT OF GENERAL SESSIONS OF THE PEACE FOR
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 415.

Argued March 9, 1898.-

Decided April 18, 1898.

The provision in the act of the legislature of New York of May 9, 1893,
c. 661, relating to the public health, as amended by the act of April
25, 1895, c. 398, that "any person who, . . . after conviction of a
felony, shall attempt to practise medicine, or shall so practise,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred and fifty dollars, or imprisonment for six months for the first offence, and on conviction of any
subsequent offence, by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or
imprisonment for not less than one year, or by both fine and imprisonment," does not conflict with Article I, section 10, of the Constitution
of the United States which provides that " No State shall . . . pass
any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law or law impairing the Obligation
of Contracts," when applied to a person who had been convicted.of a
felony prior to its enactment.

IN 1878 the plaintiff in error, defendant below, was tried

and convicted in the Court of Sessions of-Kings Courity, New
York, of the crime of -abortion, and sentenced to imprison-

OCTOBER TER1M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ment in the penitentiary for the term of ten years. On May
9, 1893, the legislature of the State of INew York passed an
act entitled "The Public Health Law," Laws 1893, c. 661,
which, as amended by the law of April 25, 1895, c. 398, provides, among other things, as follows:
"SECTION 15.3. Any person who,
. .
after conviction of
a felony, shall attempt to practise medicine, or shall so practise,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred and fifty dollars, or imprisonment for six months for the
first offence, and on conviction of any subsequent offence, by
a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment
for not less than one year, or by both fine and imprisonment."
Under this statute defendant was indicted in April, 1896, in
the Court of General Sessions of the Peace for the city and
county of New York. The indictment alleged the conviction
in 1878, and charged that, having been so convicted of the
crime and felony of abortion, defendant did, on the 22d dlay
of February, 1896, in the city of New York, unlawfully practise medicine " by then and there unlawfully examining, treating and prescribing for one Dora Hoenig." To this indictment
he demurred. The demurrer was overruled, and, upon a plea
of not guilty, he was tried, convicted and sentenced to pay a
fine of $250. That conviction having been sustained by the
Court of Appeals of the State, 152 New York, 231, and a remittitur sent down, a final judgment was entered in the Court
of General Sessions, whereupon he sued out this writ of error.
_Mr. Hugh 0. Pentecost for plaintiff in error.
3fr. "Robert C. Taylor and 3fr. Asa Bird Gardiner for defendant in error. AXr.
..31.E.Olcott and ir. Joh, ).
Lindsay were on the brief for the defendant in error.
after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

The single question presented is as to the constitutionality

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

of this statute when applied to one who had been convicted
of a felony prior to its enactment. Its unconstitutionality is
alleged on the ground of an alleged conflict with article I,
section 10, of the Constitution of the United States, which
forbids a State to pass "any Bill of Attainder, expostfacto Law
or lawi impairing the Obligation of Contracts." The arguments
for and against this contention may be thus briefly stated.
On the one hand it-is said that defendant was tried, convicted and sentenced for a criminal offence. He suffered the
punishment pronounced. The legislature has no power to
thereafter add to that punishment. The right to practise
medicine is a valuable property right. To deprive a man of
it is in the nature of. punishment, and after the defendant has
once fully atoned for his offence a statute imposing this additional penaly is one simply increasing the punishment for the
offence, and is expostfacto.
On the other, it is insisted that within the acknowledged
reach of the police power, a State may prescribe the qualifications of on6 engaged in any business so directly affecting
the lives and health of the people as the practice of medicine.
It may require both qualifications of learning and 'of good
character; and, if it deems that one who has violated the
criminal laws of the State is not possessed of sulficient good
character, it can deny to such a one the right to practise
medicine, and, further, it may make the record of a conviction
conclusive evidence of the fact of the violation of the criminal
law and of the absence of the requisite good character. In
support of this latter argument counsel for the State, besides
referring to the legislation of many States prescribing in a
general way good character as one 6f the qualifications of
a physician, has made a collection of special provisions as to
the effect of a conviction of felony. In the footnote I will be
found his collection.
1 COLORADO -The board may refuse certificates to persons convicted of
conduct of a criminal nature; and may revoke certificates for like cause.
Mills Ann. Stat. 1891, c. 101, § 3556.
IOWA- May revoke acertificate to a person who has been convicted of
felony committed in the practice of his profession, or in connection there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that this argument is the more applicable and must control the answer to this question. No precise limits have been placed upon the police power of a State,
with; or may revoke for like cause; . . . and such refusal or revocation prohibits such person from practising medicine, surgery or obstetrics.
Laws 1889, c. 104, § 7.
LoUIsI NA-The board is required to strike from the said list (of registered names),the names of persons convicted of any infamous crimes by
.any court . . . whether prior or posterior to registration. Act June
26, 1882, No. 31, § 5.
NEw JEmSEY-May refuse or revoke a license for chronic and permanent
inebriety, the practice of criminal abortion, conviction of a crime involving
moral turpitude, or for publicly advertising special ability to treat or cure
disease which, in the opinion of the board, it is impossible to cure (after
hearing). Act May 12, 1890, c. 190, § 5.
NORTH DAKoTA-Substantially the same. Act January 10, 1890, c. 93, §3.
VERMONT-May revoke or annul a certificate if in their judgment the
holder has obtained it fraudulently or has forfeited his right to public confldence by the conviction of a crime. Rev. Laws 1880, c. 172, § 3915.
WASINGTON-The board will refuse or revoke a license for unprofessional or dishonorable conduct, subject to the right of appeal.
. .
"Unprofessional or dishonorable, conduct" means procuring or aiding o?
abetting in a criminal abortion or employing what are popularly known as
cappers or steerers; or obtaining any fee on the assurance that any manifestly incurable disease can be permanently cured; or wilfully betraying a
professional secret; or advertisements of medical business in which untruthful or improbable statements are made; or advertising any medicine
or means whereby the monthly periods of women can be regulated, or the
menses reEstablished if suppressed; or the conviction of any offence involving moral turpitude; or habitual intemperance. Act March 28, 1890, §§ 3
and 4.
GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND- If any registered medical practitioner
shall be convicted in England or Ireland of any felony or misdemeanor, or
in Scotland of any crime or offence, or shall be, after due inquiry, judged
by the general council to have been guilty of infamous conduct in any professional respect, the general council may, if they see fit, direct the register
to erase the name of such medical practitioner from the register. Acts 21
and 22 Vict. c. 90, § 29.
N w Bi uxswicK-Substantially same. Act 1881, c. 19, § 22.
NORTHWEST TERRITORY- Substantially same.
Ord. 5, 1888, § 37, as
substituted by Ord. 24, 1892, § 1.
NovA SCOTIA- Substantially same. Rev. Stat. 5th ser. c. 24, § 19.
MAI NITOBA- Any registered medical practitioner convicted of felony or
misdemeanor, before or after the passage of this act or his registration,
forfeits his rights to registration, and by direction of the council his name

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

and yet it is clear that legislation which simply defines the
qualifications of one who attempts to practise medicine is a
proper exercise of that power. Care for the public health is
shall be erased. If a person known to have been convicted of felony or
misdemeanor presents himself for registration, the register may refuse
registration. If any person registered be judged after due inquiry .
to have been guilty of infamous or unprofessional conduct in any respect,
the council may direct the register to erase his name. Rev. Stat. of Manitoba, 1891, c. 98, § 40.
BnrrisHs COLUMBIA- Any registered practitioner convicted of any felony
thereby forfeits his right to registration, and - .

.

.

his name is required

to be erased from the register; or, in case a person known to be convicted
of felony presents himself for registration, the register has the power to
refuse such registration. Cons. Act, 1888, c. 81, § 32; substantially same
as to Quebec; Rev. Stat. -1888, § 3996.
O.iTARIO-A practitioner is liable to have his name erased from the
register where he has been convicted, before or after registration, of an
offence which, if committed in Canada, would be a felony or misdemeanor,
or where he has been guilty of any infamous or disgraceful conduct in a
professional respect. Rev. Stat. 1887, c. 148, § 34.
NEWFOUNDAND-The . . . board may try and expel any member
of the profession for acts of malpractice, misconduct or immoral habits.
Act, 1893, c. 12. § 32.
PRINCE EDWARD'S ISLAND -A

medical practitioner guilty of infamous

or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect is liable to have his name
erased, and, if he apply for registration, the council fnay refuse it. Act
1892, c. 42, § 22.
NEW ZEALAND-If any registered person shall be or shall have been
convicted of any felony or misdemeanor in Great Britain or Ireland, or in
any of the British Dominions, the register general and register, respectively,
shall erase the name of any such person from tie register, and such erasure
shall be notified by the register general in the New Zealand Gazette. Medical Practitioners Act, 1869, No. 51.
HAWAII - It shall not be lawful for any person to practise in this kingdom as a physician or surgeon for compensation or reward unless he shall
have first presented to the board of health satisfactory evidence of his professional qualifications and good moral character. Act 1876, c. 11, § 3.
any registered medical practitioner is convicted of any
ST. LUCIA -If
felony, the reister shall erase the name of such practitioner from the
Medical Register. ,If any registered medical practitioner is convicted of
. .
to the governor in
any misdemeanor, a report shall be submitted
. .
shall determine whether (he) has been guilty of
council, who
Infamous conduct in iny professional or other respect, aid may thereupon,
Medical Practiif he sees fit, direct the register to erase the name. • .
tioner Ordinance No. 77 of 1885, § 11.
VOL. CLXX-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

something confessedly belonging to the domain of that power.
The physician is one whose relations to life and health are of
the most intimate character. It is fitting not merely that he
should possess a knowledge of diseases and their remedies, but
also that he should be one who may safely be trusted to apply
those remedies. Character is as important a qualification as
knowledge, and if the legislature may properly require a definite course of instruction, or a certain examination as to learning, it may with equal propriety prescribe what evidence of
good character shall be furnished. These propositions have
been often affirmed. In Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S.
114, 122, it was said in respect to the qualifications of a physician: "The power of the State to provide for the general
welfare of its, people authorizes it to prescribe all such regulations as, in its judgment, will secure or tend to secure them
against the consequences of ignorance and incapacity as well
as of deception and fraud."
We note also these further declarations from state courts:
In State v. State Medical E.xanining Board, 32 Minnesota,.
324, 327, it was said: "But the legislature has surely the
same power to require, as a condition of the right to practise
this profession, that the practitioner shall be possessed of the
qualification of honor and good moral character, as it has to
require that he shall be learned in the profession. It cannot
be doubted that the legislature has authority, in the exercise
of its general police power, to mak6 such reasonable requirements as may be calculated to bar from admission to this
profession dishonorable men, whose principles or practices are
such as to. render them unfit to be entrusted with the discharge of its duties." In Tlompson, v. ilazen, 25 Maine, 104,
108: "Its authors were careful, that human health and life
should not be exposed without some restraint, by being committed to the charge of the unprincipled and vicious. .
It could not have been intended that persons destitute of the
moral qualifications required should have full opportunity to
enter professionally the families of the worthy but unsuspecting, be admitted to the secrets which the sick chamber must
often entrust to them." In State v..Hathaway, 115 Missouri,

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

36, 47: " The legislature, then, in the interest of society and to
prevent the imposition of quacks, adventurers and charlatans
upon the ignorant and credulous, has the power to prescribe
the qualifications of those whom the State permits to practise
medicine. . . . And the objection now made that because
this law vests in this board the power to examine not only into
the literary and technical acquirements of the applicant, but
also into his moral character, it is a grant of judicial power, is
without force." In Eastman v. State, 109 Indiana, 278, 279:
"It is, no one can doubt, of high importance to the community
that health, limb and life should not be left to the treatment
of ignorant pretenders and charlatans. It is within the power
of the legislature to enact such laws as will protect the people
from'ignorant pretenders, and secure them the services of
reputable, skilled and learned men." In State v. Call, (North
Carolina,) 28 S. E. Rep. 517: ,"To require this is an exercise of
thepolice power for the protection of the public against incompetents and impostors, and is in no sense the creation of a monopoly or special privileges. The door stands open to all who
possess the requisite age and good character, and can stand the
examination which is exacted of all applicants alike."
But if a State may require good character as a condition of
the practice of medicine, it may rightfully determine what
shall be the evidences of that character. We do not mean to
say that it has an arbitrary power in the matter, or that it can
make a conclusive test of that which has no relation to character, but it may take whatever, according to the experience of
mankind, reasonably tends to prove the fact and make it a test.
County Seat qf Zinn County, 15 Kansas, 500, 528. Whatever is ordinarily connected with bad character, or indicative of it, may be prescribed by the legislature as conclusive
evidence thereof. It is not the province of the courts to say
that other tests would be more satisfactory, or that the naming
,of other qualifications would be more conducive to the desired
result. These are questions for the- legislature to determine.
"The nature and extent of the qualifications required must
depend primarily upon the judgment of the State as to their
necessity." Dent v. West -Firginia,supra, p. 122.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not open to uoubt that the commission of crime, the
violation of the penal laws of a State, has some relation to
the question of character. It is not, as a rule, the good people
who commit crime. When the legislature declares that whoever has violated the criminal laws of the State shall be deemed
lacking in good moral character it is not laying down an
arbitrary or fanciful rule -one having no relation to the subject-matter, but is only appealing to a well recognized fact of
human experience; and if it may make a violation of criminal
law a test of bad character, what more conclusive eyidence of
the fact 6f such violation can there be than a conviction duly
had in one of the courts of the State? The conviction is, as
between the State and the defendant, an adjudication of the
fact. So if the legislature enacts that one who h'as been
convicted of crime shall no longer engage in the practice 6f
medicine, it is simply applying the doctrine of ve,.judicata and
invoking the conclusive adjudication of the fact that the man
has violated the crimnial law, and is presumptively, therefore,
a man of such bad character as to render it unsafe to trust the
lives and health of citizens to his care.
That the form in which this legislation is cast suggests the
idea of the imposition of an additional punishment for past
offences is not conclusive. We must look at the substance
and not the form, and the statute should be regarded as
though it in terms declared that one who had violated the
criminal laws of the State should be deemed of such bad
character as to be unfit to practise medicine, and that the
record of a trial and conviction should be conclusive evidence
of such violation. All that is embraced in these propositions
is condensed into the single clause of the statute, and it means
that and nothing more. The State is not seeking to further
punish a criminal, but only to protect its citizens from physicians of bad character. The vital matter is not the conviction,
but the violation of law. The former is merely the prescribed
evidence of the latter. Suppose the statute had contained only
a clause declaring that no one should be permitted to act as a
physician who had violated the criminal laws of the State,
leaving the question of violation to be determined according

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

to the ordinary rules of. evidence, would it not seem strange
to hold that that which conclusively established the fact
effectually relieved from the consequences of such violation?
It is no answer to say that this test of character is not in
all cases absolutely certain, and that sometimes it works
harshly. Doubtless, one who has violated the crirfainal law
may thereafter reform and become in fact possessed of a good
moral character. But the legislature has power in cases of
this kind to make a rule of universal application, and no
inquiry is permissible back of the rule to- ascertain whether
the fact of which the rule is made the absolute test does or
does not exist. Illustrations of this are abundant. At common law one convicted of crime was incompetent as a witness,
and this rule was in no manner affected by the lapse of time
since the commission of the offence and could not be set aside
by proof of a complete reformation. S6 in many'States a
convict is debarred the privileges, of an elector, and an act so
debarring was held applicable to one convicted before its
Washington v. State, 75 Alabama, 582. In Foster
p)assage.
v. Police Commissioners, 102 California, 483, 492, the question
was as to the validity of'an ordinance revoking a license to
sell liquor on the ground of misconduct prior to the issue of
the license, and the ordinance was sustained. In commenting
up6n the terms of the ordinance the court said: "Though not
yostfato law, it is retrospective i so far as it deteran exp
mines from the past conduct of the party his fitness for the
proposed business. Felons are also excluded from abtaining
such a license, not as an additional punishment, but because
the conviction of a felony is evidence of the unfitness of such
persons as a class; nor can we perceive why such evidence
should be more conclusive of unfitness were the act done after
the passage of the ordinance than if done before." In a certain sense such a rule is arbitrary, but it is within the power
of a legislature to prescribe a rule of general application based
upon a state of things which is ordinarily evidence of the
ultimate fact sought to be established. "It was obviously
the province of the state legislature to provide the nature and
extent of the legal presumption to be deduced from a given

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

state of facts, and the creation by law of such presumptions
is after all but an illustration of the power to classify." Jones
v. Brim, 165 U. S. 180, 183.
Defendant relies largely on Cummings v. The State of
NXissouri, 4 Wall. 277, and E parte Garland,4 Wall. 333.
In the first of these cases a test oath, containing some thirty
distinct affirmations respecting past conduct, extending even
to words, desires and sympathies, was prescribed by the State
of Missouri upon all pursuing certain professions or avocations; and in the second a similar oath, though not so far
reaching" in its terms, was required by act of Congress of
those who sought to appear as attorneys and counsellors in
the courts of the United States. It was held that, as many
of the matters provided for in these oaths had no relation to
the fitness or qualification of the two parties, the one to follow the profession of a minister of the gospel and the other
to act as an -ttorney and counsellor, the oaths should be considered not legitimate tests of qualification, but in the nature
of penalties for past offences. These cases were called to our
attention in Dent v. West TFirginia,supra, in which the validity
of a statute of West Virginia imposing new qualifications upon
one already engaged in the practice of medicine was presented
for consideration. After pointing out the distinguishing features of those cases, this court summed up the matter in these
words, p. 128:
"There is nothing in these decisions which supports the
positions for which the plaintiff in. error contends. They
only determine that one who is in the enjoyment of a right
to preach .and teach the Christian religion as a priest of a
regular church, and one who has been admitted to practise
the profession of the law, cannot be deprived of the right to
continue in the exercise of their respective professions by the
exaction from them of an oath as to their past conduct, respecting matters which have no connection with such professions. Between this doctrine and that for which the plaintiff
in error contends there is no analogy or-resemblance. The
constitution of Missouri and the act of Congress in question
in those cases were designed to deprive parties of their right

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

to continue in their professions for past acts or past expressions of desires and sympathies, many of which had no bearing upon their fitness to continue in their professions. The
law of West Virginia was intended to secure such skill and
learning in the profession of medicine that the community
might trust with confidence those receiving a license under
authority of the State."
.x parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265, is also worthy of notice. In
that case the Circuit Court had stricken, the petitioner's
name from the roll of practising attorneys, on the ground.
that he had committed a crime, although not in the presence
of the court, nor interfering with it in the discharge of its
duties. The petitioner here insisted that the act which was
charged against him was one for which he was, if guilty,
liable to trial and conviction under the law of the State,
and that the Federal court had no power on account of such
act, one having no connection with his obligations to that
court, to disbar him. In reply to this contention it was said,
p. 273:
"It is laid down in all the books in which the subject is
treated, that a court has power to exercise a summary jurisdiction over its attorneys to compel them to act honestly
towards their clients, and to punish them by fine and imprisonment for misconduct and contempts, and, in gross cases
of misconduct, to strike their names from the roll. If regularly convicted of a felony, an att6rney will be struck off the
roll, as of course, whatever the felony may be, because he is
rendered infamous. If convicted of a misdemeanor which
imports fraud or dishonesty, the same course will be taken.
He will also be struck off the roll for gross malpractice or
dishonesty in his profession. . . . Where an attorney
was convicted of theft, and the crime was condoned by burning in the hand, he was nevertheless struck from the roll.
'The question is,' said Lord Mansfield, Iwhether, after the
conduct of this man, it is proper that he should continue a
member of a profession which should stand free from all
suspicion. .
.
It is not by way of punishment; but the
court in such cases exercise their discretion, whether a man

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

whom they have formerly admitted is a proper person to be
continued on the roll or not.'"
The thought which runs through these cases, and others of
similar import which might be cited, is that such legislation is
not to be regarded as a mere imposition of additional penalty,
but as prescribing the qualifications for the duties to be discharged and the position to be filled, and naming what is
deemed to be and what is in fact appropriate evidence of such
qualifications.
In Gray v. Connecti ut, 159 U. S. 74, 77, this court considered
the effect of a statute prescribing additional qualifications for
one acting as a pharmacist who already had a license from the
State therefor, and said: " Whatever provisions were prescribed
by the law previous to "1890, in the use of spirituous liquors in
the medicinal preparations of pharmacists, they did not prevent the subsequent exaction of further conditions which the
lawful authority might deem necessary or useful." See also
Fosterv. Police Commissioners,sup'a,and State v. State Board
of .Medical Examiners. 34 Minnesota, 387.
We find no error in the record, and, therefore, the judgment of the state court is
Affivmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, with whom concurred
lEcKiAM and MR. JUSTICE McKIENNA, dissenting.

MR. JUs'rIC

By an indictment in the Court of Sessions of Kings County,
New York, the present plaintiff in error was* charged with
the crime of abortion, committed September 1, 1877. IIe
was found guilty and sentenced, March 6, 1878, to imprisonment in the penitentiary for the term of ten years.
Chapter 661 of the laws of New York bf 1893, as amended
by the laws of 1895, provides that " any person who, after
conviction of a felony, shall attempt to practise medicine, or
shall so practise, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor," etc.
The present indictment charged the plaintiff in error with
the commission of the offence last stated, in that having been
convicted in 1878 of the above crime of abortion committed

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

in 1877, he unlawfully, on the 22d day of February, 1896, in
the city of New York -nearly twenty years after the coinmission of the crime of abortion -practised
medicine by
"then and there unlawfully medically examining, treating
and prescribing for Dora Hoenig."
If the statute in force when the offence of abortion was
committed had provided that, iu addition to imprisonment in
the penitentiary, the accused, if convicted, should not thereafter practise medicine, no one, I take it, would doubt that
such prohibition was a part of the punishment prescribed for
the offence. And yet it would seem to be the necessary result
of the opinion of the court in the present case, that a statute
passed after the commission of the offence in 1877 and which,
by its own force, made it a crime for the defendant to continue
in the practice of medicine, is not an addition to the punishment inflicted upon him in 1878. I cannot assent to this view.
It is, I think, inconsistent with the provision of the Constitution of the United States declaring that no State shall pass an
ex post facto law.
The scope and meaning of the ex post facto clause of the
Constitution was determined in Calder v. -Bull,3 Dall. 386,
the opinion being delivered by Mr. Justice Chase. The classification there made of cases embraced by that provision has
been universally accepted in the courts of this country,
although this court said in R2.ing v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221,
228, that it was not to be supposed that the opinion in Calder
v. Bull undertook to define, by way of exclusion, all the cases
to which the constitutional provision would be applicable.
That classification was as follows: "1. tvery law that makes
an acti6 n done before the passing of the law, and which was
innocent when done, criminal, and punishes such action.
2. Every law that aggravates a crime and makes it greater
than it was when committed. 3. Every law that changes
the punishment and inflicts a greater punishment than the
law annexed to the crime when committed. 4. Every law
that alters the legal 'rules of evidence and receives less 6r different testimony than the law required at the commission of
the offence in order to convict the offender."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

In United States v. flal, 2 Wash. 0. 0. 366, Mr. Justice
Washington said "that an,ex postfacto law is one which, in its
operation, makes that criminal which was not so at the time
the action was performed, or which increases the punishment,
or, in short, which in relation to 'the offence, or its consequences, alters the situation of a party-to his disadvantage."
And so it was held in Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221, 228,
and in JMedley, Petitioner, 134 U. S. 160, 171.
If, long after the commission of a crime, and long after the
offender has suffered all the punishment prescribed at the time
for its commission, a statute should, by its own force, and
solely because of his conviction of that offence, take from him
the right to further pursue his profession, would not such a
statute inflict upon him a greater punishment than was annexed to the crime when committed, and alter the situation
to his disadvantage, "in relation to the offence or its consequences" ? In my opinion, this question should receive an
affirmative answer.
It was said in argument that the judgment below was sustained by Dent v. West Jirginia,129 U. S. 114. That case
presented no question under the ex post facto clause of the
Constitution. It only involved the question whether any one
could, of right, pursue the practice of medicine without obtaining a license to do so, if the State required a license as a condition of exercising the privilege of pursuing that profession.
This court held that such a statute was within the reserved
police power of the State, and consistent with the due process
of law enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment. It said:
"The power of the State to provide for the general welfare
of its people authorizes it to prescribe all such regulations as
in its judgment will secure, or tend to secure, them against
the consequences of ignorance and incapiacity, as well as of
deception and fraud." It was not the case of a state enactment which, by its own force, made it a crime for any person,
lawfully engaged, when such act was passed, in the practice of
the medical profession, to continue to do so,. if he had at any
time in his past life committed a felony, although he may have
suffered all the punishment prescribed for such felony when it

HAWKER v. NEW YORK.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

was committed. If the statute of West Virginia had been of
that character, the same question would have been presented
that arises under the statute of New York.
In Cummings v. Missouri,4 Wall. 277, 321, this court said:
"The theory upon which our political institutions rest is, that
all men have certain inalienable rights - that among these are
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; and that in the pursuit of happiness all avocations, all honors, all positions are alike
open to every one, and that in the protection of these rights
all are equal before the law. Any deprivation or suspension
of any of these rights for past conduct is punishment and can
be in no otherwise defined." The court now holds that a
legislative enactment does not inflict punishment for past conduct when it makes it a crime for any one lawfully engaged
in the practice of medicine - as was the plaintiff in error - to
continue in the pursuit of his chosen profession, if at any time
in the past, and although a half century may have intervened,
he was convicted of a felony of any character, notwithstanding he suffered the entire punishment prescribed for such
felony when committed.
In Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333, 377, which involved the
validity of an act of Congress requiring, among other things,
a certain oath to be taken as a condition of the right of one
to appear and be heard as an attorney at law by virtue of any
previous admission to the bar, this court, referring to certain
clauses of the act relating to past conduct, said: "The statute
is directed against parties who have offended in any of the
particulars embraced by these clauses. And its object is to
exclude them from the profession of the law, or at least from
its practice in the courts of the United States. As the oath
prescribed cannot be taken by these parties, the act, as against
them, operates as a legislative decree of perpetual exclusion.
And exclusion from any of the professions or any of the ordinary vocations of life for past conduct can be regarded in no
other light than as punishment for past conduct. The exaction -of the oath is the mode provided for ascertaining the
parties upon whom the act is intended to operate, and instead
of lessening, increases its objectionable character. All enact-

OCTOBER TERMA,

1897.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

ments of this kind partake of the nature of bills of pains and
penalties, and are subject to the constitutional inhibition
against the passage of bills of attainder, under which general
designation they are included. In the exclusion which tile
statute adjudges it imposes a punishment for some of the acts
slecified which were not punishable at the time they were
committed; and for other of the acts it adds a new Int)i.shmzent to that before prescribed, and it is thus brought within
the further inhibition of the Constitution again-st the passage
of an ex postfacto law."
The statute in question, it is to be observed, takes no account whatever of the character, at the time of the passage,
of the person whose previous conviction of a felony is made
an absolute bar to his right to practise medicine. The offender may have become, after conviction, a new man in point
of character, and so conducted himself as to win the respect of
his fellow-men, and be recognized as one capable, by his skill
as a physician, of doing great good. But these considerations
have no weight against the legislative decree embodied in a
statute which, without hearing, and without any investigation as
to the character oie capacity of the person involved, takes away
from him absolutely a right which was being lawfully exercised when that decree was passed. If the defendant had been
pardoned of the offence committed by him in 1877, he would
still, under the statute of 1895, have become a criminal if he
continued in the practice of his profession.
. It will not do to say that the New York statute does nothing more th-n prescribe the qualifications which, after its
passage, must be possessed by those who practise medicine.
Upon this point, Mr. Justice Patterson of the Supreme Court
of New York well said: "Assuming, for the purpose of the
argument, that the legislature may require for the continuance
inthe practiceof medicine that the practitioner shall possess
professional knowledge and skill and also good moral character, it is obvious that such requirement must relate to a present
status or condition of a person coming within the terms of the
act. The law undet which this appellant was indicted does
not deal with his present moial chargc.ter. It seizes upon a

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
Syllabus.

past offence, and makes that, and that alone, the substantial
ingredient of a new crime, and the conviction of it years ago
the conclusive evidence of that new crime. It will be observed
that this statute includes any and all felonies- not only those
committed in connection with the profession of medicine and
surgery, but any and every felony in the whole catalogue of
Prime, whether committed here or in another jurisdiction. Its
design is to deprive convicted felons of the right of practising
at all. Clearly it acts directly upon and enhances the punishment of the antecedently committed offence by depriving the
person of his property and right and preventing his earning
his livelihood in his profession, only because of his past, and
in this case expiated, offence against the criminal law. The
prisoner has committed no new crime except that which the
statute has created out of the old. He had absolutely the
right to practise medicine the day before that statute was
passed. His former conviction entailed the punishment of
imprisonment and disfranchisement as a voter, but it did not
take away his property in the right to earn his living on the
expiration of his imprisonment, by engaging in the profession
of which he was and is a member. His civil rights were not
extinguished, but only suspended, during his imprisonment.
2 Rev. Stat. 701, §.19; Penal Code, § 710."
I concur entirely in these views, and must withhold my
assent to the opinion of the majority.

KIRWAN v. AEURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEA.LS FOR THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 5 0. Submitted March 28, 1898. -Decided

April 25, 1898.

An interlocutory order of a Circuit Court for the issue of a temporary injunction, having been taken on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
was there affirmed, and an order was Issued for temporary injunction.
An appeal from this was taken to this court. ileld, that this court has
no jurisdiction, and that the appeal must be dismissed.

