AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

133

Syllabus.

for taxes which were assessed and became due prior to September 14, 1886, when the Hewitt act took effect. The petition of the Commonwealth of K entucky should have been
dismissed.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remandedfor
further _proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY dissented.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 16.

Argued January 6, 7, 1898. -Decided

April 18, 1898.

In an action against the maker of a bond, given to indemnify or insure a
bank against loss arising from acts of fraud or dishonesty on the part
of its cashier, if the bond was fairly and reasonably susceptible of two
constructions, one favorable to the bank and the other to the insurer,
the former, if consistent with the objects for which the bond was given,
must be adopted.
Under the condition of the bond in this case, requiring notice of acts of
fraud or dishonesty, the defendant was entitled to notice in writing of
any act of the cashier which came to the knowledge of the plaintiff of a
fraudulent or a dishonest character as soon as practicable after the plaintiff acquired knowledge; and it is not sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's
right of action upon tle policy to show that the plaintiff may have
had suspicions of dishonest conduct of the cashier; but it was plaintiff's duty, when it came to his knowledge, when lie was satisfied that
the cashier had committed acts of dishonesty or fraud likely to involve
loss to the defendant under the bond, as soon as was practicable thereafter to give written notice to the defendant: though he may have had
suspicions of irregularities or fraud, he was not bound to act until he
had acquired knowledge of some specific fraudulent or" dishonest act that
might involve the defendant in liability for the misconduct.,
When tie bank suspended business, and the investigation by the examiner
commenced, O'Brien ceased to perform the ordinary duties of a cashier;
but within the meaning of the bond, he did not retire from, but remained
in, the service of the employer during at least the investigation of the
bank's affairs and the custody of its assets by the national bank examiner, which lasted until the appointment of a receiver and his qualification. Held, that the six months from "the death or dismissal or retirement of the empl6y6 from the service of the employer," within which

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
his fraud or dishonesty must have been discovered in order to hold the
company liable, did not commence to run prior to the date last named.
The making of a statement as to the honesty and fidelity of an employ6
of a bank for the benefit of the employ6, and to enable the latter to
obtain a bond insuring his fidelity, was no part of the ordinary routine
business of a bank president, and there was nothing to show that by any
usage of this particular bank such function was committed to its
president.
The presumption that an agent informs his principal of that which his duty
and the interests of his principal require him to communicate does not
arise where the agent acts or makes declarations not in execution of any
duty that he owes to the principal, nor within any authority possessed
by him, but to subserve simply his own personal ends or to commit some
fraud against the principal; and in such cases the principal is not bound
by the acts or declarations of the agent unless it be proved that lie had at
the time'actual notice of them, or having received notice of them, failed
to disavow what was assumed to be said and done in his behalf.
When an agent has, in the course of his employment, been guilty of an
actual fraud contrived and carried out for his own benefit, by which lie
intended to defraud and did defraud his own principal or cliept, as well
as perhaps the other party, and the very perpetration of such fraud involved the necessity of his concealing the facts from his own client,
then under such circumstances the principal is not charged with constructive notice of facts known by the attorney and thus fraudulently
concealed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Air. Henry C. Willcox and AMr. IValter D. Davidge for plainAir. Walter A. Davidge, Jr., was on their brief.

tiff in error.

AMr. Edward Winslow Paige for defendant in error.
MiR. JUSTIOE

HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error as receiver of the California National Bank of San Diego, California, brought this action
against the piaintiff in error, a corporation of New York,

upon a bond of the latter for $15,000 guaranteeing or insuring the bank, subject to certain conditions, against any act of
fraud or dishonesty committed by George N. O'Brien in his
position as cashier of that institution.
This bond was based upon an application by O'Brien to the
Surety Company accompanied by written declarations and

AMERICAN

SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

135

Opinion of the Court.

answers to questions relating to his age, history, habits, financial condition, etc. He presented with the application the
following certificate, signed by J. W. Collins as president of
the bank: "I have read the foregoing declarations and answers made by George N. O'Brien, and believe them to be
true. He has been in the employ of this bank during three
years; and to the best of my knowledge has always performed
his duties in a faithful and satisfactory manner. His accounts
were last examined on the 28th day of Mfarch, 1891, and found
correct in every respect. He is not to my knowledge, at
present, in arrears or in default. I know nothing of his habits
or antecedents affecting his title to general confidence, or
why the bond he applies for should not be granted to him."
The bond was executed July 1, 1891. After reciting that
the employ6, O'Brien, had been appointed in the service of
the employer, the bank, had been assigned to the office or
position of cashier, and had applied to the American Surety
Company of New York for a bond, it provided:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the sum of seventy-five
dollars, lawful money of the United States of America, in
hand paid to the company, as a premium for the term of
twelve months ending on the first day of July, one thousand
eight hundred and ninety-two, at 12 o'clock noon, it is hereby
declared and agreed that, subject to the provision herein contained, the company shall, within three months next after
notice, accompanied by satisfactory proof, of a loss, as hereinafter mentioned, has been given to the company, make good
and reimburse to .the employer ali and any pecuniary loss
sustained by the employer, of moneys, securities or other personal property in the possession of the employ6, or for the
possession of which he is responsible, by any act of fraud, or
dishonesty, on the part of the employ6, in connection with
the duties of the office or position hereinbefore referred to, or
the duties to which in the employer's service he may be subsequently appointed, and occurring during the continuance of
this bond, and discovered during said continuance, or ivithin
six months thereafter, and within six months from the death
or dismissal, or retirement of the employ6, from the service of

OCTOBER TERAI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

the employer. It being understood that a written statement
of such loss, certified by the duly authorized officer or representative of the employer, and based upon the accounts of the
employer, shall be prima facie evidence thereof. Provided
always, that the company shall not be liable, by virtue of
this bond, for any mere error of judgment or injudicious exercise of discretion on the part of the employ6, in and about all
or any matters, wherein he shall have been vested with discretion, either by instruction, or rules and regulations of the
employer. And it is expressly understood and agreed that
the company shall in no way be held liable hereunder to
make good any loss which nlay accrue to the employer by
reason of any act or thing done, or left undone, by the
employ6, in obedience to, or in pursuance of, any direction,
instruction or authorization conveyed to and received by him
from the employer or its duly authorized officer in that
behalf; and it is expressly understood and agreed that the
company shall in no way be held liable hereunder to make
good any loss, by robbery or otherwise, that-the employer
may sustain, except by the direct act or connivance of the
employ6.
"The following provisions are to be observed and binding
as a part of this bond:
"That the company shall be notified in writing, at its office
in the city of New York, of any act on the part of the employ6, which may involve a loss for which the company is
responsible hereunder, as soon as practicable after the occurrence of such act shall have come to the knowledge of the
employer. That any claim made in respect of this bond shall
be in writing, addressed to the company, as aforesaid, as
soon as practicable after the discovery of any loss for which
the company is responsible hereunder, and within six months
after the expiration or cancellation of this bond as aforesaid.
And upon the making of such claim, this bond shall wholly
cease and determine as regards any liability for any act or
omission of the employ6 committed subsequent to the making
of such claim, and shall be surrendered to the company on
payment of such claim."

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

137

Opinion of the Court.

"That if the company shall so elect, this bond may be
cancelled at any time by giving one month's notice to the
employer, and refunding the premium paid, less a pro rata
part thereof for the time said bond shall have been in force,
remaining liable for all or any default covered by this bond,
which may have been committed by the employ6, up to the
ate of such determination, and discovered and notified to the
company within the limit of time hereinbefore provided for.
"That the employer shall, if required by the company, and
as soon thereafter as it can reasonably be dcne, give all such
aid and information as may be possible (at the cost and expense of the company), for the purpose of prosecuting and
bringing the employ6 to justice, or for aiding the company
in suing for and making effort to obtain reimbursement by
the employ6 or his estate, of any moneys which the company
shall have paid or become liable to pay by virtue of this
bond.
"That no suit or proceeding at law or in equity shall be
brought to recover any sum hereby insured, unless the same
is commenced within one year from the time of the making
of any claim on the company."
"It is further agreed that this bond may at the option of
the employer be continued in force from year to year at the
same premium rate as long as the company shall consent to
receive the same, in which case the company shall remain
liable for any dishonest act of the employ6 occurring between
the original date of this bond and the time to which it shall
have been continued."
On the application of Collins, a bond, with like conditions,
was made the same day by the Surety Company in the penalty of $25,000 guaranteeing the bank against loss by any act
of fraud or dishonesty on his part as its president.
The complaint set out certain acts of fraud and dishonesty
by O'Brien in his office of cashier whereby, it was alleged,
the bank lost an amount in excess of that -named in the bond.
All the material allegations of the complaint were deilied by
the answer. The result of the trial was a judgment in favor
of the plaintiff for $16,847.50, which was the amount of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

bond with interest ; also for $385.73 costs and $202.16 interest
on the verdict; in all, $17,435.39. That judgment was affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. 38 U. S. App. 254.
Upon certain issues in the case there was a decided conflict
in the evidence, particularly as to the time when the receiver
first discovered that O'Brien as cashier had committed an act
that might involve a loss for which the Surety Company
would be liable and of which it was entitled to be notified ill
writing as soon as practicable after the occurrence of such act
came to the knowledge of the bank.
In view, however, of the verdict, and assuming that the
jury had due regard to the instructions of the court, the following facts may be regarded as established by the evidence:
On the 13th and 14th days of October, 1891, O'Brien, being
cashier, fraudulently and dishonestly placed to the credit of
Collins, the president of the bank, two sums, $20,000 and

$82,500.
The bank suspended business on the 12th day of November,
1891, at which time Collins had to his credit on its books only
$11,420.90. Of the above sums aggregating $44,500 falsely
credited to him, he-drew out, on his own checks, $33,029.10,
which was wholly lost to the bank.
Immediately upon the suspension of the bank an examiner
appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency, :Rev. Stat.
§ 5240, entered upon an investigation of its affairs.
On the 18th day of December, 1891, Pauly was appointed
receiver, Rev. Stat. §§ 5205, 5234, and having qualified as
such, took possession on the 29th day of December, 1891, of
the books, papers and assets of the bank - continuing its
employ~s in his service for a short time.
O'Brien remained in service under the receiver until about
March 2, 1892, when he left, because the receiver declined to
pay his salary - the latter saying that he would regard it as
credited or paid on, any indebtedness of O'Brien's to the bank.
During January, February and March, 1892, there was a
general examination of the books of the bink under the
direcfion of the receiver. And about April 1, 1892, one
Bloodgood, an expert bookkeeper, in connection with another

AMNERtICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

139

Opinion of the Court.

bookkeeper, entered upon a particular examination of such
books, with a view of ascertaining the transactions of Collins
while he was president. Collins died March 3, 1892. Towards the end of -Kay these experts made certain discoveries
involving the fidelity and integrity of O'Brien as cashier, of
which Bloodgood gave notice to the receiver. The facts thus
discovered related to the false credits which, as above stated,
O'Brien as cashier had given to Collins on the books of the
bank.
It is to be taken upon this record, after the verdict of the
jury, that although the general examination of the bank's
books in January, February and Mfarch, 1892, indicated that
there were probably irregularities in the conduct of the bank's
business, the receiver was not aware of "the amounts and
special conditions" of such irregularities nor of -any specific
aTct of fraud or dishonesty upon the part of the cashier, until
the expert bookkeepers had completed their examination of
the books of the bank about May 23, 1892, on which day the
receiver wrote to the Surety Company, giving notice of the
discovery of fraud that entitled him as receiver to look to
that company tipon its bonds for the fidelity and integrity
of Collins and O'Brien. That letter was as follows: "I write
to notify you that the California National Bank held a bond
to the amount of $20,000 in its favor for the faithful performance of duties by J. W. Collins, its late president, also in
favor for the faithful performance of duties by George N.
O'Brien, its cashier, for $15,000. I therefore notify you that
a discovery of fraud has been made of sufficient amount to
require the payment of those indemnity bonds to the undersigned receiver of the California National Bank. I therefore
ask that you forward us the necessary blanks to make the
claim or claims in proper form."
This letter appears to be undated, but the time is shown by
the following letter, dated May 31, and addressed by the vice
president of the Surety Company to the receiver: "We are
this morning in receipt of your letter of the 23d inst., gtating
that you have discovered fraud on the part of J. W. Collins,
late president of the California National Bank, and on the

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Opinion of tle Court.

part of George N. O'Brien, late cashier of said bank, sufficient to require payment by this company under bonds heretofore issued upon the parties named in favor of the said
California National Bank. I transmit herewith two claim.
blanks with three continuation sheets with each, upon which
please itemize any claim you may have to present under the
bond of J. W. Collins; also upon the bonds of George N.
O'Brien; showing the precise dates of alleged embezzlements
on the part of said John W. Collins and said George N.
O'Brien ; and the amounts thereof ; after which please attest
the same under oath and transmit to this office, furnishing
to our inspector, Mr. Bradbury Williams, who will call upon
you, a duplicate statement of the items, with the dates thereto
attached, so that he may be able to verify the account. Will
you also please inform me where George N. O'Brien is at
present, and whether you have made a formal demand upon
him for the amount alleged to be due and whether lie has
refused to pay the same; also the date of said demand; and
if made in writing will you. please send us a copy of said
demand and furnish a copy to our inspector, Mr. Bradbury
Williams. We desire to have you perfect your claims with
the utmost expedition, and when received they will be duly
considered."
Under date of June 24, 1892, the receiver wrote to the vice
president of the Surety Company: "In reply to yours of the
31st ult., I hand you herewith two affidavits in regard to the
embezzlern.ent of the late J. W. Collins and George N. O'Brien,
furnished after consultation with my legal adviser, as giving
information fuller than I otherwise could do by using the
blank sent me in your favor of above date. Afr. G. N.
O'Brien is still living in San Diego City. A formal demand
was made upon him in writing for the amounts embezzled by
his aid and assistance from the California National Bank, to
which he has as yet made no reply. The affidavit herein
relative to J. W. Collins includes an item of $10,000 discovered after making. the affidavit sent you before. Duplicate
affidavits and bopy of the demand made u'pon G. N. O'Brien
will be furnished your Mr. Bradbury Williams when he calls.

AMAERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

141

Opinion of the Court.

Trusting you will find this statement explicit enough for
your purpose, and that we may in the near future receive
payment as required under the bonds that should guarantee
the California National Bank against loss on the part of the
hereinbefore mentioned J. W. Collins and George N. O'Brien."
The questions of law presented for consideration will be
better understood if the following additional facts be stated :
With the above letter of June 24, 1892, was an affidavit of
the receiver called in the record "Proof of Claim." That
document stated among other things that on the 13th and
14th days of October, 1891, O'Brien, as cashier, made entries
of the deposit tags, and caused to be entered in the books of
the bank credits in favor of Collins amounting to forty-five
thousand dollars without Collins paying any consideration
therefor, and without being entitled thereto, as O'Brien well
knew; that the nature, extent, amount and circumstances
connected with these wrongful acts of O'Brien bad come to
the knowledge of the receiver and of the bank since the first
day of February, 1892; that O'Brien was not entitled to any
credits, and the bank was not indebted to him in any sum;
that at the date of the suspension of the bank his account was
overdrawn, and he was at that date indebted to the bank;
that the above statements as to his wrongful, unlawful and
fraudulent acts as cashier of the bank between the first of
July, 1891, and the 12th day of November, 1891, the last date
being the date of the suspension of the bank, included all the
money misappropriated, wrongful and improper entries and
fraudulent and wrongful conduct upon the part of O'Brien
that had come to the knowledge of the receiver, and constituted a true and correct statement of the account between
him and the bank.
On the same day, June 21, 1892, the receiver mailed to the
Surety Company a written notice containing substantially the
same statements as were contained in the above affidavit, and
concluding: "That in pursuance of a certain bond numbered
85,565, heretofore issued by your company, in which yoid agree
to make good and reimburse the said California National Bank
of San Diego all and any pecuniary loss sustained during the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

continuance of the bond on account of the fraud or dishonesty
of the said G. N. O'Brien, after a written statement of said
loss is presented, this notice is given by the undersigned,
Frederick N. Pauly, receiver of the California National Bank
of San Diego, appointed such receiver December 18, 1891, by
the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States, and
attached hereto is a statement of the loss, duly certified by
the said receiver, now representative of said employer named
in said bond; that said George N. O'Brien is insolvent; that
demand in writing has been made upon him that he reimburse
and repay to said bank the amounts hereinbefore dishonestly
and fraudulently obtained of 6aid bank, which he has refused
to do. This notice is given you as soon as practicable after the
occurrence of the wrongful acts hereinbefore referred to and
demand is hereby made upon you by the undersigned, as representative of said bank and as such receiver, for the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000), the amount in said bond
stipulated."
On the 8th day of July, 1892, the Surety Company addressed
to the receiver the following letter: "We are in receipt of
your two letters of the 24th ultimo, transmitting two affidavits relative to the claim under the bonds of this company
to the California National Bank for J. W. Collins and George
W. O'Brien in the respective positions of president and cashier
of said bank. We have respectfully to request that you will
make a statement of each on the claim forms which we use
for that purpose, two of which are herewith enclosed. We
desire full information in regard to the shortages and credits,
of every kind- whatever, whether on account of salary due,
money paid or assignments made by either of said persons to
the California National Bank. If there has been any action
brought against Mr. George N. O'Brien, or any correspondence between the bank or you with either of the persons in
regard to the matter, we should be pleased to have copies
thereof."
To this letter the receiver, under date of July 18, 1892,
made the following reply : "In reply to yours'of 8th instant
relative to my claim under the bonds of your company to the

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

143

Opinion of the Court.

California National Bank for J. W. Collins and G. N. O'Brien,

I beg to herewith send you a statement of account of J. W.
Collins, showing the amount of his deficiency to be $374,978.22.
A list of the property assigned by J. W. Collins to the California National Bank with the estimation of the value'thereof.
J. W. Collins under the name of Dare & Collins is a defaulter
*to the bank in the sum of $34:8,703.52 in addition to the
amount above stated. An itemized statement of the account
can also be forwarded you if desired. With regard to G. N.
O'Brien, no action has been brought against him, because he
is execution proof. In reply to my demand for payment for
the amounts embezzled by J. W. Collins during the term
covered by these bonds, he replied as per copy of his letter
herewith enclosed. In compliance with the request of the
U. S. Attorney I appeared before the grand jury and testified
as to the state of facts that existed implicating G. N. O'Brien
in the defalcations with J. W. Collins. What action the
grand jury will take has not yet transpired. Trusting that
these statements will meet your requirements, I am, etc."
Other letters passed between the receiver and the company, in respect to which it is only necessary to observe that
the company retained the proofs of loss sent to it without
objecting that they did not sufficiently indicate the nature
and extent of the claim made by the receiver. Finally, the
receiver, writing to the vice president of the company, under
date of September 21, 1892, said: "There has been so much
delay in this matter that I have placed it, under the direction
of the Comptroller, in the hands of the U. S. Attorney in
New York, Edward Mitchell, Esq., with instructions to collect the same." The company in reply expressed their gratification that when taking up the matter finally it could deal
with the United States in New York on the merits of the
case.
In the light of the facts, as above stated, we come to the
consideration of the controlling questions of law presented
for determination. These questions depend largely upon the
interpretation to be given to the provisions of the bond in
suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

If, looking at all its provisions, the bond is fairly and reasonably susceptible of two constructions, one favorable to the
bank and the other favorable to the Surety Company, the former, if consistent with the objects for which the bond was
given, must be adopted, and this for the reason that the instrument which the court is invited to interpret was drawn by the
attorneys, officers or agents of the Surety Company. This is a
well established rule in the law of insurance. Yation lBank
v. bnsurance Co., 95 U. S. 673; IMestern Ins. Co. v. Crojy)pr ,
32 Penn. St. 351, 355 ; Reynolds v. Commnerce Eiee Ins. C,.,
47 N. Y. 597, 604; Travellers' Ins. Co. v. MlcConkec, 127
U. S.661, 666; F.ow]kes v. .Jlanchester &.c. Lte AsN'n, 3 Best
& Smith, 917, 925: As said by Lord St. Leonards in Ande.rson v. Fitzgerald,4 I. L. Cas. *48-4, -507, "it [a life policy]
is of course prepared by the company, and if therefore there
should be any ambiguity in it, must be taken, according
to law, most strongly against the person who prepared it."
There is no sound reason why this rule should not be applied
in the present case. The object of the bond in suit was to
indemnify or insure the bank against loss arising from any
act of fraud or dishonesty on the pa'rt of O'Brien in connection with his duties as cashier, or with the duties to which in
the employer's service he might be subsequently appointed.
That object should not be defeated by any narrow interpretation of its provisions, nor by adopting a construction favorable to the company if there be another construction equally
admissible under the terms of the instrument executed for the
protection of the bank.
It was contended in the court below, as it is here, that the
receiver did not comply with that provision of the bond requiring written notice to be given to the company, at its
office in New York, of any act on the part of O'Brien "which
may involve a loss for which the company is responsible hereunder, as soon as practicable after the occurrence of such act
shall have come to the knowledge of the employer." The
company insists that the receiver in January, February,
March and April, 1S92, had such information in respect of
the acts of O'Brien as cashier, as made it his duty, long before

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

145

Opinion of the Court.

his letter of May 23, 1892, to give the required notice to the
company. Upon this part of the case Judge Wallace, referring to the clause of the policy requiring notice of acts that
might involve loss to the defendant, said to the jury: "Under
that condition of the policy the defendant was entitled to
notice in writing of any act of the cashier which came to
the knowledge of the plaintiff of a fraudulent or a dishonest
character as soon as practicable after the plaintiff acquired
knowledge. It is not sufficient to defeat the plaintiff's right
of action upon the policy that it be shown that the plaintiff
may have had suspicions of dishonest conduct of the cashier;
but it was plaintiff's duty under the policy, when it came to
his knowledge, when he was satisfied that the cashier had
committed acts of dishonesty o fraud likely to involve loss
to the defendant under the bond, as soon as was practicable
thereafter to give written notice to the defendant. Now, the
written notice, the first written notice, was given on the 23d
day of May, 1892. And in considering this issue you are to
inquire first, when it was that the plaintiff became satisfied
that the cashier had committed dishonest or fraudulent acts
which might render the defendant liable under this policy.
He may have had suspicions of irregularities; he may have
had suspicions of fraud, but he was not bound to act until he
had acquired knowledge of some specific fraudulent or dishonest act which might involve the defendant in liability for
the misconduct. Now, when was it he acquired stIch knowledge? A good deal of testimony has been introduced here
upon that issue. After acquiring it, it was his duty, not as
soon as possible, to transmit information of it to the defendant, but to do it with reasonable promptness. Ie was not
bound the first (lay or the next, necessarily, to give hotice,
but he was to give notice within a reasonable time; and it is
for you to say, upon a consideration of all the circumstances
of the case, whether he did within a reasonable time after
acquiring such knowledge, send the letter of May 23d. It
might be reasonable under one state of facts; it might be unreasonable under another. What might be very great diligence under one set of circumstances might be very dilatory
VOL. CLXX--10

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

under another. Now, first, you are to determine when he
really acquired the knowledge. I am not going to recapitulate the testimony. It is claimed upon his part that he did
not acquire the knowledge until the close of the examination
by the expert, and that was only within a day or two of the
time of mailing the notice ; and so testimony has been given
to show that such examination commenced on the first of
April and was continued until the latter part of May. On
the other hand it is claimed that he must have acquired
knowledge much earlier than this. Now, there is a circumstance of some significance. Itis hardly to be supposed that
this receiver, holding an official trust, would retain in his employ a cashier after he had become satisfied that by the dishonesty or the fraud of that cashier the bank had sustained
serious loss. He did retain him until the 2d day of iMarch.
And it may be that while he and those associated with him
were entirely satisfied that there had been irregularities, and
even perhaps that there had been frauds on the part of the
president, they were not aware of any specific acts which could
be designated as fraudulent or dishonest on the part of the
cashier until the investigation had progressed.for a considerable length of time. On the other hand, you have heard the
plaintiff's testimony as'given in depositions taken in the west.
Various extracts have been read, and it is insisted upon the part
of the defendant that he must have known of these acts as
early as the early part of February, 1S921. Now,I charge you,
as a matter of law, that if the facts were, as they were assumed
to be, at the outset of the trial, that is, that the discovery was
made early in February and notice was not given until July,
that was not notice with reasonable promptness. And I do not
know but that I should charge you, as a matter of law, that if
the fact were discovered in the early part of February, and
notice was not given until the latter part of May,that was not
notice given with reasonable promptness. But if you come to
the conclusion that the discovery was not made until the middle or latter part of May, then, in view of the situation of the
plaintiff you may reasonably come to the conclusion that he
exercised proper diligence in sending the notice."

AMERICAN

SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

147

Opinion of the Court.

We perceive no error in these instructions. They are entirely consistent with the terms of the contract. Mluch stress
was laid, in argument, upon the words "which may involve
loss" in the above extract from the bond. But when those
words are taken with the words in the same sentence, "as
soon as practicable after such act shall have come to the
knowledge of the employer," it may well be held that the
Surety Company did not intend to require written notice of
any act upon the part of the cashier that might involve loss,
unless the bank had knowledge, not simply suspicion, of the
existence of such facts as would justify a careful and prudent
man in charging another with fraud or dishonesty. If the
"ompany intended that the bank should inform it of mere
rumors or suspicious affecting the integrity of O'Brien, such
intention ought to have been clearly expressed in the bond.
It was left to the jury to determine when the receiver first
acquired knowledge of acts indicating fraud or dishonesty
on O'Brien's part, and they found, in effect, that he had no
knowledge of any such act until after the report by the expert bookkeepers made about or a few days before May 23,
1892. The trial court went far enough when it said in response to an inquiry by a juror, that notice given May 23,
1892, of a fraud by the cashier discovered as early as March
2d-

the day on which O'Brien left t~le receiver-

was not

as soon as practicable after the receiver acquired knowledge
of the facts.
We have seen that by the terms of the bond in suit the
company agreed to make good and reimburse a loss to the
bank caused by any act of fraud or dishonesty on the part
of O'Brien in connection not only with his duties as cashier,
but in connection with "the duties to which in the employer's
service he may be subsequently appointed, and occurring during the continuance of this bond, and discovered during such
continuance or within six months thereafter and within six
months from the death or dismissal or retirement of the
employ6 from the service of the employer."
The frauds to which the verdict of the jury referred occurred in October, 1891, during the continuance of the bond.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The bank suspended November 12, 1891. The company insists that, within the meaning of the bond, O'Brien's "retirement" occurred when the bank ceased to do business and
closed its doors and the bank examiner entered upon an investigation of its affairs; consequently, it was argued, the
discovery of the fraud was not within six months from the
"retirement of the employ6 from the service of the employer."
Undoubtedly the company did not agree to be liable for
any fraudulent or dishonest act of the cashier not discovered
until after six months from his retirement from the service
of the bank. But is it true that, within the meaning of the
bond, O'Brien retired from the service of the bank when it
suspended business on November 12, 1891 ? We think not.
The bank'was in existence under its articles of association
while the examiner, under the order of the Comptroller of
the Currency, was engaged in the investigation of its affairs.
Such investigation did not of itself have the effect to discharge O'Brien from its service. It is
true that when the
bank suspended business, and the investigation by the examiner commenced, O'Brien ceased to perform the ordinary
duties of a cashier. But within the meaning of the bond,
O'Brien did not retire'from, but remained in, the service of
the employer during at least the inve.tigation of the bank's
affairs and the custody of its assets by the national bank examiner, which lasted until the appointihent of a receiver and
his qualification -n the 29th day of December, 1891. Certainly, the six months from "the death or dismissal or retirement of the employ6 from the service of the employer,"
within which his fraud or dishonesty must have been discovered in order to hold the company liable, did not coinmence to run prior to the date last named.
The bond
prescribed at- least three limitations of time: First, the company was entitled to written notice of any act of fraud or
dishonesty on the part of the employ6 which might involve
loss to it, as soon as practicable after the occurrence of such
act should come to the knowledge of the employer; second,
it was to be liable only for an act of fraud or dishonesty oc-

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

149

Opinion of the Court.

curring and discovered during the continuance of the bond
and within six months thereafter; third, it was not liable, in
any event, for any act of fraud or dishonesty, even if committed du.ring the continuance of the bond, unless it was
discovered within six months from the death, dismissal or
retirement of the employ6 from the service of the employer.
Of course, O'Brien's death would have terminated his employment as cashier. But he was never dismissed, for his
dismissal could only have occurred by the act of the bank or
of some one who represented it before or after it suspended
His "retirement," which would arise from his
business.
voluntary act, occurred either when he took service under
the receiver, or when he voluntarily left that service on the
2d day of March, 1892. Whether within the meaning of the
bond O'Brien was in "the service of the employer" while he
was in the service of the receiver, we need not say. It is
sufficient for this case to hold that he was in the service of
the employer at least up to the time of the receiver's appointment and qualification, which occurred within six months
prior to the discovery of his fraud and dishonesty and the
giving of notice thereof. We, therefore, hold that the acts
of fraud or dishonesty here involved were discovered during
the continuance of the bond and within six months after the
retirement of the employd from the service of the employer.
In its charge to the jury the trial court called attention to
another defence made by the company, namely, that the
bond was void by reason of fraudulent misrepresentations and
concealments of Collins acting as the president of the bank.
The court said: "It is said that this bon'd of indemnity was
obtained upon an ipplication which was certified to by the
bank itself, and that in the application facts were misrepresented and facts were concealed with fraudulent intent on the
part of the bank; therefore that the bond is void. The application was accompanied by a certificate of Collins, the
president of the bank. The only knowledge of any facts
which ought to have been communicated, or were misrepresented, the only knowledge which the bank possessed at the
time that application was made, was the knowledge of Collins

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

himself. Ordinarily a corporation, like any other principal,
is chargeable with the knowledge of any facts which are
known to its agents; but in this case all these transactions, if
there were any transactions of a fraudulent and dishonest
character on the part of the cashier, were transactions for the
benefit of Collins, and he was a participator in the fraud, and
under those circumstances the law does not infer that the
agent or the officer will communicate the fact to his principal,
the corporation, and under such circumstances the corporation
is not bound by his knowledge. So this defence melts away
and there is nothing of it whatever."
The company insists that in obtaining the bond in suit
Collins acted for the bank, and as a corporation can only
speak by agents, the bank is responsible for any false or fraudulent statements in the certificate given by Collins to the
Surety Company, and which he signed as president of the
bank.
In support of its contention the company cites Fanklin
Bank v. Cooper, 36 Maine, 179, 197; Graves v. lebanon .1at.
Bank, 10 Bush, 23, 29 ; 7eazie v. Williams, 8 How. 134, 156 ;
Bennett v. Judson,21 N. Y. 239; _:Y0. L fe Imi. Co. v. iJ1inc/i,
53 N. Y. 144, 149; Holden v. Nvew Yolk & Erie Ba ik, 72 N. Y.
286, 292; iwell v. Carnberlin, 31 N. Y. 611, 619. What
were those cases?
Franklin Bank v. Cooper was the case of a suit against the
executor of one of the sureties in a cashier's bond. Prior to
the acceptance of the bond by the directors of the bank a
deficiency or defalcation existed in the cashier's accounts, of
which the president and some of the directors had knowledge
when the bond was taken, but which fact was not communicated to the surety. After observing that knowledge by the
surety of the existing deficiency in the cashier's accounts
might have had an important influence on his conduct, the
court said: "One who becomes surety for another must ordinarily be presuned to do so upon the belief that the transaction between the principal parties is one occurring in the usual
course of business of that description, subjecting him only to
the ordinary risks attending it; and the party to whom he

AMER ICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

151

Opinion of the Court.

becomes a surety must be presumed to know that such will
be his understanding and that he will act upon it, unless he
is informed that there are some extraordinary circumstances
affecting the risk. To receive a surety known to be acting
upon the belief that there are no unusual circumstances by
which his risk will be materially increased, well knowing that
there are such circumstances and having a suitable opportunity
to make them known and withholding them, must be regarded
as a legal fraud, by which the surety will be relieved from his
contract."
Graves v. lebanon lVat. Bank was a suit upon the bond of
a cashier of the bank. The court stated the case to be one in
which the directors of a bank "held out" to others as a trustworthy officer a man who had been guilty of repeated embezzlements and frauds, all of which might have been discovered
by the exercise of slight diligence by the directors. The
grounds upon which the surety was held discharged were
thus stated by the court: "There is no principle of law better
settled than that persons proposing to become sureties to a
corporation for the good conduct and fidelity of an officer to
whose custody its moneys, notes, bills and other valuables are
entrusted have the right to be treated with perfect good faith.
If the directors are aware of secret facts materially affecting
and increasing the obligation of the sureties, the latter are
entitled to have these facts disclosed to them, a proper opportunity being presented."
Veazic v. TWilliams was the case of a purchaser at an auction
sale, seeking to be relieved from his purchase because of fraud
practised at the sale by the auctioneer, who was the general
agent of the owners, and the benefits of which sale the owners
received. After a reference to many authorities, the court
placed the liability of the owners upon these grounds: "What
the vendor may not do in person or may not employ others
to do in his absence -that is, make by-bids to enhance the
price -his agent, the auctioneer, cannot rightfully do. But
they are held liable on a ground' beyond and apart from all
this, and as well settled in England as here, that if a principal
ratify a sale by his agent, and take the benefit of it, and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

afterwards turn out that fraud or mistake existed in the sale,
the latter may be annulled and the parties placed in .tatu ,io ;
or they may, where the case and the wrong are divisible, be
at times relieved to the extent of the injury. . . . But
the test here is, Was the purchaser deceived, and has the
vendor adopted the sale, made by deception, and received the
benefits of it? For, if so, he takes the sale with all its burdens. 1l71son v. Fuller,3 Ad. & Ell. (N. S.) 68. The sale,
thus made here, was adopted and carried into effect by the
respondents; and hence, on account of the fraud involved in
it, they should either restore the consideration and take back
the mills, or indemnify the purchaser to the extent of his
suffering."
In Bennett v. Jildson- which was the case of an agent of
the vendor of land who made material misrepresentations as
to its location and qualities, assuming to have knowledge
of the facts, but without express authority from his principal
the court said: "There is no evidence that the defendant
authorized or knew of the alleged fraud committed by his
agent Davis in negotiating the exchange of lands. Nevertheless, he cannot enjoy the fruits of the bargain, without adopting all the instrumentalities employed by the agent in bringing
it to a consummation. If an agent defraud the person with
whom he is dealing, the principal, not having authorized or
participated in the wrong, may, no doubt, rescind, when he
discovers the fraud, on the terms of making complete restitution. But so long as he retains the benefits of the dealing, he
cannot claim immunity, on the ground that the fraud was
committed by his agent and not by himself. This is elementary doctrine, and it disposes of one of the questions raised at
the trial."
In .TYational .ife ns. Co. v. Minc - which was an action
to recover back money paid on a policy fraudulently obtained
by a husband on the life of his wife, the fraud not having
been discovered until after the money was paid-the court
said: "Again, if the husband, as the agent of the wife, procured
the policy by fraud, she cannot retain the benefit of it and be
relieved from the consequences of the fraudulent means by

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

153

Opinion of the Court.

which it was obtained. It is established that an innocent
principal cannot take an advantage resulting from the fraud
of an agent without rendering himself civilly liable to the
injured party. 10 N. Y. 34; Graves v. Spier, 58 Barb. 349.
If the husband obtained the policy by a fraud, acting as the
agent of his wife, he occupies the position of claiming to keep
money, as her legal representative, which he fraudulently
obtained as her agent. He is defending this action upon
her title to the policy, which, if procured by his fraud, is
invalid."
ilolden v. New York & Erie Bank was an actiorj grounded
on the fraud of a cashier in certain matters with which
he was connected not only as cashier but individually and
as executor of an estate. The court said: "As matter offact, whatever knowledge, information or notice he had in
either of these capacities, he carried with him into his exercise
of the other. As agent of the bank, he owed it a duty in
every transaction in which the bank took a part, under his
observation. Hence, as matter of law, whatever notice of
facts he had in any capacity, which were material in the performance by him of the part of the bank in any transaction,
became notice to the bank, his principal; as it was his duty
to give it notice thereof in that matter. It is the rule that
the knowledge of the agent is the knowledge of his principal,
and notice to the agent of the existence of material facts is
notice thereof to the principal, who is taken to know everything about a transaction which his agent in it knows. This
rule is sometimes suated so as to limit it to notice arising from,
or at the time connected with, the subject-matter of his agency.
Such notice must have come to the agent, it is said, while he
is concerned for the principal, and in the course of the very
transaction, or so neaT before it that the agent must be presumed to recollect it. This limitation, however, applies more
particularly to the case of an agent whose employment is
shortlived, so that the principal shall not be affected by knowledge that came to the agent before his employ-ment began,
nor after it was terminated. But where the agency is continuous, and concerned with a business made up of a long serics

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of transactions of a like nature, of the same general character,
it will be held that knowledge acquired as agent in that
business in any one or more of the transactions, making up
from time to time the whole business of the principal, is notice
to the agent and to the principal, which will affect the latter
in any other of those transactions in which that agent is
engaged, in which that knowledge is material. . . . That
Ganson held triple relations to the matter did not alter his
relation to the bank, his principal, nor did it hinder his
knowledge acquired as an agent from affecting his principal
in the part he took as an agent. The subject-matter of his
agency was the conduct and direction of the affairs of this
bank. lie represented the bank in all these transactions. fie
was every time of them engaged in the business of the bank.
N-otice to him while so engaged, though no otherwise received
than by the possession of knowledge acquired by him while
acting in another capacity, was notice to the bank. That is
a necessary result of his triple character."
.Elvell v. Carberlinrelated to the exchange of a note, in
respect of which fraud was charged. The court said: "It is
not material that the plaintiffs authorized or knew of the
alleged fraud committed by their agent Mills in negotiating
the sale of the note. They cannot be permitted to enjoy the
fruits of the bargain without adopting all the instrumentalities
employed by the agent in bringing it to a consummation.
They have ratified the sale by seeking to enforce payment of
the check given for the thing sold. If an agent defrauds the
person with whom he is dealing, the principal, not having
authorized or participated in the wrong, may, no doubt,
rescind, when he discovers the fraud, on the terms of making
complete restitution. But so long as he retains the benefits
of the dealing, he cannot claim immunity, on the ground that
the fraud was committed by his agent and not by himself."
These cases, so far as they relate to sureties, rest upon the
principle that, "if a party taking a guaranty from a surety
conceal from him facts which go to increase his risk and
suffers him to enter into the contract under false impressions
as to the real state of facts, such concealment will amount to

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. P-AULY (No. 1).

155

Opinion of the Court.

a fraud, because the party is bound to make the disclosures,
and the omission to make them under such circumstances is
equivalent to an affirmation that the facts do not exist."
I Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 215. And the cases of Yeazie v. Williams-, Bennett v. J'udson, National Life Ins. Co.
v. -Hinch,Ilolden v. New York &-Erie Bank, and Elwell v.
Chamberlin, rest upon the presumption, which the law indulges, that an agent will inform his principal of what it is
his duty to communicate to the latter. The Distilled Spirits,
11 Wall. 356, 367; Davis Imp. IVrought Iron 4lagon Wheel
Co. v. Davis Wrought I1ron Wagon Co., 20 Fed. Rep. 699, 701.
This rule is fully stated in Story on Agency, § 140, in which
the author says that "notice of facts to an agent is constructive notice thereof to the principal himself, where it arises
from or is at the time connected with the subject-matter of
his agency; for, upon general principles of public policy, it is
presumed that the agent has communicated such facts to the
principal; and if he has not, still the principal having entrusted
the agent with the particular business, the other party has a
right to deem his acts and knowledge obligatory upon the
principal; otherwise, the neglect of the agent, whether designed or undesigned, might operate most injuriously to the
rights and interests of such party."
Without stopping to consider whether each of the above
cases was correctly decided, it may be observed that those
relating to sureties in bonds given to corporations arose directly between the sureties and corporations represented by
their boards of directors or by some of their officers acting
within the authority conferred upon them; and that those
relating to the liability of a principal by reason of the acts
or representations of his agent, arose out of the agent's acts
or declarations in the course of the business entrusted to
him.
None of the cases cited embrace the present one. In the
first place, the procuring of a bond for O'Brien, in order that
he might become qualified to act as cashier, was no part of
the business of the bank nor within the scope of any duty
imposed upon. Collins as president of the bank. It was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

business of O'Brien to obtain and present an acceptable bond.
And it was for the bank, by its constituted authorities, to accept or reject the bond so presented. The bank did not authorize Collins to give, nor was it aware that he gave, nor was
he entitled by virtue of his office as president to sign, any
certificate as to the efficiency, fidelity or integrity of O'Brien.
No relations existed between the bank and the Surety Coipany until O'Brien presented to the former the bond in suit.
What therefore Collins assumed in his capacity as president
to certifv as to O'Brien's fidelity or integrity, was not in the
course of the business of the bank nor within any authority he
possessed. le could not create such authority by simply assuming to have it. The Circuit Court of Appeals, speaking by
Judge Lacombe, well said that there were many acts which
the president of a bank may do without express authority of
the board of directors, in some cases because the usage of the
particular bank impliedly authorized them, in other cases
because such acts were fairly within the ordinary routine of
his business as president; but that the making of a statement,
as to the honesty and fidelity of an employ6 for the benefit
of the employ6, and to enable the latter to obtain a bond
insuring his fidelity, was no part of the ordinary routine business of a bank president, and there was nothing to show that
by any usage of this particular bank such function was committed to its president.
It must therefore be taken, as between the bank and the
company, that the former" cannot be deemed, merely by reason of Collins' relation to it, to have had constructive notice
that he as president gave the certificate in question.
The presumption that the agent informed his principal of
that which his duty and the interests of his principal required
him to communicate does not arise where the agent acts or
makes declarations not in execution of any duty that lie owes
to the principal, nor within any authority possessed by him,
but to subserve simply his own personal ends or to commit
some fraud against the principal. In such cases the principal
is not bound by the acts or declarations of the agent unless it
be proved that he had at the time actual notice of them, or

AMERICAN SURETY COM2PANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

157

Opinion of the Court.

having received notice of them, failed to disavow what was
assumed to be said and done in his behalf.
In 11enry v. Allen, 151 N. Y. 1, 10, the court recognized
the general rule. But after observing that it rested upon the
agent's duty to disclose such facts to his principal, it held that
one of the exceptions was that where the agent was "engaged
in a scheme to defraud his principal, the presumption does not
prevail, because lie cannot in reason be presumed to have disclosed that which it was his duty to keep secret, or that which
would expose and defeat his fraudulent purpose."
To the same effect are Benedict v. Arnoux, 154 N. Y. 715,
and Keltlewell v. Matson, 21 Ch. Div. 685, 707. In the latter
case it was said that the presumption arising from the duty
of the agent to communicate what he knows to his principal
"may be repelled by showing that, whilst he was acting as
agent, he was also acting in another character, viz., as a party
to a scheme or design of fraud, and that the knowledge
which he attained was attained by him in the latter character,
and that therefore there is no ground on which you can presume that the duty of an agent was performed by the person
who filled that double character."
In Commercial Banle v. Cunninghcam, 24 Pick. 270, 276,
which involved the question whether certain notes held by a
bank were to be deemed to have been made for the accommodation of a firm, one member of which was a director of the
bank at the time the notes were taken, it was held that the
knowledge of the latter, although a director, was no proof of
notice to the corporation, "especially as he was a party to all
these contracts, whose interests might be opposed to that of
the corporation." This principle is reaffirmed in Innerarity
v. lerchants' National Bank, 139 Mlass. 332, 333, in which
the court said: "While the knowledge of an agent is ordinarily to be imputed to the principal, it would appear now to
be well established that there is an exception to the construction or imputation of notice from the agent to the principal
in case of such conduct by the agent as raises a clear presumption that he would not communicate the fact in controversy,
as where the communication of such a fact would necessarily

OCTOBER TERMI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

prevent the consummation of a fraudulent scheme which the
agent was engaged in perpetrating"
citing Kennedy v.
Green, 3 Afyl. & K. 699 ; Cave v. Cave, 15 Oh. D. 639 ; In re
Eur(ean Bank, L. R. 5 Ch. 'App. 358; h5t re J arseilles
Extension Railway, L. R. 7 Oh. App. 161; Atlantic National
Bank v. llarris,118 Mass. 147; Joring v. Brodie, 134 Mass.
453.
In Terrell v. Branch Bank of Milobile, 12 Alabama, 502, 507,
the question was as to the liability of the maker of a note
executed in blank and delivered by him to a director of a
bank to be filled up with a certain sum, and to be used in the
renewal of a note of the maker already held by the bank.
The director (Scott) filled up the note for a larger amount
and had it discounted for his own use, he acting as one of the
directors when the discount occurred, but concealing the facts
from the other directors. It was contended that the know]edge of Scott as director of the circumstances under which
the note was made and offered for discount, his connection
with the (lirectory, and his presence when it was discounted
by the bank, were in law a notice to the other directors of
the facts. The Supreme Court of Alabama said: "It cannot
be admitted that in receiving the blank of the defendant to be
used for his benefit, Scott acted as the agent of the bank;
and certainly he did not thus act in abusing the authority
conferred on him by the defendant. But in filling up the
blank for a larger amount than his authority required, and
then offering the note for discount, he was in reality the
representative of his own interest. Pro re nata, his powers
as a director were suspended -he
was contracting with the
bank through his associates in the directory- he was borrowing, not lending its money - though a member of the board
and present too, it cannot be supposed that lie cooperated
with them in purchasing paper of which he was thc avowed
proprietor; and whether he did or not, it cannot be presumed
that he made any disclosure which would prejudice his ajiplication for a loan."
In his treatise on Equity Jurisprudence, Pomeroy says: "It
is now settled by a series of decisions possessing the highest

AMERICAN

SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 1).

159

Opinion of the Court.

authority that when an agent or attorney has, in the course
of his employment, been guilty of an actual fraud contrived
and carried out for his own benefit, by which he intended to
defraud and did defraud his own principal or client, as well as
perhaps the other party, and the very perpetration of such
fraud involved the necessity of his concealing the facts from
his own client, then under such circumstances the principal is
not charged with constructive notice of facts known by the
attorney and thus fraudulently concealed." Vol. 2, § 675.
Further citation of authorities would seem to be unnecessary to support the proposition that if Collins gave the certificate that he might, with the aid of O'Brien as cashier, carry
out his purpose to defraud the bank for his personal benefit,
the law will not presume that he communicated to the bank
what he had done in order to promote the scheme devised by
him in hostility to its interests. In our judgment the Circuit
Court of Appeals correctly held that plaintiff's right of action
on the bond was not lost because its president, Collins, made
to the defendants false representations as to the cashier's
honesty; and that when two officers of a corporation have
entered into a scheme to purloin its money for the benefit of
one of them, "in pursuance of which scheme it becomes necessary to make false representations to a third person ostensibly
for the bank, but in reality to consummate such scheme and
for the benefit of the conspirators, and not in the line of ordinary routine business of such officers and without express
authority, the corporation being ignorant of the fraud, the
officers are not in thus consummating such theft the agents of
the corporation."
It is contended that admitting in evidence Collins' ledger
account and the letter book was error to the prejudice of the
substantial rights of the defendant. We cannot assent to
this view, and as the matter was satisfactorily disposed of by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is sufficient to refer to the
opinion of that court for our views on this point.
It is said the claim or proof of loss mailed to the company
on June 24, 1892, and the receipt of which was acknowledged July 8, 1892, was not served as soon as practicable

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

after the discovery of a loss for which the company was liable,
nor within six months after the expiration or cancellation of
the bond. We cannot assent to these propositions. It must
be assumed from the verdict that, within the meaning of the
bond, the loss was discovered the latter part of May, and that
written notice of it was given as soon thereafter as was practicable. As, for the reasons heretofore stated, O'Brien (lid not
retire from the service of the bank prior at least to December
29, 1891, it is clear that the objection under consideration is
not well taken. Under the facts found, it must be held that
proper notice of the loss was given as soon as practicable
after the discovery of the fraud of O'Brien and within six
months after his retirement from the service of his employer,
and that the claim was made in such form as to reasonably
informthe company of its nature. When received, no objection was made that notice of it was not served in time, nor
that it was not sufficiently full to indicate the grounds upon
which the receiver would proceed against the company upon
its bond.
Having considered all the questions which, in our judgment, need to be examined, and perceiving no error of law in
the record to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the
Surety Company, the judgments of the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals are
4ffirmed.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY v. PAULY (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 169. Argued January 7, 15.-Decided April 18, 1698.
This was an action upon a bond guaranteeing a national bank against loss
by any act of fraud or dishonesty by its president. The bond was similar
in its provisions to the one referred to in the case preceding this, and
contained among other provisions the following: " Now, therefore, in
cobnsideration," etc.,
. . .
"1it is hereby declared and agreed, that

subject to the provision herein contained, the company shall, within

