OCTOBER TERMIW, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The same observations must be made here as in United
States v. Winston, ante, 522, in reference to the matter of certificate, and the conclusions to which we came in that case find
additional support fron the fact that this case and the one
immediately following (United States v. Iferron, ante, 527)
were tried in the Court of Claims, and both were decided during the same month. (31 Ct. C1. 344-473). In that there
was an express finding, as we have seen, that no certificate
was given, as required by section 365, Revised Statutes, while
in this such finding is omitted, and simply the general finding
of an allowance by the Attorney General. We think, therefore, this comes within the rule laid down in United States v.
IVinston, ante, 522, and the judgment of the Court of Claims is
A/jirned.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
v. REEDER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 208. Submitted April 15, 1598 - Decided May 9, 1898.

A provision in a contract, made with a railroad company for the carriaze
of live stock, that the person in charge of the stock shall remain in the
caboose car while the train is in motion, is not violated by his being in
the car with the live stock when the train is not in motion, even though
he may have been in that car instead of in the caboose car when the train
was in motion; and in case of an accident happening to him, while so in
the cattle car, caused by a sudden jerk made when the train was at rest,
his being m the cattle car at that time, and under such circumstances,
does not make him guilty of contributory negligence.

Tins was an action originally instituted by Alexander
Reeder against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company in
the District Court of Marion County, Texas, to recover for
personal injuries sustained by Reeder. The action was afterwards removed upon petition of the defendant to the United

TEXAS AND PACIFIC IRAILWAY v. REEDER.

531

Statement of the Case.
States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The
facts of the case were substantially as follows:
Reeder shipped from Scottsville, Kansas, to Houston, Texas,
a car loaded with an emigrant outfit, consisting of ten head
of live stock and of household goods, and accompanied the
same upon a drover's pass. It-was provided in the contract
which he entered into with the railway company, that he
should "assume all risk and expense of feeding, watering,
bedding and otherwise caring for the live stock" while on
.the way, and to better care for the stock he rode in the car
with them. In the ninth paragraph of the contract it was
further provided "that the person or persons in charge of live
stock covered by this contract shall remain in the-caboose car
attached to the train while the same is in motion, and that
whenever such person or persons shall leave the caboose, or
pass 6ver or along the cars or track, they shall do so at their
own risk of personal injury from every cause whatever."
. The evidence shows that it was the custom on the road of
the defendant company for stockmen to ride in the caboose,
'but that in a case of an "emigrant outfit," like the one in
question, it was not unusual for the person in charge to ride
in the car with the live stock. Reeder rode with the live
stock during the whole trip, and although his car was next
to the caboose, and he was invited by the conductor and trainmen to ride hi the caboose, he declined for the reason that it
would be inconvenient for him to get in and out of the car
to look after his stock.
Reeder, whose age was about seventy, testified that he had
travelled about five hundred miles over connecting lines before reaching the line of the defendant company, and in that
distance neither his stock nor himself had sustained any injury. He further testified that during his whole trip on'the
line of the defendant his stock was roughly handled by the
sudden stopping and starting of the engine, and had been
knocked down at least eight times, and that his complaints
to the trainmen that the jerks and jolts were killing his stock
(lid no good. He also testified that at or about the place
along the line of the road where he received his injury, called

OCTOBER TERM, 189,.
Statement of the Case.

Longview, the train was stalled on a steel) grade, and the engineer in trying to get headway would back the train a short
distance and then start with a sudden jerk as he took up the
slack of the train; that one of the jerks threw down three
cows and two horses, whose halters had been snapped by the
jerk; that the engineer uncoupled the train, taking part up
the grade, leaving his car; that after the car stopped he got
the stock up and was on his way back to his seat when the
engine came back against the train with such a sudden jar
that he was thrown off his feet, and to save himself he
grabbed an iron support. It seems that the sudden jar or
jerk pulled his right arm out of joint at the shoulder, which
subsequently was followed by a partial paralysis of the
shoulder muscles.
The engineer and others of the train crew testified that the
train was not uncoupled at the place mentioned by Reeder,
but was uncoupled at another place called Marshall, where
there was a very steep grade. The witnesses for the defendant also testified that the trip was no rougher than usual, and
one of the brakemen said on the stand that he was riding in
the caboose at the time of the jerk i'vhich caused the injury,
and that he did not suffer from it in any way.
After all the evidence was in, the defendant requested the
court to chvrge the'jury to return a verdict for the defendant.
This the court refused to do, whereupon the defendant requested the court to charge the jury to find'for the defendant
in case it should find from the evidence that the plaintiff
would not have been injured if he had been in the caboose
instead of the stock car; that he was invited to ride in the
caboose; that the latter was a safer place than the stock car,
and that the plaintiff knew it. The court refused to grant any
of the instructions requested by the defendant, and charged
the jury as follows:
"If you believe from the evidence that the plaintiff, Alexander Reeder, was riding in the stock car in which his horses
and cattle and goods were being transported over the defendant's road, and that while the train was stationary, his cattle
being down, and needed his attention, he at the time, in a

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY v. REEDER.

533

Opinion of the Court.

prudent and careful manner, attempted or did give the horses
and cattle the attention or assistance which they needed, and
that the plaintiff was injured at that time, by a sudden and
unusual hard jerk or jolt or bumping of the cars in which he
was riding, through and by the negligence of the defendant
company or its operatives; you will find: for the plaintiff, and
assess actual damages as hereinafter instructed.
"If, however, you believe from the evidence, that at the
time the plaintiff was hurt, that the train upon which he was
riding was in motion, at the time he was giving the horses
and cattle the assistance which they needed, the plaintiff
would not be entitled to recover, and you will find for the
defendant."
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$1500, upon which judgment was entered. The case was then
taken to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 41 U. S.
App. 775, where the judgment below was affirmed, and the
case is now before this court on writ of error.
-Mr. John F. Dillon, Xr. Winslow S. Pierce and -Mr.
David 1). Duncan for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Presley Ef. Ewing, -Mr. .enry
L. S. Schiuter for defendant in error.

F. Ring and .Ar.

M.R. JusTIcE BROwN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The several assignments of error in this case all resolve
themselves into the two questions whether the defendant
railway company was entitled to a peremptory instruction in
its favor, or, in case of a refusal of such instruction, whether
it was entitled to submit to the jury the question of the contributory negligence of the plaintiff in the mere fact of riding
in the stock car.
In this connection defendant relies upon the ninth clause of
the contract under which plaintiff was travelling and transporting his stock, which provided that "the person or persons

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in charge of live stock covered by this contract shall remain
in the caboose car attached to the train while the same is in
motion." This clause was undoubtedly intended to provide
a safe place for drovers in attendance upon their stock, although in the case of emigrants accompanying their outfits
it was a common custom to permit them to ride in the car
with their outfits. But, assuming that the plaintiff was bound
by this stipulation, it was manifestly obligatory upon him only
while the car was in motion, the design evidently being that
drovers should be permitted to visit their stock cars and see
to their cattle while the train was at rest. Indeed, the contract specially provided that the plaintiff should "assume all
risk and expense of feeding,, watering, bedding and otherwise
caring for the live stock provided for by this contract, while
in yards, pens or elsewhere." The stipulation was doubtless
primarily intended to permit drovers to visit their stock cars
while the train was stopping at its regular stations, but as
there is no such limitation in the contract, we think the
plaintiff was not guilty of contributory negligence in attending to his cattle whenever the train was not in motion, whatever may have been the cause of its stoppage, and whether
the same occurred at a station or not. The company might
doubtless have restricted the right of its drovers to visit their
stock while the train was stopping at its regular stations, but
it did not choose to do so, and there evidently was as much
necessity in the present case for the plaintiff to care for his
stock and to protect it against injury as there would have
been if the train had been stopping at such a station.
If the plaintiff, while riding in a caboose, might, within the
terms of the contract, have been visiting his cattle at the time
the accident occurred, then the fact that be was actually riding in the same car with them while the car was in motion
becomes immaterial, since the propriety of his action in being
in the stock car must be gauged by the fact whether the train
was in motion or not. Had the accident occurred while the
plaintiff should have been riding in the caboose, that is, while
the train was in motion, it would have' been strong, if not
conclusive, evidence of contributory negligence on his part.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY v. REEDER.

535

Opinion of the Court.

What then is meant by the train being "in motion"? The
jar or sudden jolt which occasioned the injury doubtless pre9upposes a moinentary motion of the car, but that is an
extremely limited sense of the word, and one inconsistent
with the obvious purpose of the license, since, while stopping
a- a regular station, freight trains are frequently subject to be
moved shbrt distances in order to drop .off or take on cars, to
be switched on side tracks in order to accommodate passenger
trains, or to take on fuel or water. If cars were held to be in
motion while making these trifling changes, the privilege of
entering a stock car while the train was at rest would be of
no practical value. The more reasonable interpretation is
that by the word "Motion," as here used, is intended that
continuous movement of the cars towards their destination
which is commonly understood when we speak of moving
trains or trains in motion. Whether the train was really in
motion was a question which was submitted to the jury, and
we have no criticism to make of the instruction of the court in
that particular: "That if you believe from the evidence that
the plaintiff, Alexander Reeder, was riding in the stock car in
which his-horses and cattle and goods were being transported
over defendant's road, and that while the train was stationary,
his cattle being down, and needed his attention, he at the
time, in a prudent and careful manner, attempted to or did
give the horses and-cattle the attention or assistance which
they needed, and that the plaintiff was injdred at that time
by a sudden and unusual hard jerk or.jolt or bumping of the
cars in which he was riding, through and by the negligence
of the defendant company or its operatives, you will find for
the plaintiff, and assess actual dumages as hereinafter instructed."
Evidently the action of the plaintiff upon the occasion in,
question was entitled to some liberality of construction and,
was dictated by a manifest prudence for the care of his stock.
In his deposition he states:
"My car was next to the caboose and received the full force
of the jerk and threw several of my cows down and the horses,
on top of them; the jar broke the halters that held the horses;

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

I saw they were being killed by the repeated jerks and I
climbed in the trough (I was afraid to get in where they were
in any other way) and held on to the side of the car; while in
that position they uncoupled the train and took a part of it up
the grade, leaving my bar stationary for a time; I then mailaged to get the stock all up and was still holding on to the
side of the car and up in the feed trough, when the engine
came back against the train without my knowing that it was
coming with such force as to throw me out of the trough, but
I held on to the side of the car, knowing that if I got under
my stock I would be killed. The car jerked my arm out of
place in the shoulder joint. Soon afterwards I called the conductor and he came to my assistance. . . . The engine
came back against the car with great force and then plunged
forward taking up the slack, and jerked the car I was in with
such force as to hurt me, as already stated. I was up in the
feed trough and was just going to get down when the jerk
came, and was entirely unexpected to me."
When on the stand the plaintiff testified:
"Just before I was injured the jar knocked three cows down,
and two of the horses fell on top of them, and when the car
stopped I got down in front to get them up again, and after I
got them up I was going back to take the seat again, and when
I was about a foot from the end a jar came and knocked me
off my feet, and I grabbed hold of some iron, and that swung
me back this way until they got started all right, and after
they got started on the run, and then I got down and got on
my feet again; as soon as they stopped again I called to the
conductor and brakemen."
Th truth seems to be that the train was not provided with
sufficient traction power, and that a stronger or additional locomotive should have been employed. If the train was not in
motion when the accident occurred, we think that, in view of
the obviously negligent conduct of the defendant, motives of
humanity as well as of prudence may have required of the
plaintiff more than ordinary care in looking after and protecting his stock.
The company was evidently not entitled to an instruction

WESTINGHOUSE v. BOYDEN POWER BRAKE CO.

537

Statement of the Case.

that plaintiff, by riding in the stock car while the train was in
motion, was guilty of contributory negligence, or even to go
to the jury on that point. The real question was whether the
train was actually in motion when the injury was received,
and, if there was any error at all in submitting that question
to the jury, it was not one of which the defendant was entitled
to complain.
There was no error in the action of the Court of Appeals,
and its judgment is, therefore,
Afl rmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

WESTINGHOUSE

BOYDEN

POWER

v.

BOYDEN
COMPANY.

BRAKE

POWER

BRAKE COMPANY
INGHOUSE.

v. WEST-

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURThI
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 116, 99. Argued March 10. 11, ,9S. -Decided

May 9, 1S98.

The Boyden -device for a fluid-pressure break is not an infringement ot
patent No. 360,070 issued to George Westinghouse, Jr., March 29, 1887,
for a fluid-pressure automatic-brake mechanism.

THIS was a writ of certiorari to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing a decree of the Circuit
Court for the District of Maryland, which had sustained, in
part, a bill filed by Westinghouse against the Boyden Power
Brake Company for the infringement of patent No. 360,070,
and from which decree both parties had taken an appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The patent in suit, which was issued March 29, 1887, to
George Westinghouse, Jr., is for a fluid-pressure automaticbrake mechanism, the object of which is said in the speci-

