V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

355

Syllabus.

deprived of his liberty by a tribunal not authorized by law to
determine his guilt.
In- our opinion, the provision in the constitution of Utah
providing for the trial in courts of general jurisdiction of
criminal cases, not capital, by a jury composed of eight persons,
is expostfacto in its application to felonies committed before
the Territory became a State, because, in respect of such
crimes, the Constitution of the United States gave the accused,
at the time of the commission of his offence, the right to be
tried by a jury of twelve persons, and made it impossible to
deprive him of his liberty except by the unanimous verdict of
such a jury.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded fo,
further _proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

VIRGINIA AND ALABAMA COAL COMPANY v.
CENTRAL RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY
OF GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE-CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 100. Argued December 14, 15, 189. -Decided

May 9, 1898.

Where expenditures have been made which were essentially necessary to
enable a railroad to be operated as a continuing business, and it was the
expectation of the creditors that the indebtedness so created would be
paid out of the current earnings of the company, a superior equity arises,
In case the property is put into the hands of a receiver, in favor of the
material man, as against mortgage borldholders, in income arising from
the operation of the property both before and after the appointment of
the receiver, which equity is not affected by the fact that the company
itself is the purchaser of the supplies, but is solely dependent upon the
facts that the supplies were sold and purchased for use, that they were
used in the operation of the road, that they were essential for such operation, and that the sale was not made simply upon personal credit, but upon

*356

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the understanding, tacit or ex-.pressed, that the current earnings would be
appropriated for the payment of the debt.
Upon the evidence contained in the record it is Held, that in the contract
with the Virginia and Alabama Coal Company and in that with the Sloss
Iron and Steel Company, it was the intention of the parties that the coal
furnished was to be used in the operation of the lines of the Central
Company, and that the Coal Companies looked to the earnings of the
Central System as the source from which the funds to pay for the coal to
be furnished were to be derived.
In concluding that the claims of the intervenors were entitled to priority
out of the surplus earnings which arose during the control of the road
by the court, this court must not be understood as in anywise detracting
from the force of the intimations contained in its opinions in Kneelancd
v. American Loan & Trust Co., 136 U. S. 89, and Thomas v. Western Car
Co., 149 U. S. 95.

O December 19, 1888, the Georgia Pacific Railroad Company leased its line of railroad extending from Atlanta to Birmingham, Alabama, to the Richmond and Danville Railroad
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Virginia,
and which owned or controlled by lease a line of railroad from
Atlanta to Washington, in the District of Columbia; and,
thereafter, the Georgia Pacific road was operated by the Rich,
mond and Danville Company. On June 1, 1891, the Central
Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, a corporation
under the laws of Georgia, owning and operating a line of
railroad from Atlanta to Savannah, Georgia, and which owned
or controlled various other railroads or lines of steamships and
a large amount of other property, executed a lease for ninetynine years of said railroad and various lines and property controlled by it to the Georgia Pacific Company. The lease was
signed on behalf of the Georgia Pacific Company by its president, pursuant to the direction of the board of directors of the
company, but it was subsequently asserted that this was done
without previou's authorization or ratification of the stockholders. The Georgia Pacific Company did not take possession of the property of the Central Company or assume or
exercise any control over the same, except that on the date of
the lease it requested the Richmond and Danville Company to
assume the control of the leased property, with which request
there was an immediate compliance.

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

357

Statement of the Case.

In March, 1892, a suit was instituted in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern Division of the Southern
District of Georgia by Rowena M. Clarke, a stockholder of the
Central Company, to obtain a cancellation of the lease of the
property of that company and other specific relief. A temporary receiver was appointed on March 4, 1892. The Danville
Company, as also the Georgia Pacific Company, appeared and
disclaimed any rights under the lease, and, on March 28, 1892,
the preliminary receiver, and other persons constituting the
then board of directors of the Central Company, were appointed
joint receivers to take charge of the railroad property and
assets of the Central Company until there could be a reorganization of such board in pursuance to its charter.
As ancillary to Mr s. Clarke's bill, the Central Company, on
July 4, 1892, filed a bill against the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company of New York, trustee, and other creditors, averring
its inability to meet many matured obligations, and that it had
defaulted on July 1, 1892, on the semi-annual interest due on
$5,000,000 mortgage bonds dated October 1, 1872,'for which
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was trustee, and that
for these reasons the directors were unable to assume the management of the property, and requesting the court by proper
process to call upon its creditors to come into court, and that
the court would administer the property for the benefit of all
interested. The Farmers' Lohn and Trust Company assented
to the continuance of the receivership; and, on July 15, 1892,
under the depending bill, all the receivers, with the exception
of one H. M. Comer, were discharged, and Mr. Comer was
continued as receiver.
Subsequently, in May, 1893, under bills filed to foreclose a
mortgage executed by the Savannah and Western Railroad
Company, Comer and one Lowry were appointed receivers,
and directed to continue to operate the road as part of the
system of the Central Company.
On January 23, 1893, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, trustee for the mortgage bondholders of
the Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, filed
its dependent bill in said court for the foreclosure of the five

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

million dollar mortgage on the main stem of the Central Railroad from Atlafita to Savannah because of default in the payment of the interest due July 1, 1892, and the receivership was
extended to that bill.
In an agreed statement of facts contained in the record, it
was stipulated as follows:
"It is a fact that since the receivership the receivers of the
Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia have expended [for] betterments in its railroad lines from the income
of the roads during the receivership a sum much larger than the
entire cldim of the intervenors."
On June 30, 1893, a final decree was entered dismissing, for
want of equity, the bill filed on behalf of Mrs. Clarke, it being,
however, recited that the validity of the lease by the Central
Company was not passed upon.
On May 26, 1892, the Virginia and Alabama Coal Company
was allowed to become a party complainant in the Clarke suit
aid to file an intervening petition therein. The'Central Company and its receivers and the Danville Company were made
parties defendant to the intervention. It was averred in the
petition{ that the Danville Company, while operating the Central Company, purchased from the intervenor, for the use and
benefit of the Central, in its several divisions, coal, which purchase was made in pursuance of a contract of Danville, dated
July 13, 1891. For coal furnished under said contract and actually delivered to the Central Company, (against which latter
company in the course of said business the bills were originally
made out,) and used by said Central Company in the running
of its machinery, $26,607.44, as shown by a statement of account annexed to the petition.
The contract referred to in the petition reads as follows:
"Richmond and Danville Railroad Company.
"Office general purchasing agent; Joseph P. Minetree, general purchasing agent, Atlanta, Ga.
"The Virginia and Alabama Coal Company; Mr. J. R. Ryan,
V. P. and G. M., Birmingham, Ala.
"DEAR SIR: We beg to accept your verbal offer of to-day

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

359

Statement of the Case.

to furnish the C. R. and B. Co. of Ga. with, say 275,000 tons
of best quality engine steam coal for the next twelve months,
commencing July 1, 1891, and ending July 1, 1892, at 90 cents
per ton of 2000 pounds, to be delivered on cars at mines, and
to be shipped at times and in quantities to suit. Settlements
for the coal delivered in any one month to be made on or about
the first of the second succeeding month, and the C. R. and B.
Co. of Ga. reserves the right to increase or decrease the
monthly deliveries upon reasonable notice at any time. The
division superintendents of the divisions for which the coal
will be required will communicate with you as to the monthly
deliveries, and all bills for coal furnished under this contract
to be sent direct to the division superintendents. Kindly confirm this at once, and oblige, yours truly,
"(Signed)

JOSEPH, P. MINETREE,

"General PurchasingAgent.
"July 13, 1891."
Besides asking a decree against all the defendants jointly
for the amount claimed with interest, the petition prayed for
general relief. The petition was subsequently amended by
averring that the Danville Company was liable under the
contract or purchase, and that the Central Company was
liable because the coal was bought and actually used for the
benefit of the Central Company of Georgia.
An amendment was subsequently filed to the petition, setting up that the coal delivered by the Virginia Company had
been furnished to the Central Company under the contract
recited in the petition, and that said coal was furnished to the
Central Company for the purpose of being, used by it in the
running of its machinery and the prosecution of its business;
that a great portion of said coal remained on hand in the bins
and storage places of the Central Company at the time of the
appointment of the temporary receiver, and a large portion
was still on hand when the- board of receivers was appointed,
and went into the possession of said receivers, and had ' since
that time been actually used. by the receivers in the running
of the machinery of and the operation of the business of the

OCTOBER TERMV,

1897.

Statement of the Case.

Central Company, and it was asked that an account might be
taken as to the portions so used, and that it should be decreed
to be a part of the operating expenses of the railroad company in the hands of the receivers, to be paid as a part of the
expenses of the receivership.
On December 3, 1892, the Virginia and Alabama Coal Company, suing for the use of the Sloss Iron and Steel Company,
a corporation under the laws of the State of Alabama, filed a
further intervening -petition, asking payment of an account
aggregating $14,359.38, for coal furnished for use on the
Central lines by the Sloss Company, under the contract between the Danville Company and the Virginia Company.
Grounds of recovery were stated similar to those relied upon
in the prior intervention, it being also insisted that if recovery
was allowed against the receiver only for the coal used by him,
it should be paid for at its value at the place where used, viz.,
$2.50 per ton.
To these interventions the Central Company and the receivers thereof separately demurred, while the Danville
Company filed motions asking that it be dismissed as a party
-defendant thereto. The motions were overruled, while decisions upon the demurrers were deferred until the hearing of the
interventions.
The issues raised by the respective interventions were referred to a master for report and decision. At different dates
the master reported, recommending judgments in favor of the
Virginia Lnd Alabama Coal Company, on its behalf and as
suing for the use of the Sloss Company, against the Danville
and Central Companies and the receiver of the Central, jointly
and-severally, for the full amounts claimed with interest, and
that upon the payment of the amount of the decree by the
Central Company or its receiver, a judgment should be entered
in its-or his favor against the Richmond and Danville Company for whatever sum might be paid for coal delivered prior
to March 4, 1892, and actually used before the appointment
of a receiver. By a supplemental report the master reduced
the judgment against the receiver for the benefit of the Virginia Company solely, by the sum $5543.10, with interest, and

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

361

Statement of the Cate.

the judgment for the use of the Sloss Company for the sum
of $2682.80, owing to the fact that a specified quantity of the
coal which bad been sold and delivered under the contract had
by
not been used on the lines of the Central Company, but
to
lines held to be independent roads. Exceptions were filed
the master's report, both as to his findings of fact and conclusions of law, on behalf of all parties to the intervention. The
reports of the master and the exceptions filed thereto came on
for hearing before the court; and, on December 29, 1893, an
order was entered sustaining the exceptions in part and overruling them in part. A final decree was entered on January 1, 1894, and amended on March 31, 1894, setting aside
the reports and adjudging that the Virginia and Alabama
Coal Company recover from the Central Company $6171.98
for the "amount of unpaid for coal" in cars consigned to the
officers of the Richmond and Danville Railroad Company, and
which was unloaded after March 4, 1892, and appropriated by
the receivers of the company, being 6857.75 tons, at ninety
cents per ton; and the Virginia and Alabama Coal Company,
suing for the use of the Sloss Iron and Steel Company, was
adjudged to recover of the Central Company $735.16, for
816.85 tons of coal at ninety cents per ton, being the amount
of unpaid for coal unloaded after March 4, 1892, and appropriated by the receivers. The receivers of the Central Company-were directed to pay the sums so found due out of the
current earnings o2 the Central Railroad and Banking Company in their hands.
An appeal was prosecuted. from the final decree to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which court, on
February 25, 1895, reversed the decree of the Circuit Court,
30 U. S. App. 263, and remanded the cause to that court
"with instructions to enter a decree in favor of the intervenors, the Virginia and Alabama Coal Company and the
Sloss Iron and Steel Company, for the amounts respectively
due them for coal delivered to the lines under the control and
forming a part of the system of the Central Railroad and
Banking Company of Georgia, as shown by the evidence in
this cause, including the coal furnished before the appoint-

OCTOBER Tt RTM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the receivers and that found in the bins of the line
after such appointment and of which the receivers took possession, as well as the coal delivered to the receivers after
their appointment, the amount due being determined by the
contract price, and an order that they recover from the Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia and the receivers of the same such sums thus found to be due. No
decree will be entered in favor of the intervenors for the payment of that portion of the coal which was used by the Charlotte, Columbia and Augusta Railroad Company."
An application for a rehearing being denied, a writ of certiorari was allowed by this court.
Mr. Thomas Mllayhew Cunningham, Jr., and Mr. Alexander
Rudolf Lawton, for the Central Railroad and Banking Company.
M r. Malter B. Hill and Mr. T. E. -arrisfor the Virginia
and Alabama Coal Compahy.
MR. JUSTICE'WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

'In each of the intervening petitions a liability of the Central Company was asserted to.arise from the fact that the
coal was sold to and purchased by the Danville Company for
use in operating the lines of railway of the Central Company,
and in the lower courts, as in this court, it was contended
that under the prayer for general relief the petitioners were
entitled to have their demands allowed as a preferential claim
against any surplus income which might arise from the operation of the Central road under the ieceiver, after payment
of the ordinary expbnses of operation, or out of the corpus of
the estate or the proceeds of sale thereof, in the event that the
income had been diverted by the receivers in expenditures for
betterments.
Had the Central Company, through its own officers, operated
its line of railway during the period when the coal in question

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

363

Opinion of the Court.

was furnished, it cannot be doubted, in the light of the decision in Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776, that in the event
that the company failed to make payment for such coal while
a going concern, the indebtedness created, upon the appointment of a receiver might have been properly allowed as a
charge upon the surplus income arising during the receivership. In the case referred to, an Iowa state court in the
early part of 1875, and subsequently, by removal, a Circuit
Court of the United States sitting in equity, took possession of,
and operated through a receiver, a line of railway owned by
the Chicago, Dubuque and Minnesota Railroad Company.
When the receiver took control the company was indebted to
the Northern Illinois Coal and Iron 'Company for coal furnished "during 1874," and used in running locomotives.
During the receivership there was paid from the earnings
which came into the hands of the receiver the amount of a
judgment indebtedness for lands purchased by the company
for its depot and offices, and also several judgments rendered
against the company for its right of way. The sum of these
payments by the receiver exceeded the amount of the indebtedness owing for the coal furnished as above stated.
In
October, 1876, a decree of strict foreclosure was entered, in
which, however, a reservation was made, for future decision,
of all matters in controversy between the plaintiffs and all
and any of the defendants and intervenors and claimants.
Among the persons who had intervened in the foreclosure
proceedings was one Bowen, who had acquired acceptances
which had been given to the coal company for the indebtedness referred to. He petitioned for a judgment against the
railroad company for the amount of such indebtedness, "and
that such judgment be declared a lien on the property and
road of said company in the hands of said trustees and their
grantees." A decree was entered on October 30, 1880, finding
due to Bowen on his claim a specified sum, and declaring that
the mortgaged property in the hands of the trustees under
the decree of foreclosure was equitably bound for the payment thereof, "said property having passed to said trustees
subject to the rights and equities of said Bowen, intervenor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and said trustees, and all parties holding under them, taking
said property subject to such rights and equities on the part
of said Bowen, intervenor."
Provision was then made for
a sale of the property if the claim was not paid. An appeal
having been taken by the trustees, this court held that, at
time of the appointment of the receiver, the indebtedness in
question was one of the current debts for operating expenses
made in the ordinary course of a continuing business, to be
paid out of current earnings. In the course of the opinion,
speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Waite, the court reiterated the doctrine enunciated in Fosdick v. Sc1all, 99 U. S.
235, 252, wheFe it was declared that: "The income [of a railroad company] out of which the mortgagee is to be paid is
the net income obtained by deducting from the gross earnings
what is required for necessary operating and managing expenses, pr6pef equipment and useful improvements.
Every
railroad -mortgagee in accepting his security impliedly agrees
that the current debts made in the ordinary course of business
shall be paid from the current receipts before he has any
claim on the incomie."
And if wits Turtlier said pp. 781, 782
"So far as anything appears on the record, the failure of
the company to pay the debt to Bowen was due alone to the
fact that the -expenses of running the road and preserving the
security "f the bondholders were greater than the receipts
from the business. Under these circumstances, we think the
debt was a charge in equity on the continuing income, as well
that which came into the hands of the court after the receiver
was appointed as that before. When, therefore, the court took
the earnings of the receivership and applied them to the payment of the fixed charges on the railroad structures, thus increasing the security of the bondholders at the expense of the
labor and supply creditors, there was such a diversion of what
is denominated in Fosdick v. Schall, the 'current debt fund,'
as to make it proper to require the mortgagees to pay it back.
So far as current "expense creditors are ccncerned, the court
should use the income of the receivership in the way the com.pany would have been bound in equity and good conscience

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

365

Opinion of the Court.

to use it if no change in the possession had been made.
This rule is in strict accordance with the decision in Fosdick v. Sc/all, which we see no reason to modify in any particular."
It was thus settled that where coal is purchased by a railroad company for use in operating lines of railway owned
ana controlled by it, in order that they may be continued as
a going concern, and where it was the expectation of the parties that the coal was to be paid for out of current earnings,
the indebtedness, as between the party furnishing the materials and supplies and the holders of bonds secured by a mortgage upon the property is a charge in equity on the continuing
income as well that which may come into the hands of a court
after a receiver has been appointed as that before. It is immaterial in such case, in determining the right to be compensated out of the surplus earnings of the receivership, whether
or not during the operation of the railroad by the company
there had been a diversion of income for the benefit of the
mortgage bondholders, either in payment of interest on mortgage bonds or expenditures for permanent improvements upon
the property. Nor isthe equity of a current supply claimant
in subsequent income arising from the operation of a railroad
under the direction of the court affected by the fact that while
the company is operating its road its income is misappropriated
and diverted to purposes which do not inure to the benefit of
the mortgage bondholders and are foreign to the beneficial
maintenance, preservation and improvement of the property.
This principle finds support in Miltenberger v. Logansport
Railway Company, 106 U. S. 286, 311, 312,, the decision in
which case was approvingly referred to in Union Trust Company v. Illinois Midland Company, 117 U. S. 434, and in the
recent case of Thomas v. Western Car Company, 149 U. S.
95, 110. In the Trust Company case, the court said (p. 456):
"The principle laid down in Wallace v. Loomis was applied
in Miltenberger v. -LogansportRailway Company, 106 U. S.
286, 311, 312. In that case a bill was filed by a second mortgagee against the mortgagor and a first mortgagee and judgment creditors of the mortgagor to foreclose a mortgage on

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

a railroad. On the day the bill was filed, and without notice
to the first mortgagee, a.receiver was appointed, and power
given him to.operate and manage the road, 'receive its revenues, pay its operating expenses, make repairs, and manage
its entire business, and to pay the arrears due for operating
expenses for a period in the past not exceeding ninety days,
and to pay into the court all revenue over operating expenses.'
After that, and without notice to the first mortgagee, who had
not appeared, though notified of the order appointing the receiver, and of the pendency of the suit, the court authorized
the receiver to purchase engines and cars, and to adjust liens
on cars, owned by the mortgagor, and to pay indebtedness
not exceeding $10,000, to other connecting lines of road, in'
settlement of ticket and freight accounts and balances, and
for materials and repairs, which had adcrued in part nmore
than ninety days before the order appointing the receiver
was made, and to construct five miles of new road, anal a
bridge. The petition for the order stated the necessity for
-the rolling stock and for the adjustment of the liens; that
the payment of the connecting lines was indispensable to the
business of the road, and' i t would suffer great detriment unless
that was provided for; and that the new road and the bridge
would come under the mortgages, and their construction would
be to the advantage of the bondholders. After the first mortgagee had appeared and answered, an order was made but not
on prior notice 'to it, authorizing the receiver to issue certificates to pay for rolling stock he had bought under orders of
the court, and to pay debts incurred for building the five
miles of road and the bridge, under those orders, and to pay
debts incurred for taxes, and rights of way, and back pay,
and supplies in operating the road, the certificates to be payable out of income, and, if not so paid, to be provided for by
the court in its final order. Claims thus arising were afterwards allowed to be paid out of the proceeds of sale. before
the mortgage bonds. This court upheld such priority, as to
the debts for the jrurchase of rolling stock, tnd for the adjustment of liens, and for the construction of the ,five miles of
road and the bridge, and for the amount due connecting lines,

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

367

Opinion of the Court.

some of which were incurred more than ninety days before
the receiver was appointed. On the latter branch of the subject it said: ' It cannot be affirmed that no items which accrued before the appointment of a receiver can be allowed in
any ease. Many circumstances may exist which may make
it necessary and indispensable to the business of the road and
the preservation of the property for the receiver to pay preexisting debts of certain classes, out of the earnings of the
receivership, or even the corpus of the property, under the
order of the court, with a priority of lien. Yet the discretion to do so- should be exercised with very great care. The
payment of such debts stands, _prima facie, on a different
basis from the payment of claims arising under the receivership, while it "maybe brought "within the principle of the
latter by special circumstances. It is easy to see that the
payment of uppaid debts for operating expenses, accrued
within ninety days, due by a railroad company suddenly deprived of the control of its property, due to operatives in its
employ, whose cessation from work simultaneously is to be
deprecated, in the interests both of the property and of the
public, and the payment of limited amounts due to other and
connecting lines of road for materials and repairs, and for
unpaid ticket and freight balances, the outcome of indispensable business relations, where a stoppage of the continuance of
such business relations would be a probable result, in case of
non payment, the general consequence involving largely, also,
the interests and accommodations of travel and traffic, may
well place such payments in the category of payments to preserve the mortgaged property in a large sense, by maintaining the good will and integrity of the enterprise, and entitle
them to be made a first lien. This view of the public interest
in such a highway for public use as a railroad is, as bearing
on the maintenance and use of its franchises and property in
the hands of a receiver, with a view to public convenience,
was the subject of approval by this court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Woods, in Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S. 126."
Is there any good reason why the equitable doctrine applied
in the cases to which we have referred should not be applied

OCTOBER TERAM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

under a state of facts such as shown at bar, where the immediate management of a road was confided by its owners, without
protest or interference by the bondholders, to third parties?
It would seem not. The dominant feature of the doctrine, as
applied in Burnhanm6 v. Bowen, is that where expenditures
have been made which were essentially necessary to enable
the road to be operated as a continuing business, and it was
the expectation of the creditors that the indebtedness created
would be paid out of the current earnings of the company, a
superior equity arises in favor of the material man as against
the mortgage bonds in the income arising both before and
after the appointment of a receiver from the operation of the
property.
The equity thus held to arise when a purchase of necessary
current supplies is made by the owning company, is not in
anywise influenced by the fact that the company itself is the
purchaser of the supplies, but is solely dependent upon the
fact that the supplies are sold and purchased for use, and that
they are used in the operation of the road, that they are
essential for such operation, and that the sale was not made
simply upon personal credit, but upon the tacit or express
understanding that the current earnings would be appropriated for the payment 'of the debt. Clearly, if the owning
company had entered into an agreement with some individual
to commit to his uncontrolled management as their agent the
operation of the company's lines, the bondholders could not
be heard to say that thereby no equities could arise in favor
of labor or supply claimants in the income of the property
preserved or kept in operation by their efforts. This would
be the category in which the Danville Company would stand
if the lease of the Central lines was not valid. On the other
hand, if the lease was lawful, upon the insolvency for any
cause of the Danville Company while the lease continued in
force, its relation toward its leased line in the adjustment and
settlement, as against the leased road, of equities arising between those who had furnished supplies to the road and the
bondholders would be precisely that of an owner of the leased
lines, and if such possession is terminated by the court through

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD &c. CO.

369

Opinion of the Court.

the agency of a receiver equities in the income of,the property
continue to survive.
Upon the evidence contained in the record, we hold that
delivthe contract upon which both intervenors relied -the
the
under
being
Company
Sloss
the
by
furnished
eries of coal
CompanyVirginia
the
with
made
been
had
contract which
was made with the Danville Company, but we conclude from
the terms of the contract.that the intention of the parties
was that the coal was to be used in the operation of the lines
of the Central Company, and that the mining companies did
not rely simply upon the responsibility of the Danville Company, but on the contrary that the coal companies looked
to the earnings of the Central system as the source from
which the funds to pay for the coal to be furnished was to be
derived.
While it was established that during the time the Danville
Company was in control of the Central property a semi-annual
exceeded the amount of the
instalment of interest -which
claims of the intervenors - was paid to the holders of bonds
of the Central Company, we cannot say that there was a diversion of income from the Central lines for such purpose.
At the best it could only be conjectured that such payment
was probably made from that income. Whether, however,
there was a diversion of income before the receivership, inuring to the berefit of the bondholders, the equity in favor of
the coal company for payment out of subsequent income, as
we have seen, survived and attached to the property when it
was taken possession of by the receiver; and if a surplus of
income was created by the operations of the road under the
receiver, sufficient to satisfy the claims of the intervenors, the
right to demand that the surplus income bo applied in satisfaction of -the claims in question was undoubted. From -the
evidence we find that there was such surplus. It was stipulated in. the record, as a fact, "that since the receivership, the
receivers of the Central Railroad and Banking Company of
Georgia have expended for betterments on its railroad lines
from the income of the roads during the receivership a sum
much larger than the entire claim of the intervenors." KeepVOL CLxx-24

OCTOBEE

TERAT, 1897.

Opinion of the Court.

ing in mind the manifest purpose of this stipulation, which
undoubtedly was to present the question of the right of the
claimants'to resort to the corpus of the estate for payment of
their claims, we must give the term "betterments" a broad and
not a restricted meaning. So construed, it must be held to
have referred to expenditures for the improvement of the
property as distinguished from mere payments for operating
expenses and ordinary repairs which are usual and legitimate
terms of outlay from current receipts. This is the sense in
which the term was understood by this court in Union Trust
Company v. Illinois -Midland Company, 117 U. S. 434, where
the validity of receivers' certificates was upheld, which had
been paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the corpus of the
property, because issued to replace earnings diverted from
paying operating expenses and ordinary repairs to payment
of betterments (p. 462).
The circumstance that it is uncertain from the terms of the
stipulation, whether the expenditures for betterments were
made by the receivers under the stockholders' bill, or under
the bill filed by the Central Company or under the trustee's
bill for foreclosure, is immaterial. Even though the mortgages securing the bonds provided for the sequestration by
foreclosure of the income of the road for the benefit of the
bondholders,; for reasons already stated, that income until
strict foreclosure or a sale of the road was charged with the
prior equity of unpaid supply claimants such as those now
before the court.
In concluding that the claims of the intervenors were
entitled to priority out of the surplus earnings which arose
during the control of the road. by the court, we must not be
understood as in anywise detracting from the force of the
intimations contained in the recent utterances of this court
in the Kneeland (136 U. S. 89) and Thomas (149 U. S. 95)
cases, as to the necessity of a court of equity confining itself
within very restricted limits in the application of the doctrine
that in certain cases a court having a road or fund under its
control may be justified in awarding priority over the claims
of mortgage bondholders to unsecured claims originating prior

V. & A. COAL CO. v. CENTRAL RALIOAD &c. CO.

371

Opinion of the Court.

to a receivership. In the Kneeland case, however, the claim
refused priority was based upon an alleged instrument of lease,
and was for four months' rental of cars operated on a line of
railroad by a receiver appointed at the suit of a judgmeht
creditor, such receiver being succeeded in office by a receiver
appointed in the foreclosure proceedings instituted by the
trustees of the mortgage bondholders. It was held that the
alleged contracts of lease were in substance and effect "antecedent contracts of sale;" that in those contracts ample
provision had been made by the vendor for his security,
by stipulations authorizing a retaking of the property upon
failure to make payment promptly of the instalments of purchase money as they became due, and that the claim against
the fund was in reality for a portion of the purchase price of
the cars. Under these circumstances, the debt was held not
to be embraced "in the few specified and limited cases" in
which this court "has declared that unsecured claims were
entitled to priority over mortgage debts;" and particular
attention was called, among other things, to the fact that the
receivership at the suit of the judgment creditor was not for
the benefit of the mortgage bondholders, so that it could not
be assel'ted that the expenditures of such receivership were
payable in any event out of the income or corpus of the
property; and the fact was also noticed that from the time
of the purchase of the rolling stock in question in the suit to
the time of the final disposition of the mortgage foreclosure
the receipts did not equal the operating expenses, and there
had been no diversion of the current earnings, either to the
payment of interest or the permanent improvement of the
property. In the Thomas case, claims for rental of cars,
which rental had accrued prior to the receivership, were
denied priority over the mortgage bonds, but the facts in
that case were such as to justify the conclusion that the car
company coutracted "upon the responsibility of the railroad
company, and not in reliance upon the interposition of a
court of equity." In neither the. Ifneeland nor the Thomas
case was there any intention to question the prior decisions
of the court, which allowed priority to clairhs based upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

furnishing of essential and necessary current supplies, not sold
upon mere personal credit, against the surplus income arising
(luring the operation of the road under the direction of a court
of equity.
In view of the conclusion which we have reached, none of
the other matters urged in argument need be noticed. The
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals being in consonance
with the views we have expressed, the decree of that court is
AJ/b'med.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHrAm and AIR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, lot
having heard the argument, take no part in this decision.

SMITH

v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 212. Submitted April 20, SgS.-Deelded

May9, 155.

When an entryman goes to the public land office for the purpose of obtaining public land, and is told by the receiver that his proofs cannot be tiled
or accepted unless and until he pays the purchase price of the land, which
he thereupon does, he makes such payment to the receiver as a public
officer of the United States, and not to him as the agent of the entrynan,
and the payment is to be regarded as one made to the Government and as
public money, within the meaning of the law and of any bond given for
the faithful discharge of the duties of his office by the receiver, and for
his hodestly' accounting for all public funds and property coming Into ii,
hands.

THIS action was brought against Frederick W. Smith and
the sureties on his official bond as receiver of public moneys
inthe Tucson land district in the Territory of Arizona. The
bond was dated MIarch 7, 188S, and the condition therein was
that "if the'said Frederick W. Smith shall, at all times during his holdiug and remaining in said office, carefully discharge the duties thereof, and faithfully disburse all public
moneys, and honestly account, without fraud or delay, for

