BTIDZISZ v. ILLINOIS STEEL COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

tribunal of the State, which is the ground of jurisdiction relied
on. The controversy was merely as to which of the claimants
had the superior equity to these shares of stock, and the
national banking act was only collaterally involved. Conde
v. York, 168 U. S. 642; Union N'ational Bank v. Louisville
&c. Railway, 163 U. S. 325; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN was of opinion that this court had ju-

risdiction and that the judgment should be affirmed.

BUDZISZ v. ILLINOIS STEEL COMPANY.
THE
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 560. Submitted February 21, 1898. -Decided

1898.
April I1,

No question is presented which brings this case within the supervisory
power of this court, as the alleged invalidities of the entries and of the
patents do not arise out of any alleged misconstruction or breach of
any treaty, but out of the alleged misconduct of the officers of the Land
Office; to correct which errors, if they exist, the proper course of the
defendants was to have gone to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

THIS was an actioh of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States- for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, in February, 1896, by the Illinois Steel Company, a
corporation of the State of Illinois, against John Budzisz and
August Budzisz, citizens of the State of Wisconsin, to recover
certain lots or parcels of land in the fifth ward of the city of
Milwaukee. The case was so proceeded in that, on November
20, 1897, a final judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff
for possession of the premises, and for costs. A writ of- error
was then sued out from this court, which the defendant in
error moved to dismiss.

OCTOBER TERTM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. William E. Garter and AXr. Elbert 1. Gary for the
motion.
_Mr. RublZee'A. Cole opposing,
MR.

JUSTICE SHIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This cause is now before-us on a motion to dismiss the writ
of error, oi the ground that there is not involved any question
that brings~the case within any of those provisions of the act
of March 3, 1891, establishing Circuit Courts of Appeals,
which give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of
the Circuit Court. Neither the petition, containing, as it (lid,
only the allegations usual in an action of ejectment, nor the
answer, first filed, raised any question which, however disposed
of in the Circuit Court, would have enabled either party to
have brought the case directly to this court.
Subsequently, however, the defendants filed an amended
answer, in which they averred .that the title to the land in
dispute was still in the United States; that the Indian title to
said land had riot been extinguished at the time of the inception of plaintiff's title; that any patent or purported patent
granted by the United States while the Indian title was still
existing was null and void. After, on motion of the plaintiff,
certain. portions of these answers had been stricken out, the
defendants filed a second amended answer, the main allegations of which were as follows:
That the Indian title to the lands in dispute had not been
extinguished when Increase Claflin and Daniel Darnell made
their entry; that the Indian title was conveyed to the United
States under and by virtue of several treaties with the Menominee Indians, to wit: The treaty of February 8, 1831; of
February 17,1831; of October 27, 1832; of October 18,1848;
that by reason of the aforesaid treaties the lands were not
subject to entry under the laws of the United States, and that
therefore the entry'of Claflin and Darnell *Wasnull and void;
that said lands were first offered for sale by the proclamation
of the President on May 6, 1835; that the patent of the United

BUDZISZ v. ILLINOIS STEEL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

States dated September 1, 1838, to Alexander J. Irwin, assignee of Increase Claflin and Daniel Darnell, was and is null
and void; that the patent of the United States dated April
16, 1838, to Albert G. Ellis, assignee of Daniel Darnell, was
and is null and void, and in no way extinguished the title of
the GoVernment of the United States to the lands in dispute.
On July 30, 1897, the court, on motion of the plaintiff,
struck out those portiohs of the amended answers which have
just been enumerated; and on August 3, 1897, the defendants
filed exceptions to the orders of the court striking out those
portions of the answers, which exceptions were allowed and
signed by the judge.
With the record in that condition the case came on for trial,
and resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff.
The record shows no exceptions taken or allowed during the
course of the trial, either to the admission or rejection of evidence, or to the charge of the judge. The only bill of exceptions to be found in the record is the one allowed and signed
by the judge relating to striking out portions of the answers.
The course most favorable to the plaintiffs in error will be
to treat the orders of the court striking out portions of the
answers as if they were rejections of offers made at the trial,
to prove the allegations contained in the portions stricken out.
The reasons given by the court for striking out those portions of the answers were that a patent of the United States
is the highest evidence of title, where the grant originates out
of the public domain; that the defendants were mistaken in
the inference that the ownership of these lands was at any
time, in view of the law, vested in the Indians, or derived
through the treaties referred to; that there is no recognition
by any of the authorities of a fee vested in the Indians ; that
as to the land in Wisconsin, the treaty with Great Britain
and the cessions of M1assachusetts and Virginia are the legal
sources of title in the general government; that the treaties
with the Indians are regarded only for rights of occupancy
and for reservations from sale; that therefore the doctrine is
established that the patent issued by the government is "an

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

invaluable muniment of title and a source of peace and quiet
to its possessor," that even if it be allowed, for the purposes
of the motion, that there was no right of entry at the time
of original entry alleged, the answer concedes that these lands
were offered for sale by the President's proclamation of May 6,
1835, upon the survey of 1834, and that the patents were issued,
respectively, April 16 and September 1, 1838; that it is not
asserted that their validity has ever been since questioned,
either by the United States, or by any person in its right,
under equities preexisting or otherwise; that these lands became patentable after the survey and proclamation, and were
clearly within the jurisdictioif of the land department when
the patents were issued in 1838; that all questions as to entry
and right to patent were then determinable by that tribunal,
and the patents were not void, even if they were voidable at
the instance of proper parties; that the special matters alleged in the answers and included in the motion to strike out
state no grounds which are available to these defendants by
way of defence; that under the act of Congress of March 3,
1891, c. 559, 26 Stat. 1093, any action by the United States
is now barred; and-that even if the defendants were possessed
of paiamount equities, or were in any manner entitled to
avail themselves of rights existing in the Ufiited States, they
are equally barred by that limitation. illinois Steel Co. v.
Bidzisz, 82 Fed. Rep. 160.
-The correctness of these views is not before us on this
motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and we only state
them to show that no question is really presented which
brings this case within our supervisory power. It is not
clainied that the construction or application of the Constitution was involved, and we think it is quite clear that, in fact,
neither the construction nor the validity 6f any treaty of the
United States or made under its authority is in any way involved, or arises, or is drawn in question in this case. M ere
allegations to that effect, not based upon the facts of the case,
do not create a case which we are authorized to review. The
alleged invalidity of the entries and of the patents did not arise
,out of any alleged misconstruction or breach of any treaty,

PARSONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of the Case.

but out of the alleged misconduct of the officers of the Land
Office in permitting the entries and in issuing the patents;
and if any error was committed by the Circuit Court in dealing with that question, which we do not intimate, the proper
course for the defendants was to have gone to the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
. Moreover, the defendants did not connect themselves in any
way with the Indian treaties, or with any of the p.rties to
them; nor did they claim any rights under said treaties, or
under any of the parties to them. In no true sense, therefore,
can it be said that this is a case in which the validity or construction of any treaty made under the authority of the
United States is drawn in question by a party having a rightful interest in such question.
The motion of the defendant in error must be allowed, and
Dimissed.
the writ of error is, accordingly,

PARSONS

v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 17.

Submitted December 20, 1897. -Decided

April 11, 1898.

Although the matter in dispute in this case is not sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction, it plainly appears that the validity of statutes of the
United States, and of an authority exercised under the United States
was drawn into question in the court below, and is presented for the
consideration of this court.
The enactment by Congress that assessments levied for laying water mains
In the District of Columbia should be at the rate of $1.25 per linear front
foot against all lots or land abutting upon the street, road or alley in
which a water main shall be laid, is conclusive alike of the necessity of
the work and of its benefit as against abutting property.
The power of Congress to exercise exclusive jurisdiction in all cases within
the District includes the power of taxation.
If the assessment for laying such water mains exceeds the cost of the work
it is not thereby invalidated.

ON October 5, 1895, Hosmer B. Parsons, the plaintiff in
error, filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia

