CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Syllabus.

But this objection overlooks the fact that the laying of this
main was part of the water system, and that the assessment
prescribed was not merely to put down the pipes, but to raise
a fund to keep the system in efficient repair. The moneys
raised beyond the expense of laying the pipe are not paid
into the general treasury of the District, but are set aside to
maintain and repair the system; and there is no such disproportion between the amount assessed and the actual cost as to
show any abuse of legislative power.
A similar objection was disposed of by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts in the case of Leominster v. Conant,
139 Mass. 384. In that case the validity of an assessment for
a sewer was denied because the amount of the assessment
exceeded the cost of the sewer; but the court held that the
legislation in question had created a sewer system, and that it
was lawful to make assessments by a uniform rate which had
been determined upon for the sewerage territory.
In ilyde Park v. Spencer, 118 Illinois, 446, and other cases,
the Supreme Court of Illinois held that a statutory assessment
to defray the cost, maintenance and keeping in repair of a
drainage system was valid.
I The other contentions made on behalf of the plaintiff in
error are covered by the observations already made.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. NEBRASKA, ex rel. OMAHA.
ERROR TO TEE SUPREME COURT
No. 178.

OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

Argued January 10,11, 1898. -Decided

April 11, 1898.

A Federal question was specifically presented in the trial of this case both
in the trial court and at the hearing in error before the Supreme Court
of the State, and the motion to dismiss cannot be allowed.
This court, when reviewing the final judgment of a state court, upholding
a state law alleged to be in violation of the contract clause of the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
stitution, must determine for itself the existence or the non-existence of
the contract set up, and whether its obligation has been impaired by the
state law.
The contract between the city of Omaha, the Union Facific Railway Company, and the 0maha & Southwestern Railroad Company of February 1,
1886, (founded upon the act of Nebraska of March 4, 1885, relating to
viaducts, bridges and tunnels in cities,) providing for the building of a
viaduct along Eleventh street in Omaha, at the expense of the two railroad companies, was a contract in such a sense that the respective parties
thereto continued to be bound by its provisions so long as the legislation, in virtue of which it was entered into, remained unchanged ; but
it was not a contract whose continuance and operation could not be
affected or controlled by subsequent legislation.
When the subject-matter of such a contract is one which affects the safety
and welfare of the public, the contract is within the supervising power
and control of the legislature, when exercised to protect the public
safety, health and morals, and tile clause of the Federal Constitution
which protects contracts from legislative action cannot, in every case,
be successfully invoked.
In view of the paramount duty of a state legislature to secure the safety
of the community at an important railroad crossing within a populous
city, it was and is within its power to supervise, control and change
agreements from time to time entered into between the city and the railroad company as to a viaduct over such crossing, saving any rights previously vested.
It is competent for the legislature of the State to put the burden of tle repairs of such a viaduct crossing several railroads upon one of tile coinpanies, or to apportion it among all, as it sees fit; and an apportionment
may be made through the instrumentality of the City Council.

THE State of Nebraska, on the relation of the city of Omaha,
filed its petition in the district court of the fourth judicial district of Nebraska on Tanuary 19, 1895, asking jndgnent for
the issuing of a writ of mandamus requiring tie Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company to repair, in accordance
with the directions of a city ordinance enacted unler certain
statutes of the state legislature, the south one-third of the viaduct at Eleventh street in the city of Omaha, a structure forming a part of that street, and spanning a number of railroad
tracks, one of which was owned and used by the said company, the others being owned by the Uniqn Pacific Railway
Company and used by it and two other companies. Tile defendant filed its answer on March 6, IS95, alleging therein,

amongst other things, that the legislature of Nebraska had no

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Statement of the Case.

power to impose upon the defendant the duty of maintaining
or repairing the viaduct, for the reason that to do so would be
in violation of the obligations of the contract, hereinafter described, under which the viaduct was constructed, and contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States. At the trial of the case evidence was adduced by
both parties, but there was substantially no dispute respecting the facts, the controversy having relation only to the
validity, interpretation and effect of legislative enactments
and to the validity of city ordinances. On IMay 1, 1895, the
court entered judgment in favor of the city, and directed that
a peremptory writ of mandamus issue to the defendant compaiiy, comnmanding and requiring it to make the repairs in
question, the same to be commenced immediately and carried
forward without unnecessary delay. The defendant, having
been denied a new trial, took the case on writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the State, and upon the affirmance by that
court of the judgment of the said district court, sued out a
writ of error bringing the case here, alleging in its assignment
of errors that the statutes of Nebraska, which were held by
the Supreme Court of that State to be valid, and to require
the company to make the said repairs, were repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States because they impaired the
obligation of contracts, abridged the company's privileges
and immunities, deprived it of its property without due process of law, and denied to it the equal protedtion of the laws,
and that the judgment enforcing those statutes was therefore
erroneous.
The facts presented are substantially as follows:
The defendant company is a corporation of the State of
llinois, has complied with the laws of the State of Nebraska
so as to be authorized to do business as a railroad company in
that State, and maintains a general office therein, and is the
grantee of and successor to the Burlington and Missouri River
Railroad Company in Nebraska, a corporation of the State of
Nebraska, which company was the lessee of the Omaha and
Southwestern Railroad Company, a corporation organized in
the year 1869 unler chapter 25, Revised Statutes of Nebraska

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of 1866. That chapter contains, among other provisions, the
followino:
"SEc. 83. If it shall be necessary, in the location of any
part of any railroad, to occupy any road, street, alley, or public way or groiund of any kind, or any part thereof, it shall be
competent for the municipal or other corporation or public
officer or public authorities, owning or having charge thereof,
and the railroad company, to agree upon the manner, and
upon the terms and conditions upon which the same may be
used or occupied; and if said parties shall be unable to agree
thereon, and it shall be necessary, 'in the judgment of the
directors of such railroad company, to use or occupy such
road, street, alley or other public way or ground, such company may appropriate so much of the same as may be necessary for the purposes of such road,,in the same manner and
upon the same terms as is provided for the appropriation of
the property of individuals by the eighty-first section of this
chapter. . . . Sec. 86. Any railroad company may construct and carry their railroad across, over or under any road,
railroad, canal, stream or watercourse, when it may be necessary in the construction of the same; and in such cases said
corporation shall so construct their railroad crossings as not
unnecessarily to impede the travel, transportation or navigation upon the road, railroad, canal, stream or watercourse so
crossed. . . . Sec. 103. Every railroad corporation shall
maintain and keep in good repair all bridges, with their
abutments, which such corporation shall construct, for the
purpose of enabling their road to pass over or under any
turnpike, road, canal, watercourse or other way."
On Mlay 14, 1884, an ordinance of the city of Omaha was
approved, granting to the Omaha and Southwestern Railroad
Company the right of way through portions of certain streets
and alleys, including Eleventh street, in that city. The ordinance was in part as follows:
"Said Omaha and Southwestern Railroad Company shall
have the right to construct, maintain and operate a line of
railroad along, upon, through and across said portions of said
streets and alleys as a part of its line; Provided, that said

CHICAGO &c. RAILRtOAD v. NEBRASKA.
Statement of the Case.

railroad track and tracks are constructed so as to conform to
the grade of said street as near as may be, and so as to interfere as little as possible with the travel along and upon said
streets; and, provided, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed as interfering with the right of any property owner
to recover from said company any damages resulting to private property by reason of the construction of said railroad,
and nothing herein granted shall authorize any interference
with the tracks of the Union Pacific Railway Company now
laid and operated by said Union Pacific Railway Company
in any portions of the streets and alleys herein named and
enumerated."
On March 4, 1885, an act of the legislature of Nebraska was
approved, entitled "An act to provide for viaducts, bridges
and tunnels in certain cases, in cities of the first class;"
whereby it was provided that the mayor and city council of
any city of the first class should have power,- whenever they
deemed any such improvement necessary for the safety and
convenience of the public, to engage and aid in the construction of any viaduct or bridge over or tunnel under any railroad track or tracks, switch or switches, in such cities, when
such track or switches crossed or occupied any street, alley or
highway thereof, in the manner and extent provided for in the
act; and should have the power to pass any and all ordinances,
not in conflict with the act, that might be necessary or proper
for the construction, maintenance and protection of the said
works.
By virtue of this act the city of Omaha, which was then a
city of the first class, and the Union Pacific Railway Company
and the Omaha and Southwestern Railroad Company, the
lessor of the defendant company, executed an agreement in
writing February 1, 1886, providing, amongst other things, for
the construction of a viaduct on Eleventh street across the
tracks of those companies. The agreement was in part as
follows:
"That the said parties of the second part, [the .Union
Pacific Railway Company and the Omaha and Southwestern
Railroad Company,] in pursuance of the provisions of an act

OCTOBER TER.iM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of the legislature of the State of Nebraska, entitled ' An act
to provide for viaducts, bridges and tunnels in certain cases,
in cities of the first class,' do hereby assume and agree to pay
as may be required by the mayor and city council of said city
three-fifths of the entire cost of constructing a viaduct along
Eleventh street and three-fifths of the damages to abutting
property on account of the construction of such viaduct not
otherwise provided for by waivers or private contributions,
such entire cost and damages not to exceed the sum of ninety
thousand dollars, ($90,000) the amount so assumed and agreed
to be paid, being three-fifths of the entire cost and damages,
to be proportioned between said parties of the second part,
as follows: Three-fourths thereof to be paid by said Union
Pacific Railway Company and one-fourth thereof to be paid
by said Omaha and Southwestern Railroad Company.
The plans and specifications for said viaducts before contracts
for the construction thereof are entered into, shall be submitted to and approved by said parties of the second part,
and should plans and specifibations be adopted by said party
of the first part, and approved by said party of the second
part, which shall increase the said cost and damages beyond
the amounts herein limited, then the said parties of the second
part are to pay their respective proportions of said increased
cost and damages, in the same manner and according to the
same division as hereinbefore agreed."
Under the provisions of this agreement the viaduct was
built, and in 1887 it was opened to the use of the public.
On :March 30 of that year, a short time before the viaduct was
completed, an act of the legislature was approved, entitled
"An act to incorporate metropolitan cities, defining, regulating and prescribing their duties, powers and government."
The act, which took effect from its passage, declared that all
cities in the State of Nebraska then having a population of
60,000 inhabitants or more according to the state census of
1885, and all cities in the State which should thereafter have
a population of 60,000 inhabitants or more, should be considered and known as cities of the metropolitan class, and
should be governed by the provisions of the act. Laws of

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Statement of the Case.

Nebraska, 1887, c. 10. At that time the city of Omaha,
according to the state census of 1885, had a population in
excess of the said number, and under the act was incorporated a city of the metropolitan class. Section 48 of this
act, as amended by an act approved in 1893, Laws of
Nebraska, 1893, c. 3, is as follows:
"SEc. 48. The mayor and council shall have power to
require any railroad company or companies owning or operating any railroad track or tracks upon or across any public
street or streets of the city, to erect, construct, reconstruct,
complete and keep in repair any viaduct or viaducts upon or
along such street or streets and over or under such track or
tracks, including"the approaches to such viaduct or viaducts,
as may be deemed and declared by the mayor and council
necessary for the safety and Vrotection of the public. Whenever any such viaduct shall be deemed and declared by ordinance necessary for the safety and protection of the public,
the mayor and council shall provide for appraising, assessing
and determining the damage, if any, which may be caused to
any property by reason of the construction of such viaduct
and its approaches.
"The proceedings for such purpose shall be the same as provided herein for the p.urpose of determining damages to
property owners by reason of the grading of a street, and such
damages shall be paid by the city, and may be assessed by
the city council against property benefited.
"The width, height and strength of any such viaduct, and
the approaches thereto, the-material therefor, and the manner
of the construction thereof, shall be as required by the board
of public works, as may be approved by the mayor and
council.
"When two or more railroad companies own or operate
separate lines of track to be crossed by any such viaduct, the
proportion thereof, and the approaches thereto, to be constructed by each, or the cost to be borne by each, shall be
determined by the mayor and council.
"It shall be the duty of any railroad company or companies
upon being required as herein provided to erect, construct, re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

construct or repair any viaduct, to proceed within the time
and in the manner required by the mayor and council, to
erect, construct, reconstruct or repair the same, and it shall
be a misdemeanor for any railroad company or companies to
fail, neglect or refuse to perform such duty, and upon conviction any such company or companies shall be fined one
hundred dollars ($100) and each day any such company or
companies shall fail, neglect or refuse to perform such duty
shall be deemed and held to be a separate and distinct offence,
aud in addition to the penalty herein provided any such company or companies shall be compelled by mandamus or other
appropriate proceeding to erect, construct, reconstruct or repair any "iaduct as may be required by ordinance as herein
provided. The mayor and council shall also have power
whenever any railroad company or companies shall fail,
neglect or refuse to erect, construct, reconstruct, or repair
any viaduct or viaducts, after having been required so to do
as herein provided, to proceed with the erection, construction,
reconstruction or repair of such viaduct or viaducts by contract or in such other manner as may be provided by ordinance, and assess the cost of the erection, construction,
reconstruction or repair of such viaduct or viaducts against
the property of the railroad company or companies required
to erect, construct, reconstruct or repair the same, and such
cost shall be a valid and subsisting lien against such property,
and shall also be a legal indebtedness of said company or
companies in favor of such city, and may be enforced and
collected by suit in the proper court."
In May, -1890, the Union Pacific Railway Company, which
now owns twenty-one tracks crossing Eleventh street beneath
the said viaduct, entered into agreements with the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company and the Chicago,
Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, by the terms of
which agreements it granted to those companies the right to
possess and use, in common with itself, its main and passing
tracks between certain points, which tracks are among the
said twenty-one tracks, for the period of 999 years. Subsequently, in that year, the said companies entered into posses-

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Statement of the Case.

sion of the interests granted them, and have since continued
to dse the said tracks in common with their grantor.
By a concurrent resolution of the city council of Omaha,
adopted July 21, 1892, it was provided that the city engineer
and the committee on viaducts and railways should examine
the roadbed of the said viaduct and report whether or not it
was necessary to repave it. Acting under this resolution the
committee made an examination, and on the 23d of the following month reported in writing that both the roadway and
sidewalk of the viaduct were in a dangerous condition. By
authority of the city, the viaduct was closed to general public
travel some time in .1892, but continued to be used by a street
railway company, whose tracks were laid across it, until the
autumn of 1894, since which time the city has not permitted
it to be used for any travel.
By an ordinance approved December 12, 1893, the city declared the necessity of repairing the viaduct, and empowered
and directed the board of public works to prepare plans and
specifications for the repairs. Such plans and specifications
were thereafter prepared, and were submitted to the council
December 15, 1893, by the board of public works and the
city engineer, and on January 30, 1894, the council passed
an ordinance, No. 3752, approved February 3, 1894, which is
as follows:
"An ordinance approving the plans and specifications submitted by the board of public works for the repairing of
the Eleventh street viaduct over the railroad tracks and
ordering the repairing of said viaduct to be done.
"Whereas, it has been and hereby is deemed and declared
necessary for the safety and protection of the public that the
Eleventh street viaduct be repaired as herein required; and
"Whereas, it is right, proper and reasonable that the railroad companies owning or operating railway tracks across
said Eleventh street should make said repairs t6 said viaduct;
therefore
" Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Omaha:
SECTION 1. That the plans and specifications submitted by
the board of public works of the city of Omaha, December 15,
VOL. CLXX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

1893, for the repairs of the Eleventh street viaduct over the
railroad tracks, upon and across Eleventh street, from a point
near Jackson street to a point near Mason street, in the city
of Omaha, as prepared by the city engineer of said city, be
and the same are hereby approved and adopted.
"SEo. 2. That the Union Pacific Railway Company be and
is hereby ordered, directed and required to repair that portion
of said Eleventh street viaduct from the north end of said
viaduct south for a distance of two-thirds of the entire length
of said viaduct; and the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
Railroad'Company, grantee and successor to the Missouri
River Railroad Company in Nebraska and the Omaha and
Southwestern Railroad Company, be and is hereby ordered,
directed and required to repair that portion of said Eleventh
street viaduct commencing at the south end thereof, and extending northward a distance of one-third of the entire length
of said viaduct; the said repairs to be made in accordance
with said plans and specifications, and to be done under the
supervision of the city engineer; the said repairs to be conimenced without unnecessafy delay and fully completed, as
herein required, within ninety days from the passage and
approval of this ordinance.
" SEc. 3. That the city clerk be and is hereby directed to
furnish to said Union Pacific Railway Company and to said
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, owning
or operating railroad tracks upon and across said Eleventh
street under said Eleventh street viaduct, a duly certified
copy of this ordinance, without unnecessary delay, and that
the city engineer is hereby directed to furnish to each of said
railroad companies a copy of said plans and specifications, and
to superintend the work of making said repairs.
"SEc. 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in
force from and after its passage."
Certified copies of this ordinance and of the said plans and
specifications were furnished to the defendant company, but
it refused to make the said repairs, or to take any action with
reference to making the same. Wherefore the present proceeding was instituted as aforesaid.

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

M'. (/larles J. Greene for plaintiff in error. Jib'. R.alh If.
Breckenridge was on his brief.
.71.r. T. J. Connell for defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss the writ of error, on the ground
that the rights and immunities of the plaintiff in error under
the Constitution of the United States were not set up or
claimed in the, state courts at the proper time and in the
proper way, cannot be allowed.
This subject has been so frequently and so recently discussed by this court that it is unnecessary for us to further
consider it at large. It is sufficient to say that this record
discloses that the plaintiff in error, in its answer to the writ
of mandamus issued out of the district court of Douglas
County, State of Nebraska, claimed that by reason of certain
provisions of its charter, of general laws of the State, and of
ordinances of the city of Omaha, all of which were specifically
set forth, a contract was created between the plaintiff in error
and said city in respect to the viaduct in question, the obligations whereof would be violated by the proposed enforcement
of the subsequent act of 1887, contrary to the provisions of
the Constitution of the United States; that the district court
held that the laws and ordinances so pleaded did not create
a contract between the State and city on the one side and the
plaintiff in error on the other; that the plaintiff in error, in
its petition in error to the Supreme Court of the State, specifically assigned as error the holding of the trial court that the
said laws, charter and ordinances did not constitute a contract
within the meaning and protection of the Constitution of the
United States, guaranteeing the inviolability of contracts;
and that the Supreme Court of the State, in its opinion disposing of the case, states that "the most important subject of
inquiry is presented by respondent's contention that the ordinance under which the city proceeded in ordering the repairs

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in question contemplates the taking of its property without
due process of law within the meaning of the state and Federal constitutions, and also impairs the obligation of the contract under which its track was laid and under which said
viaduct was constructed."
We think it is plain, from this -recital, that a Federal question was specifically presented in both the trial and Supreme
courts of the State.
As the record further discloses that the state Supreme
Court overruled the railroad company's contention that it
held an existing contract whose obligation would be violated
by the enforcement of the provisions of a subsequent law of
the State, it becomes the duty of this court to inquire whether
there was error in that judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State.
We have often had occasion to say that this court, when
reviewing the final judgment of a state court upholding a
state enactment alleged to be in violation of the contract
clause of the Constitution, possesses paramount authority to
determine for itself the existence or the non-existence of the
contract set up, and whether its obligation has been impaired
by the state enactment. Jeferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1
Black, 436; Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177; lNew Orleans
TVaterworks v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18; 31obile ff
Ohio Railroadv. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486, 492.
We shall proceed, therefore, to examine whether the statutes and ordinances to which the plaintiff in error points us
constituted a contract within the protection of the Constitution of the .United States, and whether such contract, if found
to exist, has been impaired by the subsequent statute and the
proceedings thereunder.
The contract, which the plaintiff in error sets up as constitutionally protected from subsequent legislation, is alleged to
be found in the act of March 4, 1885, and the agreement in
compliance with the provisions of that act between the city of
Omaha, the Union Pacific Railway Company and the Omaha
and Southwestern Railroad Company on the first day of February, 1886.

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

By the provisions of the act the mayor and city council in
any city of the first class were authorized, whenever they
deemed it necessary for the safety and convenience of the
public, to engage and aid in the construction of any viaduct,
or bridge over, or tunnel under any railroad track or tracks,
switch or switches, in such cities, when such track or switches
cross or occupy any street, alley or highway thereof; to adopt
and secure plans and specifications therefor, together with the
estimated cost of the work, and thereupon, if the railroad
company or companies, across whose tracks or switches the
work is proposed to be built, will assume three-fifths of all
damages to abutting property on account of the construction
of said viaduct, bridge or tunnel, and secure to the city the
payment of the necessary funds to meet it as the work progresses, in such manner and with such security as the mayor
and city council shall require; and when the payment of the
further sum of one-fifth of the money required for said improvement is arranged for in manner satisfactory to said
mayor and council, either by private donations or by execution of such good and sufficient bonds as will protect said city
from the payment of said one-fifth, then the said mayor and
council may proceed to contract with the necessary party or
parties for the construction of such viaduct, bridge or tunnel,
under the supervision of the, board of public works of such
city, and to provide for the payment of one-fifth of the cost
thereof by the city, by special tax on all taxable property in
such city, and one-fifth by special tax on property benefited.
It was further provided that the city, with the assent of the
railroad company or companies aiding'in the construction of
any such viaduct, bridge or tunnel, rhay permit any street
railway company to build its street railway track and operate
its railway upon or through the same, upon such terms and
conditions and for such compensation as shall be agreed upon
between the city and the street railway company ; and that
the compensation for such use shall be set apart and used
towards the maintenance of such viaduct, bridge or tunnel;
and it was further provided that the mayor and council of
afiy such city should have the power to pass any and all ordi-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

nances, not in conflict with the act, that might be necessary
or proper for the construction, maintenance and protection of
the works provided for.
The agreement made, in pursuance of the said act, between
the city of Omaha, as party of the first part, and the Union
Pacific Railway Company and the Omaha and Southwestern
Railroad Company, as parties of the second part, provided that
the parties of the second part assumed and agreed to pay, as
should be required by the mayor and city council, three fifths
of the entire cost of constructing a viaduct along Eleventh
street in said city over the railroad tracks of the said second
parties, and three fifths of the damages to abutting property
on accoufit of the construction of such viaduct, not otherwise
provided for by waivers or private contributions, such entire
cost and damages not to exceed the sum of ninety thousand
dollars; and that the amount so assumed and agreed to be
paid, being three-fifths of the entire cost and damages, was to
be apportioned between the railroad companies, so that three
fourths thereof should be paid by the Union Pacific Railway
Company and one fourth by the Omaha and Southwestern
Railroad Company.
Under this agreement the viaduct was built and formally
opened to the use of the public early in the year 1887.
By an act approved March 30, 1887, c. 10, Laws of
Nebraska, 1887, 105, entitled "An act incorporating metropolitan cities, and defining, regulating and prescribing their
duties, powers and government," it was, among other things,
provided as follows: "The mayor and council shall have
power to require any railroad company or companies, owning
or operating any railroad track or tracks upon or across any
public street or streets of the city, to erect, construct, reconstruct, complete and keep in repair any viaduct or viaducts upon
or along such street or streets, and over or under such track or
tracks, including the approaches to such viaduct or viaducts
as may be deemed and declared by the mayor and council
necessary for the safety and protection of the public. .
When two or more railroad companies own or operate separate lines of track to be crossed by any such viaduct, the

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

proportion thereof, and of the approaches thereto, to be constructed by each, or the cost to be borne by each, shall be
determined by the mayor and council. After the completion
of any such viaduct, any revenue derived therefrom by the
crossing thereon of street railway lines, or otherwise, shall
constitute a special fund, and shall be applied in making
repairs to such viaduct. All ordinary repairs to any such
viaduct or to the approaches thereto, shall be paid out of
such fund, or shall be borne by the city."
In 1893 another act was passed, c. 3, Laws of Nebraska,
1893, 70, amending the act of 1887, and making it the duty
of any railroad company or companies to erect, construct or
repair any viaduct in the manner required by the mayor and
council, providing a penalty for neglect or refusal to perform
such duty, and prescribing a proceeding by mandamus to compel the companies to erect or repair any viaduct as may be
required by ordinance, and empowering the city, in case of
failure or refusal by the railroad companies, itself to do the
necessary work, the cost thereof to be a charge and lien upon
the property of the railroad companies, and also to be a legal
indebtedness of the companies, collectible by suit in the proper
court.- On January 30, 1894, the city-council passed an ordinance requiring the Union Pacific Railway Company to repair
that portion of the said Eleventh street viaduct for a distance
of two thirds of the entire length of the viaduct, and the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, as grantee
and successor of the Omaha and Southwestern Railroad Company, to repair the other one third portion of said viaduct, said
repairs to be made in accordance with plans furnished by the
city and under the supervision of the city engineer, and to be
completed within ninety days. And upon the refusal of the
companies to comply with said ordinance separate proceedings
in mandamus were brought against them.
No doubt the agreement of 1886 constituted a contract, in
such a sense that the respective parties thereto continued to
be bound by its provisions so long as the legislation, in'virtue
of which it was entered into, remained unchanged. While the
agreement lasted its provisions defined the rights and duties

OCTOBER TERITY,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

of the city and the railroad companies. But was it a contract
whose continuance and operation could not be affected or controlled by subsequent legislation?
Usually, where a contract, not contrary to public policy, has
been entered into between parties competent to contract, it is
not within the power of either party to withdraw from its
terms without the consent of the other; and the obligation of
such a contract is constitutionally protected from hostile legislation. Where, however, the respective parties are not private persons, dealing with matters and things in which the
public has no concern, but are persons or corporations whose
rights and powers were created for public purposes, by legislative acts, and where the subject-matter of the contract is
one which affects the safety and welfare of the public, otlher
principles apply. Contracts of the latter description are held
to be within the supervising power. and control of the legislature when exercised to protect the public safety, health tnd
morals, and that clause of the Federal Constitution which protects contracts from legislative action cannot in every case be
successfully invoked. The presumption is that when such
contracts are entered into it is with the knowledge that parties cannot, by making agreements on subjects involving the
rights of the public, withdraw such subjects from the police
power of the legislature.
We do not, indeed, understand that these principles are
questioned on behalf of the plaintiff in error. What is
claimed is that the subject-matter of the contract in question
dods not fall within the range of the police power of the
State. It is argued that "while it may be true that a viaduct over railroad tracks located across a public street may be
essential to the public safety, it does not follow that a legislative enactment impairing the obligation of an existing contract is necessary to secure its construction and maintenance,
and that any attempt upon behalf of the State to establish a
viaduct through such legislation, however necessary the viaduct itself may be to the public safety, would be an invasion
of the Federal jurisdiction unless adopted under the compulsion of state necessity; that while it is not questioned that the

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

maintenance of the viaduct is essential to the safety of the
community, yet if existing contract obligations devolve this
burden upon the city, the legislature of the State cannot, under
the plea of public necessity, pass a law imposing it upon the
plaintiff in error, without bringing the act within the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution."
Before considering this proposition it is proper to observe
that it proceeds upon the assumption that, by the agreement
between the parties in the present case, the duty of repairing
and maintaining the viaduct was put upon the city. But an
examination of the terms of the contract fails to show that
this assumption is well founded. Certainly there is therein
no express provision or stipulation that, after the viaduct had
been constructed, its future repair and maintenance should be
at the cost of the city. It is, however, contended that, as the
viaduct when constructed became a part of Eleventh street,
and as the law implies a duty on the city to keep its streets
in a safe condition, such a duty entered into this contract as a
part thereof, and therefore the city by the execution of the
contract became bound to keep the viaduct in repair. On the
other side, however, it was equally made the duty of the railroad company by the statute of Nebraska under which this
agreement was made "to maintain and keep in good repair
all bridges, with their abutments, which such corporation shall
construct for the purpose of enabling their road to pass over or
under any turnpike, road, canal, watercourse or other way."
While, therefore, it is the equal duty of the city and of the
Tailroad company to guard the safety of the public by the
erection and maintenance of a proper crossing or viaduct, it
does not follow that, in the absence of an express agreement
to that effect, such a duty is, by implication of law, devolved
upon one party to the relief of the other. Indeed, the contract in question shows that, in consideration of their mutual
duty to the public, the parties participated in the expense of
the construction of the viaduct; and it would seem to be a
reasonable implication that there should be a common.bbligation to keep it in repair.
However this may be, we think that, in view of the para-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

mount duty of the legislature to secure the safety of the
community at an important crossing within a populous city,
it was and is within its power to supervise, control and change
such agreements as may be, from time to time, entered into>
between the city and the railroad company, in respect to such
crossing, saving any rights previously vested.
Any other
view involves the proposition that it is competent for the city
and the railroad company, by entering into an agreement
between themselves, to withdraw the subject from the reach
of the police power, and to substitute their views of the public
necessities for those of the legislature.
This subject has been so often considered by this court that
it seems needless to here enlarge upon it. It is sufficient to
cite a few of the cases. Beer Co. v. Hssachusetts, 97 U. S.
25; Fertilizing Co. v. Byde Park, 97 U. S. 659 ;- rew Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Oo., 115 U. S. 650 ; Jlugler
v. ansas, 123 U. S. 623.
In -New York & lVew England Railroad v. Bristol, 151
U. S. 556, the subject was elaborately considered, and it was
there held that an act of the State of Connecticut relating to
railway crossings, -being directed to the extinction of grade
crossings as a menace to public safety, 'was a proper exercise
of the police p-ower of the State ;,that there is no unjust discrimination and no denial of the equal protection of the laws,
in regulations regarding railroads, which are applicable to all
iailroads alike; and thaf the imposition upon a railroad corporation of the entire expense of a change of grade at a highway crossing is no violation of the Constitution of the U'nited
States, if the statute imposing it provides for an ascertainment
of the result in a mode suited to the nature of the case. It is
true that in that case there was a provision in the charter of
the railroad company, reserving a right to the legislature to
alter and amend the same; but this cotrt based its reasoning
and conclusion ehtirely upon the police power of the State.
The following language of the Supreme Court of Connecticut
was quoted with approval: "The act, in scope and purpose,
concerns protection of life. Neither in intent nor in fact does
it increase or diminish the assets of either the city or of the

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

railroad companies. It is the exercise of the governmental
power and duty to secure a safe highway. The legislature
having determined that the intersection of two railways with
a highway in the city of Hartford at grade is a nuisance dangerous to life, in the absence of action on the part either of
the city or of the railroads, may compel them severally to
become the -owners of the right to lay out new highways
and new railways over such land and in such manner as
will separate the grade of the railways from that of the highway at intersection; may compel them to use the right for
the accomplishment of the desired end; may determine that
the expense shall be paid by either corporation alone, or in
part by both ; and may enforce obedience to its judgment."
Wabash Railroad Company v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 88, was
a case much like the present one. It was there held, affirming the Supreme Court of Ohio, that the legislative power of
a city may control the question of grades and crossings of its
streets, and a power to that effect, when duly exercised by
ordinances, will override any license or consent previously
given, by which the control of a certain street had been surrendered; that such matters cannot, from their public nature,
be made the subject of a final and irrevocable contract.
Another ground o. complaint is that the act in question
delegates to the municipality authority, in cases where two
or more railway companies owning or operating tracks across
public streets to impose the cost and expense of constructing
and maintaining viaducts over the same upon either or any of
such companies, and that the city ordinance, in execution
of such authority, imposes upon two of the four companies
named in the record the entire expense of the repairs in question, and this is said to deny the plaintiff in error the equal
protection of the law.
It is true that, by virtue of agreements between the Union
Pacific railway Company and the Chicago, Mlilwaukee and
St. Paul Railroad Company and the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railroad Company, the two latter companies
were using certain tracks belonging to the former which
were under said viaduct. But it is not easy to see why the

OCTOBER TERM~f, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error can complain that the city omitted to bring
those companies in as parties. The nature and extent of their
rights ufder the agreements with the Union Pacific Railway
Company do not appear, and, for aught that is disclosed in
this record, it may have been a feature of those agreements
that the Union Pacific should protect them from any charge
or exaction of the kind in question.
Again it is said'that the apportionment made by the ordinance of the extent of the repairs, one third to the plaintiff in
error and two thirds to the Union Pacific Railway Company,
was arbitrary, without notice, and contrary to plain principles
of justice and equality.
But if, as we have-seen, it would have been competent for
the legislature to have put the burden of these repairs upon
one of the parties, or to have apportioned them among the
parties, as it saw fit, so it may make a due apportionment
through the instrumentality of'the city council. The latter
was not directed to proceed.judicially, but to exercise a legally
delegated discretion.
In State v. 3tissouri Pacific Railway, 33 Kansas, 176,
the power of thM city of Atchison to compel the respondents to construct viaducts was sustained under legislation
similar to that herein involved, and referring to the-subject
of notice, the court, per Judge Valentine, said: "We do nt
think that it is necessary that the city should have given the
railroad companies notice before passing the -ordinance requiring them to construct the viaduct. Notice afterward, with an
opportunity on the part of the railroad companies to contest
the validity of-the ordinance and the right of the city to compel them to construct the viaduct, is sufficient."
flealth Department v. Trinity Ch,i'eh2 145 N. Y. 32, was
the case of an action to. recover a penalty under a statute
requiring all tenement houses to be supplied with water on
each floor occupied or intended to be occupied by one or more
families, whenever so directed by the board of health. The
statute made- no provision for notic6 to property holders, and
none in fact was given, while it was admitted that it would
cost the respondent a considerable sum of money to comply
Iwith the order of the
board.

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

In the opinion of the court, per Peckham, J., it was said:
"The legislature has power and has exercised it in countless
instances to enact general laws upon the subject of the public
health or safety without providing that the parties who are
to be affected by those laws shall first be heard before they
The fact that
.
shall take effect in a particular case. .
portion of its
certain
a
delegate
to
the legislature has chosen
not alter the
would
.
.
.
health,
power to the board of
the board
that
provide
to
principle, nor would it be necessary
before
owner
the
to
should give notice and afford a hearing
police
a
of
regulations
it made such order. . . . Laws and
individual
of
nature, though they may disturb the enjoyment
rights, are not unconstitutional, though no provision is made
for compensation for such disturbance. They do not appropriate private property for public use, but simply regulate its
use and enjoyment by the owner. If he suffer injury, it is
either damnum absque ivjuria,or, in the theory of the law,
he is compensated for it by sharing in the general benefits
which the regulations are intended and calculated to secure."
So, in the present case, while no notice may have been
given to the railroad companies of the pendency of the ordinance, and while they may not have been invited to participate in the proposed legislation, yet they had an opportunity
to, and did in fact, put in issue, by the answer, both the validity of the ordinance and the reasonableness of the amount
apportioned to them respectively for the repair of the viaduct
in question.
The validity of the statute and of the ordinance having
been passed upon and upheld by the courts of the State, it is
not the function of this court, apart from the provisions of the
Federal Constitution supposed to be involved, to declate state
enactments void, because they seem doubtful in policy and
may inflict hardships in particular instances.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is, accordAffirmed.
ingly,
The CHIEF JusTicE took no part in the hearing and decision
of the case.

