PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON.

511

Counsel for PartiEs.

presumption of malice negatived by previous provocation,
having no causal connection with the murderous act, or separated from it by such an interval of time as gives reasonable
opportunity for the access of fury to moderate. Kerr on
Homicide, ยง 68, et se.; 2 Bishop New Cr. L. ยง 673, et se.;
Whar. Cr. L. ยง 455, et se. ; and cases cited.
There is nothing in Stevenson's case, 162 U. S. 313, to the
contrary. The doctrine of Sparf's case is there reaffirmed,
that "the jury would not be justified in finding a verdict of
manslaughter if there were no evidence upon which to base
such a finding, and in that event the court would have the
right to instruct the jury to that effect."
No other error assigned requires notice. Judgment aflirmned.
MR.JUSTICE

MCKENNA

dissented.

PLAQUEMINES TROPICAL FRUIT COMPANY v.
HENDERSON.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 204. Argued April 15, 1098. -Decided

STATES FOR

May 2, 1698.

The courts of a State may take cognizance of a suit brought by the State,
in its own courts, against citizens of other States, subject to the right
of the defendant to have such suit removed to the proper Circuit Court
of the United States, whenever the removal thereof is authorized by
act of Congress, and subject also to the authority of this court to review
the final judgment of the state court, if the case be one within its
appellate jurisdiction.

TIE case is stated in the opinion.
Duane E. Fox for appellant.
.Mr.
was on his brief.,
-Mr. Fictor Leovy for appellees.

Mr. J. Ward Gurley

.Mr. Henry

Leovy, Mklr.
-.

OCTOBER TERM,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

Joseph Paxton Blair and illW'. Alexander Porter 3- lorse were

on his brief.
.M.. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced February 11, 1895, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern 'District of Louisiana by the Plaquemines Tropical Fruit Company, a New
Jersey corporation, against the defendants in error William
Henderson and Henry J. Leovy, citizens of Louisiana.
It is, in effect, a suit to quiet the title of the plaintiff to
certain land8 in the Parish of Plaquemines in the State, and
to restrain the defendants from committing trespasses thereon.
The defendants filed a joint and several plea, in which it
was averred: That in 1892 a suit was instituted by the State
of Louisiana in the Civil District Court of tho Parish of Orleans, Louisiana, against the Plaquemines Tropical Fruit Company, Charles C. Buck the vice president of that company and
a citizen of Maryland, and others, in which suit the State
sought a decree adjudging it to be the owier of certain lands
within its limits; in which action, the defendants having appeared, it was found by the verdict of a jury, and in accordance with the verdict it was adjudged by the court, that the
lands here in question belonged to the State, and that the
Plaquemines Tropical Fruit Company and Buck had no title
thereto; that such judgment, upon the appeal of the company
and Buck, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana;
that a writ of error sued out by the same defendants to this
court was dismissed; that the lands the title to which is involved in this suit are part of those the title to which was
involved in that action; that Henderson and Leovy acquired
title from the State after the above judgment obtained by it
had become final; and that such judgment remained unreversed and unmodified.
The defendants Henderson and Leovv pleaded the above
proceedings and the judgment obtained by the State in bar of
the present suit.
At the hearing below, the plaintiff having admitted the

PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON. 513
Opinion of the Court.

correctness in point of fact of the defendants' plea in bar, it
was adjudged that the plea was sufficient. The bill was accordingly dismissed.
The contention of the appellant is that the Civil District
Court of the Parish of Orleans could not, consistently with
the Constitution of the United States, take cognizance of any
suit brought bythe State of Louisiana against citizens of other
States, and, consequently, its judgment, now pleaded in -bar,
was null and void. If that contention be overruled the judgment below must be affirmed; otherwise it must be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to hold the plea insufficient.
The appellant, in support of its contention, insists that the
entire judicial power surrendered to the United States by the
people of the several States vested absolutely in the United
States under the Constitution; that by that instrument the
nation acquired certain portions of the judicial power naturally
inherent in soverieignty; that thereafter a state court could
not, without the expressed consent of the United States, take
cognizance of a case embraced in such cession of judicial
ppwer; and that the judicial power of the United States, not
distributed by the Constitution itself, cannot be so distributed
that a state court may take cognizance of a case or controversy to which that power is extended, if its determination
thereof is not made.by Congress subject to refxamination by
some court of the United States.
These propositions applied to the case before us mean that
the Civil District Court -of the Parish of Orleans was without
jurisdiction to render judgment in the above suit instituted by
the State, because there was .noprovision in the acts of Congress whereby its judgment could be reviewed by some court
of the United States.
The Constitution provides"The-judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as the Congress
Art.
"
may from time to time ordain and establish.
III, Sec. 1.
"The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and
VOL. CLXX-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States shall be
a party; to controversies between two or more States; between
a State and citizens of another State; between citizens of different States; between citizens of the same State claiming
lands under grants of different States, and between a State,
or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects.
Art. III, Sec. 2.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all other
cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions,
and under such regulations as the Congress shall make." lb.
Do the words, "the judicial power shall extend
.
.
to
controversies . . . between a State and citizens of other
States," and the words "in all cases . . . in which a State
shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction," necessarily manifest a purpose to exclude all such controversies from cognizance by the courts of the several States?
Was it intended that the Constitution should, by its own force,
without legislation by Congress, divest the courts of the States
of jurisdiction of cases or controversies to which the judicial
power of the United States was extended?
These questions were the subject of earnest consideration
while the Constitution was before the people of the United
States for acceptance or rejection. Itwas contended by some
who recommended its rejection that the proposed Constitution,
without legislation by Congress, would give to the one Supreme
Court established by it, and to such other courts as Congress
should from time to time create, exclusive jurisdiction in all
such cases or controversies. That interpretation was disputed,
and Hamilton in the Federalist said : "The principles established in a former paper teach us that the State will retain all
preixistingauthorities, which may not be exclusively delegated

PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON. 515
Opinion of the Court.

to the Federal head ; and that this exclusive delegation can only
exist in one of three cases ; where an exclusive authority is, in
express terms, granted to the Union; or where a particular
authority is granted to the Union, and the exercise of a like
authority is prohibited to the States; or, where an authority
is granted to the Union, with which a similar authority in
the States would be utterly incompatible. Though these principles inay not apply with the same force to the judiciary as
to the legislative power, yet I am inclined to think that they
are, in the main, just with respect to the former, as well as
the latter. And under this impression I shall lay it down as
a rule that the state courts 'will r.etain the jurisdiction they
now have, unless" it appears to be taken away in one of the
enumerated modes." He recognized the fact that there was
apparent support to the objedtion referred to in the clause "the
judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress shall
from time to time ordain and establish." That clause, he said,
"might either be construed to signify that the supreme and
subordinate courts of the Union should alone have the power
of deciding those causes, to which their authority is to extend;
or simply to denote thit the organs of the national judiciary
should be one Supreme Court, and as many-subordinate courts
as Congress should think proper to appoint; in other words,
that the United States should exercise the judicial power
with which they are to be invested, through one supreme
tribunal, and a certain number of inferior ones, to be instituted by them. The first excludes, the last admits, the concurrent jurisdiction of the state tribunals. And as the first
would amount to an alienation of state power by implication,
the last appears to me the most defensible construction." He
also said that the judicial power of every government "looks
beyond its own local or municipal laws, and in civil cases lays
hold of all subjects of litigation between parties within its
jurisdiction, though the causes of dispute are relative to the
laws of the most distant part of the globe. Those of Japan,
not less than of New York, may furnish the objects of legal
discussion to our courts. When in addition to this we con-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

sider the state governments and the national government as
they truly are, in the light of kindred systems and as parts of
one whole, the inference seems to be conclusive that the state
courts would have a concurrent jurisdiction in cases arising
under the laws of the Union, where it was not expressly
prohibited." Federalist, No. 82
The first Congress acted upon this view of the scope and
effect of the Constitution 'hen it passed the Judiciary Act of
September 24, 1789, c. 20, creating the Circuit and District
Courts of the United States and defining their jurisdiction.
1 Stat. 73. By that act -itwas declared thal the District
Courts should have "exclusively of the courts of the several
States" cognizance of specified crimes and of certain named
civil causes or, suits, and cognizance "concurrent with the
courts of the several States or the Circuit Courts, as the case
may be," of certain other causes or suits. By that act alsu
the Circuit Courts were given cognizance, "concurrent with
the courts of the several States," of all suits of a civil nature
at common law or in equity where the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred
dollars, and the United States were "plaintiffs or petitioners,
or where an alien was a party, or where the suit was between
a citizen of the State in which it was brought and a-citizen of
another State. And by the same act it was provided that
"the Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all
controversies of a civil nature where a State is a party, except
'between a State and its citizens; and except also between a
State and citizens of other States,or aliens, in which latter case
it shall have original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction,
and original, but not exclusive jurisdiction of all suits brought
by ambassadors or other public ministers, or in which a consul
or vice consul shall be a party." The act also made provision
for the removal of a suit commenced in a state court against
an alien, or by a citizen of one State against a citizen of another State, if the matter in dispute exceeded the above sum
or value; but it contained no provision giving the Circuit
Courts original jurisdiction of a suit by a State against a
citizen of another State, nor for the rembval into a subordi-

PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON.

517

Opinion of the Court.

nate Federal court, of a suit brought by a State in one of its
own courts against a citizen of another State. Nor did that
act provide for the review by this court of the final judgment
of the state court simply because it was rendered in a suit
brought by a State against a citizen of another State which
involved no question of a Federal nature.
So, that in the first judiciary act- passed by a Congress
many of whose niembers, as-was the eminent jurist who drew
the a6t, were delegates in the convention that framed the
Constitution - we have a contemporaneous'interpretation of
the clauses relating to the exercise of the judicial power of
the United States, which negatives the suggestions now made
on behalf of the appellant.
It cannot be doubted that each of the original States had,
prior to the adoption of the Constitution, complete and exclusive jurisdiction by its judicial tribunals over all legal questions, of whatsoever nature, capable of judicial determination,
and involved in any case within its limits between parties over
whom it could exercise jurisdiction. Tennessee v. Davis, 100
U. S. 257.
If it was intended to withdraw from the States authority
to determine, by its courts, all cases and controversies to
which the judicial power of the United States was extended,
and of which jurisdiction was not given to the national courts
exclusively, such a .purpose vould have been manifested by
clear language. Nothing more was done by the Constitution
than to extend the judicial power of the United States to
specified cases and contr'oversies ; leaving to Congress to deterniine whether the courts to be established by it from time
to time should be given exclusive cognizance of such cases or
controversies, or should only exercise jurisdiction concurrent
with the courts of the several States.
This was the view taken of this question by Chancellor
Kent in his Commentaries. Referring to the clauses of the
Constitution relative to the judicial power of the United
States, he said: " The conclusion then is, that in judicial
matters the concurrent jurisdiction of the state tribunals depends altogether upon the pleasure of Congress, and may be

OCTOBER TERMY, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

revoked and extinguished whenever they think proper, in
every case in which the subject-matter can constitutionally be
made "cognizable in the Federal courts, and that without an
express provision to the contrary the state courts will retain
a concurrent jurisdiction in all cases where they had jurisdiction oriiginally over the subject-matter." 1 Kent's Com. 400.
In Gettings v. C rawford, Taney's Dec. 1, the question was
.considered whether the ninth section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, giving jurisdiction to the District Court of the United
States of cases against consuls and vice consuls, was consistent
with the clause of the Constitution providing that "in all
cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party, the Supreme
It was held that
Court shall have original jurisdiction."
those words did not expressly exclude the jurisdiction of other
courts of the United States in the cases menioned. Chief
Justice Taney observing: "The true rule in this case, is, I
think, the rule which is constantly applied to ordinary acts of
legislation, in which the grant of jurisdiction over a certain
subject-matter to one court does not, of itself, imply that that
jurisdiction is to be exclusive. In the clause in question there
is nothing but mere affirmative words of grant, and none that
import a design to exclude the subordinate jurisdiction of
other courts of the United States on the same matter." That
case, it is true, did not present any question as to the jurisdiction of the state courts, but it affirms the rule that the grant
'of original jurisdiction to a particular court in enumerated
cases- does not, of itself, import that the jurisdiction of that
court is exclusive in such cases. If the clause just quoted is
not to be interpreted as giving this court exclusive jurisdiction in cases affecting consuls, upon like grounds it cannot be
interpreted as giving this court exclusive jurisdiction in suits
instituted by a State, simply because of the provision giving
the Supreme Court original jurisdiction where the State is a
party.
IBut the cases most directly in point are those reported under
the title of Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 464. One was a
suit against the Kansas Pacific Railway, a corporation organ-

PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON.

519-

Opinion of the Court.

ized under the laws of the United States; the other a suit
against certain persons constituting the board of directors
of the Union Pacific Railway Company and citizens of States
other than Kansas. Both suits were brought by the State in
one of. its own courts. It was contended that as the State
was a party to those suits, this court had exclusive jurisdictiQn. After observing that the evident purpose of the Constitution was to open and keep open the highest court of the
nation for the determination, in the first instance, of suits
involving a state or a diplomatic or commercial representative of a foreign government, this court said: "So much was
due to the rank and dignity of those for whom the provision
was made; but to compel a State to resort to this one tribunal
for the redress of all its grievances, or to deprive an ambassador, public minister or consul of the privilege of suing in any
court he chose having jurisdiction of the parties and the
subject-matter of his action, would be, in many cases, to
convert what was intended as a favor into a burden. Acting
on this construction of the Constitution, Congress took care to
provide [in the original judiciary act] that no suit should be
brought againstan ambassador or other public minister except
in the Supreme Court,, but that he might gue in any court he
chose that was open to him. ' As to consuls, the commercial
representatives of foreign governments, the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court vas made concurrent with the District Courts,
and suits of a civil nature could be brought against them in
either tribunal. With respect to States it was provided that
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, should be exclusive in
all controversies of a civil nature where a.State was a party,
except between a State and its citizens, and except, also, between a State and citizens of other States, or aliens, in which
latter case its jurisdiction should be original, but not exclusive.
Thus, the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was
made concurrent with any other court to which jurisdiction
might be given in suits between a State and citizens of other
States, or aliens. No jurisdiction was given in such cases to
any other court of the United States, and the practical effect
of the enactment was, therefore, to give the Supreme Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

exclusive original jurisdiction in suits against a State begun
without its consent, and to allow the State to sue for itself in
any tribunal that could entertain its case. In this way States,
ambassadors and public ministers were protected from the
compulsory process of any court other than one suited to their
high positions, but were left free to seek redress for their own
grievances in any court that has the requisite jurisdiction. No
limits were set on their powers of choice in this particular.
This, of course, did not prevent a State from allowing itself
to be sued in its own courts or elsewhere in any way, or to
any extent, it chose."
And in Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 636, it was hell
that in. defining and regulating the jurisdiction of the courts
of'the United States, Congress has taken care not to exclude
the jurisdiction of the state courts from every case to which
by the Constitution the judicial power of the United States
extends. The reason given for this view was that upon ,the
state courts, equally with the courts of the Union, rested the
obligation to guard, enforce and protect every right granted
or secured by the Constitution of the United States, and the
laws made in pursuance thereof, whenever those rights were
involved in any suit.or proceeding before them; for, the court
said, "the judges of the state courts are required to take an
oath to support that Constitution, and they are bound by it,
and the laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof,
and all treaties made under their authority, as the supreme
law of the land, 'anything in the constitution or laws of any
State to the contrary notwithstanding."'
It is said that the.present case differs from Ames v. .Kansas,
in that the latter was a suit arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and was, therefore, removable into
the Circuit Court of the United States, while the present suit
was .not removable fr6m the state court under any statute
regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
But, that difference only shows that Congress has ndt seen
proper to provide for the removal from a state court of a suit
brought by the State against citizens of other States and involving no question of a Federal nature, nor for the .review

PLAQUEMINES FRUIT COMPANY v. HENDERSON.

521

Opinion of the Court.

by this court upon appeal or writ of error of the final judgment in such a suit. It is for Congress to say how much of
the judicial power of the United States shall be exercised by
the subordinate courts it may establish from time to time.
Its failure to invest the national courts with jurisdiction by
removal from the state courts of a suit brought by a State
against citizens of other States which involves no Federal
question, cannot have the effect to deprive the States of the
right which they possessed prior to the adoption of the Constitution to submit to one of its own courts all matters in
which it was concerned and which were capable of judicial
determination, to be there finally adjudicated as between the
State and the parties who were within its jurisdiction so as to
be bound by any judgment rendered, and who were not, by
reason of their representative character or for other cause,
placed exclusively under Federal jurisdiction, and exempted
altogether from process issuing from state tribunals.
As, under the long-settled interpretation of the Constitution,
the mere extension of the judicial power of the United States
to suits brought by a State against citizens of other States
did not, of itself, divest the state courts of jurisdiction to bear
and determine such cases, and as Congress has not invested
the national courts with exclusive jurisdiction in cases of that
kind, it follows that the courts of a State may, so far as the
Constitution and laws of the United States are concerned,
take cognizance of a suit brought by the State in its own
courts against citizens of other States; subject, of course, to
the right of the defendant to have such suit removed to the
proper Circuit Court of the United States, whenever the
removal thereof is authorized by the acts of Congress, and
subject, also, to the authority of this court to review the final
judgment of the state court, if the case be one within our
appellate jurisdiction.
For the reasons stated, it is adjudged that the court below
did not err in sustaining the plea, and its judgment isA ffi'rmed.

