1328

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

HECKLER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES v. LOPEZ ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-145.

Decided September 9, 1983

An application by the Secretary of Health and Human Services-who had
terminated social security disability benefits without first producing
evidence that the recipient's medical condition had improved, contrary to
earlier decisions of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit requiring
such proof-to stay that portion of the District Court's preliminary
injunction (in a class action challenging the constitutionality of the Secretary's action) requiring the Secretary to pay benefits to reapplying prior
recipients until she establishes their lack of disability through hearings
complying with the Ninth Circuit rule, is granted pending applicant's
appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In view of the
scope of the injunction-involving issues relating to exhaustion of administrative remedies and judicial review of the Secretary's determinations
of eligibility for benefits-four Justices would probably vote to grant
certiorari should the Court of Appeals affirm the injunction.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit

Justice.

Applicant, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(Secretary), requests that I issue a partial stay pending appeal of a preliminary injunction issued by the District Court
for the Central District of California. The Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit rejected the Secretary's application for
an emergency stay and for a 'stay pending appeal. On
September 1, 1983, I granted the Secretary's request for a
temporary stay pending further consideration of the application and the response. I have now decided to grant the
stay requested by the Secretary.
This class action was instituted by numerous individuals
and organizations to challenge the Secretary's failure to
follow two Ninth Circuit decisions in terminating the payment of benefits under Title II and Title XVI of the Social
Security Act to recipients in the Ninth Circuit. On the authority of Finneganv. Matthews, 641 F. 2d 1340 (CA9 1981),

HECKLER v. LOPEZ
1328

1329

Opinion in Chambers

and Pattiv. Schweiker, 669 F. 2d 582 (CA9 1982), respondents
contend that the Secretary cannot terminate the payment of
benefits without producing evidence that a recipient's medical condition has improved since he previously was declared
disabled. The Secretary, on the other hand, relying on
agency regulations which specifically disavow the holdings of
Pattiand Finnegan,contends that she can terminate benefits
when current evidence indicates that a prior recipient is not
now disabled. She argues that she need not produce specific
evidence that the prior recipient's medical condition has
improved.
Respondents styled their claim in the District Court as
a constitutional challenge to the Secretary's "nonacquiescence" with settled law in the Ninth Circuit, an action which
they argue violates constitutional principles of separation of
powers and which deprives them of due process and equal
protection. The District Court granted respondents' motion for class certification and their motion for a preliminary
injunction.
The first part of the District Court's injunction, which the
Secretary has not sought to stay, restrains the Secretary
from disregarding Patti and Finneganin pending and future
cases. Paragraph 4(c), on the other hand, directs the Secretary within 60 days of the order to notify each member of the
class that he can apply for reinstatement of benefits if he
believes that his medical condition has not improved since his
initial disability determination. Paragraph 4(c) requires the
Secretary immediately to reinstate benefits to the applicants
who apply. Following reinstatement of benefits, the Secretary can conduct hearings to establish lack of disability, but
in those hearings, the Secretary must make a showing of
medical improvement pursuant to Pattiand Finneganbefore
terminating benefits. In a later order the District Court
ruled that the Secretary can recoup interim benefits if she
produces evidence at the hearing that the applicant's medical

1330

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

condition has improved now or that it had improved at the
earlier time when benefits were terminated.
On August 15, 1983, after the Ninth Circuit refused to
issue an emergency stay, the Secretary notified approximately 30,000 members of the class that they could apply for
reinstatement of benefits. The Secretary already has begun
to receive applications. Thus the Secretary only requests
that I stay the portion of Paragraph 4(c) which requires her
to pay benefits to all applicants until she establishes their
lack of disability through hearings complying with Patti and
Finnegan.
My obligation as a Circuit Justice in considering the usual
stay application is "to determine whether four Justices would
vote to grant certiorari, to balance the so-called 'stay equities,' and to give some consideration as to predicting the final
outcome of the case in this Court." Gregory-Portland
Independent School Districtv. United States, 448 U. S. 1342
(1980) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers). The Secretary's stay
application does not come to me in the posture of the usual
application, however. The Secretary does not ask me to
stay the judgment of the Court of Appeals pending the disposition of a petition for certiorari in this Court. She asks
instead that I grant a stay of the District Court's judgment
pending appeal to the Ninth Circuit when the Ninth Circuit
itself has refused to issue the stay.
Although there is no question that I have jurisdiction to
grant the Secretary's request, it is also clear that "'a stay
application to a Circuit Justice on a matter before a court of
appeals is rarely granted."' Atiyeh v. Capps, 449 U. S.
1312, 1313 (1981) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers) (citation
omitted); see O'Rourke v. Levine, 80 S.Ct. 623, 624, 4 L. Ed.
2d 615, 616 (1960) (Harlan, J., in chambers). For the reasons I am about to set out, I believe that the present case is
sufficiently unusual to warrant the relief sought.
I Ordinarily, in an action for an injunction, the decision of
the court on the "merits" will be of greater concern to a re-

HECKLER v. LOPEZ
1328

Opinion in Chambers

viewing court than the particular provisions of an injunction,
which are primarily entrusted to the discretion of the district
court. In this case, however, I believe that the scope of the
District Court's injunction would prompt review of the injunction by at least four Members of this Court should the
Court of Appeals affirm it without modification. I believe
this is true even though I assume that the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit will certainly follow its Patti and
Finnegandecisions when it hears the Secretary's appeal. I
likewise assume that since there does not appear to be any
significant circuit conflict on this point at present, four Justices of this Court would not be likely to grant a petition for
certiorari should the Secretary seek review in this Court of
the merits of a Ninth Circuit opinion reaffirming Patti and
Finnegan.
But the District Court's injunction goes far beyond the
application of Pattiand Finneganto concrete cases before it.
I think that Paragraph 4(c) of the injunction issued by the
District Court, because of its mandatory nature, its treatment of the statutory requirement of exhaustion of administrative remedies, and its direction to the Secretary to pay
benefits on an interim basis to parties who have neither been
found by the Secretary nor by a court of competent jurisdiction to be disabled, significantly interferes with the distribution between administrative and judicial responsibility for
enforcement of the Social Security Act which Congress has
established. While review of an injunction issued by a lower
federal court independently of the "merits" of the issue involved in the case is not common, this Court has not hesitated
to reverse a District Court where it concluded that the injunction did not comply with a provision of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, without ever reaching the "merits" of the
question involved. See, e. g., Schmidt v. Lessard, 414 U. S.
473 (1974).
The injunction issued by the District Court in this case
must be evaluated first in the light of the provisions for judi-

1332

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

cial review of determinations of eligibility for benefits by the
Secretary. The principal provisions follow:
"Any individual, after any final decision of the Secretary made after a hearing to which he was a party,
irrespective of the amount in controversy, may obtain
a review of such decision by a civil action commenced
within sixty days after the mailing to him of notice of
such decision or within such further time as the Secretary may allow. .

.

. The court shall have power to

enter, upon the pleadings and transcript of the record, a
judgment affirming, modifying, or reversing the decision
of the Secretary, with or without remanding the cause
for a rehearing. The findings of the Secretary as to any
fact, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive .

. . ."

49 Stat. 624, as amended, 42 U. S. C.

§405(g) (1976 ed., Supp. V).
"The findings and decisions of the Secretary after a
hearing shall be binding upon all individuals who were
parties to such hearing. No findings of fact or decision
of the Secretary shall be reviewed by any person, tribunal, or governmental agency except as herein provided.
No action against the United States, the Secretary, or
any officer or employee thereof shall be brought under
sections 1331 or 1346 of title 28 to recover on any claim
arising under this subchapter." 42 U. S. C. §405(h).
We have held that these provisions codify the doctrine of
exhaustion of administrative remedies, circumscribe the
methods by which judicial review of a determination of the
Secretary may be obtained, and set forth the standard for the
exercise of judicial review. Weinberger v. Salfi, 422 U. S.
749 (1975). We have also held that the scope of judicial
review of the Secretary's determinations is a very limited
one. Heckler v. Campbell, 461 U. S. 458, 466 (1983).
The scope of the District Court's injunction must also be
evaluated in the light of familiar principles of administrative
law enunciated in our decisions. In Vermont Yankee Nu-

HECKLER v. LOPEZ
1328

Opinion in Chambers

clear Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense Council,
Inc., 435 U. S. 519, 524 (1978), this Court said:
"[T]his Court has for more than four decades emphasized that the formulation of procedures was basically to
be left within the discretion of the agencies to which
Congress had confided the responsibility for substantive
judgments. In FCC v. Schreiber, 381 U. S. 279, 290
(1965), the Court explicated this principle, describing it
as 'an outgrowth of the congressional determination that
administrative agencies and administrators will be familiar with the industries which they regulate and will be in
a better position than federal courts or Congress itself to
design procedural rules adapted to the peculiarities of
the industry and the tasks of the agency involved."'
In FPC v. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp., 423
U. S. 326, 333 (1976), this Court similarly observed: "[I]n the
absence of substantial justification for doing otherwise, a reviewing court may not after determining that additional evidence is requisite for adequate review, proceed by dictating
to the agency the methods, procedures, and time dimension
of the needed inquiry and ordering the results to be reported
to the court without opportunity for further consideration on
the basis of the new evidence by the agency. Such a procedure clearly runs the risk of 'propel[ling] the court into the
domain which Congress has set aside exclusively for the
administrative agency.' SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S.
194, 196 (1947)."
With these general principles in mind, I turn to the particulars of the injunction issued by the District Court. It
is unlike the usual "prohibitory" injunction which merely
freezes the positions of the parties until the court can hear
the case on the merits. See University of Texas v. Camenisch, 451 U. S. 390, 395 (1981). The injunction issued here
is in substance, if not in terms, a mandatory one, which "like
a mandamus, is an extraordinary remedial process which is
granted, not as a matter of right but in the exercise of a

1334

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

sound judicial discretion." Morrison v. Work, 266 U. S. 481,
490 (1925).
Paragraph 4(c) forces the Secretary immediately to pay
benefits to every Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and
Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) recipient whose
benefits have been terminated within the last two years because of cessation of disability. It also forces the Secretary
to pay benefits to every SSI recipient under the "Grandfather Clause" of the Social Security Act whose benefits have
been terminated within the last three years because of cessation of disability. The Secretary's obligation to pay is triggered merely by the recipient's statement in his application
that, in his subjective belief, his medical condition has not
improved since the earlier determination. I have serious
doubt, which I believe would be shared by other Members of
this Court, whether this provision is consistent with 42
U. S. C. §405(i) or with this Court's admonition in Schweiker
v. Hansen, 450 U. S.785 (1981), that the courts have a duty
"'to observe the conditions defined by Congress for charging
the public treasury."' Id., at 788 (quoting Federal Crop
Insurance Co. v. Merrill, 332 U. S.380, 385 (1947)).
The nature of the mandatory relief granted by the District
Court in this case is exacerbated by the fact that the District
Court defined the class to include numerous individuals who
have never received "final decisions" from the Secretary on
their claims within the meaning of 42 U. S. C. §405(g) and
over whom arguably the District Court has no jurisdiction.
In Weinberger v. Salfi, supra, the Court held that there
was a nonwaivable and a waivable portion of § 405(g)'s
exhaustion requirement. The nonwaivable portion requires
that "a claim for benefits shall have been presented to the
Secretary" before judicial review can be sought. Mathews
v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319, 328 (1976). Like this case,
Mathews involved a prior recipient whose benefits were
terminated. We held there that the nonwaivable exhaustion
requirement had been satisfied because, after Eldridge re-

HECKLER v. LOPEZ
1328

1335

Opinion in Chambers

ceived notice of termination, he "specifically presented the
claim that his benefits should not be terminated because he
was still disabled." Id., at 329. The preliminary injunction
here, however, covers individuals who have never questioned
the initial determination that they cease to be disabled. I
have difficulty in seeing how these individuals have satisfied
the nonwaivable jurisdictional requirement set out in Saft.
The class includes still other individuals who have satisfied
Salf!'s nonwaivable but not its waivable exhaustion requirement. These individuals may have sought review of the
original agency determination that their benefits should be
terminated, but they never pursued their claims any further.
We held in Salfi that the Secretary herself could waive the
exhaustion requirement if she deemed it futile in a particular
case, but we also held that "a court may not substitute its
conclusion as to futility for the contrary conclusion of the
Secretary." Weinberger v. Salfi, 422 U. S., at 766.
In this case the District Court concluded that the Secretary's announced policy of nonacquiescence establishes her
final position on the medical improvement issue and that further exhaustion would be futile. Although there are other
federal-court opinions which have accepted that argument,
there is no decision of this Court that has interpreted the
Secretary's announcement of her interpretation of a Social
Security statute as a waiver of the exhaustion requirement.
See Ringer v. Schweiker, 697 F. 2d 1291 (CA9 1982), cert.
granted, ante, p. 1206. The Secretary vigorously pressed
the exhaustion argument before the District Court, noting
that many of the class members who did exhaust their
administrative remedies have had their benefits restored for
reasons unrelated to the medical improvement issue. The
District Court's determination that exhaustion would be
futile seems to me to contradict our holding in Salfi that such
determinations properly rest with the Secretary and not with
the court.

1336

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

Relying on this Court's decision in Mathews, respondents
argue that they present the kind of case where deference to
the Secretary's judgment concerning the need to exhaust is
inappropriate. They argue that they are not making a
demand for benefits per se, but rather that they are raising a
collateral constitutional challenge to the Secretary's failure to
comply with Ninth Circuit precedent. I am not persuaded
that just because respondents put the label "constitutional"
on their claim they can fit within the language of our opinion
in Mathews. The constitutionality of the failure of the
Secretary to provide pretermination hearings in Mathews
appears substantially different to me from respondents' claim
that their benefits were unlawfully terminated because of the
Secretary's insufficient evidentiary showing. Unlike the
claim in Mathews, respondents' unlawful-termination claim
could benefit from further factual development and refinement through the administrative process.
Respondents argue that all class members are prior recipients who were once determined to be disabled by a final
decision of the Secretary, and that the District Court has
merely exercised its broad remedial powers to return the
class members to the positions they occupied before the unlawful termination. Whatever might be the merits of such a
determination in a lawsuit between private litigants, the remedial powers of a federal court in an action seeking to enjoin
an agency of a coordinate branch of the Government are circumscribed by the principles which I have previously stated.
This Court recently granted certiorari in Day v. Schweiker,
685 F. 2d 19 (CA2 1982), cert. granted, 461 U. S. 904 (1983).
In that case the Solicitor General contends that an order of
payment of interim benefits was beyond the authority of the
District Court. If the full Court were to sustain this contention, its opinion might well indicate that an award of interim
benefits such as that contained in Paragraph 4(c) of the District Court's order in the present case was likewise beyond
the competence of such a court.

HECKLER v. LOPEZ
1328

1337

Opinion in Chambers

The Secretary takes issue with the assessment of comparative equities by the District Court and by the Court of
Appeals.
For purposes of ruling upon the Secretary's
application, I think I must accept, and do accept, the factual
conclusions of both of these courts on the question. It bears
repeating that if it seemed to me that nothing more were
involved than the exercise of a District Court's traditional
discretion in fashioning a remedy for an adjudicated harm or
wrong, there would be no occasion for me as Circuit Justice
to grant a stay where both the Court of Appeals and the
District Court had refused to grant one. But as I have
stated earlier in this opinion, I do not believe this is such a
case. I agree with the statement of this Court in FCC v.
Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S. 134, 141 (1940):
"A much deeper issue, however, is here involved.
This was not a mandate from court to court but from a
court to an administrative agency. What is in issue is
not the relationship of federal courts inter se-a relationship defined largely by the courts themselves-but the
due observance by courts of the distribution of authority
made by Congress as between its power to regulate commerce and the reviewing power which it has conferred
upon the courts under Article III of the Constitution. A
review by a federal court of the action of a lower court is
only one phase of a single unified process. But to the
extent that a federal court is authorized to review an
administrative act, there is superimposed upon the
enforcement of legislative policy through administrative
control a different process from that out of which the administrative action under review ensued. The technical
rules derived from the interrelationship of judicial tribunals forming a hierarchical system are taken out of
their environment when mechanically applied to determine the extent to which Congressional power, exercised through a delegated agency, can be controlled

1338

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

within the limited scope of 'judicial power' conferred by
Congress under the Constitution."
I therefore grant the application of the Secretary to stay
Paragraph 4(c) of the order of the District Court pending
determination of the Secretary's appeal by the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

