NCAA v. BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIV. OF OKLA.
Opinion in Chambers

NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
v. BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIVERSITY OF
OKLAHOMA ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-24.

Decided July 21, 1983

An application by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, whose
membership includes many colleges, universities, and athletic conferences, to stay the judgments of the Court of Appeals and the District
Court is granted, pending the timely filing and disposition of a petition
for a writ of certiorari. The courts below, in an action brought by
respondents against applicant, held that the antitrust laws were violated
by applicant's plan involving contracts with certain television networks
for the broadcasting of football games of applicant's members, and an
injunction has been issued forbidding further implementation of the
contracts. A stay is proper since it is likely that at least four Justices
will vote to grant certiorari, there is a sufficient prospect that applicant
will ultimately prevail, and the equities pending decision on the merits
favor applicant.
JUSTICE WHITE, Circuit Justice.

The application for a stay is granted, and the temporary
stay of the judgments of the Court of Appeals and the District Court is continued pending the timely filing and disposition of a petition for writ of certiorari in the above-entitled
action. If the petition is denied, this stay will terminate
automatically. If certiorari is granted, the stay will continue
in effect, pending judgment on the merits or other disposition
of the case. Briefly stated, the reasons for granting the stay
are as follows.
The National Collegiate Athletic Association is a private,
nonprofit association of some 900 4-year colleges, and universities meeting certain academic standards and of athletic conferences, associations, and other groups interested in intercollegiate athletics. Of these, some 800 are voting members,
about 500 field football teams, and 187 are so-called Division I

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

schools. These latter schools, the District Court found,
dominate college football television.
The NCAA regulates many aspects of intercollegiate
athletics, including the televising of intercollegiate football
games, the arrangements for which it has controlled since
1953. The current plan involves contracts with two networks, CBS and ABC, covering the 1982-1985 seasons, as
well as a 2-year contract with the Turner Broadcasting System. The District Court, in describing the contracts, stated
that each network must broadcast a game on at least 14 different dates, and each must televise at least 35 games each
year. At least seven broadcasts must be national and at
least six regional. The networks select the games they will
broadcast, at least 82 different teams must appear on each
network over a 2-year period, and no school may appear more
than six times during a 2-year period. Each network is obligated to pay a minimum of $131,750,000 over the four years;
TBS will pay $17,696,000 over two years. From these sums,
the NCAA takes a percentage, certain sums are reserved for
participants in the Division II and III competitions, and the
balance is divided equally among those schools who have appeared on the broadcasts covered by the contracts. Schools
not selected to appear under the contract are not permitted
to make their own arrangements to broadcast their games,
and schools that do appear may not undertake to have additional games televised.
The Regents of the University of Oklahoma and the University of Georgia Athletic Association brought this action
against the NCAA, asserting that the NCAA's regulatory
scheme violates the antitrust laws. The District Court
agreed, holding that the scheme constituted price fixing that
was illegal per se under ยง 1 of the Sherman Act and the relevant cases; it also held that the arrangement was an illegal
group boycott, was monopolization forbidden by ยง 2, and was
in any event an unreasonable restraint of trade. 546 F.
Supp. 1276 (WD Okla. 1982). The contracts were declared

NCAA v. BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIV. OF OKLA.
1311

1313

Opinion in Chambers

null and void, and an injunction was entered forbidding their
further implementation.
The Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, while disagreeing with the boycott and monopolization holdings, otherwise upheld the decision of the District Court. 707 F. 2d
1147 (1983). Although it ordered the judgment affirmed, it
remanded with instructions that the District Court "consider
its injunction in light of" the Court of Appeals' opinion. Id.,
at 1162. The court's mandate has issued. The NCAA,
asserting that it will petition for certiorari, has requested
a stay; the respondents have opposed the stay, as has the
United States as amicus curiae.
Having examined the papers so far filed with me and
assuming that they fairly represent the issues and what has
occurred in this case, I can say with confidence that I would
vote to grant certiorari. Somewhat less confidently, I expect that at least three other Justices would likewise vote to
grant. The judgment below would obviously have a major
impact countrywide, and the case plainly presents important
issues under the antitrust laws.
I also have little doubt that if certiorari is to be granted the
equities pending decision on the merits are with the NCAA.
The two respondent schools might do better for themselves
during the 1983 season if they were free to go their own way,
but were a stay to issue, their harm would be limited to
the difference between what they would receive under the
NCAA arrangements and what they could otherwise garner.
On the other hand, unless the judgment is stayed, it would
appear that the networks' contracts would be void under the
outstanding judgment and could not be enforced; the entire
.1983 season would be at risk not only for the NCAA but also
for many, if not most, of the schools which it represents,
including many schools that would prefer the NCAA arrangements to continue at least through the 1983 season.
Although the question is a close one, I am also of the view
that there is a sufficient likelihood that the court below erred

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

in one or more important respects to justify issuing the stay.
For example, the per se price-fixing holding is questionable
to my mind; also, although in the long run I may agree with
the courts below in this respect, I have some doubt whether
they reached the correct result under the Rule of Reason.
Accordingly, having determined that certiorari will likely
be granted, that there is a sufficient prospect that the NCAA
will ultimately prevail, and that the equities favor the NCAA,
I conclude that a stay is in order.
Respondents suggest that the NCAA should be required to
post bond if the stay is granted. I am not inclined to impose
that requirement. I note that the Court of Appeals stayed the
judgment of the District Court without bond while the case was
on appeal to it. I see no need to change that procedure.

