McGEE v. ALASKA

1339

Opinion in Chambers

McGEE v. ALASKA
ON APPLICATION FOR BAIL

No. A-156.

Decided September 9, 1983

An application for bail pending disposition of applicant state prisoner's
petition for certiorari to review the Court of Appeals' affimance of the
District Court's denial of habeas corpus relief, is denied even though the
State does not oppose applicant's release on bail. While state authorities can release applicant on bail, it is no part of the federal courts' function to allow bail in federal habeas corpus review of state proceedings
simply because the State does not object. Moreover, the probability of
this Court's granting certiorari in this case approaches, if it does not
reach, zero.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant has moved for bail pending disposition of his
petition for certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit. He was tried in the state courts of Alaska and convicted of two crimes under state law. His conviction was
affirmed on direct appeal by the Supreme Court of Alaska,
McGee v. State, 614 P. 2d 800 (1980), and we denied certiorari, McGee v. Alaska, 450 U. S. 967 (1981). He then
sought federal habeas relief in the United States District
Court for the District of Alaska, claiming that certain evidence 1 '&.1 ha-e been suppressed and certain eyewitness
testimony should have been excluded. Following a Magistrate's investigation and report, applicant pursued only the
Fourth Amendment claim before the District Court, which
denied the claim because applicant had received a full and fair
hearing on his Fourth Amendment claim in the state courts.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the District
Court, and applicant began serving his sentence.
Applicant, however, seeks to have me implement what
amounts to an agreement between the parties to permit his
release on bail, since the State has submitted a statement to
the effect that it does not oppose release on bail. No doubt

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

the proper Alaska authorities can release applicant on bail
any time they choose to do so, but it is no part of the function
of the federal courts to allow bail in federal habeas review of
state proceedings simply because the State does not object.
Requests for bail to this Court are granted only in extraordinary circumstances, especially if, as here, a previous bail
application has been denied. See Julian v. United States,
ante, p. 1308 (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).

Applicants must

also demonstrate a reasonable possibility that four Members
of this Court will vote to grant the petition for certiorari.
I am satisfied from the papers submitted to me that the probability of this Court's granting certiorari to review the
judgment of the Court of Appeals approaches, if it does not
actually reach, zero. See Stone v. Powell, 428 U. S. 465
(1976). Therefore, the application will be denied, notwithstanding the fact that the respondent State does not oppose it.
It is so ordered.

