BELLOTTI v. LATINO POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE

1319

Opinion in Chambers

BELLOTTI, ATTORNEY GENERAL, COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS v. LATINO
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-99.

Decided August 11, 1983

An application to stay, pending the filing and disposition of a petition for a
writ of certiorari, the District Court's judgment-holding unconstitutional, and enjoining preliminary or final elections under, a new electoral
districting plan for the election of members ofthe Boston City Council and
the School Committee-is denied. It is not reasonably probable that
four Justices will consider the issues involved to be sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari; nor is there a fair prospect that a majority of the
Court will conclude that the decision below was erroneous. The inconvenience and delay imposed by the District Court's requirement that the
districting plan be revised before elections can go forward are not so great
as to warrant a stay.

JUSTICE BRENNAN, Circuit Justice.

The Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has applied to me for a stay pending the filing and consideration by this Court of a petition for a writ of certiorari
to review the judgment of the District Court for the District
of Massachusetts entered on July 26, 1983. Latino Political
Action Committee v. City of Boston, 568 F. Supp. 1012.
That judgment found unconstitutional a new electoral districting plan adopted by the Boston City Council and approved by the Mayor of Boston for the election by district of
members of the City Council and the School Committee, and
enjoined the defendants from conducting preliminary or final
elections under the provisions of the plan. On August 2,
1983, the District Court permitted the Attorney General
to intervene in this matter and denied his motions to stay
the court's judgment pending appeal and for relief from
judgment. The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, on
August 5, 1983, also denied the Attorney General's request
for a stay, 716 F. 2d 68, and this application followed.

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

The general principles that guide my consideration as a
Circuit Justice of this application are well settled:
"Relief from a single Justice is appropriate only in those
extraordinary cases where the applicant is able to rebut
the presumption that the decisions below-both on the
merits and on the proper interim disposition of the
case-are correct. In a case like the present one, this
can be accomplished only if a four-part showing is made.
First, it must be established that there is a 'reasonable
probability' that four Justices will consider the issue sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari or to note probable jurisdiction. Second, the applicant must persuade
[the Circuit Justice] that there is a fair prospect that
a majority of the Court will conclude that the decision
below was erroneous. While related to the first inquiry,
this question may involve somewhat different considerations, especially in cases presented on direct appeal.
Third, there must be a demonstration that irreparable
harm is likely to result from the denial of a stay. And
fourth, in a close case it may be appropriate to 'balance
the equities'-to explore the relative harms to applicant
and respondent, as well as the interests of the public
at large." Rostker v. Goldberg, 448 U. S. 1306, 1308
(1980) (BRENNAN, J., in chambers) (citations omitted).
After carefully considering the opinions below and the submissions of the applicant and respondents, I have concluded
that under the circumstances of this case it is not reasonably
probable that four Justices will consider the issues presented
by the applicant sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari;
nor is there, in my judgment, a fair prospect that a majority
of the Court will conclude that the decision below was erroneous. With respect to the third Rostker consideration, I have
concluded that the inconvenience and delay imposed by the
District Court's requirement that the districting plan be revised before elections can go forward are not so great as to
warrant a stay of the judgment of the District Court.
Accordingly, the application is denied.

