RUCKELSHAUS v. MONSANTO CO.
Opinion in Chambers

RUCKELSHAUS, ADMINISTRATOR, UNITED
STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY v. MONSANTO CO.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-1066.

Decided July 27, 1983

An application to stay, pending appeal, an injunction of the District
Court-which held unconstitutional, and enjoined enforcement of, provisions of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act that
authorize manufacturers seeking registration of pesticides with the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to use test data submitted by
an earlier registration applicant, and that permit disclosure to the public
of health and safety data-is denied. Applicant, the Administrator of
the EPA, failed to show that irreparable harm to the EPA will result if
the District Court's injunction remains in effect pending appeal. However, the granting of a stay might well cause irreparable harm to respondent, a manufacturer of registered pesticides who had submitted
test data consisting of trade secrets entitled under state law to protection from disclosure and use by others. In addition, the Administrator
has not been particularly expeditious in seeking a stay or in pressing his
appeal.

Circuit Justice.
The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
(FIFRA), 7 U. S. C. § 136 et seq. (1982 ed.), as amended
in 1978, 92 Stat. 819, requires pesticide manufacturers to
register their products with the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) prior to marketing them in the United States.
The EPA decides whether to register a pesticide; it bases its
decision on an evaluation of test data concerning the product's effectiveness and potential dangers. These data typically are submitted by the pesticide's manufacturer. Section
3(c)(1)(D) of FIFRA, 7 U. S. C. § 136a(c)(1)(D) (1982 ed.),
provides, however, that test data submitted in connection
with a particular pesticide may be used by manufacturers
seeking registration of similar pesticides. In effect, a subsequent applicant for registration may "piggyback" its registraJUSTICE BLACKMUN,

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

tion on the efforts of the initial applicant. The subsequent
applicant must offer to compensate the initial applicant, and
compensation is to be determined by binding arbitration if
the parties cannot agree on a sum. § 3(c)(1)(D), 7 U. S. C.
§ 136a(c)(1)(D) (1982 ed.). In addition, health and safety
data submitted by the initial applicant may be disclosed to
the public pursuant to § 10(d), 7 U. S. C. § 136h(d) (1982 ed.).
Respondent Monsanto Company manufactures several registered pesticides. To obtain registration, Monsanto submitted test data developed at a cost claimed to be in excess of
$23 million. These test data are trade secrets under the law
of Missouri, and Monsanto consequently has the right to
prevent their use and disclosure. Monsanto brought suit in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri, contending that the use or disclosure of its test
data pursuant to the FIFRA provisions described above would
constitute an unconstitutional taking of its property. The
District Court agreed, and enjoined enforcement of these and
related provisions of FIFRA. The District Court declined to
stay its injunction pending direct appeal to this Court, and
the Administrator of the EPA has applied to me for a stay.
Having reviewed the application, the response, and the other
memoranda and supporting documents filed by the parties
and several amici, I deny the application.
A Justice of this Court will grant a stay pending appeal
only under extraordinary circumstances, Graves v. Barnes,
405 U. S. 1201, 1203 (1972) (POWELL, J., in chambers), and a
district court's conclusion that a stay is unwarranted is entitled to considerable deference. Id., at 1203-1204; Bateman
v. Arizona, 429 U. S. 1302, 1304 (1976) (REHNQUIST, J., in
chambers). An applicant for a stay "must meet a heavy burden of showing not only that the judgment of the lower court
was erroneous on the merits, but also that the applicant will
suffer irreparable injury if the judgment is not stayed pending his appeal." Whalen v. Roe, 423 U. S. 1313, 1316 (1975)
(MARSHALL, J., in chambers); see Graves v. Barnes, 405

RUCKELSHAUS v. MONSANTO CO.

1315

Opinion in Chambers

U. S., at 1203. An applicant's likelihood of success on the
merits need not be considered, however, if the applicant fails
to show irreparable injury from the denial of the stay. Whalen v. Roe, 423 U. S., at 1317-1318.
In this case, the Administrator has not convinced me that
irreparable harm will result if the District Court's injunction
remains in effect pending appeal. During this interim period, the injunction prevents the EPA from registering new
pesticides through use of previously submitted test data, and
members of the public will be unable to obtain test data relating to health and safety. The EPA will remain able, however, to register new pesticides; applicants for registration
may submit their own test data to support their applications,
and may rely on previously submitted data if the submitters
have given permission. The EPA has adopted interim procedures to permit registration in this manner. See 48 Fed.
Reg. 32012-32013 (1983). If an applicant for registration
chooses to rely on previously submitted data without the
submitter's permission, the EPA may process the application
although it may not actually register the product pending
appeal. While registrations and disclosures will be delayed
somewhat, "delay alone is not, on these facts, irreparable
injury." Whalen v. Roe, 423 U. S., at 1317.
Two other considerations enter into my decision to deny
this application. First, the granting of a stay might well
cause irreparable harm to Monsanto. If the District Court's
injunction were lifted, the EPA would be free to use Monsanto's trade secrets for the benefit of its competitors and
could disclose them to members of the public. Monsanto's
trade secrets would become public knowledge, and could not
be made secret again if the judgment below ultimately is affirmed. In addition, the Administrator has not been particularly expeditious in seeking a stay or in pressing his appeal.
This application was filed more than seven weeks after the
District Court issued its amended judgment. The Administrator has requested and received a 30-day extension of time

1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

in which to fie his jurisdictional statement with this Court.
While certainly not dispositive, the Administrator's failure to
act with greater dispatch tends to blunt his claim of urgency
and counsels against the grant of a stay. See Beame v.
Friends of the Earth, 434 U. S. 1310, 1313 (1977) (MARSHALL, J., in chambers).
I shall enter an order accordingly.

