1344

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

KEMP, SUPERINTENDENT, GEORGIA DIAGNOSTIC
AND CLASSIFICATION CENTER v. SMITH
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY
No. A-186.

Decided September 17, 1983

An application to vacate the stay of execution that the Court of Appeals

granted pending issuance of its mandate after consideration of respondent's suggestion for an en banc rehearing of the court's denial of his
petition for habeas corpus is denied. It cannot be said that the Court
of Appeals abused its discretion in staying respondent's execution.

JUSTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.

On August 23, 1983, the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit granted respondent Smith a stay of execution pending
consideration of the merits of Smith's petition for habeas
corpus. In its opinion, the Court of Appeals stated that
the petition raised substantial issues that warranted review.
The Attorney General filed an application with me as Circuit
Justice requesting that I dissolve and vacate the stay. I
denied the application. See ante, p. 1321.
On September 9, the Court of Appeals-after a hearing on
the merits-denied Smith's petition for habeas corpus. On
September 13, Smith filed a suggestion for rehearing en banc
and a motion for stay of execution.1 The Court of Appeals
stayed Smith's execution on September 15. The court provided that the stay would remain in effect until the mandate
issues. Under the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, if
Smith's suggestion for rehearing is denied, the mandate will
issue automatically after seven days. The Court of Appeals
may shorten or lengthen that period by order. Fed. Rule
App. Proc. 41(a).
The Attorney General of Georgia filed an application with
me on September 16 requesting that I vacate the Court of
IOn September 9, the Superior Court of Bibb County, Ga., scheduled
Smith's execution for September 21.

KEMP v. SMITH
1344

1345

Opinion in Chambers

Appeals' latest stay. Again I cannot say that the court
abused its discretion in staying Smith's execution. The
Court of Appeals is in a better position to determine the merits of Smith's request for rehearing and how much time it
needs adequately to consider his claims. In the past, the
Court of Appeals has addressed this case in an expeditious
manner, consistent with our opinion in Barefoot v. Estelle,
ante, p. 880. I have no reason to believe that the court will
not expedite consideration of Smith's suggestion for rehearing. The Court of Appeals also has authority to order that
the mandate issue forthwith if Smith's request for a rehearing is denied.2
Accordingly, the application to vacate the stay ordered by
the Court of Appeals is denied.

'Smith was convicted January 30, 1975. As I noted in my in-chambers
opinion ofAugust 23, this is the fifth time that this case has required action by
this Court: once on direct appeal, once on state habeas corpus, once on federal
habeas corpus, and twice in Smith's second federal habeas proceeding.
Apart from rehearings, this case has now been reviewed 16 times by state and
federal courts. Few cases have received more repetitive consideration than
this one. I cannot say whether the judicial process has been abused deliberately. Certainly our dual state and federal process, as presently structured

by law, invites the years of repetitious litigation experienced in this case.
But so long as present law remains unchanged, courts-absent evidence of
deliberate abuse-must respect it. Courts, however, can and should expedite consideration in the absence of new and clearly substantial claims.

