HAWAII HOUSING AUTHORITY v. MIDKIFF

1323

Opinion in Chambers

HAWAII HOUSING AUTHORITY ET AL. V.
MIDKIFF ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-113.

Decided September 2, 1983

.An application to stay an order of the Court of Appeals-which, after holding the condemnation provisions of the Hawaii Land Reform Act unconstitutional, later entered the challenged order that recalled its mandate
for clarification and, pending such clarification, enjoined applicants, the
Hawaii Housing Authority and its commissioners and executive director,
from pursuing or initiating any state administrative or judicial proceedings under the Act-is denied. Although a notice of appeal to this Court
was filed with the Court of Appeals before it issued the order, a court
retains the power to grant injunctive relief to a party to preserve the
status quo during the pendency of an appeal, and the record does not
show that the Court of Appeals abused its power in recalling its mandate. While the order does not contain findings such as those contemplated by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65, a stay based on such
ground would be inappropriate at the present time since the Court of
Appeals contemplates possible modification of its injunction in the near
future. And because of the unique interlocutory posture of the case at
present, it would also be inappropriate to stay the order on the asserted
ground that the injunction against further state proceedings violates
principles of federalism; the order is not demonstrably wrong, and the
Court of Appeals itself may revise its order shortly.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicants,* the Hawaii Housing Authority, its commissioners and executive director, request that I stay or vacate
an order of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit. The present application bears only tangentially on
the merits of the underlying lawsuit, in which the Court of
Appeals decided that the condemnation provisions of the
Hawaii Land Reform Act, Haw. Rev. Stat. ยง516-1 et seq.
(1976 and Supp. 1982), violated the "Takings Clause" of the
Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Mid*Applicants are supported by numerous lessee homeowner associations
which intervened in the proceedings below.

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

kiff v. Tom, 702 F. 2d 788 (CA9 1983). Applicants have appealed to this Court from that ruling, and their jurisdictional
statement will be considered by this Court in due course.
This application arises out of the decision of the Court of
Appeals on August 11, some four months after its opinion on
the merits was issued, to recall its mandate for clarification and, pending such clarification, to enjoin applicants from
pursuing or initiating any state administrative or judicial
proceedings under the Hawaii Land Reform Act. For the
reasons that follow, I will deny applicants' request.
Applicants base their request for a stay on three arguments. First, they argue that because a notice of appeal to
this Court was filed with the Court of Appeals on July 18,
1983, the Court of Appeals lacked the power to recall and
clarify its mandate on August 11, 1983. Jurisdiction over
this case, they claim, had shifted to this Court. I find this
reasoning unpersuasive. Whatever the current application
of the so-called jurisdictional shift theory to modern appellate
procedure, it is well settled that a court retains the power to
grant injunctive relief to a party to preserve the status quo
during the pendency of an appeal, even to this Court. See,
e. g., Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 258 U. S. 165, 177
(1922); Merrimack River Savings Bank v. Clay Center, 219
U. S. 527, 531-535 (1911); Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 62. Applicants also argue that respondents circumvented the normal
appellate process when they sought recall of the mandate
after the District Court had denied their request for injunctive relief. Although recalling a mandate is an extraordinary remedy, I think it probably lies within the inherent
power of the Court of Appeals and is reviewable only for
abuse of discretion. On the record before me, I am not prepared to say that the Court of Appeals abused its power in
recalling its mandate.
Second, applicants contend that the traditional equitable
requirements for an injunction were not shown to exist at the
time the Court of Appeals issued its order in this case.

HAWAII HOUSING AUTHORITY v. MIDKIFF
1323

Opinion in Chambers

While the August 11th order of the Court of Appeals contained no findings such as those contemplated by Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 65, the Court of Appeals obviously
contemplates possible modification of its injunction in the
near future. At the present time, a stay based on this
contention would be inappropriate.
Applicants' third contention raises by far the most serious
question: whether the injunction issued by the Court of Appeals against further state proceedings violates the principles
of federalism established in Younger v. Harris,401 U. S. 37
(1971), Huffman v. Pursue, 420 U. S. 592 (1975), and later
cases. The underlying rationale of Younger is a recognition
that national government functions best if state institutions
are unfettered in performing their separate functions in their
separate ways. Younger, supra, at 44. A central part of
this policy is a frank recognition that state courts, as judicial institutions of coextant sovereigns, are equally capable of
safeguarding federal constitutional rights. See Trainor v.
Hernandez, 431 U. S. 434, 446 (1977). Although originally
adopted to prevent a federal court from enjoining pending
state criminal proceedings, the principles of Younger are
fully applicable to noncriminal proceedings when important
state interests are involved. See Middlesex County Ethics
Committee v. Garden State Bar Assn., 457 U. S. 423 (1982);
Trainor, supra; Huffman, supra. Where vital state interests are involved, a federal court should refrain from enjoining an ongoing state judicial proceeding unless state law
clearly bars the interposition of constitutional claims, or some
extraordinary circumstance exists requiring equitable relief.
Middlesex County Ethics Committee, supra, at 432.
On the record before me, this third ground on which applicants' request for a stay is based seems to present a close and
rather intricate question. There is no doubt in my mind that
the Younger-Huffman rationale applies to a federal injunction against state judicial implementation of a far-reaching
land reform program in which the State is itself a party to the

1326

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

proceedings in its own courts. I am totally unpersuaded by
respondents' reliance on Wooley v. Maynard, 430 U. S. 705
(1977). In Wooley, the three state proceedings had already
concluded, and the federal injunction had absolutely no effect
on them. The same cannot be said of the effect of the Court
of Appeals' injunction on the pending action in the courts of
Hawaii.
A more doubtful question, both as to the law and the facts
of this case, is the time as of which the determination should
be made as to the pendency of state court proceedings. As
I understand it, the injunction issued by the Court of Appeals in this case was the first such remedy that affected
judicial proceedings. As of the date it was issued-August
11, 1983-there were indisputably significant condemnation
cases pending in state court under the Land Reform Act.
Certainly a strong argument can be made that this case may
be analogized to Hicks v. Miranda, 422 U. S. 332 (1975), in
that although the federal proceedings began before those
brought by the State, no federal injunction of state condemnation proceedings was granted until the latter proceedings were underway. If, on the other hand, the critical date
is the commencement of the proceeding in the United States
District Court for the District of Hawaii in 1979, the question
of whether state proceedings were pending might well be resolved differently. This application may also raise the issue
left undecided in Steffel v. Thompson, 415 U. S. 452 (1974),
as to the circumstances under which a properly issued federal
judgment declaring a state law unconstitutional may be converted into an injunction against the enforcement of that law.
Even though these questions obviously cannot be finally
resolved by a single Justice of this Court, were the Court of
Appeals to continue its injunction in the present form after
revising its mandate, or for an indefinite period of time, I
would have to do the best I could to forecast how the full
Court would resolve them. But the unique interlocutory
posture of the case at present spares me that task. It would

HAWAII HOUSING AUTHORITY v. MIDKIFF
1323

1327

Opinion in Chambers

be an inappropriate exercise of my authority as Circuit
Justice to stay an order of the Court of Appeals which is
not demonstrably wrong and which that court itself may
be disposed to revise in short order. The application is
therefore denied without prejudice to its being renewed in
the event of changed circumstances.

