ITHE

VAUGHAN

AND TELEGRAPH.

[Sul). OtL

Statement of the case.

THE VAUGHAN AND TELEGRAPH.
1. Where exceptions of form are taken on a libel in admiralty in the District Court, but are not found in the record of the appeals from the District to the Circuit Court, or from the Circuit Court to this one, and
do not appear to have been brought to the attention of the Circuit Court,
or acted on in any manner by it, they must be held in this court to have
been waived.
2. A bill of lading indorsed and sent to the consignees, who make, on the receipt of it, advances on the cargo, gives the consignees sufficient title to
maintain a libel in admiralty against a vessel by whose tortious collision
with the vessel in which the cargo consigned to them was coming, the
cargo has been wrecked and lost.
8. A cargo was shipped from Canada to New York, October 7th, 1864, when
gold was 101 per cent. above legal tender notes of the United States. The
cargo was wrecked soon after, on the Hudson. On libel in the admiralty
at New York, and on appeal from the District Court, the Circuit Court,
on the 26th March, 1870, when $100 gold was only 12 per cent. above
notes, gave the libellants a decree for the value in gold of the. cargo on
the day and at the place of shipment, converting that value, at the same
time, into legal tender notes, at the rate at which such notes stood as
compared with gold on the day of shipment; that is to say, when gold
was 101 per cent. above legal tender notes, or, in other words, when it
required $201 legal tender notes to buy $100 of gold. On appeal to
this court (the difference between gold and notes having now sunk to
about 9 per cent.), held that this decree was right.

ON the 7th of October, 1864, 0. & J. Lynch, of St. Timothy, a place (near Montreal) in Canada East, shipped a
cargo of barley on board a canal.boat which was about to

sail through different canals and waters into the tipper part
of the Hudson and go thence to New York. The Lynches
were correspondents of Gordon, Bruce & McAuliffe, cornMission merchants of New York, and this barley was infact
consigned to them.
The cargo was worth on that day, at St. Timothy's, $2436
in gold, or at the then rate of depreciation, about $4896.30 in
legal tender notes of the United States; at that time so much
below the value of gold as that it required $2.01 of them to
buy $1 of gold. The Lynches received a bill of lading

Dec. 1871.]

Tiia

VAUGHAN

AND TELEGRAPH.

259

Statement of the case.

making the barley deliverable " on the order of 0. & J.
Lynch, or to their assigns," which bills they thug indorsed:
"Deliver to the order of Gordon, Bruce & McAuliffe.
"0. & J. LYNCH"
Thus indorsed, the bills were forwarded to Gordon, Bruce
& McAuliffe, at New York, who on receipt of them advanced
the premium for insurance, the consignors being then indebted to G., B. & McA. for some advances previously made.
The canal-boat arrived safely at Troy, on the hudson,
where she was taken in tow with other boats-she on the
port side-by the steamer Mary Vaughan. The steamer
went down the river with her tow, and on the night of the
26th October, a clear, starlight night, in calm weather, the
tide near its change, and therefore feeble-when in that
broad, straight, deep reach of the Hudson, where Butter
Hill announces the presence of the Highlands-she saw another steamer, the Telegraph, coming up the river, she also
with a tow, and the lights of the two steamers being visible
to each other for more than a ile. No intervening objects
interfering with the safe and easy transit, nothing but the
grossest negligence, or, what would seem more probable, a
determination by each boat that the other should give way
to her, could have brought them together; nevertheless they
did come together, and with such force that the canal-boat
was wrecked, her cargo stnk mid-river; the crew just escaping with their lives.
Hereupon Gordon, Bruce & McAuliffe, alleging themselves to be the consignees of the barley, libelled in one libel
both the steamers in the District Court at New York. The
libel alleged that the Mary Vaughan inoving down the river
Hudson with her tow (describing it), the canal-boat being
securely fastened on the port side of the steamer, and pro
polled, governed, and controlled in all respects by her movements, on the morning of the 26th October, 1864, encountered in the Highlands the Telegraph, moving up with her
tow (also described); that a barge on the port side of the
Telegraph, in all respects propelled, governed, and con-

THE VAUGHAN AND TELEdRAPH.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

trolled by the Telegraph, "came in collision with and struck
the canal-boat near her bow with great violence, parting the
fasts that heMd her to the Vaughan, staving in her bow, and
causing so much damage and injury to her that in about fifteen minutes she went down in water from 100 to 200 feet
deep, . . . and that the loss was caused by the negligence,
want of skill, and improper conduct of the persons navigating the Mary Vaughan, or by the negligence, want of skill,
and improper conduct of the persons navigating the Telegraph, or by their joint negligence, fault, and improper conduct, and not by the fault, negligence, or improper conduct
of the persons on board the canal-boat."
The case coming on to be heard in the District Court exception was taken there by the Vaughan1st. That the statement of facts upon which the fibellants
relied was not sufficiently full, by reason of the omission of
essential particulars, such as the courses of the respective
steamers one to that of the other, their speed, the direction
of the wind, the flow of the tide; and again, by the onission
to state in what manner the Vaughan was in fault ,or improperly managed; that it did not state any fault or negligence on the part of the steamer, nor the acts of commission
or omission, upon which the imputation of fault might be
founded; all which were requii'ed by the practice in admiralty to be stated in plain allegations, to apprise the claimant of the ground of fact upon which relief was sought, that
he might admit or take issue thereon, or allege matters in
avoidance thereof.
2d. That the libellants could not join in the same libel
both steamers, nor maintain a joint libel against them; this
exception being taken by both steamers
Both these exceptions of form were overruled and a decree entered against both steamers, charging each with the
whole loss of the cargo ; fixed at $2924, this value in gold,
as already stated, on the day and at the place of shipment.
But though the value in gold of the cargo was thus plainly
made the basis of the decree in the District Court at New
York, yet the decree was not by its terms made payable in

Dec. 1871.]

THE VAUGHAN AND TELEGRAPH.
Statement of the case.

gold, thus apparently leaving it payable in legal tender
notes, if they were constitutional. Appeals were taken to
the Circuit Court, nothing being contained in the appeals
about the exceptions of form taken in the District Court,
nor anything said in the arguments there on those points.
The cases were considered on their merits, and on an objection that Gordon, Bruce & McAuliffe showed no sufficient
interest in the cargo to sue; and especially on an objection
to the entry of the judgment payable in legal tender notes
instead of gold or its value in legal tenders.
The Circuit Court, equally with the District Court, held
both steamers liable; but reversed the decree because, as it
held, the same ought, in order to give full indeninity to the
libellants, to have been for the value in legal tender notes
($4896.30), of the $2436 gold, which in gold the cargo was
worth. The decree of the Circuit Court was accordingly
entered March 26th, 1870, for the $4896.30, with interest
added to the date of its entry, in all $6515.51, with costs.
One dollar of gold was, at the date of this decree, worth
$1.12 in iegal tenders.*
An appeal was now taken to this court.
The case coming here, Mr. C. Van Santvoord, for the owners
(f the Van qhan, and Mr. F. J. Fitlian,forthe Teleqraph, pressed,
the one Or the other, the objections of form Which had been
urged in the District Court, though not put before the Circuit Court. They contended 'then, in opposition to each
other, on the merits; the former that the fault had been with
the Telegraph, the latter that it had been with the Vaughan.
The point was raised and argued in the interest of both
steltmers, that Gordon, Bruce & MeAuliffe had no sufficient
interest to sue; that in legal, effect the advance of the premium of insurance at the time of the delivery of the bill of
lading with the direction indorsed, to be forwarded, and not
* At the time this case was argued in this court, January 24th, 1872, the

difference between gold and legal tender notes had sunk to about 9 p. e.,
and on the day when the judgment was given, March 4th, 1872, the differ,.
ence was about 10 p. c.

TRs

VAUGHAN AND TELEGRAPH.

,[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

as security for the advance, was an advance on advice of the
shipment, as in Sargent v. Morris,* for which, as was held
in that case, the libellants would have had a lien if the goods
had been received by them, but which could have no effect
to transfer the property; that the libellants not having the
legal title or any property or right of possession at time of
loss, and the suit being without the scope of their authority
as consignees or agents, for the purpose of sale on arrival in
New York, the cage did not fall within the rule which allows
a consignee or agent for an absent owner to.institute a suit
for a purpose within the scope of his authority.
But the point most pressed perhaps was the mode in which
the Circuit Court had fixed the damages, in regard to which
it was said by these counsel, that the Circuit Court should
have affirmed the decree of the District Court in its award
of daiages based upon the value of the barley lost, at the
time and place of shipment, St. Timothy, Canada East, in
specie or Canadian currency, on a specie basis, in dollars
and cents, equivalent to money of that denomination in gold
or in the coinage of the United States, with interest from
the date of the shipment; or at the most, that the Circuit
Court should have decreed the payment in gold, or in the
coinage of the United States, of the value at the time and
place of shipment, in the currency prevalent there, specie or
paper, on a specie basis, with interest. The damages decreed by the District Court, it was said, if short of full indemnity, were so only for the reason that the claimants,
under the Legal Tender Act, might pay the decree in legal
tender notes. But that a decree fbr the payment in gold, or
coin of the United States equivalent to the specie value at
the time of shipment in Canada, with interest from the time
of shipment, would he a full indemnity to the Canadian
shipper, whose consignees the fibellants claim to be. The
cases in this court recognizing the existence of two curren-

cies, one specie or gold, and the other paper, and adjudging
payment in gold or not, as the justice of the case demands,
8 Barnewall and Alderson, 277.

De. 1871.]

THE VAU(IHAN

AND TELEGRAPI.

Argument for the canal-boat.

were, it was said, authorities to the competency of the court
to imake such assessment and decree;* the Legal Tender
Acts not having been intended to change the legal standard
or measure of value, or rule of daniages in judicial proceedings.
Mr. Samuel E. Lyons, contra:
The exceptions to form having been abandoned in the
appeal to the Circuit Court cannot be renewed.
The case on the merits is clear.
The libellants were consignees, and as such had a right to
maintain the action for the injury to the cargo. In Fitzhugh
v. Wiman,t Selden, J., says:
"The eonsignee of property is in law presumed to be the,
owner, and if lost in transitu or diverted from its destination,
suit may be brought, either in his name or that of the real
owner."
The decision of the Circuit Court in giving the libellants
ihdemniy for their loss was correct. The rule under which
damages in such a case are to be ascertained i,3 stated with
exactness in Smith v. Grffilh,j as follows:
" The damages to which the plaintiff is entitled, if any, should
afford an adequate indemnity for the loss sustained at the time
the injury happened. The fair test of its value, assuming there
is no defect in the quality of the article, and consequently of
the loss to the owfier, if it has been destroyed, is the price at
that time in the market."
In this case the prope rty destroyed had a market price,
fixed by daily transactions, and it is this price at its exact
value on the day of the destruction, in the forum where the
judgment is rendered, that is allowed by the decree of the
Circuit Court. This gives the libellants indemnity and no
more, while the rule contended for by the appellants would
give them a fraction less than one-half the sum of the actual
cost of the barley.
Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wallaee, 229; Butler v. Horwitz, 1b. 258.
t

5 Selden, 562.

1 3 Hill, New Yoy ;, 36, 337.

264

THE

VAUGHAN AND TELEGRAPH.

[Sup.

Ct

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

If the legal tender notes have approximated more in value
to gold than they were when the decree in the Circuit Court
was entered, that is only because the owners have chosen to
appeal.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 25th of October, 1864, the steam propeller Mary
Vaughan left the city of' Troy for a voyage on the Hudson
River ,to the city of New York. She had in tow two canalboats laden with cargoes of barley under the deck and hooppoles upon the deck. The boats were lashed, one on each
side of the propeller. The canal-boat R. M.. Adamns was
fastened to the starboard side, and the canal-boat Sherman
Lewis upon the port side. They were attached to the propeller by towing lines. The propeller was about sixty tons
burden, and ninety feet in length by seventeen wide.
The steamboat Telegraph left her dock at the city of New
York about five o'clock in the afternoon of the same day on
a voyage up the river to Newburg, having in tow three large
heavy freight barges, to wit, the Minnesink lashed to her
port side, the Dutchess to her starboard side, and the Insurance lashed to the stern of the starboard barge, Dutchess.
On the morning of the next day, between two and four
o'clock A.M., just below Butter Hill, the barge Minnesink, on
the larboard side of the Telegraph, and the canal-boat Sherman Lewis, on the port side of the Vaughan, came in collision, whereby the Sherman Lewis was torn from her fastenings to the propeller, swung round crosswise of the river,
and across the bow of the'Telegraph and her barges, and
was so much injured that shortly afterwards she filled and
sunk in water from ope to two hundred feet deep, carrying
down her under-deck cargo with her.
The barley belonged to J. & 0. Lynch, of Buharnois,
Canada, and was 'shipped by them from St. Timothy, Canada, in the boat in which it was lost. The boat was bound
to Albany or New York. The bill of lading was given to
the owners, and by them indorsed as follows: "Deliver to
the order of Gordon,Bruce & McAuliffe. 0. &. J. Lynch."

Dec. 1871.]

THE VAUGHAN AND TELEGRAPH.
Opinion of the court.

Gordon, Bruce & McAuliffe were a firm of the city of New
York. The bill of lading was then placed in the hands of
Gordon & Co., and by them, at the request of the shippers,
forwarded to the consignees. Upon receiving it Gordon &
Co., as the agents of the consignees, advanced upon it $29.50
for the premium of insurance upon, the ba'rley; the entire
arrangement with the shippers was made by Gordon & Co.
as such agents. They had special authority to advance upon
this particular barley by drafts at thirty days upon the consignees, and so advised the shippers before the bill of lading
was forwarded.
This libel was filed by the consignees. It alleged that the
disaster was caused "by the negligence, want of proper skill,
and impeoper conduct of the persons navigating the said
propeller, or by the negligence, want of proper skill, and
improper conduct of the perso-ns navigating said steamboat,
or by their joint negligence, fault, and improper conduct."
In the District 'Court both the claimants excepted to the
libel; the claimant of the Vaughan upon the grounds thaf
the particular 'facts upon which the imputation of fault was
founded were not set forth, and that the allegations were not
sufficient to entitle the libellants to a decree; the claimant
of the Telegraph upon the same ground,-, and the further
ground that a libel against both vessels jointly could not be
maintained. The exceptions were overruled. The court
decreed against both vessels, and the claimants of both appealed to the Circuit Court.
The appeals fouiid in the record are wholly silent as to
these exceptions. It does not appear that they were brought
to the attention of the Circuit Court, or that it took any action whatever upon the subject. The appeals fromthe Circuit Court to this court are confined to the merits of the
case. Neither of them contains any reference expressly,
or by implication, to the exceptions. Under these circumstances they must be held to have been conclusively waived
by the respondents. To consider them here would be to exercise the appellate pqwer.of this tribunal in rmviewing the

266

TuE "VAUGHAN

AND

TELEGRAPH..

[Sup. et,

Opinion of the court.

action, not of the Circuit, but of' the District Court. This
we have no power to do. The exceptions must, therefore,
be laid out of view.
It was insisted, in the argument here by the counsel for
the Vaughan that the consignees had no title to the barley,
and hence cannot maintain this libel for its loss. The converse of this proposition is too clear to require discussion.
The transfbr of the bill of lading carried the legal title with
it. The authority of Gordon & Co. to draw on the consignees for advances upon receiving the bill of lading, and
the actual payment hy them as such agents of the premium
for insurance, show such to have been the intention of the
parties.
The presumption of title in the transferee of a bill of
lading which the law raises upon the transfer is, in this case,
fully sustained by the facts developed in the proofs.* But
aside from the special circumstances referred to, we have no
doubt or the right of the consignees as such to maintain this
proceeding. The question is not an open one in this court.
In flouse an v. The Schooner North Carolina,t Chief Justice
Taney, delivering the opinion of the court, said: " We consider it vell settled in admiralty proceedings that the agent
of absent owners may libel either in his own name as an
agent, or in the name of his principals, as he thinks best.
And that the consignees had such an interest in the
whole cargo that they may lawfully proceed in this case, not
only for what belonged to them, and was shipped on their
account, but for that portion .also which was shipped by
Porter as his own and consigned to them." In McKintly v.
Morrish,: it was said, " w hatever may be thb uncertainty
concerning the consignee's right to sue in a court of law,
from the conflicting decisions to be found on that right,
there is -none that he may sue in a court, of admiralty in the
United States."
This brings us to the consideration of the inerits of the
case.
Grove v. Brien, 8 Howard, 439; Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 Id. 107.

" 15 Peters, 49.

: 21 Howard, 865.

Dec. 1871.]

THE

VAUGHAN AND TELEGRAPH.

267

Opinion of the court.

The District Court held that both vessels were in fault.
The.Circuit Court came to the same conclusion,' and affirmed
this part of the decree of the District Court. These concurring judgments are prind facie to be deemed correct.
Our examination of the evidence apart from this consideration has led our minds to the same results. Where the collision occurred the channel was straight, wide, and deep.
The night was caln and clear. It was near the end pf the
ebb tide. No disturbing element was present. The circumstances were as favorable as possible for each vessel to pass
the other with its tows in safety. Without the grossest negligence or mismanagement there could be neither peril nor
disaster. Yet there was a disaster; and the colliding vessels
came together with such violence that the canal-boat was
wrecked and sunk. Neither vessel had a lookout. The
pilot and engineer of the Vaughan were inexperienced and
incompetent. There was at the time no one on the deck
of the Telegraph but the captain. The pilot had gone below. The engine was in charge of a fireman. Other special
faults in the conduct of eaci vessel are imputed, and we think
the evidence establishes them. The vessels are antagonists,
and one remarkable feature of the case is the zeal and ability
with which the counsel of each has attacked the other and
labored to defend his own. Iu the former both have been
successful ; in the latter neither. The evidence is to a large
extent confused and contradictory. It could serve no useful
purpose 'to analyze and discuss it. It is sufficient to remark
that we could add nothing to the clear and able opinion of
the judge of the District Court, by whom this part of the
case wAs there disposed of. We concur in the views which
he expressed.
In the District Court it was held that the proper rule of
damages where a cargo is lost in lransilu by a collision, or
other tort, is the value of the goods at the time and place of
shipment. It was conceded that upon the breach of a contract for the delivery of goods at a particular place the
measure of damages is the full value of the goods at such
nlace. Both propositions are correct and are well settled in

THE

VAUGHAN

AND TELEGRAPH.

[Su p. Ct

Opinion of the court.

our jurisprudence.

The place of shipment was a port in

Canada, and the value of the barley there when shipped was
found to have been 70 cents per bushel, amounting in the
aggregate, with interest, to $2436. The estimate was made
in the currency of Canada, which was equivalent in value to
the gold coin of the United States. It was admitted that
the decree was solvable in legal tender notes, which were
then largely depreciated, but it was held that this was an
incident of the suit in the forum where it was brought, and
that the result was unavoidable. In the Circuit Court the
same rule of damages was applied, but the decree gave the
value of the Canada currency in legal tender notes. These
notes have since largely appreciated, so that while the libel]ants would, under the decree or the District Court, if it had
been paid when rendered, have received much less than the
estimated value of the barley, they will now, if the decree
of the Circuit Court be affirmed, receive much more.
It is clear that if the decree of the Circuit Court had been
paid when it was rendered the result to the respondents
would have been the same as if the decree of the District
Court had been then affirmed and paid in specie. Upon the
rule of damages applied by both courts as respects the kind
of currency ill which the value of the barley was estimated
the libellants were entitled, upon the plainest principles of
justice, to be paid in specie or, its equivalent. The hardship
arising from the decree before us is due entirely to the delay
in its payment which has since occurred, and the change
which time and circumstances have wrought in the value of
the legal tender currency. The decree was right when rendered, and, being so, cannot now be disturbed. It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. The decree, in the
particular under consideration, presents the same question
which was decided by this court in the case of Knox v. Lee.*
There the court instructed the jury that in assessing the
plaintiff's damages they might take into account the fact
that the judgment could be paid in legal tender notes. This

4

12 WaillLe, 457.

Dec. 1871.]

THE VAUGHAN

AND

TELEGRAPH.

269

Opirion of the Chief Justice, and of Clifford and Field, JJ., dissenting.

court upon error affirmed the correctness of that instruction.
The authority of that case is conclusive of the question here
DECREE AFFIRMED.
under consideration.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.
I dissent, and am authorized to say that my brothers
CLIFFORD and FIELD also dissent, from so much of the
opinion just read as relates to the measure of indemnity for
the loss of the barley.
We agree that the loss was through the fault of both
boats, and that the libellants were entitled to indemnity;
and we agree further that the measure of this indemnity was
the value of the barley at the time and place of shipment;
and that this value was $2436 in gold. The decree of the
District Court, rendered on the 21st day of February, 1868,
was for this sum, with interest, making the whole amount
of the decree $2924.20. ,
On appeal,'the Circuit Court held that in order to give
full indemnity to the libellants, the value in gold must be
converted into its equivalent in legal tender notes on the
day of shipment. At that time this currency was so much
depreciated that $100 in gold were worth $201 in notes.
The $2436 in gold, were, therefore, converted into their
equivalent in note dollars, making the sum of $4896.36.
The decree of the District Court was accordingly reversed,
and a decree was entered, on the 26th of March, 1870, for
the last-named sum and interest, in all $6515, with costs.
. This was much more than indemnity at the date of the
decree, and the injustice is still more apparent at this time,
when the value of the notes has so much appreciated that
the affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court gives the
libellants almost double indemnity.
This ease strikingly illustrates the evil consequences of
rendering judgments payable in legal tender currency.
Hardly anything fluctuatfes in value more than such judgments. Every day witnesses a change. The judgment
Aebtor gains by lepreciation and loses by appreciation.
Doubtless, if the legal tender clauses of the Currency Acts

THE CAYUGA.

[sup'. Ct,

Statement of the case.

are constitutional, such judgments may be rendered; but
there is nothing in those acts which requires that judgments
for damages estimated in coin shall be entered otherwise
than for coin. On the contrary,, we have decided in several
cases* that judgments for coin debts may be rendered payable in coin. In the present case the amount of indemnity
was ascertained in gold, and, in our judgment, the decree
should have been for that amount payable in coin. This
would have done exact justice between the parties qnd
would have been in harmony with the principles of the
cases referred to. It would have given indemnity, and not
double indemnity.

THE CAYUGA.
1. Although where two steamships are running in the same direction-the
ship astern sailing faster than the ship ahead-the ship'astern is in general bound to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision, the
rule does not in general apply in a case where the ships are running on
intersecting lines, and the faster sailer is thus coming up. In such a
case the fourteenth article governs, and the ship which has the other on
her own starboard side must keep out of the way.
2. Restibelio in integram being the rule in suits for damages occasioned by
collision, demurrage was held to have been rightly given to the owners
of a New York ferry-boat, injured by a tortious collision, during the
number of days that she had necessarily to lay by for repairs, the rate
being fixed at what the superintendents of three principal ferries of New
York gave it as their opinion, assigning their reasons and showing estimate,, that the service of the boat was worth; and this right to demurrage was held not to be affected by the fact that no charter rate per day
existed for ferry-boats, or the other fact that the owners of the boat (a
ferry company) had another ferry.boat which they kept for emergencies,
and which they put on the line during the time that the injured one was
repairing.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Dit-'ict of New York;
the case being thus:
Congress, by an act of April 29th, 1864, "fixing certain
Cheang-kee v. United States, 3 Wallace, 320; Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Id.
245; Butler v. Horwitz, lb. 259; Trebilccck v.Wilson, 12 Id. 687.

