Tim, THtAMES.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

possibly have been available, but when they treat it as the
)ankrupts'property, and endeavor to secure an illegal pref.

erence by getting the bankrupts to make a payment in the
one Case. ,1r1d seizing it by execution in the other, when they
knew of the insolvency, both appropriations are void.
We see no Orror in the decree whicli was rendered in the

District Court and affirmed in the Circuit Court on appeal,
and which isagain
AFFIRMED BY TillS COURT.

THE THAMES.
1. The contract between a ship and the shipper is that which is contained in
the bills of lading delivered to the shipper. The bill retained by the
ship or "'ship's bill," as it is sometimes called, isdesigned only for its
own intormation and convenience; not for evidence, as between the
parties, of what their agreement was. If it differs from the others,
they must be considered as the true and only evidence of the contract.
of hading for merchandise, stipulating for "adelivery to
2. By issuing bills
order, the ship becomes bound to deliver it to no one who has riot the
order of the shipper. It is no excuse for a delivery to the wrong persons that the indorsee of the bills of lading was unknown, and that
notice of the arrival of the merchandise could not be given to him
Diligent inquiry for the consignee, at least, is a duty. And if, after inquiry, the consignee or the indorsee of a bill of lading for delivery to
order cannot be found, the duty of the carrier is to retain tle goods
until they re claimed, or to store them prudently for and on account
of their owner. He has no right under any circumstances to deliver
them to a stranger.
8. Tle indorsee of a bill of lading may libel the vessel on which the goods

arc shipped, for failure to deliver them, though he may be but an agent
or trustee of the goods for others ; as ex yr., the cashier of a bank.
APPEAL fr.om the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, the case being this:
In January, 1868, Al( red Bennett, James Van Pelt, and
Gilbert Van Pelt, were merchants doing a commission business in New York under the name of' Bennett, Van Pelt &
Co. The partner, Gilbert, resided in Savannah, where he
was in the habit of purchasing cotton and consigning it to

Dec. 1871.]

THE THAMES.
Statement of the case.

his firm in New York. In the course of this dealing he
bought, on the 28th of January, 1868, one hundred and
eleven bales of Brady & Moses, commission merchants in
Savannah, tbr this firm in New York, and on the same day
shipped the cotton to New York by the steamship Thames,
one of the vessels of a line known as the Black Star Line.
Three bills of lading,' of the same tenor and date, were
issued, each stating that the cotton w'as shipped by Gilbert
Van Pelt, and that it was to be delivered "unto order or to
his or their assigns." "And it is expressly understood," the
bill of lading went on to say, "that the articles named in this
bill of lading shall be at the risk of the owner, shipper, or
consionee thereof, as soon as delivered from the tackles of
the steamer, at her port of destination, and they shall be received by the consignee thereof, package by package, as so
delivered; and if not taken away the same day by him, they
may (at the option of the steamer's agents) be sent to store,
or permitted to lay where landed, at the expense and risk of
the aforesaid owner, shipper, or consignee." Two of the
bills were delivered to said Gilbert Van Pelt; the other
being retained as the ship's bill of lading. On the same
day, in order to procure money wherewith to pay for the
cotton, and in compliance with the terms and conditions of
the purchase, he drew his draft on his firm in New York for
$8300, payable fifteen days after sight, to the order of "Billopp Seaman, cashier," and delivered the draft and the two
bills of lading which he had to the said Brady & Moses,
who held moneys of the Atlanta National Bank of Atlanta,
Georgia, for the purpose of investment in bills drawn on
New York, and the draft was discounted for the account of
that bank, and the proceeds were applied toward the payment of the cotton. The bill or invoice for the cotton was
receipted as if it had been paid for in cash, and the Atlanta
Bank was charged with the advances. The two bills of
lading were indorsed,
"Deliver B. Seaman, Cashier, or order.
"G.

S. VAN PELT."

THIE THAMES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

The point of contest in the case was for what exact pur,
pose the two bills of lading had been delivered to Brady &
Moses, that is to say, whether to stand as security until the
draft of Gilbert Van Pelt should be accepted, or whether to
stand until it should bepaid. Gilbert Van Pelt himself swore
it was given but for the former purpose, and that this was
perfectly understood on both sides. Brady & Moses, on the
other hand, each swore that it was given to stand as security until the draft should be paid; and in this they were
confirmed by the clerk of their house, one Bruen. The
draft and the bills of lading were forwarded to. Billopp
Seaman, under general instructions from the Atlanta Na-

tional Bank', to hold and collect for the credit of the account
of the said Atlanta National Bank.
The Thames arrived in New York late on Sunday afternoon, February 2d, 1868. Before arrival, the purser had
made out bills for freight, and made out those for freight en
this cotton, to Bennett, Van Pelt & Co. There was a memorandum, in writing, at the foot of the ship's bill of lading,
"for Bennett, Van Pelt & Co. ;" by whom put there was not
at all explained, further than that it was not in the handwriting of any of the ship's agents at Savannah who signed
the bill of lading and made the contract for carriage. The
ships of the Black Star Line, of which, as already mentioned,
the Thames was one, had brought cotton regularly for Benn ett, Van Pelt & Co. On Monday morning, February 3d,
the steamer commenced delivering cargo. The one hundred
and eleven bales were delivered on the pier. Bennett, Van
Pelt & Co. sent their carts and took the cotton, paid freight
for it, receipted for it on the ship's bill of lading, and sold
the bulk of it for cash on delivery the day that they got it.
As appeared on the one hand, nothing was done by the
Fourth National Bunk in reference to the cotton, or its delivery, from the time of' the acceptance of the draft, February 1st, 1868, until after its maturity, February 19th, 1868.
Oil that day, and on that draft, Bennett, Van Pelt & Co.
failed, and the draft was protested for non-payment. On
the other hand it did not appear, except by the testimony of

Dcc. 1871.]

THrE THAMES.

101

Statement of the case.

James Van Pelt, which was contradicted by Billopp Seaman,
that lie, Seaman, knew of the arrival of the vessel before the
cotton was delivered and sold. On the 19th, after the draft
was dishonored, Seaman, by direction of the President of
the Fourth National Banik, sent a clerk to the office of the
agents of the ship, where he saw the ship's bill of lading,
and heard that the cotton had been delivered some days
before to Bennett, Van Pelt & Co. lie made no demand.
Afterwards, on March 16th, 1868, the bank made a formal
demand for it.
Until the inquiries made on February 19th, 1868, the
agents of the Thames had no notice, beyond that which the
bill of lading itself gave, of any claim to or interest in the
cotton in question by any other parties than Bennett, Van
Pelt & Co.
It was undisputed that Seaman had no real interest in
the cotton, and that it belonged to the Atlanta National
Bank, whose sole agent in New York was the Fourth
National Bank.
In this state of things Seaman filed his libel in the District Court of New York against the Thames, March 19th,
1868, claiming damages in the sum of $8300 for non-delivery to him, at New York, of the cotton, the bill of lading
for which had, as he set forth, and as was not denied,
been assigned to him for a valuable consideration. The
Dwners of the Thames answered the libel and put in issue its
material allegations, averring that the cotton was shipped
by the Thames for and to be delivered to Bennett, Van Pelt
& Co., of New York, and was so delivered in due course
and without notice of the claim of the libellant, and that
no claim for it was ever made by the libellant until long
after such delivery; that the alleged assignment of the bill
of lading to the libellant was by way of security for personal
obligations of Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., who were solvent
merchants, and to whom the libellant looked for payment
of such obligations; and 'that he gave no notice and did no
act as assignee of the bill of lading on the arrival of tho

THE THAMES.

[Su.p. Ct,

Argument for the appellant.

vessel or upon the delivery of the cotton, nor until after
Bennett, Van Pelt & Co. had become insolvent, and that by
his delay and laches he waived and lost all claim against the
vessel and her owners.
The District Court, considering that Seaman had a sufficient interest to sue, and holding, upon the evidence, that
the delivery of the bills of lading for the cotton was intended
to, and did, transfer it to the libellant as a security for the
payment of the draft for $8300, decreed in favor of the
libellant, and the Circuit Court affirming that decree, the
owners of the vessel brought the case here.
Messrs. Barney, Bailer, and Parsons, for the appellant:
The witnesses do not, indeed, agree as to the purpose for
which the bills of lading were transferred, but the j/acts
show that it was as security for the acceptance, and not for
the payment of the draft. Thus1. The draft was a time draft, having fifteen days to run,
and was taken at the rate of such paper. Van Pelt would
have had no motive to buy cotton on credit if his house was
not to have the benefit of the purchase till the credit expired.
2. No instructions were given to the Fourth National
Bank to deal with the cotton in the interval of fifteen days
during which the draft would be running to maturity. The
bank actually did nothing to show any interest in the property.

Even if the transfer of the bills of lading was intended
to secure the payment of the draft, Seaman was not entitled
to hold the vessel and owners for the non-delivery of the
goods, inasmuch as by his own laches he suffered the cotton
to go into the possession of Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., and to
remain in their possession until after their insolvency. The
cotton was shipped in the regular course of business on a
vessel which formed one of a line of steam packets between
New York and Savannah, and which had been engaged in
carrying cotton for account of the same shipper and consignees. The vessel knew no other party in interest. Before arriving at New York, the purser made out the freight

Dec. 1871.]

THE THAMES.

103

Argument for the appellant

bill to Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., assuming in good faith that
the cotton was for them. A memoranduin at the foot of the
bill of lading, " For Bennett, Van Pelt & Co.," confirmed
him in this assumption. The bill of lading, by its terms, required the consignee to take away goods on the day of the
arrival of the vessel at her port of destination, or in default
of his so doing the goods were, at the option of the steamer's
agents, to be sent to store or left on the steamer's wharf.
The vessel arrived on Sunday, and on Monday morning
early, notice was given to Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., the only
consignees of whom the ship had knowledge, and who came
in the usual course of business and took it from the pier,
receipting for it. The firm being solvent, and being regular
consignees, and giving their receipt, the non-production of
the outstanding bill of lading was not a circumstance to
excite suspicion. Notwithstanding that the bill of lading
showed a shipment on a steamer of a regular line at Savainab, January 28th, 1868, which in due course would have
brought the goods to the pier in New York about 3d February following, the Fourth National Bank did absolutely
nothing until February 19th, and even then made no demand, and took no further action till March 16th. Bennett,
Van Pelt & Co. did not fail until February 19th, 1868.
On this state of facts Seaman took the risk of the continued solvency of Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., and of the possession of the cotton by them. Although he may have been
legally entitled, in the first instance, to the possession, yet
it was competent for him by his acts to waive actual possession, and permit the goods to go into the hands of Bennett,
Van Pelt & Co., consignees and owners, subject to Seaman's
rights. Had he intended to avail himself of the rights of a
consignee of the cotton under the bill of lading, he should
have looked after the property and asserted such right. A
consignee, by refusing or failing to accept the consignment,
and look after the property, disclaims and loses the position
of consignee. By failing to assert his rights as consignee
until after the insolvency of Bennett, Van Pelt & Co. had
intervened, Seaman lost all recourse, except as against them.

Tim THIAMES.

PSup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

They were liable to him in trover for the value of the goods
if they took them from the ship without right. The ship's
agent having acted in good faith, and Seaman having clearly
been guilty of laches, the ship should not be visited with the
consequences of his neglect.
8. Seaman was not entitled to maintain this action. He
was not the real party in interest, nor had lie such title to
or interest in the case as to entitle him to sue in admiralty.
The Fourth National Bank, the real agent and. representative of the Atlanta National Bank, and not the cashier, was
the only party entitled to bring the suit.*
The indorsement of commercial paper to and by a bank
cashier is the act of his bank and not his individual act, and
the libellant having no individual property or interest did
not stand in any such relation to the transaction as to enable
him to proceed.t
lUr. B. F. Lee, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The engagement of the ship with the shipper was to deliver the cotton in New York to order. In regard to this
there is no doubt. Such was the express stipulation of the
bills of lading, which were given on the 28th of January,
1868, when the cotton was received on shipboard. On that
day Gilbert Van Pelt purchased the cotton in Savannah fr'on
Brady & Moses, and settled for it by giving in payment his
draft upon the firm of Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., in New
York, of which firm he was a member. The draft waa
drawn at fifteen days' sight in favor of the libellant, Billopp
Seamnan, cashier, or order, and it wasdiscounted by Brady
& Moses with money of the Atlanta National Bank, which
they had in hand for the purpose of purchasing bills on New
York on the bank's account. The price of the cotton was
IIouseman v. Schooner North Carolinia, 15 Peters, 40; McKinley v.
Morrish, 21 Howard, 355.
t- Bank of Genesee v. Patchin Bank, 19 New York, 812; Folgor v. Chase,
18 l'ckoring, 63; Watervliet Bank v. White, 1 Denio, 608.

Dec. 1871.]

Tinti

THAMES.

Opinion of the cburt.

thus, in substance, paid by money which Van Pelt obtained
fromn the bank, as the proceeds of his draft. At the time
when he rew the draft he also indorsed upon the bills of
lading whiih the ship had given for the cotton, an order
directing its delivery to Billopp Seaman, cashier, in whose
favor the draft was drawn, and delivered them with the (]raft
to Brady & Moses. They were made out in triplicate, as is
usual, and, by them all, the ship undertook to deliver the
cotton shilpled to order. Two of themn had been delivered to
Van Pelt, the shipper, and the third was retained hy the
ship. That retained by the ship, it is true; when produced
at the trial in the court below, was found to have, at its foot,
the memorandum, " for Bennett, Van Pelt & Co.," w'hich is
not upon those delivered to the shipper. How that memoranduni camie there is not explained. No witness tis testified in whose handwriting, it is, but it is proved not to have
been in that of any of the ship's agents at Savannah who
signed the bills of lading and who made the contract for
carriage. This, however, is of little importance. The contract between the ship and the shipper is that whicl is contained in the bills of lading delivered. The ship's bill was
designed only for its information and convenience; not for
evidence, as between the parties, of what their agreenient
was. If it differs from the others, they must be considered
as the true and only evidence of the contract.
The proofs in ,the ease leave no reasonable doubt that the
bills of lading were indorsed to the libellant in order to
transfer to him the cotton as a security for the payment of
ihe draft at its maturity. Gilbert Van Pelt alone asserts the
contrary. His testimony, it must be admitted, tends to show
that they were indorsed and received as security for the acceptance only of the draft. But he is directly contradicted
by Moses, by Brady, and by Bruen, neither of whom has any
interest in this controversy, and all ofwhom state that the
bills of lading were indorsed to secure to Seaman the payment of the draft and not merely its acceptance. Besides,
their testimony is in harmony with all the prob,bilities of
the case. It is absurd to talk of security for the acceptance

THE THAMES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

of the draft. No such security was needed. It might have
been accepted before it was discounted. Gilbert Van Pelt
was a nernber of the firm upon which it was drawn, and he
was at hand when it was discounted. lie might then have
accepted it. In addition to this it is significant that the invoice of the sale from Brady & Moses to Van Pelt was made
out and receipted as if paid in cash (the draft having been
turned into cash by a deduction of discount and exchange),
and the advances made upon the draft were at once charged
to the Atlanta National Bank. In view of all this it is incredible that the bills of lading were indorsed to Seaman
merely to secure what the maker of the draft could have
g-iven on the instant. Nor ought the position of Gilbert
Van Pelt to be overlooked. If the bills of lading were indorsed as security for payment of this draft, his firm has
obtained from the ship delivery of the cotton through a
fraudulent representation that they were the consignees, or
entitled to the delivery of possession, and they sold it for
He
cash on the day when it Was thus wrongfully obtained,
was
His
testimony
witness.
unbiased
is not, therefore, an
given while.he was under the influence of a temptation, not
unnatural, to vindicate his firm from the guilt of fraudulently abstracting a large amount of property from its rightful owner. Standing as he does, in such a position, his
statements are not to be credited when in conflict with the
positive testimony of Brady, of Moses, and of' Bruen, and
when inconsistent with the strong probabilities of the case.
It must be considered, then, that by the indorsement of
the bills of lading the libellant became the owner of the
cotton, and that by force of the contract with the ship it was
deliveraible at New York only to him, or to his order.
Reference to authorities to show that the effbet of the indorsenent was to vest such ownership in Seaman is quite
unnecessary. We may, however, refer to a few.*
Conrad v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 445; Gibson v.
Stevens, 8 Howard, 384; Thompson v. Dominy, 14 Mceson & Welsby, 403;
Caldwell v. Ball, I Term, 205; Wright v. Campbell, 4 Burrow, 2051; 1
Lord Raymond, 271; Walter v. Ross, 2 Washington's Circuit Court, 283.

Dec. 1871.]

TuE THAMES.
Opinion of the court.

The ship arrived with the cotton at the port of New York
on Sunday, the 2d day of February, 1868, late in the afternoon, and on the morning of the 3d delivered it to Bennett,
Van Pelt & Co. on their demand, without the production of
either of the bills of lading which had been given to the
shipper, and without any order from Billopp Seaman, who
was the indorsee of the bills, and to whom alone, or to
whose order, it could rightfully be delivered. It does not
appear that any notice of the ship's arrival was given to
Seaman, or that the ship made any inquiry to ascertain to
whom the cotton was deliverable. It would seem that assuming the mysterious memorandum on the bill of lading
retained by the ship was equivalent to an order to deliver to
Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., no demand was made for the presentation of such an order, and no further inquiry for the
consignee was set on foot. The consequence was that Bennett, Van Pelt & Co., having obtained the property without
any right to it, sold it for cash on the day it was delivered to
them, and failed 'Within a few days afterwards.
No argument is needed to show, what is most manifest,
that the delivery which was thus made was a breach of the
ship's contract. By issuing bills of lading tor the cotton,
stipulating for a delivery to order, the ship became bound to
deliver it to no one who had not the order of the shipper,
and this obligation was disregarded instantly on the arrival
of the ship. And it is no excuse for a delivery to the wrong
persons that the indorsee of the bills of lading was unknown,
if indeed lie was, and that notice of the arrival of the cotton
could not be given. Diligent inquiry for the consignee, at
least, was a duty, and no inquiry was made. Want of notice is excused when a consignee is unknown, or is absent,
or cannot be found after diligent search.* And if, after inquiry, the consignee or the indorsees of a bill of lading for
delivery to order cannot be found, the duty of the carrier is
to retain the goods until they are claimed, or to store them
prudently tor and on account of their owner. Ie may thus
Fisk v. Newton, 1 Denio, 45; Peytona, 2 Curtis, 21.

108

THE

THAMES.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

relieve himself from a carrier's responsibility.* He has no
right under any circumstances to deliver to a stranger.
It is said, however, that the libellant delayed presenting
the bills of lading which had been indorsed to him, and delayed making any demand for-the cotton until after the 1.9th
of February, when the draft had fhllen due, and wten it had
been dishonored. But that delay cannot justify the ship's
delivery of the cotton, on the day after its arrival, to persons
who 'had no bill of lading and no authority whatever to receive it. Ilad the delay been instrumental in causing such
a wrongful delivery, had it been active interposition to mislead the ship, a different case might possibly have been presented. But at most the laches of the libellant was mere
inaction, and the wrong delivery was in no degree due to it.
The delivery was, as we have stated, made on, the morning
after the ship's arrival in port, and the ship's order for delivery to Bennett, Van Pelt & Co. was issued before the
libellant could have known of its arrival. We say this, notwithstanding the testimony of James Van Pelt, which is
plainly in conflict with tile proved and conceded Ihcts, of the
case. And- as the cotton was sold for cash on the 3d of
February, the very day of its delivery, the failure of the
libellant to claim it until some weeks 'afterwards, wrought
no injury or loss to the carrier, so far as it appears. We
are, therefore, of opinion that the ship is clearly liable for
the cotton to the libellant.
And we think that the libel was rightly filed in the name
of Billopp Seaman. By the indorsement of' the bills of lading
the legal ownership of the cotton passed to him, as well as
the right to control its delivery. It is a matter of no importance that the beneficial interest may have been in the
bank of which he was cashier.t The holder of a legal right
may always assert it by suit, though he may be accountable
to another for what he may recover. A judgmeit in his
favor may always be pleaded in bar against a suit by thb
* Galloway v. Hughes, 1 Bailey, 553 ; 1 Conklin's Admiralty, 196; Fisk
v. Newton, supra.
f Fairfitld v. Adams, 16 Pickering, 381.

Dec. 1871..]

MAHAN

v.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

beneficial owner. Besides, it is settled that the agent of
absent owners may libel in admiralty, either in his own
name or in that of his principals.*
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MAIAN V. UNITED STATES.
1. The 4th and 5th rules regulating appeals from the Court of Claims, were
designed to enable a party to secure a finding of fact on any point material to the decision by that court
2. But a failure of the court to find the tact as the party alleges it to be,
will not justify the bringing of all the evidence on that subject before
this court, though on a refusal of that court to make any finding on the
subject, the Supreme Court may remand the case for such finding.

TiIS was a motion in a suit which had come here o, appeal
from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
Some years ago, by act of Congress, appeals were allowed
from the Court of Claims to this court; and this' court, in
conformity with authority given in the act, prescribed certain rules under which the appeals might be heard. They
were thus:
RULE I.

In all cases hereafter decided in the Court of Claims, in which,
by the act of Congress, such appeals are allowable, they shall
be heard in the Supreme Court upon the following record, and
none other:
1.' A transcript of the pleadings in the case, of the final judgment or decree of the court, and of such interlocutory orders,
rulings, judgments, and decrees, as may be necessary to a proper
review of the case.
2. A finding of the facts in the case by said Court of Claims,
and the conclusions of law on said facts on which the court
founds its judgment or decree.
" Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina, 15 Peters, 49; MeKinlay v
Morrish, 21 Howard, 355; Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 Id. 100.

