Dec. 1871.]

COCKROFT V.

VoOSE.

Statement of the case.

it must be contained in the books of the Treasury Department, and these are under the control of the defendant.
We think, therefore, that the conclusion of the Court of
Claims, that the proceeds of the 73 bales of cotton belonging
to the claimant were paid into the treasury, and that the
claimant was entitled to judgment, was right.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
SWAYNE and Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
In my opinion, the burden of proof in this case is on the
claimant to show that the money which he seeks to obtain
under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act has been
paid into the treasury. The court, in its opinion, throws
the burden of proof, on this point, on the United States, and
on that account I am constrained to dissent from the judgment in the case.

COCKROFT

V.

VOSE.

,he court reiterates the proposition that unless it can be seen from the record
that a State court decided the question relied on to give this court jurisdiction, the writ of error will be dismissed.

by Mr. E. C.Benedict, to dismiss a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of New York, taken under .the assumption that the case was within the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act; a section abundantly known to most lawyers practicing in this court, but which as it makes the basis
MOTION

of the judgment in this and several cases which follow, is

partially copied for the benefit of any who do not at all times
recall its phraseology.
"SEc. 25. And be it further enacted, That a final judgment or
decree in any suit, in the highest court of law or equity of a
State in which a decision in the suit could be had,

COCKROFT V. VOSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute'
of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, and the
decision is AGAINST their vaJidity;
"Or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of
or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of'
the United States, and the decision is IN FAVOR of such their
validity;
"Or where is drawn in question the construction of any clause
of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission
held under the United States, and the decision is AGAINST the
title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set up or claimed by
either party, under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty,
statute, or commission, may be re-examined and reversed or
affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States upon a writ
of error."
The case was thus:
The State of New York passed "An act to provide for
the collection of demands against ships and vessels," and
authorizing warrants of attachment and seizure of the vessel, much in the style of admiralty proceedings. Under this
act one Vose, professing to have claims against the vessel,
had a warrant issued and the vessel seized. For the purpose of discharging the vessel from the custody of the
sheriff, and in pursuance of the statute, one Cockroft gave
his bond to Vose, whereby he became bound to pay to Vose
the amount of all such claims and demands "as shall have
been exhibited, which shall be established to have been subsisting'liens" upon the vessel pursuant to the statute above
mentioned. On this bond Vose brought the suit below;
setting forth in his declaration or petition the warrant,
seizure, and giving of the bond sued on ; all spoken of as
having been made in pursuance of the statute.
The defence, which did not deny in any way the validity
of the statute, though it professed not to know more than
that there had been a "pretended seizure," and a discharge,
chiefly relied on the alleged fact that the supplies furnished
fiad not been furnished on the credit of the vessel, but on

Del. 1871.]

COCKROFT V. VOSE.

7

Argument against the jurisdiction.

the credit of the master exclusively. The case was tried
upon that issue, and judgment entered in favor of the plaintiffs. From this judgment the defendants appealed to the
General Term, by which the judgment was affirmed. From
that judgment an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment, and on the remittitur from
the Court of Appeals final judgment was entered in the
Supreme Court in favor of the plaintiffs.
The published opinions of the Court of Appeals showed
that the constitutionality of the statute was not raised in the
Supreme Court or in the General Term, and was discussed
for the first time in the Court of Appeals. It was there
argued by counsel that the obligors having given the bond
and got the benefits of the statute by having their vessel released, were estopped to deny the validity of the statute
under which they took that benefit. In the decision bf the
Court of Appeals the opinion is expressed that the statute
was invalid, as being against the provision of the United
States.

Messrs. J. J9. Carlisle and C. IV. Black, against the motion to
dismiss:
The State statute is plainly void, because it infringes upon
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal courts.* Now the
face of this record shows that the Court of Appeals sustained the validity of this State statute. What reasons the
judges may have assigned in their opinions for what they
did is unimportant. , The important matter is, that if this
judgment is enforced, the obligors in the bond will be compelled to pay a judgment founded upon an unconstitutional
and void State statute.
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court cannot be ousted
by a State court assigning reasons for supporting a judgment
founded on an unconstitutional statute, that do not, in words
declare the law constitutional. Does the plaintiff recover
under a plainly unconstitutional and void statute ? That is
The Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 411; The Hine, 1b. 655.

COCKROF T V.

VOSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the point. When the whole question is before it by the
record, this court will look to nothing but the decision simply for or against. On any other principle, State courts, at
their option, might oust the Supreme Court of its jurisdiztion in this class of writs.
In this particular case the Court of Appeals, while admitting the invalidity of the statute, gives it validity, existence,
and effect; an apparently paradoxical condition of things,
that can only be relieved,from inconsistency by holding that
the State court decided in favor of the validity of the statute,
irrespective of, or in spite of, its obiter dictum opinion, or in
spite of an opinion then rendered by it, that can be treated
only as obiter dictum under the circumstances.
Messrs. Benedict and Benedict, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It does not appear to us that the Court of Appeals in
which the case was decided, held the State statute to be
valid, and if it did not the jurisdiction of this court cannot
be invoked to declare it invalid.
The suit before us was an action on a bond given by the
owners of the vessel and their sureties to release her when
she had been attached in the original proceeding to enforce
the lien, and several questions were raised in the defence,
none of which seem, from the pleading, or anything else in
the record, to have been founded on the invalidity of the
statute. Onle of these questions evidently was whether the
credit was given to the owner personally, or to the vessel;
and another was whether, after the bond had been given
and the vessel released, the obligors in the bond were not
estopped to deny the validity of the proceeding in the attachment suit.
Now, if the court decided the case on this latter ground,
as it may have donce, or on any of the other grounds except
the validity of the statute, we have no jurisdiction.
The inference from the condition of the record, that the

court did not decide the statute valid, might receive confir.

Dec. 1871.]

TENNESSEE BANK V. BANK

OF

TLoUISIANA.

9

Statement of the case in the opinion.

mation from the opinion of that court, if we were at liberty
to consider it, for it is there held that the statute is invalid
for tlhe very reason given here by the plaintiff in error why
we should hold it invalid.
On the whole, we do not find, from anything in the record
of this case, that the question relied on here was decided
against the right claimed by plaintiff in error, and the writ
is, therefore,
DisMISSED.

BANK OF WEST TENNESSEE V. CITIZENS' BANK OF LOUISIANA.

Where a decision of the highest court of a State in a case is made on its settled
pre-existent rules of general jurisprudence, the case cannot be brought
here under the 25th section; notwithstanding the fact that the State
has subsequently made those rules one of the articles of its constitution, and the case be one where if the decision had been made on the
constitution alone, a writ of error under the said section might have lain.

by Mr. :Edward Janin (Mr. T. . Durant opposing)
fo' dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of error to the
Supreme Court ofthe State of Louisiana, taken under an
assumption that the case fell within the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, quoted supra, pp. 5, 6.
MOTtON

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought th'e suit against the defendant in error in the Fifth District Court of New Orleans, to
recover the sum of $93,380, for moneys deposited by the
plaintiff with the defendant, and moneys collected by the
latter for the former. All the so-called moneys received by
the defendant were the notes of the rebel government. The
District Court, on the 27th of March, 1867, gave judgment
for the plaintiff. The case was thereupon taken by appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State. That court, on tbe 14th of
December, 1869, reversed the judgment of the court below,
and dismissed the case. In the opinion delivered it wts
said

