THE CAYUGA.

[sup'. Ct,

Statement of the case.

are constitutional, such judgments may be rendered; but
there is nothing in those acts which requires that judgments
for damages estimated in coin shall be entered otherwise
than for coin. On the contrary,, we have decided in several
cases* that judgments for coin debts may be rendered payable in coin. In the present case the amount of indemnity
was ascertained in gold, and, in our judgment, the decree
should have been for that amount payable in coin. This
would have done exact justice between the parties qnd
would have been in harmony with the principles of the
cases referred to. It would have given indemnity, and not
double indemnity.

THE CAYUGA.
1. Although where two steamships are running in the same direction-the
ship astern sailing faster than the ship ahead-the ship'astern is in general bound to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision, the
rule does not in general apply in a case where the ships are running on
intersecting lines, and the faster sailer is thus coming up. In such a
case the fourteenth article governs, and the ship which has the other on
her own starboard side must keep out of the way.
2. Restibelio in integram being the rule in suits for damages occasioned by
collision, demurrage was held to have been rightly given to the owners
of a New York ferry-boat, injured by a tortious collision, during the
number of days that she had necessarily to lay by for repairs, the rate
being fixed at what the superintendents of three principal ferries of New
York gave it as their opinion, assigning their reasons and showing estimate,, that the service of the boat was worth; and this right to demurrage was held not to be affected by the fact that no charter rate per day
existed for ferry-boats, or the other fact that the owners of the boat (a
ferry company) had another ferry.boat which they kept for emergencies,
and which they put on the line during the time that the injured one was
repairing.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Dit-'ict of New York;
the case being thus:
Congress, by an act of April 29th, 1864, "fixing certain
Cheang-kee v. United States, 3 Wallace, 320; Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Id.
245; Butler v. Horwitz, lb. 259; Trebilccck v.Wilson, 12 Id. 687.

Dec. 1871.]

THE CAkLTGA.
Statement of the case

rules and regulations for preventing collisions on the water,"
made among them the following:
Two

SHIPS *UNDER STEAM

MEETING.

Article 14. If two ships under steam are crossing so as to in,
volvo risk of collision, the ship Which has the other on her own
starboard side shall keep out of the way.
CONSTRUCTION OF ARTICLrs

14, &c.

Article 18. Where by the above rule one of two ships lis to
keep out of the way, the other shall kpep her course subject to
the qualifications contained in the following article:
PROvIsO TO SAVE SPECIAL CASES.

Article 19. In obeying and construing these rules due regard
must be had to all dangers of navigation, and due regard mu4st
also be had to any special circumstances which may exist in
any particular case, rendering a departure from the above rules
necessary in order to avoid immediate danger.
With these rules in force the James Watt, a North River
ferry steanboat, and a fast sailer, set out from he' slip at
Hoboken, New Jergey, opposite the upper part of New York,
to make her regular ferry trip to her slip at the foot ofBarclay Street, a point about a mile lower down on the opposite
side of the riyer. 'This made her course across the river
southeast. A few minutes previously the'steam-tugCayuga,
a less fast sailer than the ferry-boat, was setting out from
her slip at Desbrosses Street, a point on the New York side
about half a mile lower down than Ioboken, and of course
about half a mile above Barclay Street. Her purpose was
to go over to certain wharves on the Jersey shore, not very
far from opposite Barclay Street; meaning, however, first to
go in to Hubert Street-a street about seven, hundred feet
below Desbrosses-and there to take a boat in tow. Setting
off, she did round in as if to go into'Hubert Street, but perceiving that she could not get the boat out from the place
(the dock being then crowded), rounded out again, and pursuing a course about south-southwest went out toward the
middle of the river, about one,third into the stream. Pur-

THE CAYUGA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

suing their respective courses the two boats were on intersecting lines; the tug ha ing, of necessity, the s/earner on her
slarboard side un/il /he point of inlersecion should be passed.
The ferry-boat having been the faster sailer, and her point
of departure at ioboken having been farther north than
that of the tug on the opposite or New York side of the
river, she was continually coning nearer to the tug, but
coming up on an intersecting line and not directly astern,
The possibility of a collision was, of course, obvious to any
intelligence, from the time the two beats'left their respective
wharves. As they got near the middle of the stream it became more plain; and by degrees, as they'approached, the
possibility passed into a probability.
Coming quite near to each other, the ferry-bea being s/ill
on /he lug's s/arboardside, and just before reaching the point
where their courses if adhered to would intersect, the tug
stopped her engine for a short time, and then put it ahead.
The ferry-boat having supposed, when she saw that the tug's
engine.was stopped, that it was meant that she, the ferry-boat,
should go ahead, now dashed on, but the tug after a short
stoppage put her engine into motion again, and a collision
followed. The ferry-boat was struck on the port bow, and
so much injured that she had to go into dock and remain
there seventeen days for repairs; the company which owned
her putting on the line a spare boat which they owned and
kept to supply emergencies. Hereupon the owners of the
ferry-boat, libelled the tug in the District Court at New York.
That court condemned the tug, and awarded to the owners
of the ferry-boat $75 a day for the time she was necessarily
laid up for repairs; the superintendents of three leading
ferries in New York harbor having expressed the opinion,
and the reasons of it with an exhibition of estimates, that
the boat was worth that much per day; though it was admitted by her owners that there was no fixed charter rate
for ferry-boats.
The Circuit Court affirmed the decree, and from this the
present appeal came.
Assuming the case as above given to be the case made out

Dec. 1871.]

TnE

CAYUGA.

273

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

by the evidence (which was what the court did assume), the
points, oF course, were:
1st. Which boat had violated the rules of navigation ?
2d. Whether the decree for demurrage was rightly made
on the testimony, and with the admitted want of evidence of
a charler rd/e per 'day for ferry-boats; and when the company
supplied the place of the injured boat with another boat of
their own, kept for emergencies of a sort such as that which
had happened.
Mr. C Van Sanivoord, for the appellants; Mr. W. J. A
_uller, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Collision cases usually present difficult questions of fact,
arising from conflicting testimony, and the case before the
court is one of that class, but both of the subordinate courts
decided in favor of the libellants, and our decision, with
brief exphnations, must be in the same way.
The libelhants are the owners of the steam ferry-boat
James Watt, employed in transporting passengers and freight
betweeh the port of New York and the city of Hoboken, in
the State of New Jersey, and they filed the libel in the District Court against the steamtug Cayhga, usually employed
in towing vessels and other water-craft, charging that the
steanitug was so improperly and unaskilfully managed and
navigated that she ran into and upon the James Watt, causing
to the latter steamboat great injury and damage, as more
fully set forth in the libel. By the pleadings and evilence
it appears that the collision occurred at four o'clock in the
afternoon of the thirteenth of June, 1866, in clear weather
and under circumstances which show beyond all doubt that
one or both vessels were in fault. Daily trips were made
by the James Watt, and at the time she was making her
regular trip down the river to her place of destination at the
foot of Barclay Street, on the New York side of the. river.
She started from her regular slip 4t Hoboken, and as she
proceeded on her route she was heading obliquely across the
VOL. XlV.

18

THE CA YTJG.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

river towards the wharf to which she was bound. Shortly
after the James Watt left her wharf at Hoboken the Cayuga
came out from the slip at the foot of Desbrosses Street, and

having rounded to, nearly opposite Hubert Street, she then
took a course down the river, heading for the Jersey side of
the river, though less obliquely than the ferry-boat of the
libellants, and they collided when the former had advanced
about one-third of the way across the river towards the Jersey shore. Enough appears to show that the James Watt
was heading in a south by east course, and that she was
running in the track she usually followed in making her
daily trips, and that the Cayuga was heading nearly in a
south-sonthwest course for the place of her ultimate destination on the opposite side of the river. Both steamers
were well manned, and each was seasonably seen from the
ether and at about the same time, and as it was daylight and
good weather, and as it was obvious that their courses intersected, it must have been known to those intrusted with
their nvigation that a collision might ensue unless some
proper precaution was seasonably adopted to prevent such a

disaster. They had' plenty of sea-room, and if either bad
changed her helm th'e collision would have been prevented,
but as the Cayuga had the James Watt on her own starboard
side throughout, from the time she took her course down
the river to the time of the disaster, the sailing rules made
it*her duty to keep out of the way. Article fourteen prescribes that "if two ships under steam are crossing so as to
involve risk of collision, the ship which has the other on her
own starboard side shall keep out of the way of the other,"
and the court is of the opinion that the Circuit judge was
correct in deciding that that rule is'applicable in this case.
Suggestion is made, and perhaps it is correct, that the
Cayuga was slightly ahead when she first took her course
and started down the river, but the speed of the James Watt
being somewhat the greater it appears that.she soon made
such an advance that it became evident that unless one or
the other( gave way the danger of collision would become
imminent. Apply that rule and it is clear that it was the

TnE (CAYUGA.

Dec. 1871.]

Opinion of the court.

duty of the Cayuga to keel) out of the way, inasmuch as she
bad the James Watt on her own starboard side. Every
vessel overtaking another vessel, it is said, shall keep out of
the way of the vessel ahead, but that rule cannot properly
be applied in this case, as the two steamers were crossing or
running on intersecting lines, in which case the question is
not in general affected by the 'omparative speed of the two
vessels, nor by the fact that the one or the other was slightly
ahead when the necessity for precaution commenced.
Undoubtedly where two ships are running in the same
direction, the ship astern, if she is sailing faster than the
ship ahead, is in general bound to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision, but it is clear that the rule
does not in general apply in a case where the ships are
crossing or are distant from each other on a right line and
are running on intersecting lines, as it is expressly enacted
where two steamships are crossing ,that the ship which has
the other on her own starboard side shall keep out of the
way of the other.* Such is the express regulation enacted
by Congress, and the correlative duty of the other vessel is
described in the eighteenth article, which is, that where one
of two ships is required to keep out of the way the other
shall keep her course, subject to the qualifications contained
in the succeeding article, which is 'entitled a "proviso to
save special cases." By that proviso it is prescribed that in
obeying and construing those rules due regard must be had
to all dangers of navigation, and to any special circumstances
which may exist in any particular case, rendering a departure
from those rules necessary in order to avoid immediate dangert Persons engaged in navigating vessels upon the seas
are bound to observe the nautical rules enacted by Congress,
whenever they apply, and in other cases to be governed by
ihe rules recognized and approved by the courts. Nautical
rules, however, were framed and are administered to prevent
such disasters and to aflbrd security to life and propdrty, but
*

Whitridge v. Dill, 23 Howard, 453.

f 18 Stat. at Large, 60, 61.

TiiE,

[Slip. Ct.

CAYUGA.

Opinion of the court.

it is a mistake to suppose that either the act of Congress, or
the decisions of the courts, require the observance of any
given rule in a case where it clearly appears that the rule
cannot be followed without defeating the end for which it
was prescribed or without producing the mischief which it
was intended to avert. Qualifications of that character were
sanctioned by this court years before the existing rules were
enacted by Congress, and no doubt is entertained that the
proviso to sav.e special cases contained in those rules was intended to affirm in substance and effect the views upon that
subject which this court had previously expressed.* Respon,sive to the charge that the Cayuga did not observe the fourteenth article of the sailing rules, the respondents attempt
to show that the James Watt did not keep her course., as
required by the eighteenth article-that she was running
faster than the steantug, and that having passed her on the
starboard side she suddenly sheered across her bows, and
that the two steamboats in a few seconds came together, the
stern of the Cayuga striking against the port stern-quarter
of the James Watt and caused the injuries alleged in the
libel. Instead of that the District Court found, as matter
of fact, that the Cayhga, just before she reached the point
of intersection, stopped her engine, giving those in charge
of the ferry-boat to understand that the latter steamer could
pass in safety, which had the efelt to mislead those in charge
of the James Watt, as the Cayuga in a brief period put her
en ine in motion and started ahead, and that the collision
immediately ensued.
Additional testimony was taken, subsequent to the appeal
from the decree of the District Court, but the Circuit Court,
in view of the whole case, was still inclined to( the opinion
that the finding of the District judge was correct. Considerable conflict exists in the testimony 'on that point, but it
is not necessary to decide it, as the same conclusion must be
adopted even if it be admitted that the steamtug did not
stop her engine and mislead the ferry-boat, as is supposed
,

* Steamship Co. v. Runiball, 21 Howard 385.

Dee. 1871.]

TnE

CAYUGA.

Opinion of the court.

by the libellants, as it is cleat that the charge made against
the James Watt that she changed her course is not sustained.
Even if the Cayuga did not do anything to mislead the
James Watt it is clear thal she did not keep out of the way,
as required by the fourteenth sailing rule, nor did she adopt
any proper preca'ution to prevent a collision. Bound as she
was to keep out of the way, the fact that she did not comply
with that requirement is as complete an answer to the defence set up by the claimants as the proof would be that she
misled the other vessel, as charged by the libellants. Having done nothing to prevent the collision she must abide the
consequences, unless she can show some good reason for her
failure to perform her duty in that regard. All the excuse,
or the principal one, offered is the one befbre mentioned, that
she was ahead and that it was the duty of the James Watt
to have adopted the necessary precautions.
Where a steamer astern, in an open sea and in good
weather, is pursuing the same general course as the one
ahead, and at greater speed, the steamer astern, as a general
rule, is required to give way or to adopt the necessary precautions to prevent a collision, as the steamer ahead is entitled to the road, but the court here concurs with the Circuit Court that that rule did not apply in this case, even if
i be conceded that the Cayuga, after she rounded to, and
when she first took her course down the river, was slightly
ahead, as the relative situation of the two steamers even
at that time, was that described in the fourteenth article of
the sailing rules, and not that described in the seventeenth
article, as is supposed by the respondents. Precautions at
that time were not necessary, as the distance between the
two steamers, measuring east an(l west, was very considerable, but they were running on converging lines, and as they
advanced that distance was lhst reduced, which soon created
the necessity for precautions to prevent a collision, and the
testimony entirely satisfies the court that at the time the necessity for precaution commenced, the two steamers were
nearly abreast, and that the Circuit Court was right in hold.
ing that the fourteenth' sailing rule is applicable to the case,

THE CAY.UGA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and that it was the duty of the Cayuga to keep out of the,
way.
Reference was made to a commissioner in the District
Court to ascertain the amount of the damages, and he reported the whole amount to be two thousaxid six hundred
and seventy-two dollars and thirty cents, as more fully
shown in the record. Exceptions were duly taken by the
respondents to Various items of the report, but the court
overruled the exceptions and confirmed the report. In
eluded in the report of the commissioner was an allowance
of seventy-five dollars per day for the seventeen days the
steamer was detained while the repairs were being made,
and to that allowance the respondents still object. Other
exceptions to the commissioner's report were taken at the
time, but they have hot been much pressed in argument and
are overruled as not well founded. Reasonable demurrage
is certainly a proper charge, as the leading maxim is restilutio
in inleqrarn in all suits for damages occasioned to vessels by
collision.* Subject to the provision that owners of ships
and vessels are not nod, liable for any such loss, damage, or
injury, beyond the amount of their interest in the ship and
her freight then pending, it is settled law that the damages
which the owner of the injured vessel is entitled to recover
in cases of collision are to be estimated in the same manner
as in other suits of like nature for injuries to personal property, and the owner, as the suffering party, is not limited
to compensation for the immediate efleets of the injury inflicted, but the claim for compensation may extend to loss
of freight, necessary expenses incurred in making rep-irs,
and unavoidable detention.t Tested by that rule it is quite
clear that the explanations given by the respective judges in
the subordinate courts are sufficient to show that the report
of the commissioner was correct. Many other authorities
might be referred to in support; of the rule here laid down,
The Baltimore, 8 Wallace, 38r
t The Cayuga, 2 Benedict, 125; S C., 7 Blatchford, 389; S. C., 1 Bene.
dict, 171.

Dec. 1871.]

EASLEY V. KELLOM.
Statement of the case.

but inasmuch as the subject was fully considered in the case
of The Baltimore, the court does not deem it necessary to
give it much additional consideration.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

EASLEY V. KELLOM

ET AL.

1. Where the Land Department of the government, dei~ying an unfounded
pre-emption claim in the government lands set up by a person indebted
to several persons, proceeds to sell the lands at public auction, as part
of the public lands, and the debtor and several of his creditors enter into
an agreement that the land shall not be.bid tip, but on the contrary shall
be struck off at as low a price as possible to one of the creditors, who
shall divide it among such creditors as will come into a agreement to
receive it in satisfaction of their debts, and the land is thus sold at an
under price, creditors who have'not come into the arrangement cannot
set the arrangement aside. The government alone car interpose.
2. A bill of review held to have been properly entertained on the after-discovery of a lost paper; and a former decree held, on thc new evidence,
to have beer, rightly reversed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska; the case being thus:
On the 25th of June' 1857, Harrison Johnson having, a
he supposed, the west half of a pre-ermption right of 160
acres within the limits of the city of Omaha, gave a mortgage or deed of ti'ust on it to secure the payment of his note
to Easley and Willingham. Some time afterwards, the city
of Omaha filed a caveat against Johnson's claim, and on the
29th of December, 1859, the commissioner of the land office
gave notice to the local register and receiver that Johnson's
certificate of location had been , ancelled. Thereupon the
property was advertised fbr sale as a part of the public lands.
Johnson being in debt to several other persons, including
one Kei om, it was proposed between him and some of these
creditors that the property should be bid off at as low a price
as possible, so that the creditors might receive satisfaction
for their claims, and that something might be left for him.

