Dec. 1871.]

BLACK V. CURIRAN.,

463

Statement of the case.

&c., and the fees for licenses as a compensation for inspections and examinations.
We think, therefore, that the collector was authorized to
retain all descriptions of fees paid him not in excess of two
thousand five hundred dql]ars. It follows that the demurrer
was properly ove.rruled; and, as the defendant did not think
it proper to reply, but allowed judgment to be entered upon
the plea, the other plea of nil debet became immaterial, and
the judgment was properly entered for the defendant.
It is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

BLACK V. CURRAN.
1. Under the homestead laws of Illinois, the homestead right is not in an
absolute sense an estate in the land.

The fee is left as it was before the

statutes, subject to a right of occupancy, which cannot be disturbed
while the homestead character exists.

2. The disposition of the property by judicial sale is accordingly left unaffected, except so far as is necessary to secure a homestead for the family
of the occupant.
8. Hence the land in fee can be sold under execution, subject to the homestead right, and the purchaser has the absolute title when the homesteaa,

right ceases.

Eao to the Circuit Court foi' the District of Illinois ; the
case being thus:
The statutes of Illinois* relating to homesteads enact:
"SECTION 1. . . . There shall be exempt from levy and forced
sale, under any process or order from any court in this State, for
debts contracted, the lot of ground and buildings thereon, occupied
as a residence, and owned by the debtor, being a householder
and having a family, to the value of $1000. Stich exemption.
shall continue after the death of such householder, for the bene-

fit of the widow and family, some or one of them continuing to
occupy such homestead, until the youngest child shall become
Laws of 1851, p. 25; Chapter 48 Gross's Statutes, p. 327, amended by
act of February 17th, 1857; Act of 1857, p. 119.

BLACK V. CURRAlN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

21 years of age, and until the death of such widow, and no release or waiver of such exemption shall be valid unless the same
shall be in writing subscribed by such householder and his wife,
if he have one, and acknowledged in same manner as conveyances of real estate are by law required to be acknowledged.
" SECTION 3. If in the opinion of the creditors or officer holding an execution against such householder, the premises claimed
by him or her as exempt, are worth more than $1000, such officer shall summon six qualified jurors of his county, who shall
appraise said premises, and if, in their opinion, the property
may be divided without injury to the interest of the parties,
they shall set off so much of' said premises, including the dwelling-house, as in their opinion shall be worth $1000, and the
residue of said premises may be advertised and sold by such
officer.
"SECTION 4. In case the value of the premises shall in the
opinion of the jury be more than $1000, and cannot be divided
as provided for in this act, they shall make an appraisal of the
value thereof, and deliver the same to the officer, who shall deliver a copy thereof to the execution debtor, with a notice
thereto attached that unless the execution debtor shall pay to
said officer the surplus over and above $1000, on the amount
due on said execution, within 60 days thereafter that such premises will be sold.
"SECTION 5. In case such surplus, or the amount due on said
execution, shall not be paid within the said 60 days, it shall be
lawful for the officer to advertise and sell the said premises, and
out of the proceeds of such sale to pay to such execution debtor
the said sum of $1000, which shall be exempt from execution
for one year thereafter, and apply the balance on such execution, provided that no sale shall be made unless a greater sum
than $1000 shall be bid therefor, in which case the officer may
return the execution for want of property."
With this statute in force one Craddock, the head of a
family, was from 1853 till 1863 the owner of a lot in Illinois
which constituted his homestead; his house being built on
one half; and the other halfi exceeding in value $2000, being
used for its necessary purposes; both haves alike, however,
constituting, as was assumed by the court, the homestead
of himself and family.

Dec. 1871.]

BLACK V.

CURRAN.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

In 1858, one Spear obtained a judgment against Craddock,
but although the homestead property was sufficient to pay
his demand and set off to the debtor what he was entitled
to under the law, Spear did not pursue any of the modes
pointed out by the statute of obtaining satisfaction of his
property, but caused the western half to be sold at sheriff's
sale under his execution, and having obtained a sheriff's
deed for this half conveyed it to one Curran.
Subsequent to this, that is to say, in 1863, Craddock and
wife conveyed the whole lot, east and west halves alike, in
fee simple by deed with full covenants releasing the homestead, and properly acknowledged, to certain persons who
subsequently conveyed to one Black. In two weeks after
Craddock and his wife thus conveyed the premises, Craddock with his family removed from them and ceased to
occupy them afterwards.
Ihi this state of things, A.D. 1866, Curran claiming tftle
through the judicial sale to Spear brought suit against Black
for the west half of the lot; Black defending himself under
the title, if any, acquired under the deed from Craddock
and wife to his vendors.
The court below, relying, as was said here by counsel, on
McDonald v. Cr6andall and Coe v. Smith, decisions in the Supreme Court of Illinois,* and considering that the sheriff
could levy on and sell and convey a part of the homestead
lot, while in occupancy of the judgment debtor, and that
the deed would take effect if the debtor and his family
abandoned the homestead, adjudged that the plaintiff was
entitled to the property claimed by him, that is to say the
western half of the lot, in fee simple, and gave judgment
accordingly. That judgment was now here for review.
Mr. Lyman. Trumbull (a brief of Messrs. Stuart, Edwards,
and Brown being filed on the same side) for the plainif in error.:
Assuming that the facts show the occupation of the entire
lot as a lcmestead, does the plaintiff show any title to the
48 Illinois, 231, and 47 Id. 225.
VOL. XIV.

80

466

BLACK V. CU RRAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

premises? To recover, he must show a valid execution, a
regular levy, and an authorized sale. Now, here none of
the requisitions of the law were complied with. Assuming
the lieu to exist and the premises to exceed in value the sum
of $1000, how is this lien to be enforced ? The act provides
in detail the manner, time,. and circumstances under which
levy and sale can be made. These provisions are mandatory,
prerequisite to the right to sell. They are, by the decision
of the Supreme Court, prohibitory of a sale in any other way.*
But by the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
which are the rule in this matter fo the Federal court, a
judgment and execution do not create a lien against the
homestead of the judgment debtor, and the owner may sell
or mortgage it free from the lien of the judgment. This is
emphatically declared in Green v. Marks,t a leading case on
this matter, and the doctrine of that case has been affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State in a series of decisions.t
As a rule of property it has existed for ten years. Titles to
many v~alnable tracts and lots of land have been acquired on
the faith of this construction. The title of the grantors. of
plaintiff in error was so obtained in 1863. The judgment in
this case unsettles thiose titles and prescribes a different rule.
We submit that, both on principle and the authorities of
every State having homestead laws, the doctrine asserted
by the court below (that without complying with any of the
terms of the homestead law, and in a mode not pointed out
by the law, the sheriff can divide the homestead lot, levy on
part, sell and convey it, while in the occupancy of the judgment debtor, and that the deed so made will convey title to
take effect when the occupation by the debtor of the lot
ceases) is in effect a judicial repeal bf the law.
The authority to sell is derived confessedly but from the
statute. What is it that is exempt from sale? Not some
ideal homestead-right estate, leaving another imaginary reversionary interest which can be subjected to the debts of
Bliss v. Clark, 39 Illinois, 596-7.

J

t 25 Id 221.

Bliss v. Clark, 39 Id. 590; Ives v. Mills, 37 Id. 76; Hume v. Gossett, 48

Id. 297; Pardee v. Lindley, 31 Id. 187.

bcde.

1871.]

BLACK

v.

CURRAN.,

46,7

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the occupant. The exemption from levy and forced sale, is
of "the lot of ground and buildings." The thing out of which,
about, and in which, all the different kinds of estate arise,
cannot be levied on or sold except, in the mode provided.
If the lot is exempt from levy and sale every conceivable
estate in and to said lot must also be exempt. It is no answer to say that the exemption is only to the value of $1000,
for th~e reason that the provisions are by the statute made
to apply only where, in the opinion of the creditor, the
premises exceed in value $1000: then, and then only, can
he demand through the sheriff a jury to ascertain the value
and divisibility of the premises, and upon notice to the judgmat debtor, after the expiration of 60 days, may he sell.
By the proviso to the 5th section, no sale can be made unless
more than $1000 shall he bid. The carefully defined provisions to protect the judgment debtor in his -homestead
right in a case where, in the opinion, of the creditor, tlhe
value of the tot exceeds $1000, the court below has decided
are not necessary in the only possible case in which they
could have any application.
By making these provisions in all cases essential no one
can be injured. If the premises are only worth $1000, then
nothing can be done. If the credito'r at any time conceives
them to be worth more he can instantly secure his claim by
proceeding in accordance with the statute. If he chooses to
remain inactive until the judgment debtor conveys, the loss
is the result of his negligence.
As to the cases ofMcDonald v. Crandall and Coe v. Smith,
relied on by the court below, it is enough to remark that in
the first case the court expressly refer with approval to
Green v. Marks, cited and relied on supra by us, and that
the opinion in the latter simply refers to the former case as
controlling it.
These were cases of voluntary conveyances to grantees of
the person claiming the homestead right. The case now
before the court iuvolves a sale in invitum. This ditinction
would of itself be sufficient to demonstrate the inapplicability
of these decisions.

468

BLACK V. CURRAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

But the court in these cases did by no means decide that
a deed failing to release the homestead was, or could be, by
and of itself, a valid conveyance of the title by virtue of
which the grantee might maintain ejectment against the
grantor, or his grantees occupying the premises under conveyances from him. They decide only that the irregular
deed and the surrender of the premises to the grantee of that
deed constituted an abandonment of the homestead to that
grantee, so as to estop the claim of the grantor and all claiming through him. It was the concurrence of the voluntary
deed and voluntary surrender that operated the destruction
of the right.
In the case now before the court the possession was surrendered to the grantees of the deed under which plaintiff
in error claims, and he was in possession thereunder when
this suit was commenced.
[The learned counsel then went into an examination of
decisions in New York, Iova, Wisconsin, New Hampshire,
and Minnesota, to show that the law as conceived by them
was the law in every State where exemptions similar to
those in Illinois existed.]
Mr. Jackson Grimshaw, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The rights of the parties to this suit depend upon the
construction to be given the homestead laws of Illinois.
These laws exempt from forced sale on execution the lot
of ground and the buildings thereon occupied as a residence
and owned by the debtor, being a householder and having a
family, to the value of one thousand'dollars. And the owner
of the homestead, if a married man, is not at liberty to alienate it except with the consent of the wife, and there must be
an express release and waiver of the exemption on the part
of both to render the conveyance operative. A mode is
provided for dividing the property, if divisible, in case its
value exceeds one thousand dollars, and of selling it, if indi.
visible, and applying the proceeds in a particular manner.

Doc. 1871,]

BLACK V. CURRAN.
Opinion of the court.

As Spear did not pursue these modes of obtaining satisfaction of his judgment, although the homestead property was
sufficient to pay his demand and set off to the debtor what
he was entitled to under the law, the inquiry arises whether
the proceedings which he did take operated to pass the title
after the homestead was abandoned.
It is conceded that this inquiry must be answered if possible by the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois on
the subject, for these decisions constitute a rule of property
by which we are to be governed. Although the exact point
in dispute has not been adjudicated by that court, yet certain
general principles have been announced which in their application to this case we think relieve it of difficulty. The
embarrassment encountered in the administration of this
law has been chiefly owing to the fact that the exemption
was confined to real estate of a limited value. If the ex..
emption had extended to the entire lot of ground occupied
as a homestead without regard to its value, it is easy to see
that many troublesome questions which have arisen would
have been avoided.
In order to reach a proper conclusion in this case, it is
necessary to understand what is the nature of the homestead
right. It cannot in an absolute sense be said to be an estate
ia the land; the law creates none and leaves the fee as it
,,kas before, but in substance declares that the right of occupancy shall not be disturbed while the homestead character
exists. White this continues, the judgment creditor cannot
lay his hands on the property, nor the husband sell it without the consent of his wife, and not then without an express
release on the part of both, of the benefits of the law. The
purpose of the legislature was to secure a homestead for the
family, and tho disposition of the property either by judicial
sale or voluntary conveyance, was left unaffected except so
far as was necessary to accomplish this object. As long as
the property retained its peculiar character, it was within
the protection' of the law, but the exemption from sale under
execution or by deed (except with homestead waiver) could

470

BLACK V. CURRAN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

be lost by abandonment or surrender; that is to say, by acts
in pais.
The Supreme Court of Illinois have recognized and applied these principles in peveral recent cases, where the
effects of voluntary conveyances by the owner of the homestead were the subject of consideration.
In McDonald v. Orandall,* it was held that where a conveyance is made not waiving the homestead, it passed the
fee, but its opel'ation was suspended until the grantor abandoned the premises. or surrendered possession, and that the
homestead when occupied by the debtor as such, is not subject to the lien of a judgment. But the case decides that
where the homestead exceeds one thousand dollars in value,
a judgment becomes a lien and may be enforced against the
overplus, and that the Homestead Act has not created a new
estate, bdt simply an exemption.
In Coe v.Srnilh,t the facts of the case were these: The
owner having a homestead right in the lot, made in 1858 a
mortgage without waiver of the homestead, and then in
1860 made another mortgage with waiver; afterwards, in
1861, he abandoned the premises. The court held tbat the
first mortgage was the prior lien.
In Hlewitt v. Templelonj it was decided that upon the
abandonment of the homestead by the grantor, the grantee
in a deed in which the homestead right has not been waived
is entitled to immediate possession, the homestead right
being annihilated. The court in commenting on the decision in McDonald v. Crandall, which they say governs this
case, uses this language: "We there held, although ajudgment was no lien upon a homestead, where the premises
were worth less than $1000, and a lien upon the surplus
where they were worth more than that sum, yet, where the
owner conveys the same by an absolute deed or mortgage
legally executed, the fee in the premises conveyed, no matter
what their value, passes to the grantee, subject only to the
right of occupancy on the part of the grantor in case the
* 43 Illinois, 281.

t 47 Id. 225.

$ 48 Id. 86i

Dec. 1871.1

BLACK V.

CURRAN.

Opinion of the court.

lomestead has not been relinquished, and when such occu.
pan y terminates, the homestead right is annihilated, it not
being an estate in the premises which can be transferred as
against a former conveyance that has passed the fee."
If a conveyance by the occupier of the homestead
without
the release of his right as required by the law has the effect
to pass the title, regardless of the value of the premises conveyed, and can be enforced so soon as the occupation of the
homestead ceases, it is difficult to see why the conveyance
by the officer of the law, instead of the debtor, should not
have the same effect.
And if2 as betweeh two voluntary grantees, the first takes
the land discharged of the homestead after its abandonment,
although the second conveyance contains a release of the
homestead and the first does not, why should not the same
rule obtain when, the property was sold on judicial process,
before the debtor conveyed it? The junior grantee takes
nothing, because there was no estate to pass, it having been
transferred by the first conveyance. On the same theory,
there was no estate to convey after the sheriff had sold the
land. The only difference between a conveyance made by
the judgment debtor who has a homestead, and by the
sheriff under a sale or execution against his land is, one is
the act of the party, the other of the law-one a volutitary,
the other an involuntary conveyance. It is certain that the
owner of a tract of lat'id of more than $1000 in value, on
which there is a judgment, cannot sell it freed from the
judgment, and although the homestead as such cannot be
sold under execution, nor is a judgment a lien on the homestead as such, but as the land can be sold by the owner subject to the homestead, so a judgment is a lien on the land
subject to the homestead, and the lan4l or fee can be sold
under execution subject to the homestead, and the purbhaser,. as in the case of a deed by the debtor without the
wbtiver, has the absolute title when the homestead right
ceases.

If these views of the law on this subject are correct, and
we think they are fairly deducible from the decisions in Illi-

DOLTON V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

nois, they are conclusive upon the rights of the parties to
this suit.
On the hypothesis that there was no judgment against
Craddock, it is clear that if he had conveyed the lot or any
part of it in 1858 (the date of the judgment against him),
without the waiver of the homestead, and then in October,
1863, conveyed it with the waiver (as he did), and then left
the premises (as he did), the deed of 1858 would bind the
land.
It follows equally, that the deed of 1863 with the clause
of the waiver, did not convey the absolute title to the west
half of the lot, because there was a de~d made by the law
under a judgment of 1858, and which operated (just as a
deed made by Craddock himself would have operated) upon
the west half a, soon as it ceased to be a homestead-that
is by abandonment. And this is true while conceding that
on neither hypothesis, that is deed without the waiver and
sale under the judgment, could Craddock's homestead right
be disturbed-his occupation of the lot.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

DOLTON V. CAIN.
1. Under the limitation laws of Illinois which declare in substance "that
whoever has resided on a traot of land for seven successive years prior to the
commencement of an action of ejeetment, hav.ng a connected title in law or
equity deducible of record from the State or the United States, can plead the
possession in bar of the suit," it is not necessary that the entire title of
the defendant be evidenced by acts of record. If the source or founda-

tion of the title is of record it is available to every person claiming a
legal title who can connect himself with it, by such evidence as applies
to the nature of the right set up.

2. If a party to a contract does all that it can be reasonably expected that
he will do, he will be considered in equity as having performed his part
of the contract so far as to come within the limitation laws above men-

tioned; as ex 9r., if a party bound to pay money to an agent of his creditor resident beyond seas, offer to pay it to one who was the agent of that
creditor, and Aho declines to receive it only boause he had heard ru-

