DIRsTr V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

pending before Congress ? We cannot suppose, without an
express declaration to that, effect, that Congress intended to
legislate in a manner that would enable a creditor of the
government to obtain only a part of his claim when the whole
of it was deemed by the court that tried the case to be meritorious.
It is true the lease was at an end when Congress acted
and the court reheard the cause, and Cross could by proper
amendment to his petition have embraced also that portion
of his demand for which he now sues; and that would have
been the proper course for him to have pursued, but he was
not compelled to take it. In covenant for non-payment of
rent, payable at different times, a new action lies as often as
the respective sums become due and payable. As this suit
is for instalments of rent not due when the first suit was instituted, and as they were not included in it in any stage of
the proceeding, the plea of fbrmer recovery has no application.
On the finding of facts by the court below judgment
should have been rerqdered for the claimant for $69,515.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment be reversed
and the cause remanded to the Court of Claims, with directions to enter
JUDGMENT FOR THAT SUM.

DIRST V. MORRIS.
1. A plaintiff in ejectment, claiming under a deed made on a sale in a foreclosure of a mortgage, may properly put in evidence the record of the
proceedings in foreclosure even though the defendant claim by a deed
absolute made by the mortgagor, prior to giving the mortgage under
which the foreclosure took place. Showing title from a party previously
seized, the plaintiff has a right to exhibit it subject to such decision with
regard to its effect as might become necessary after all the evidence is in,
2. Even more obviously has he a right to introduce it as evidence in chief,
and when the prior deed absolute under which the defendant claims has

not yet been offered in evidence; for in such a stage of the proceeding,
the proceedings in foreclosure give apparently a valid title.

Dec. 1871.]

DIRST V.

MORRIS.

Statement of the case.
8, Under the act of Congress of March 3d, 1865, authorizing the trial of
facts by the Circuit Courts, and enacting that the findings of the court
upon them shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury, this court
sitting as a court of error cannot pass, as it does in equity appeals, upon
the weight or sufficiency of evidence. If the court chooses to find gen.
erally for one side or the other, instead of making a special finding of
the facts, the losing party has no redress on error except for the wrong.
ful admission or rejection of evidence.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being this:
Russell being the owner of a large number of lots of land
in different counties in Illinois, conveyed one in May, 1837,
to Josiah Breese. This deed was not recorded until the
year 1864.
In December, 1837, Russell being a debtor to the United
States mortgaged the same lot with all the several others
that he owned to the then Solicitor of the Treasury, to secure
this debt, and the mortgage was promptly put on record.
There was no evidence that the existence of the deed to
Breese was known to the agents of the government at the
time when this mortgage was taken by it.
On the 1st of September, 1841, the United States.filed a
bill to foreclose the mortgage. The bill was in ordinary
form against Russell, but it contained a clause alleging that
Francis Peyton, Gordon Hubbard, Josiah Breese, I. S.
luller, Augustus Garrett, Frederick Fraylor, and several
others named, " commissioners of school lands, have or pre.
tend to have some interest or claim upon the above described
premises as judgment creditors or otherwise;" and process
was accordingly prayed against them.
A summons with subpcona issued accordingly, the record

saying-

"Which said subpoena went into the hands of the marshal to
be executed, and was returned by him into the said clerk's office,
executed upon all of the defendants by delivering to each of them true
copies thereof."
. The marshal's return, however, on the
summons itself,
which it was shown by the fee-bill on file in the case was

DIRST V. MORh~s.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the only summons issued, while making returvn that certain
of the defendants named had been served, stated that Breese
and the rest had not been found in his district.
An order taking the bill pro confesso against the defendants was subsequently entered, reciting " that the said defendants have been duly served with process and have
failed to appear."
Final decree having been entered, and' sale made, the
lands were.bought in by the United States, whose title by
means of a deed from the Solicitor of the Treasury, in whose
name the title had been made, became subsequently vested
in W. W. Corcoran, who conveyed to W. B. Morris.
The title of Breese under the deed of 1837 of Russell to
him became, on the other hand, vested in one Dirst, and lie
in 1864 having taken possession of the land, which till then
had been unoccupied, Morris brought ejectment against him.
The case was tried by the court, under the act of Congress of March 2d, 1865,* authorizing the Circuit Courts on
written stipulation of the parties to try issues of fact without
the intervention of a jury, and enacting that "the findings
of the court upon the jtacs shall have the same effet as the verdict
of a jury."
On this trial before the court the plaintiff, having first put
in the mortgage to the government, offered in evidence the
record of the foreclosure suit, to which the defendant objected, on the ground (amongst others) that Breese had not
been served with process in the cause. To prove this, he
referred to the record itself, and also proved by parol that
Breese was not in Chicago in 1841, but was in New York;
and fhrther produced the original subponas and files in the
cause. As already stated, the papers showed that Breese had
been made a party to the bill, and that his name had been
included in the subpoena; and the record recited that the sub~ona was returned by the marshal into the clerk's office
executed upon all the defendants; but the return -of tle
subpoena did not show any service on Broese. Nevertheless
12 Stat. at Large, 501.

Dec. 1871.]

DIRST V.

MORRIS.

487

Argument for the flaintiffs in error.

the court admitted the record in evidence, and the defendant
excepted.
The plaintiff also offered in evidence the deed from the
Solicitor of the Treasury (representing the government) to
Corcoran, the plaintiff's grantor. The defendant objected
to it on the ground that it did not appear thus fin in the
proceedings, that the United States had any title to the
premises in controversy, except as mortgagee, and that as
the deed did not purport to assign or convey to the grantee
any part of the mortgage debt, and, as the defendant maintained that it did not appear that the mortgage had been
fbreclosed as against Breese, the owner of the equity of redemption,-therefore, that the said deed did not pass to the
grantee any legal title' or estate to the premises. The court,
however, received the deed, and the defendant excepted.
The defendant, on his part, produced Breese's deed and
mesne conveyances to himself' and evidence to show that
under this title, in 1864, he had taken possession of the
property, which, till then, was unoccupied. He now insisted that his right was paramouit to that of the plaintiff.
But the court decided that the plaintiff was entitled to recover, notwithstanding the possession taken by the defendant, and fbund the issues generally in the plaintiff's favor.
This ruling of the court at the close of the trial was alleged
by the defendant as an additional error.
Mr. S. W. Fuller, for the plahitiffs in error:
1. Breese being the owner and holder of the equity of
redemption in the mortgaged premises, no effectual foreclosure of the mortgage could be made without his being
made a party defendant to the foreclosure suit, brought into
court, and subjected to its jurisdiction. This is familiar
law.
2. Taking the reeord in the' foreclos're suit and the parol
testimony, it affirmatively appears that Breese was not served
with process or otherwise brought into court in that suit.
It is not pretended that he entered an appearance.
Of course, every presumption should be indulged to up.

DIRST V. MoRRIs.

[Sup. CtL

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

hold the validity of judicial proceedings; and they will be
upheld where the records are consistent with themselves,
and where the recitals or presumptions contained in one
part of the record are not rebutted by positive proof in other
parts. But they are so rebutted here. The summons shows
explicitly that it was not served upon Breese; the whole
record, taken together, shows that but one summons was
issued. There is no pretence of his'appearance having been
entered. The proof outside the record shows that lie could
not have been served. If the summons was not preserved
in the record with the return of the officer, showing who
were and who were not served, then the recital of service in
the decree would be primdfacie evidence that all the defendants were served, as was held by this court in Comstock v.
Orawford,* and in Seerist v. Green.t But this is not either
of those cases. It is the case of Sibley v. Waffle,t where, notwithstanding the recital that " due service" had been made
upon al the defendants, it appeared, by reference to the notice of publication, that the notice had not been published
for the length of time required by law, and so the Court of
Appeals decided that no jurisdiction was acquired, and that
the recital did not aid the matter. The doctrine of that
case is declared in many other cases.ยง Its correctness' is
obvious.
Most of the cases on the whole subject are collected and
classified, with excellent discrimination, in the seventh edition
of Smith's Leading Cases.I We select and cite only those
which involve the precise point raised upon this rec6rd, that
is to say, that while in the absence of the summons and return from a record, a recital in the judgment or decree, of
service of process upon the parties, or that they entered
116 New York, 189.
t lb. 751.
3 Wallace, 403.
14 HowTunis v. Withrow, 10 Iowa, 308; Harris v. Hardeman et al.,
14 Peters, 152; Bodurtha
ard, 338; Lessee of Walden v. Craig's Heirs et al.,
and another v.Goodrich, 3 Gray) 508; Bloom et at. v Burdick, I Hill,, 130;
Clark v. Thompson, 47 Illinois, 27; Pardon v. Dwire et al., 23 Illinois, 572;
,&,omstock v. Crawford, 3 Wallace, 396.
11Vol. 1, part 2, pp. 1009 to 1025.

Dec. 1871.]

DIRST V. MORRIS.

489

Argurment for the plaintiffs in error.

their appearance, is sufficient primd facie evidence of that
fact, yet when the original summons and return are contained in the rccord, the latter shall prevail, and the recitals
go for nothing.
Setting out with this as a settled and obvious principle,
the recital iu the order of court taking the bill pro coinfesso,
that the defendants had been " duly served," must be construed as including only the defendants who appeared by the
officer's return to have been served; the only construction
consistent with law, the record, and justice.
3. The deed from the United States to Coreoran was iraproperly admitted for the reasons assigned at the trial.
The rule on the subject is probably not unilbrm in the
State courts, but it is believed to be settled in this court and
for all the Federal circuits by .Hutchinsv. King.* It is there
said:
"The mortgagee cannot by conveyance transfer any interest
in the premises without a transfer of the debt secured; his in:
terest is not subject to attachment or seizure on execution ; he
cannot remove the buildings on the premises, nor the fixtures
attached ; nor can he subject the premises to any uses but such
as may furnish the means for the payment of the debt secured,
without impairing the value of the estate."
4. As to the equities, though Corcoran paid his money to
the United States for the deed which he received, and also
paid the taxes on the land in controversy until 1864, yet, on
the other handDirst paid his money and took possession of
the premises in 1864 (the same being then and having always
been vacant and unoccupied), under the chain of title-derived
from Breese, the first grantee of Russell, believing that
Breese and his grantees had the better title. His title was
a paramount title.
On the whole case the judgment should have been for the
defendant. How the court decided that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover, notwithstanding the possession taken by
* 1 Wallace, 58.

])IRST V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the defendant, and found the issues generally in the plaintiff's ihvor, it is difficult for us on the evidence to see. This
court, we submit, must reverse that judgment.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson (a brief of Mr. Thomas Dent
beingfiled on the same side) conlra:
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that there was no error in admitting in evidence
the record of the foreclosure suit, whether Breese was served
with the subpoena or not. If he was not served, and could
show that fact, he was not bound by the decree. But the
decree and sale formed a link in the plaintiff's chain of title
from Russell, and at this stage of the cause the deed from
Russell to Breese had not been given in evidence. So far
as yet appeared, the evidence was not only admissible, but
effective to transfer the title. But it was admissible in any
view, for it tended to show title from a party formerly seized,
and the plaintiff had a right to exhibit it, subject to such decision with regard to its effect as might become necessary
after all the-evidence was in.
The same remarks apply to the admission of the deed
from the Solicitor of the Treasury to the plaintiff's grantor.
The only other alleged error necessary to be noticed is the
ruling of the court 'at the close of the trial.
The particular reason why, or ground on which- the court
decided that the plaintiff was entitled to recover, notwithstanding the possession taken by the defendant, and found
the issues generally in the plaintiff's favor, is not specified.
The codrit was exercising the functions of both court and
jury, aid whether, as matter of fact, it regarded the proof
sufficient to show that Breese had been served with process
in the foreclosure suit, or whether, as matter of law, it regarded that fact as not material, or what other view of the
case it may have taken, does not appear, and therefore no
error can be asserted in the decision. This court, sitting as
a court of error, cannot pass, as it does in equity appeals,
upon the weight or sufficiefcy of the evidence; and there

Dec. 1871.]

COLLINS V. RIGGS.

491

Statement of the case.

was no special finding of the facts. Had there been a jury,
the defendant might have called upon the court for instructions, and thus raised the questions of law which he deemed
material. Or, had the law, which authorizes the waiver of
a jury, allowed the parties to require a special finding of the
facts, then the legal questions could have been. raised and
presented here upon such findings as upon a special verdict.
But, as the law stands, if a jury. is waived and the court
chooses to find generally for one side or the other, the losing
party hs no redress on error, except fbr the wrongful admission or rejection of evidence.
However, as there was no proof that the government
agents, when the mortgage was given, had any notice of
Breese's unrecorded deed, and as the mortgage in such case
would have the superior efficacy, and would entitle the
mortgagee or his assigns to possession of the land on nonpayment of the money at maturity, we do not see on what
possible ground the defendant could have claimed to succeed.
No error appearing on the record, the judgment of the
court below is
AFFIRMED.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was heard another from the same Circuit Court, and similar to it in all
respects, with, however, one additional feature. It was the
case of
COLLINS V. RIGcS.
To redeem property which has been sold under a mortgage (as is alleged
irregularly) it is not sufficient to tender the amount of the sale. The
whole mortgage-money must be tendered, or, if sit be brought, be paid

into court.

IN this case, Riggs had brought ejectment in the court below
against Collins to, recover a lot, one of the several ones men.
tioned in the preceding case as having been inort aged by Rus.

