Dec. 1871.]

THE KEY CITY.
Syllabus.

the defendant was at liberty to use in preparing his carwheels for market.
We add only that in our opinion the defendant should not
have been charged with interest befbre the final decree.
The profits which are recoverable against an infringer of a
patent are in fact a compensation for the injury the patentee
has sustained from the invasion of his right. They are the
measure of his damages. Though called profits, they are
really damages, and unliquidated until the decree is made.
Interest is not generally allowable upon unliquidated damages. We will not say that in no possible ease can interest
be allowed. It is enough that the ease in hand does not
justify such an allowance.

The defendant manufactured

the wheels of which the complaint is made under a patent
granted to him in 1861. His infringement of the complainant's patent was not wanton. Ie had before him the judgment of the Patent Office that his process was not an invasion of the patent granted to the complainant, and though
this does not protect him against responsibility for damages,
it ought to relieve him from liability to interest on profits.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with instructions to proceed in accordance with the rules laid down IN
TIlS OPINION.

TIE KEY CITY.
1. While courts of admiralty are not governed by any statute of limitations,
they adopt the principle that laches or delay.in the judicial enforcement
of maritime liens, will, under proper circumstances, constitute a valid
defence.
2. No arbitrary or fixed period of time has been, or will be established, as
an inflexible rule; but the delay which will defeat such a suit must, in
every case, depend on the peculiar equitable circumstances of that case.
3. When an admiralty lien is to be enforced to the detriment of a purchaser
for value, without notice of the lien, the defence will be held valid

under shorter time, and a more rigid scrutiny of the delay than when
the claimant is the party who owned the property when the lien accrued.

TIIE KEY

654

CITY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.
4. When two corporations United their vessels and other property used in
navigation, and formed a new corporation, in which no money was paia
by either party, and in the contract of consolidation made arrangements
for the payment of the debts of one or both before any dividends should
he declared in the new stock, the new corporation cannot avail itself of
the doctrine applicable to such a purchaser without notice; and a lien,
three years and a half old, will be enforced against one of the vessels so
transferred to the new corporation.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin ; the case being thus:

Young shipped a quantity of wheat on the steamboat Key
City, a vessel owned by a corporation called the Northwestern Packet Company, which had this and several other
steamboats engaged in the navigation of the Upper Mississippi River. The cargo was lost, and so never delivered.
At the time when the shipment was made and the cargo
lost on the Key City, there was engaged in the same business in the same waters with the Northwestern Packet Company, a rival corporation known as the La Crosse and Minnesota Steam Packet Company.
After the loss of the wheat, these two companies united
their stock in trade, their steamboats, barges, and other
property, and formed a new corporation, the corporators of
which were taken exclusively from.those in the two old companies; and to the new corporation they gave the name of the
Northwestern Union Packet Company. To this company
all the property of the two other companies was transferred
by appropriate instruments. Whether at the time -of this
union and transfer the La Crosse and Minnesota Company
owed debts or not, or what became of them, did not appear.
But it (lid appear that the Northwestern Company, the original owner of the Key City, was largely indebted, and that
this was well known to all the parties. Not only was it well
known, but provision was made tbr the payment of the debts
generally of that company by the newly formed company
out of a fund to come within its control. The nature of
that provision was this: certificates of stock of the value of
the boats, barges, and other property of the Northwestern

Dec. 1871.]

THE KEY CITY.

655

Argument for the appellant.

Company merged in the new company were issued, but on
their face they recited that no dividends would be paid on
such stock until the debts of the Northwestern Company
,should be paid out of the proportion of the net profits which
the shareholders of that company would otherwise be entitled to.
In this state of things, Young, three years and a half after
the icheat was lost, and his cause of action had accrued, filed a
libel in admiralty against the Key City for its ihilure to perform its contract of affreightment. The Northwestern Union
Packet Company, that is to say, the new corporation, appeared as clainiants, and set up as a defence that the lien
was lost by the lapse of time, to wit, the three years and a
half which had intervened between the date when the cause
of action accrued and the (ate of the commencement of the
suit; and that defence was sustained by the Circuit Court.
The change in the ownership of the vessel (luring the interval was relied on as strengthening the defenbe.
Mr. J. W. Car ,for the aj)pellant:
1. Professor Parsons* says as follows:
"It has been decided that neither the statute of Anne limiting suits in the English admiralty, nor the statute of limitations
of any of our States, is of any force in our admiralty. Whether
a claim is to be considered stale or not must depend upon the
peculiar circumstances of each particular case, and it is difflicult
to lay down any general rule. It is, however, we thin.9k, evident that a party may have a suit in personam, when he cannot,
sue in ren; because in this latter case, the rights of a bond fide
purchaser may intervene. If the vessel remains in the hands

of the owners who were in possession at the time the debt
accrued, an action may be brought after a considerable lapse of
time. But if the vessel has been sold to a bond fide purchaser,
the suit, should be brought as soon as an opportunity is prosented; and it'it is not, a delay is fatal."
The position laid down in this last sentence rests alike on
reason and authority.
2 Maritime Law, 663.

THE KEY CITY.

rSup.

Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

It rests on reason, because admiralty liens are secret; they
are not accompanied by possession, and there is no record
of them, as in the case of'chattel mortgages. It rests equally
on authority. In The Adrnira/,* decided by Sprague, J., a
collision occurred October 7th, 1852. Tl~he vessel continued
for some months plying oil her old course, and was then
sold to a stock company, and stock inthe company given in
payment. On a libel being afterwards filed the judge dismissed the libel. He says:
"The rule adopted in courts of admiralty, is to allow the
continuance of' the lien until a reasonable opportunity is given
to enforce it.If a party neglects to avail himself of it, third
persons are not to be prejudiced by his delay."
In The Louisa,t the libel was for a seaman's wages, and
was filed in November, 1845, for wages, commencing in

March, 1842, and ending in November after. The vessel in
the interim had been sold, and one of the old owners was
insolvent. Both the District and Circuit Courts refused to
sustain'the libel, on the ground " of the long delay to resort
to the vessel, and when, in the meantime, the owners had
changed and one of them become insolvent."
In The Buckeye State,: if was held that a delay of three
years to enforce a lien by a material-nian, was a bar to recovery, and the libel was dismissed for that reason, a third
.person in the meantime having become the owner of the
boat.
In The Lillie Mills,ยง supplies were furnished in March,
June, and October, 1853, and the libel was filed October,
1855; a change of ownership having previously occurred.
Sprague, J., says:
" When the rights of third persons have intervened, the lien
will be regarded as lost, if the person in whose favor it existed

has had a reasonable opportunity to enforce it, and has not done
so. This is thq well-settled rule in admiralty."
In The General JacksonIl the supplies were furnished Sep*

18 Law Reporter, 91.
1 Newberry, 111.

t 2 Woodbury & Minot, 48.
18 Law Reporter, 494.
1117 Id. 324.

Dec. 1871.]

TiE KEY CITY.

657

Argument for the appellant.

tember, 1852. The vessel was sold to the claimant in May,
1854, and the libel filed about eighteen months after supplies
furnished. Sprague, J., says:
"During all that period the vessel was plying between this
port and the ports of Maine, as often as once a month, giving
the libellant ample opportunity to enforce his claim, had he seen
fit, long before the sale of the vessel to the present claimant.
It must, therefore, be held that the libellant has waived his
lien."
2. Was there then a bonfide change of ownership of this
particular boat, the Key City, May the 1st, 1866? Of this
there can be no doubt. Prior to that time the boat was
owned by the Northwestern Packet Company; after that it
was owned by the Northwestern Union Packet Company,
an entirely different corporation, with different stockholders,
and holding their interests in different proportions. There
is no pretence that any notice of this lien was given to the
new company, or that they ever had any knowledge, of it
until the marshal took possession of the boat. The two old
companies remained corporations, legal existences, notwithstanding the formation of the new company and the sale to
it of this property. There was no consolidation or legal
union of the two. The old companies remained liable to
suit and liable for their debts, and the individual stockholders were also liable if they had appropriated the property of
the company. The property of the Northwestern Packet
Company was paid for in stock of the new company, which
was a good and valid payment, as much so as if paid in
money. The niew company was to pay the debts of the old
out of the earnings of the new, in certain proportions, but
in no other way. Dividends were withheld and applied for
that purpose. To allow this suit to prevail would affect the
rights, stock, and property of' all the stockholders unjustly
and inequitably. The new company cannot be subjected to
this proceeding. The claimant could be comlpel led to appropriate net earnings belonging to the Northwestern Company or to the stockholders who were of that company, after
VOL. XlV.

42

THE KEY CITY.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

a debt had been established. The libellant could have pursued the Northwestern Company, and after judgment its
stockholders, for the stock held in the new company.
Does the fact that the stockholders of the Northwestern
Company were paid, but in stock of the new company, alter
the case? We think not. In The Admiral, already cited, and
where after the collision the vessel was sold to a stock company, and stock in the company given in payment to the
former owners, the court say
"It is said all the former owners of the Admiral were stockholders in the claimant's company, and that thus the corporation is affected with knowledge of this lien. It does not appear
that they owned in the company in the same proportion as before, and if it did, it would make no difference, because there
were other stockholders in the company who took in ignorance
of the claim, and they ought to be protected. The former
owners became merely stockholders in the new company, and
their knowledge does not affect the corporation with knowledge.
The difficulty is, that as this is a process in rem, and the boat
the property of the corporation, there is no process to reach the
interests of the former owners without affecting the interests
of others who purchased innocently. The boat is now owned
by a corporation and not by individuals. The persons owning
lo riot own as before any part or rights in the boat, but they
own stock in the company."
Mr. N. J. Emmons, eonlra:
The mere conveyance of a vessel, even to an innocent
purchaser, without notice, will not of itself necessarily disturb a maritime lien.*
In order to defeat the lien, some other circumstance than
mere lapse of time should be made to appear, before the
equity, upon which the doctrine is based, can arise.
In The Batavia,t Lord Stowell concluded upon the facts
proven, that the transfer was merely colorable to avoid payment of certain port charges and duties at Batavia, hence
no equity in the purchaser to demand a discharge of the lien.
* Sheppard et al. v. Taylor et al., 5 Peters, 675.

t 2 Dodson, 500.

Dec. 1871.]

TIE K,,y

CITY.

659

Opinion of the court.

In Willard v. Dorr,* while Story J., passing on the question, says in substance, that courts of admiralty, like courts
of equity, will refuse their aid to enforce old, dormant demands, and that it prescribes a rule to itself, by analogy to
statutes of limitation, yet enforced a remedy after twelve
years had elapsed.; no equitable circumstance appearing, to
bring the case within the rule suggested.
In The Admiral, relied on by opposing counsel, stress is
laid by the court upon the circumstance that the cause of
action was a collision; that the facts were denied, and the
witnesses dispersed. The purchasers were without notice,
and without ability to contest the claim upon the facts.
In the present case the new company received its conveyance with notice of an existing debt, and covenanted to
pay it. The validity of our demand is conceded, and the
new company received and still holds a full consideration
for what it covenanted. That we could, in equity, compel
the performance of such covenant will not be doubted. What
consideration arises here-what condition-to demand that
our maritime lien be discharged more than would have
arisen had the vessel remained in the hands and ownership
of the Northwestern Packet Company? The rule, relied on
by opposing counsel, exists and is enforced for the protection of innocent purchasers without notice, and as against
whom it would be inequitable to decree payment of another's
debt, but the rule does nob apply. If there be a recovery
here, it will be charged in account to the Northwestern
Paoket Company; and it is not denied that the respondent
has an abundant indemnity fund. The fact that dividends
were to be retained from the stockholders of the old companies to answer their old debts, is a material feature in this
case. No such feature existed in the case of The Admiral.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The authorities on the subject of lapse of time as a defence to suits for the enforcement of maritime liens are
* 3 Mason, 91,

Tim, KEY CITY.

[SLP.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

carefully and industriously collected in the briefs of counsel
on both sides, to which reference is hereby made without
specifying them more particularly.
We think that the following propositions as applicable to
the case before us may be fairly stated as the result of these
authorities.
1. That while the courts of admiralty are not governed in
such cases by any statute of limitation, they adopt the principle that laches or delay in the judicial enforcement of
maritime liens will, under proper circumstances, constitute

a valid defence.
2. That no arbitrary or fixed Period of time has been, or
will be, established as an inflexible rule, but that the delay
which will defeat such a suit must in every case depend on
the peculiar equitable circumstances of that case.
3. That where the lien is to be enforced to the detriment of
a purchaser for value, without notice of the lien, the defence
will be held valid under shorter time, and a more rigid scrutiny of.the circumstances of the delay, than when the claimant is the owner at the time the lien accrued.
Counsel for the appellees argue that the libel in the present
case was rightfully dismissed under this last proposition
and we are of opinion that if the claimants had shown an
ordinary case of purchase and payment without notice, the
lapse of time would protect them. While on the other hand
we are of opinion that if the claimant had been the owner
when the lien accrued, it would not be a good defence in
this instance.
We must, therefore, inquire into the special circumstances
under which the claimant became the owner of the vessel
against which the lien is asserted. These show that there
was no sale of the property of one of these original corporations to the other, but that they agreed to unite their
property and their interests, and for convenience assumed a
new corporate name; that in doing this they recognized a
large and undefined indebtedness on the part of the Northwestern Company, and provided for its payment out of the
earnings otherwise payable to that company. No doubt

Dec. 1871.]

DELMAS V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

661

Syllabus.

these debts were most of them, like the present one, liens
on the property of that company, and know-n to be so by all
who united in the transaction. And, finally, that neither
the stockholders of the La Crosse and Minnesota Company,
nor of the new corporation, have ever parted with or paid
any money or other thing of' value for the Key City, otherwise than by this consolidation of the companies into one;
and it is not apparent, nor even a reasonable presumption,
that if the new company has to pay the libellant's debt in
this case they will be the losers, but it is nearly certain the
loss will fall where it should, on the stockholders coming in
through the Northwestern Company.
We do not see, under these circumstances, how the claimants can avail themselves of the rule for the protection of
purchasers without notice.
DECREE REVERSED, with directions to enter a decree for
libellant for the amount due him for his wheat lost by the
Key City,
WITH INTEREST BY WAY Or DAMAGES.

DELMAS V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

t. On a writ of error to a State court, this court cannot revise a decision
founded on the ground that a contract is void on the general principles
of public policy or morality, when that is the only ground on which the
contract is held to be void.
2. But if the decision of a State court is based upon a constitutional or legislative enactment, passed after the contract was made, this court has
jurisdiction to inquire whether such legislation does not impair the obligation of the contract, and thereby violate the Federal Constitution.
8. In the prosecution of that inquiry, this court must decide for itself,
whether any valid contract existed where the legislation complained of
was had, and in making up its judgment on that question is not concluded by the decisions of the State court.
i. This court is of opin;on that the notes of the Confederate States, In ordinary use as money during the rebellion, might constitute a valid consideration for a contract ; and that a provision in the constitution of a

