BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the (ase.

as it stood when the contract was made, it is obvious that
the mere fact that a new law was made does not impair the
obligation of the contract, And it is also clear that this
court cannot inquire whether the Supreme Court of Maine
was right in that opinion.
Here is, therefore, a clear case of a sufficient ground on
which the validity of the decree of the State court could
rest even if it had been in error as to the effect of the act
of 1857 in impairing the obligation of the contract. And
when there is such distinct and sufficient ground for the
support of the judgment of the State court we cannot take
jurisdiction, because we could not reverse the case though
the Federal question was decided, erroneously in the court
below, against the plaintiff in error.*
The writ must, therefore, be
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

BARTEMEYER

V. IOWA.

When a Supreme Court of a State is composed of a chief justice and several associates, writs of error Lu LUL,court under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act must be signed by the chief justice; and if signed by
one of the associates only, it will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

EaROi to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa; the
case being thus:
The 25th section of the Judiciar 3 Act, quoted supra, p.
5-6, which gives a right to this court to re-examine, in certain cases specified, the final judgment or decree of any suit
in the highest court of law or equity in which a decision in
the suit could be had, says that the same
"May be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in the Supreme Court of the United States, upon a writ of error, the citaRector v. Ashley, 6 Wallace, 142; Kingler v State of Missouri, 13 Id,
257; and Steines v.Franklin County, supra, 15.

Dec. 1871.]

BARTEMEYER

V. IOWA.

Opinion of the court.

tion being signed by the chief justice, or judge, or chancellor of the
court rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained
of; or by a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States."
This statute being in force, one Bartemeyer sought to
bring here, under the 25th section thus referred to, of the
Judiciary Act, a judgment rendered by the Supreme Court
of Iowa, That court is composed of a chief justice and three
associates. The writ was allowed by one of these last. The case,
inthis court, was submitted on printed briefs, in advance of
its regular call, by Mr. W. 7.Dittoe, for the plaintiff in error,
and Mr. I1.O'Connor, contra; no objection being taken by
the latter to the fact that the writ was not signed by the
chief justice of the Supreme Court of Iowa; and the case
being argued in the briefs on merits.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is submitted to us on printed argument. In this
class of cases the court has been in the habit of examining
the record to see if it has jurisdiction whether the question
is raised by counsel or not; and the case before us we find
ourselves compelled to dismiss, because there is no proper
allowance of the writ of error.
Writs of error to the Circuit Court-, under the 22d section
of the Judiciary Act, issue as a matter of course, and can
be obtained f'om the clerk of the Circuit Court, and, when
filed in his office by the party, are duly served. But writs
of error to the State courts can only issue when one of the
questions mentioned in the 25th section of that act was decided by the court to which the writ is directed, and in order
that there may be some security that such a question was
decided in the case, the statute requires that the citation
must be signed by the chief justice, or judge, or chancellor
of the court rendering or passing the judgment or decree
complained of, or by a justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States. It has been the settled doctrine of this court
that a writ of error to a State court must be allowed by one
of the judges above mentioned, or it will ie dismissed for
want of jurisdiction, and the case before us raises the ques.

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup,. Or.

Syllabus.

tion whether the writ has been allowed by a judge authorized to do so.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, which rendered the judgment complained of, is composed of a chief justice and three
associate justices, and this writ is allowed by one of the associate justices.
We are of opinion that the act of Congress requires that,
when there is a court so composed, the writ can only be
allowed by the chief justice of that court, or by a justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States. In case of a writ
to a court composed of a single judge or chancellor, the
writ may be allowed by that judge or chancellor, or by a
justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The result of this cotnstructiou of the statute is that the
associate justice of the Supreme Court of Iowa who allowed
the present writ had no authority to do so, and it is accordingly
DISMISSED.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE, with whom concurred the CHIEF
JUSTICE and Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissenit from the opinion just read. The objection was
not taken by the counsel for the defendant in error. The
writ of error was allowed by an associate justice of the Suprerne Court of the State-the court by which the alleged
error was committed. This, I think, was sufficient. In my
judgment the construction given to the provision in question, of the statate, is unwarrantably narrow.

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

1 When a plaintiff presents as an important part of his case a written proposal, he is not at liberty to insist on a recovery on the ground of mere
suspicion that there was a verbal proposal differing froin the one ia
writing introduced by the plaintiff.
2. If there is noevidence at all of a different verbal proposal it is the duty
,)f
the court to tell the jury there is none, when requested.

