GIBSON V. WARDEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

GIBSON V.

WARDEN.

1. Under the statutes of Ohio authorizing chattel mortgages, a seal is not
necessary to their validity.
2. Where one partner, R. M., affixed his name and seal to an instrument
whose testatum set forth that " R. M. & Sons, by R. M., one of the firm,
had thereto set their hands and seals," the instrument may be regarded
as the deed of all the partners on proof that prior to the execution the
others had authorized R. M. to execute the instrument, and after execution, with full knowledge acquiesced in what he had done..
3. The two clauses of the 85th section of the Bankrupt Act, differ mainly
in their application to two different classes of recipients of the bankrupt's property or means, that is to say, the first clause is limited to a
creditor, a person having a claim against the bankrupt, or who is under
any liability for him, and who receives money or property by way of
preference; and the second clause applies to the purchase of property
of the bankrupt by any person who has no claim against him, and is
under no liability for him.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Ohio, in a bill in equity filed by Warden &
Ludlow, assignees of Moore & Co., against David Gibson,
and against Gaylord, Son & Co., and other defendants. The
matter in issue was fhe validity, in view of the bankrupt law,
of two chattel mortgages, given by the -bankrupt, one to the
said Gibson, and the other to the said Gaylord, Son & Co.
The mortgages were asserted to be fr'auds on the bankrupt
law, as coming within either the first clause or the second
of the 85th section of the Bankrupt Act. The first clause
reads thus:

" If any person being insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, within four months before the filing of the petition by
or against him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor
or person having a claim against him, or who is under any liability for him, procures any part of his property to be attached,
sequestered, or seized on execution, or makes any payment,
pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance of any part of his
property, either directly or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, the person receiving such payment, assignment, transfer,
or conveyance, or to be benefited thereby or by suich attach-

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSON V. WARDEN.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
ment, having reasonable cause to believe such person is insolvent, and that such attachment, payment, pledge, assignment,
or conveyance is made in fraud of the provisions of this act, the
same shall be void, and the assignee may recover the property,
or the value of it, from the person so receiving it, or so to be
benefited."
The second clause read thus:
"And if any person being insolvent, or in contemplation-of
insolvency or bankruptcy, within six months before the filing
of the petition by or against him, makes any payment, sale, assigument, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of any part
of his property to any person who then has reasonable cause to
believe him to be insolvent, or to be acting in contemplation of
insolvency, and that such payment, sale, assignment, transfer, or
other conveyance is made with a view to prevent his property
from coming to his assignee in bankruptcy, or to prevent the
same from being distributed under this act, or defeat the object
of, or in any way impair, hinder, impede, or delay the operation
and effect of, or to evade any of the provisions of the act, the
sale, assignment, transfer, or conveyance shall be void, and the
assignee may recover the property, or the value thereof, as
assets of the bankrupt. And if such sale, assignment, transfer,
or conveyance is not made in the usual and ordinary course of
business of the debtor, the fact shall be primd facie evidence of
fraud."
The court below decreed that the mortgages were invalid, and secured no priority, and that the defendants stood
on the footing of general creditors. Gibson appealed, as
did Gaylord & Sons; the other defendants did not appeal.
Mr. Aaron F. Perry,for the appellant, Gibson; Mr. E. M.
Johnson, for the appellants, Gaylord J Son; no counsel for the
appellees.
Mr. Justice S WAYNE stated the case more particularly,
and delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of' the Circuit Court
fior the Southern District of Ohio.
The appellees are the assignees in bankruptcy of Robert

GIBSON V. WARDEN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

Moore & Sons, and filed this bill to compel such of the de.
fendants as claimed to have liens upon certain effects of the
bankrupt firm to have their respective rights touching the
property in question ascertained and adjusted by the decree
of the court. The decree rendered, disposed of the several
cases litigated under the bill. All the defendants acquiesced
in the decisions made, except David Gibson and Gaylord,
Son & Co. They have brought the decee of the Circuit
Court, so far as it affects them, here for review by this appeal. Our examination of the case will be confined to their
respective claims.
On the 8th of March, 1868, Moore & Sons executed to
Gibson a chattel mortgage. It was conditioned that if the
mortgagors should pay to Gibson their promissory note to
him of the same date with the mortgage, for $6000, payable
sixty days from date at the Central National Bank of Cincinnati, the instrument should be void. The testatum clause
set forth that Robert Moore & Sons, by Robert Moore, one
of the firm, had thereto set their hands and seals. Robert
Moore alone affixed his name and seal to the document.
The amount claimed by Gibson under the mortgage was indorsed and sworn to by him, and the instrument was filed
with the proper officer on the 18th of the same month. On
the 21st of that month Moore & Co. failed in business, and
made a general assignment of all their effects for the benefit
of their creditors. On the 15th of September, 1868, a petition in bankruptcy was filed against them, under which they
were subsequently adjudged bankrupts, and the appellees
were appointed their assignees in that proceeding.
The note mentioned in the mortgage was indorsed by
Gibson fbr the accommodation of -the makers. They procured it to be discounted, and the proceeds went to their
benefit. Gibson was compelled to pay it. The amount thus
paid, with interest, constitutes his claim under the mortgage.
No statute of Ohio directs how a chattel mortgage shall
be executed
Tle statutes regulating such instruments are
ailent upon the subject. Our attention has been called to

Dec. 1871.1

GIBSON

V.

WARDEN.

Opinion of the court.

no local adjudication touching the point. In an elementary
work prepared by an eminent jurist of that State the form
given purports a sealed instrument, and has a seal affixed
to it.*

Such instruments in Ohio are usually under seal. But
the term moriqaqe used in the statutes does not import or
imply that a seal is necessary. In regard to chattels, it is a
morlgage, and not a deed of mortgage, that is required. The
distinction between real and personal property and between
the means which are necessary to affect them is well settled.
Personal property, according to the common law, could always be transferred or incumbered without the use of a deed
for that purpose. A seal has never been held necessary to
the validity of a bill of sale. A chattel mortgage is only a
bill of sale with a defeasance incorporated in it. The presence or absence of that formality is wholly immaterial. In
the ease before us it may be regarded as surplusage.t
There is another view of the subject that must not be
overlooked. There is proof in the record that the partners,
other than Robert Moore, authorized him in advance to
execute the mortgage, and after its execution, with full
knowledge, acquiesced in what be had done. If the law
had required a seal these circumstances would have made
the instrument the deed of the firim-as much so as if all
the members bad been personally present and assented to
its execution in that form.1 This is not inconsistent with
the principle, which seems to be too deeprooted in the law
to be wholly eradicated by judicial authority, that a sealed
instrument executed in the name of a firm by one of its
members, without the proper authority, where a seal is
necessary, is the deed of such member only, and that he
alone is bound by it.
+ Swan's Treatise, 692.
f Milton et al. v. Mosher, 7 Metcalf, 244; Tapley v. Butterfield, I Id. 515;
Despatch Line v. Bellamy Manufacturing Co., 12 New Hampshire, 234.
Story on Partnership, p 212, 122; PLUIViance at al. v. Sutherland, 2
Ohio State 478; Cady v. 6hepherd, 11 Pickering, 405; Gram v. Seaton, I
Hall 262.

GIBSON V. WARDEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The statute provides that every mortgago of goods and
chattels, where there is no change in the possession of the
things mortgaged, "shall be absolutely void," as against
subsequent purchasers and mortgagees in good faith, " unless the mortgage, or a true copy thereof, shall be forthwith
deposited" with the proper officer. The Supreme Court of
the State has held that the omission to deposit forthwith, as
directed, does not avoid the mortgage in toto, but that, whenever deposited, it becomes effective from that time.* That
court has also held that actual notice to a subsequent mortgagee, before his mortgage is taken, is conclusive evidence
of malafides on his pact.t
In cases like this the assignees stand in the place of the
bankrupt; his rights are their rights; and theirs, like the
liens of judgments at law, are subordinate to all the prior
liens, legal and equitable, upon the property in question.1
This mortgage was deposited three days less than six
months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
This raises a question under the bankrupt statute which
it is necessary to consider.
The first clause of the 35th section avoids certain acts of
the bankrupt touching his effects, if done within four months
before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy. The second
clause imposes the like result, if the transaction be within
six months of that time.
To bring a case within the first clause the act must have
been done by a person insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, with a view to give a preference to a creditor or
person having a claim against, or who is under a liability
for, the bankrupt, and such person must have reason to believe that the transaction is in fraud of the statute.
The category of the second clause contains the same reWilson v. Leslie, 20 Ohio, 161.
t Kendall & Co. v. Mason, 7 Ohio State, 199.
$ Lempriere v. Pasley, 2 Term, 485; Belcher v. Oldfield, 6 Bingham's
New Cases, 102; Doremus v. Walker, 8 Alabama, 1P4; Peck v. Jenness, 7
Howard, 612; Fletcher v. Morey, 2 Story, 555; Archbold on Bankruptcy

814.

Dec.. 1871.]

Gi1soN

V.

WARDEN.

249

Opinion of the court.

quiremebt of insolvency, or contemplation of insolvency, on
the part of the person doing the act. The recipient may be
any one who has reason to believe him insolvent or acting
in contemplation of insolvency, and that the act was done
by him to prevent the property from coming into the hands
of his assignee in bankruptcy, and from being distributed
under the bankrupt law.
Upon comparing the two clauses carefully together we
are satisfied that the first clause was intended to refer to the
past and the second to the present. The language employed
in the first clause imports clearly that the consideration must
be one growing out of a former transaction, and that the recipient must stand in the relation thus created to the other
party. It is equally clear that the second clause, enlightened
by this construction of the first one, must be limited to cases
where the transaction in question was original and complete
in itself at the time it occurred, and had no reference for its
consideration to anything between the parties which had
gone before it. It is only by this construction that the two
clauses can be made to harmonize and full and distinct effect
b6 given to each. Any other construction would make them
cover the same ground and obliterate everything by which
one is diffbrenced from the other, except the limitation of
time which they respectively prescribe. It is not to b supposed that such was the intention of the law-making power.
This view of the subject was taken by the Circuit Court for
the District of Missouri, and subsequently there by one of
the justices of this court. We can see no answer to the conclusion at which they arrived.* According to this construetion the mortgage to Gibson falls within the second category,
as to the time within which its validity could be challenged.
Is it therefore void ? To this there is a conclusive answer
in the negative.
The statute of Ohio deprived the mortgage of effect unti"deposited"-as to creditors, subsequent purchasers,and mortgagees in good faith. These assignees are neither. As beBean v. Brooknire, 10 American Law Registcr, N. S. 181.

GIBSON V.

WARDEN.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

tween the mortgagor and the mortgagee and subsequent
mortgagees and purchasers with notice, the mortgage was
valid and took eflect from the time of its delivery to Gibson,
which was the 8th of March, more than six months before
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
The mortgaged premises have been converted into money.
But this does not affect the rights of the parties. The lien
of the mortgage followed the fund into the hands of the assignees, and binds it there in all respects as it bound, before
conversion, the property which the fund represents.*
Gaylord, Son & Co. indorsed for Moore & Sons to the extent of $10,000, as early as May, 1867, which. was repeated
from time to time. In May, 1868, Moore & Sons applied to
them for a definite arrangement for indorsements to the extent of $20,000, to be secured by a chattel mortgage. After
inquiry, they agreed to indorse for $15,000, and possibly
$20,000, their liability to be secured.as proposed. In pursuance of this arrangement, on the 23d of January, 1868,
they indorsed for $5000, and afterwards made other indorsements, amounting in all to $17,000. The first mortgage was
made on the 27th of January, 1868. It was held by Gaylord, Son & Co., and not filed. Later-probably in MarchMoore & Sons pressed for further indorsements, which were
refused. Shortly afterwards Moore & Sons advised Gaylord
that judgments were about to be taken against them, but
insisted they were solvent. The mortgage was shown to
counsel, who objected to it, but upon what ground does not
appear. He advised that another should be taken. This
was done on the 18th of March, and the mortgage was deposited on the same day with the proper officer, but some
hourg later than the deposit of the mortgage to Gibson. It
appears by the face of the instrument that the signature and
seal of the firm were affixed by one of the firm in the absence of the others. There was the same prior authority
and subsequent awquiescence as in the ease of the Gibson
mortgage. It recited that Gaylord, Son & Co. were liable
Astor v. Miller, 2 Paige,

68-78; Sweet v. Jacocks, 6 Id. 865.

Dec. 1871.]

G IBSON V.

WARDEN.

Opinion of the court.

as indorsers and otherwise for certain dehts of Moore &
Sons; that Moore & Sons were indebted to Gaylord, Son &
Co.; and that Moore & Sois were desirous to renew their
paper with the indorsement of Gaylord, Son & Co., and was
conditioned that if Moore & Sons should save Gaylord, Son
& Co. from loss by reason of said indorsements and debtGaylord, Son & Co. agreeing to renew for eighteen months
-then the mortgage was to be void.
After the thilure of Moore & Sons, Gaylord, Son & Co.
took up notes which they had indorsed for the mortgagors,
amounting to $17,000. The mortgagees also held a note of
the mortgagors for iron sold by the former to the latter,
amounting to $400, making the aggregate of th'e indebtedness of Moore & Sons to Gaylord, Son & Co., exclusive of
interest, $17,400.
We hold this mortgage also to be valid under the laws of
Ohio. The views we have expressed as to the Gibson mortgage, considered with reference to the statutes of Ohio, apply
equally to the one here under consideration, and render it
needless to say anything further upon the subject
Being founded upon a past consideration, it falls within
the first clause of the 35th section of the bankrupt law,
which limits the right of atia.ek upon such instruinents to
those executed within four months prior to the filing of tle
petition in bankruptcy. In respect to this statute also it
must, therefore, be held valid. It was upon the same property as the mortgage to Gibson. Like that mortgage, its
force and effect reach and bind the fund into which the
property has been converted.
It was contended with great ability by the counsel of Gaylord, Son &,Co. that as regards the limitations of time under
the 85th section of the bankrupt law this mortgage must
be regarded as if it had been executed at the date of the
prior one for which it was substituted, and numerous authorities were cited to sustain the proposition. The view
we have taken of the case has rendered it unneeessary to
consider this point.

252

HOOK V. PAYNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The counsel representing both mortgages, in the argument in this court, advised us that we need not decide the
question of priority as between the two instruments, they
having made an agreement which fixes their respective
rights. We have not, therefore, considered the question.
If there be any surplus after satisfying these claims it must
be distributed to the general creditors.
So much of the decree of the Circuit Court, as is brought
before us by this appeal, is REVERSED, and the cause will be
remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

HOOK V. PAYNE.
1. In a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States by a distributee of the
estate of a decedent to recover a distributive share, the mere fact that
the administrator is ordered to account before a master does not make
parties all who were entitled to distribution, nor authorize a decree in
their favdr.
2. If such persons do not appear before the master no decree can be made
for or against them, because they would not be bound thereby.
8. If they should appear and claim an interest, if there are controverted
matters between them and the administrator -outside of the mere accounting to be made by him, this can only be decided on proper pleadinps and regular hearing by the court.
4. A bill which seeks to set aside a fraudulent receipt obtained by an administrator from one distributee, and to recover the amount coming to that
distributee, is not a suit in which all other persons interested in the
estate can be heard unless they are made parties, or make themselves
parties to the suit in some appropriate mode.
6. In a State where the law allows ten per cent. per annum interest, a decree will not be reversed, because it allows against a fraudulent administrator eight per cent. interest with annual rests.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; the case being thus:
Ann Payne, a citizen of Virginia, filed a bill in chancery
in the Circuit Court of the United States fbr Missouri, against

