Dec. 1871.]

D 1 ]IPV. MCCORMICK.
Statement of the case.

they had done so they would have been enabled to have
adotNled reasonable precaution~s to have prevented the eellision.

Consequently the court is of the opinion that both

vessels were in flault, and that the damages should be equally
apportioned between the offending vessels.*

Where twvo steamers are approaching each other in an
open sea on a night when the lights of a vessel nay be seen
five miles, the defence that one of the steamers mitook the
other for a sail-vessel camnot be admitted as valid, unless it
is established by fnll proof; and where, as in this case, it
appears that the approaching steamer showed a box 1ight in
addition to the red and green lights, the court will be still
less inclined to give credence to the theory as a valid defence.
DECEE REVERSED, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity to the opinion of this court.

PUGH V. MCCORMICK.
1. The 5th section of the act of July 14th, 1870 (16 Stat. at Large, 257),-by
which the power of collectors of internal revenue to post-stam p certain
instruments of writing and remit penalties for the non-stninping of them
when issued, is extended in point of time,-applies to notes issued before
the passage of the act as well as to notes issued subsequently.
2. Though error may have been committed by a court bolow on the then
state of statutory law, yet where a statute has been passed since that
court gave their judgment, changing the then existing law, so that if
the judgment were reversed and the case sent back, the court would
now and in virtue of the new statute have to rightly give the same
judgmient, that they gave before erroneously, this court will affirm.
8. Au indorsement of a promissory note need not be stamped under any existing -tatutes of the United States.

4. Nor a waiver in writing, by an indorser, of demand of payment and notice
of dishonor.

ON the 12th of April, 1863, R. C. Martin, at Assumption,
Louisiana, drew his promissory note hat one year for $7000,
Ciaharine v. Dickinson, 17 Howard, 170 ; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 527;
The Morning Light, 2 Wailace, 557.

PUGH V. MCCORMICK.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in favor of W. W. Pugh, which note after being indorsed
there by Pugh came into the hands of James McCormick.
The note, as issued, had no stamp upon it.
It was not paid at maturity and no notice of non-payment
was given to Pugh, the indorser, who was thus of course
discharged. More than eighteen months after the non-paymeit, however, Pugh wrote upon the note"ASSUMPTION,

October 16th, 1865.

"Notice of demand, non-payment, and protest waived, and all
legal responsibility assumed.
" W. W. Puo."
Neither the indorsement nor the waiver of protest, &c.,
had any stamp.
On the 1st and 14th of July, 1862; the 3d March, 1863,
and the 30th of June, 1864, Congress had p)assed acts* requiring all notes, under penalty of their being incapable of
being sued on and void, to bear certain stamtps; making also
some benignant mitigations of the law in cases where, without fraudulent intent, they had not been stamped; neither
acts nor modifications being necessary to be here stated.
On the 13th of July, 1866,t however, was passed an act
necebsary to be more fully mentioned. That act-amending
the 158th section of the act of June 30th, 1864, and enacting
that "any person ,'ho shall make, sign, or issue, or who
shall cause to be made, signed, or issued any instrument,
document, or paper . . . or shall accept, negotiate, or pay,

or cause to be accepted, negotiated, or paid, any bill of exchange, draft, or order, or promissory note for the payment
of money without the same being duly stamped . . . with

intent to evade the provisions of the act, shall for every such
offence lorfeit the sumn of $50 ;" and, enacting further, that
uch instrument, document, or paper, bill, draft, order, or
note, not being stamped according to law, shall be deemed
invalid and of no efihect-went on in its 9th section to make
certain provisos by which the instrument, though void when
* 12 Stat. at Large, 480, 561; lb. 725; 13 Id. 291, 481.

t 14 Id. 143.

Dec. 1871.]

P UGH V. MC(CoL MICK.
Statement of the case.

made, from not being stamped, might be validated and
made operative by being post-stamped. The 2d, 3d, and
4th of the provisos ran thus:

"And provided (2d) further, That hereafter, in all cases where
the party has not affixed to any instrument the stamp required
by law thereon, at the time of making or issuing the said instrument, and he or they, or any party having an interest therein,
shall be subsequently desirous of affixing such stamp to said instrument, he or they shall appear before the collector of the
revenue of the proper district, who shall upon the payment of the
prica of the proper stamp required by law, and of a penalty of
fifty dollars . . . affix the proper .tamp to such instrument or
copy, and note upon the margin thereof the date of his so doing,
and the fact that such penalty has been paid, and the same shall
thereupon be deemed and held to be as valid, to all intents and
purl)oses, as if stamped when made or issued.
"And provided (3d)further, That where it shall appear to said
collector, upon oath or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that any
such instrument has not been duly stamped at the time of naking or issuing the same, by reason of accident, mistake, inadvertence, or urgent necessity, and without any wilful design to
defraud the United States of the stamp, or to evade or delay
the payment thereof, then, and in such case, if such instrument
shall within twelve calendar months after the first day of August,
eighteen hundred and sixty.six, or within twelve calendar months
after the making or issuing thereof, be brought to the said collector
of revenue to be stamped, and the stamp tax chargeable thereon
shall be paid, it shall be lawful for the said collector to remit the
penalty aforesaid and to cause such instrument to be duly
stamped, and the instrument may be used in all courts and
places in the same manner and with like effect as if the instrument had been originally stamped.
"And provided (lastly) further, That in all cases where the
party has not affixed the stamp required by law upon any in.
strunent made, signed, or issued, at a time when and at a place
where no collection district was established, it-shall be lawful
for him or them, or any party having an interest therein, to
affix the proper stamp thereto, . . . and the instrument to
which the proper stamp has been thus affixed prior to the first
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven,

PUGH V. MCCORMICK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

shall be as valid to all intents and purposes as if stamped by the
collector in the manner hereinbefore provided."
In this state of enactment McCormick, the holder of the
note, sued on the 25th March, 1868, Pugh, the indorser,
in one of the inferior State courts of Louisiana, upon it.
The trial coming on January 12th, 1870-and there being
no question but that a stamp of $3.50 was the proper stamp
as respected amount, for the note (on which $5000 lind been
paid)-the note w'as offered in evidence, when it was found
to have a $3.50 stamp upon it, but also a certificate thus:
Internal revenue stamps to the amount of $3.50 affixed to
this instrument and cancelled, by mc, at the request of James
McCormick, Esq., this 7th day of October, 1869. Penalty remitted,
interest collected.
J. S. CHAPMAN,
• $3.50
st,un
cancelled
'--

Collector of United States Intrnal Revenue
for the Second District of Louisiana.
COLLECTOR'S OFFICE, BATON RouaE, LA., October 7t,

1869.

The defendant objected to the introduction in evidence,
of1st. The note itself, because a note which had been issued
unstarnped could not afler twelve months be post-stamped,
unless the penalty was paid; that. after twelve months the
collector could not stamp and romit the penalty.
2d. To the introduction of the indorsement of the defendant to the instrument, becafse the said indorsement was not
stamped at the time of making it, nor at any time since.
3d. To the writing showing a waiver of demand, protest,
and notice of protest, because the said waiver was not, and
had never been, stamped.
The court overruled the objections, considering1st. That tlhe stamping of the note by Chapman, the collector of internal revenue, was regular enough.

2d. That no stamp was needed for the indorsement.
3d. That none was needed for the waiver.
Judgment accordingly was given, January 12th, 1870, for
the plaintiff, and that judgment being taken to the Supreme

Dec. 1871.]

PuGH V. MCCORMICK.

365

Statement of the case.

Court of Louisiana, the judgment was, on the 7th of March,
1870, there affirmed. The case was now here for review.
The reader perceives, of course, that in remiltinq tile pen.
alty the collector of internal revenue had procee(led under
the Ibird of the provisos, quoted on page 363, his capacity
to do which was given but for twelve months from. August
1 t, 1866, or twelve months from the issuing of the note,
i. e., in this pnrticular case, twelve months fr'om the 12th

April, 1863; whereas here the collector's certificate showed
that the remission had been on the 12th of October, 1869;

plainly too late; though had the penalty been paid, then,
under the previous proviso,-where no limit of time was
fixed to tlhe collector's power to post-stamp-the post-stampin g would have apparently been good.
In this state of things Congress, on the 14th July, 1870,*
passed yet another act, amending the act of July 3011h, 1866,
containing the provisos above quoted. It was amended
"By striking out the words 'fifty dollars,' in the second proviso, and inserting in lieu thereof the following, 'double the
amount of tax reiaining unpaid, but in no case less than $5;'

also by striking out the words 'sixty-six' in the third proviso,
and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'seventy-one;' also by
striking out the words 'sixty-seven' in the last proviso, and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'seventy-two.'"
Of course, with the act of 1866, thus amended-assuming
that the amendatory act operated retrospectively (that is to
say, on notes made previously to July 14th, 1870, the date
of its passage), though not unless that assumption was
made-if the collector any time after its passage and prior
to the 1st of August, 1871, affixed the stamp and remitted
the penalty the post-stamping would have been good. Here
it had been done on the 12th of October, 1869.
The questions befoire this court were:
1. Whether this amendatory act of July 14th, 1870, opertited retrospectively.
2. Whether, assuming that it did, the court would reverso
16 Stat at Large, 257.

PUGH V. McCoRMIcK.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the judgment below, since though the court below miight
have wrongly decided at the time that the case came before it (January 12th, 1870), that the collector had power
on the 7th October, 1869, to remit the penalty, yet, when
by reversal, the case should come again before it the same
decision would in virtue of the subsequently passed amendatory act of July 14th, 1870, and its retrospective operation,
have to be made, and the same judgment have to be now
rightly given which was then given wrongly.
3. Whether the indorsement by Pugh required a stamp.
4. Whether the waiver of demand and notice did.
The case came up to be argued in this court February 7th,
1872.
Mr. Miles Taylor, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. T' J. Durant, contra.
MY. Justice CLIFFORD, on the 19th of February, 1872,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Reference will be made to the parties as they existed in
the State court where the suit was commenced.
Martin, on the twelfth of April, 1863, by his promissory
note of that date promised to pay, twelve months after date,
to the order of the defendant, at the place mentioned in the
note, seven thousand dollars with eight per cent. interest,
and the note is indorsed by the defendant without date.
On the seventh of.December of that year the defendant
paid two thousand dollars, which is indorsed on the note,
and on the seventeenth of May following he made another
payment of three thousand dollars, for which a receipt was
given by the plaintiff: Prior to that, howev7er, to wit, on
the sixteenth of October of the preceding year, the following waiver of protest was signed by the defendant, to wit:
"(Notice of protest, demand, and protest waived, and all
legal responsibilities assumed."
When the note was executed no internal revenue stamps
were affixed to it, and it remained without any such stamps
untfil the seventh of October, 1869, when such stamps, to

Dec. 1871.]

PUGH V. MCCORMICK.
Opinion of tho court.

the amount of three dollars and fifty cents, were. at the request of the plaintiff, affixed to it and cancelled by the collector of internal revenue for the district, the interest being
collected and the penalty remitted as more fully appears by
the certificate of the collector set forth in the record.
Payment being refused, the plaintiff, as the holder and indorsee of the note in good faith and for value, on the twenty.
fifth of March, 1868, instituted the present action 6f assumpsit to recover the balance due on the note. Service was
made and the defendant appeared and pleaded that the
plain~tiff acquired the note directly from the maker of the
same; that no consideration ever passed between the defendant and the plaintiff or between the defendant and the
maker of the instrument in regard to the note, and the defendant also denied that he was ever legally bound by the
instrument or that he ever at any time rendered himself
liable to pay the amount. Neither party demanding a jury
the cause was heard and determined by the court, and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff in conformity with the
declaration.
Exceptions were filed by the defendant, and by the exce]tiors it appears that the defendant, when the plaintiff offered
the note in evidence, objected to its admissibility upon three
grbunds: (1) Because the face of the instrument was not
legally stamped with the internal revenue stamps, as required by law; (2) because the indorsement on the note was
not legally stamped; (3) because the certificate waiving demand, notice, and protest 'was never stamped, and he insistbd that the note for the want of such stamps could not
be admitted in evidence. All three objections were overruled, and judgment, having been rendered for the plaintiff
the defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
where thejudgment was affirmed. Whereupon the defendant sued out a writ of error to the State court and removed
the cause iito this court for re-examination.
Two principal questions are presented by the assignment
of errors: (1.) Whether the stamps affixed to the note were
legally affixed. (2.) Whether the certificate waiving demand,

PUGH V. MCCORMICK.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

notice, and protest was an instrument which the internal
revenue laws required should be stamped. Evidently a
satisfactory response to these questions cannot be given
without a careful examination of the several provisions in
the acts of Congress imposing such revenue duties, and the
modifications of the same as enacted by Congress prior to
the time when the note and the certificate of waiver were
offered and admitted in evidence.
Promissory notes, except bank notes issued for circulation,
where the note was given for a sum exceeding twenty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, were by the act
of the first of July, 1862, subjected to a stamp duty of five
cents. Nine other gradations were prescribed in the same
schedule by which the rate per cent. of the duty was some.

what diminished as the amount of the note was increased.
Where the note exceeded ive thousand dollars the amount
of the stamp duty imposed by that schedule was one dollar
and fifty cents, and one dollar in addition for every twentyfive hundred dollars or part of twenty-five hundred dollars
in excess of five thousand dollars, which shows that the note
given in evidence ini this case was subject under that act to
a stamp duty of three dollars and fifty cents.*
Persons who made, signed, or issu.e(1, or caused to be
made, signed, or issu'ed any instrument, document, or paper
of any kind, without the same being duly stamped, were
declared by the ninety-fifth section to be subject to a penalty
of fifty dollars, and the further provision in the same section
was that such instrument, document, or paper should le
deemed invalid and of no effect. Section one hun(red also
provided that if any person made, signed, or issued, or
caused to be made, signed, or issued, or accepted or paid or
caused to be accepted or paid, with design to evade the payment of any such stamp duty, any bill of exchange, draft,
or order, or promissory note for the payment of money and
liable to any such duty, he should, for every such bill, draft,
order, or note forfeit the sum of two hundred dollars.t
* 12 Stat. at Large, 480.

f- 1b. 475, 477-

Dec. 1871.]

PuGH v. MCCORMICK.

869

Opinion of the court.

Instruments, documents, and papers made, signed, or
issued without being duly stamped were, by the ninety-fifth
section of that act, declared to be invalid and of no effect, but
the twenty-fourth section of the act of the fourteenth of July
in the same year provided that no instrument, document, or
paper made, signed, or issued prior to the first day of January then next should be deemed invalid or of no effect because it was made, signed, or issued without being duly
stamped. Provision, however, was made in the same see
tion that no such instrument, documeut, or paper should bf
admitted or used as evidence in any court until it was dull
stamped nor until the holder proved to the satisfaction of
the court that he had paid five dollars to the collector foi
the use of the United States.*
tExemption from such declared invalidity and nullity was
further extended to such instruments, documents, aid papers
made, signed, or issued prior to the first day of June, 1863,
by the sixteenth section of tie act of the third of March,
passed in the same ,year, but the same section also provided
that no such instrument, document, or paper, or any copy
thereof, should be admitted or used as evidence in any court
until the required stamps were affixed, together with the
initials of the person affixing the stamps and the date when
the same were so affixed.t
All laws in force in relation to stamp duties when the act
of the thirtieth of June, 1864, was passed were by that
act continued in force until the first day of August of that
year, and the same act adopted a new schedule of stamp
duties, which took effect from and after that day. By that
schedule persons making, signing, or issuing promissory
notes not exceeding one hundred dollars were requir~ed to
stamp the same with a five-cent stamp, and to add another
of the same amount for every additional hundred dollars or
fractional part of one hundred dollars.t
Neither deeds, instruments, documents, or papers, nor
any copy thereof, not stamped, as required by previous laws,
12 Stat. at Large, 561.

t lb. 725.

VOL. XIV.

24

1 13 Id. 291, 298.

PUGH V. McCORMICK.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court,

could be recorded or admitted or used as evidence under
that act until the same was stamped as therein required, but
the act provided that no instrument, document, or paper,
made, signed, or issued prior to he passage of that act, without
being stamped, should be deemed invalid or of no effect for
that cause if the stamp or stamps iequired should be subsequently affixed, and the act gave authority to the person dosiring to use or to record any such deed, instrument, document, writing, or paper as evidence to affix the stamp or
stamps thereon required in the presence of the court, register, or recorder.*
But persons making, signing, or issuing any instrument,
document, or paper of any kind, or who caused the same to
be made, signed, or issued, or who accepted or paid, or
caused to be accepted or paid, any bill of exchange, draft,
order, or promissory note without the same being stamped,
were by that act subjected to a forfeiture of two hundred
dollars, and the further provision was that such instrument,
document, or paper, bill, draft, order, or note, should be
deemed invalid and of no effect.t
Stamps were also required by the act of the thirty-first of
March, 1865, where 'bills of exchange and promissory notes
were negotiated as well as where they were accepted and
paid, but the forfeiture created by the preceding act for the
intentional evasion of the requirements was reduced to fifty
dollars instead of two hundred dollars, as provided in the
prior law.T
Provision was also made that persons desirous of affixing
stamps to instruments, not stamped as required by prior
laws, might appear before the collector of the proper district
and affix the same upon paying ftle price of the proper
stamp and the penalty of fifty dollars, with interest on the
stamp duty if it exceeded the amount of the penalty. Such
acts being done, that is, the proper stamp being affixed, the
penalty paid, and a note of those acts and the date thereof
made in the margin of the instrument, the section provides
* 13 Stat. at Large, 295.

tIb. 294.

1 b. 481.

0ec. 1871.1

Puo

v. McCoRMicK.

Opinion of the court.

that the instrument "shall thereupon be deemed and held
to be as valid to all intents and purposes as if stamped when
made or issued."*
Fifty dollars forfeiture for making, signing, or issuing
such an instrument, or for causing the same to be made,
signed, or issued, or for accepting, negotiatinig, or paying,
or causing to be accepted, negotiated, or paid, any bill of
exchange, draft, or order or promissory note, without the
same being duly stamped, was also imposed by the act of
the 13th of July, 1866, in cases where the act was done
with intent to evade the provisions of that act, but the collector was empowered by that act to remit the penalty and
to cause the instrument to be duly stamped in all cases where
it appeared to his satisfaction that the omission to affix the
stamp happened by reason of accident, -mistake, inadvertence, or urgent necessity, and without any wilful design to
defraud the revenue, or to evade or delay the payment of
the duty. Twelve calendar months from the first day of
August then next were allowed to the delinquent party by
that act to avail himself of that provision, and the section
specifically points out the acts to be done by the party and
the collector to render the instrument as valid as if it had
been stamped at the time it was made, signed, or issued.
Original instruments, or a certified or duly proved copy
thereof, duly stamped so as to entitle the same to be recorded, may under that act be presented to the clerk, register, or recorder, or other officer having charge of the original record, and such officer may, upon the payment of the
lawful fee, make a new record thereof, and note upon the
original record the fact that the error or omission in the
stamping of the original instrun'ent has been corrected pursuant to law, and the provision is that the original instrument, or such certified copy thereof, or the record thereof,
may in that event be used in all courts and places, in the
same manner and with like effect as if the instrument had
been originally stamped.t
18 Star. at Large, 481-2.

t-14 Id. 143,

372

PuGH V. MCCORMICK.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Errors or omissions of the kind which occurred or happened before the first day of August, 1866, might be remedied under that act at any time within twelve calenlar
months from that date, and subsequent errors and omissions
of the kind might also be remedied in the same way at any
time within twelve calendar months from the time the instrument, document, or paper was made, signed, or issued
without being stamped as required by law, but it is quite
clear that the case before the court does not fall within that
proviso, as the application to the collector was not made in
season to bring the case within either of those regulations.
I-ad legislation stopped there the ruling admitting the
note in evidence would certainly be erroneous, but the act
of the fourteenth of July, 1870, amends the preceding act
by striking out the words sixty-six, in the third proviso, and
inserting in lieu thereof the words seventy-one, whereby the
collector of the proper district is still empowered to remit
penalties of the kind occurring or happening under the circumstaplces described in the third proviso of the prior act.
Since the passage of that act it is conceded that the collector may remit the forfeiture therein imposed if it occurred
by reason of accident, mistake, inadvertence, or urgent
,necessity, and without any wilful design to defraud the
United States of the stamp or to evade or delay the payment
thereof," but it is insisted that the new provision does not
operate retrospectively, that it does not empower the collector to remit the penalty for any such omission if it occurred
prior to the passage of the act, but the court here is of a different opinion for several reasons.
Special attention is called in the first place to the peculiar
phraseology of the new provision, which is that section one
hundred and fifty-eight of the act of the thirtieth of' June,
1864, as amended by the ninth section of the act of the thirteenth of July, 1866, be and is hereby amended as therein
provided. Three amendments are then made in the lastinamed act, as follows: (1.) By striking out the words fifty
dollars in the second proviso and inserting in lieu thereof
the following: Double the amount of the tax remaining un.

Dec. 1871.]

PUGH V. McCORMICK.
Opinion of the court.

paid, but in no case less than five dollars. (2.) By striking
out the words sixty-six in the third proviso and inserting in
lieu thereof the words seventy-one. (3.) By striking out the
words sixty-seven in the last proviso and inserting in lieu
thereof the words seventy-two.*
Section oie hlndred and fifty-eight of the act first named
provided that the forfeiture, where the omission to affix the
stamp was with the intent to evade the duty, should be two
hundred dollars, but the succeeding act passed the next
year reduced the forfeiture to fifty dollars.t
Such an omission sul)jected the party to a penalty of fifty
dollars also under the act of the thirteenth of July, 1866,
but the penalty under the present act cannot exceed a sum
which is double the amount of the tax unless that sum is
less than five dollars.
Legislation in respect to the amount of the forfeiture in
the earlier acts of Congress upon the subject would have
been unnecessary if it had not been intended to extend the
jurisdiction of the collector or some other officer to delinquencies of the kind which arose under the acts of Congress
therein mentioned. All agree that the collector might,
within the period of time designated in those acts, remit
sach fbrfeitures or penalties for past delinquencies if the application, as before explained, was seasonably made, and the
court is unanimously of the opinion that the better construeLion of the act under consideration is that Congress intended
to give such delinquent party a further opportunity to
renedy such errors and omissions on the terms and conditions prescribed in the new provision.
Extended argument in support of the conclusion does not
seem to be necessary, as the reasons to support it are apparent from its statement. Grant all that and still it may be
suggested that the ruling in this case was made before the
present act was pdssed, and it must be admitted that the
suggestion is correct, but the new act shows to a demonstration that the ruling in question has become immaterial, ha..
* 16 Stat. at Large, 257.

f- 13 Id. 293; 1b. 481L

PUGH V. MOColIMICK.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

ing ceased to be prejudicial to the defendant, as thecollector
now possesses the power to do what he then did, that is, to
affix the stamps to the note, remit the penalty, and make
the proper memorandum of his doings; and it is so clear
that the plaintiff would have a right to require those acts to
be done if a new, trial were ordered that the cou rt is uiihesitatingly of the opinion that the judgment ought pot to be
reversed for that cause; as the proper stamps wei'e affixed
to the instrument and the amount of the required duty was
deposited in the treasury before the note was used, as evidence.*
Where the case is brought here by a writ of error to a
State court for re-examination the court is ijot inclined to
reverse the judgment unless there is some substantial error
to the prejudice of the complaining party, dbd especially not
where it appears that the error has become immaterial and
that the same party will be entitled to judgment if a new
trial is granted. Payment of the stamp duty was made to
the colector at the time he affixed the stamps to the note,
and inasmuch as the government makes no complaint, and
the whole transaction is characterized by good faith, the
court is of the opinion that the judgment of the State court
may be sustained.
II. Objection is also made that the note was not admissible as evidence because the indorsement was not stamped,
but the court is of the opinion that the objection is without
merit, as a stamp is not required to such a writing.t
111. Whenever a party in a suit upon a bill of exchange
or promissory note is required to prove demand and notice
or protest, he may comply with those conditions by proving
that the opposite party waived the Tequirement.
Campbell v. Wilcox, 10 Wallace, 422; Tobey v. Chipman, 13 Allen,
124; Corbin v. Tracy, 34 Connecticut, 326 ; U. S. v. Anderson, 9 Wallace,
p. 68.
- Tilsley on Stamps, 172; Richards v. Frankum, 9 Carrington & Payne,
221; Pcnny v. Innes, I Crompton, Meeson'& Roscoe, 439; Bacon v. Simpson, 8 Meeson & Welsby, 78; Edwards on Stamps (2d ed. 1, 140; Tilsley's
Digest, 28.

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. WEIDES.

375

Syllabos.

Proof to that effect was offered in this case, which consisted of the usual memorandumi signed by the party and
written on the back of the note, and the statement in the
bill of exceptions is that the defendant, when the note was
offered, objected to the admissibility of that writing, but the
dourt admitted it and the defendant excepted.
Satislactory proof of waiver in such a case is in all respects
equivalent in law to a compliance with the requirenent.*
Such a waiver need not be in writing, as an oral declaration to that effect would be equally effectual, and it does not
appear that any one of the internal revenue acts contains
any requirement if it is in writing that it should be stamped,
nor is any authority referred to as a support to the objection
taken to the ruling of the court. On the contrary, the iupreme Court of California has decided the other way and
this court is of the same opinion.t
JUDGMENT

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V.

AFFIRMkD.

•

WEIDES.

1. A statement in figures of the value of certain merchandise destroyed by
fire, which statemept professed to be a copy of another and original
statement contained in a book-itself destroyed in the fire-accompanied

by proof that on a certain day the witnesses took a correct inventory
of the merchandise and that it was correctly reduced to writing by one
of them and entered in the volume burnt, and that what is offered is a

correct copy, may, on a suit against insurers, be received in evidence to
fix the value of the merchandise burnt, even though there be no independent recollection by the witnesses affirming to the correctness of the
original statement of what they found the value of the merchandiso
to be.
2. Under a policy one of whose conditions is that in case of loss the assured,

after furnishing evidence of his loss, shall submit to an examination
*

Tauznton Bank v. Richardson, 5 Pickering, 1144,

2 Starkie on Evidence i

274; Woodmanv. Thurston, 8 Cushing, 157; Marshall v. Mitchell, 35 Maine,
221 ; Collins on Stamps, 30.

j- Pacific Bank v. De Ro, 37 California, 542; Chitty on Stamps, 192 200

