HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

clining to' say what the true construction of Trowbridge's
letter was.

I think the judgment should be affirmed.

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED S1IRITS.
1. Parties have a right to enter into a stipulation waiving a jury in the District Court, and to submit their case to the court upon an agreed statement of facts, independent of any legislative provision on the subject.
2. Where a forfeiture is made absolute by statute a decree of condemnation
relates bsck to the time of the commission of the wrongful acts, and
takes effect from that time, and not from the date of tle decree. Accordingly where a removal of distilled spirits from the place where distilled, with intent to defraud the United States of the tax thereon, was
alleged as a ground for the forfeiture of the spirits, it was held that
neither the subsequent payment of the taxes nor the fact that the
claimant was an innocent purchaser, without notice of the wrongful acts
of the antecedent owner, constituted a defence to the charge.
3. A removal of distilled spirits from the place where distilled to a bonded
warehouse of the United States, if made to secure the payment of the
tax to the governnient, is a lawful act, but if made with intent to defraud the United States of the tax, the act of removal is illegal, and the
spirits removed are subject to forfeiture. A removal of the spirits from
the place'where distilled to the bonded warehouse is not inconsistent
with , and may be a part of a scheme to defraud the United States of
the duties
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri ; the case being thus:

On the 13th July, 1866, Congress passed an act to provide
internal revenue,* laying and levying taxes on many hundred products of the country. The act is a long act, having seventy-one sections, and covering seventy-five large and
closely-printed pages of the statute-book. The first thirteen
sections, which cover fifty-three of these pages, relate to the
levying and collecting of taxes on a great variety of things,
but not of a tax on spirits. Section 14th thus proceeds:
"That in case any goods or commodities for or in respect
whereof any tax is or shall be imposed, or any materials, uten.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 98-173.

Dec.

1871.]

'HENDERSON'S

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

45

Statement of the case.

or vessels, proper or intended to be made use of, for or in
the making of such goods or commodities, shall be rernovwd, or
shall be deposited, or concealed in any place with intent to defraud the United States of such tax, or any part thereof, all such
goods ahd commodities, and all such materials, utensils, and vessels, respectively, shall be forfeited; and in every such case, and
in every case, where any goods or commodities shall be forfeited
under this act, or any other act of Congress relating to the internal revenue, all and singular the casks, vessels, cases, or other
packages whatsoevercontaining, or which shall have contained,
such goods or commodities respectively, and every vessel, boat,
cart, carriage, or other conveyance whatsoever, and all horses
or other animals, and all things used in the removal or for the
deposit or concealment thereof, respectively, shall be forfeited;
and every person who shall remove, deposit, or con eal, or be
concerned in removing, depositing or concealing any goods or
commodities for or in respect whereof any tax is or shall be imposed, with intent to defraud the United States of' such tax or
any part thereof, shall be liable to a fine or penalty of not
exceeding $500."
1ils,

The sections fr'om the 21st to the 45th relate to distilled
spirits. The 28th section provides:
"That general bonded warehouses for the storage of spirits or
other merchandise allowed by law to be placed in bond, may be
established."
And the 45th section enacts:
"That any person who shall remove any distilled spirits from
the place where the same are distilled, otherwise than into a bonded
warehouse, as provided by law, shall be liable to a fine of double
the amount of the tax imposed thereon, or to imprisonment for
not less than three months. All distilled spirits so removed,
and all distilled spirits found elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse,
not having been removed from such warehouse according to
law, and the tax imposed by law on the same not having been
paid, shall be forfeited to the United States, or may, immediately upon discovery, be seized, and after assessment of the tax
thereon, may be sold by the collector for the tax and expenses
of seizure and sale. And proceedings upon such seizure shall
be according to existing provisions of law in relation to dis.

46

HENDERSON'S DISTILITED SPIRITS.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.
traint, and in conformity with any regulations which shall be
made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. And the burden
of proof shall be upon the claimant of said spirits to show that
the requirements of law in regard to the same have been complied with. And any person who shall aid or abet in the removal of distilled spirits from any distillery otherwise than to a
bonded warehouse, as provided by law, or shall aid in the concealment of such spirits so removed, shall be liable, on conviction
thereof, to a fine of not less than $200,,or more than $1000, or
to imprisonment for not less than three nor more than twelve
months. And any person who shall remove, or shall aid or abet
in the removal of any distilled spirits from any bonded warehouse, other than is allowed by law, shall be liable to a fine of
not more than $1000, or to imprisonment for not less than three
nor more than twelve months."
Section 54th provides a fine of $100 and imprisonment
not exceeding a year of any one who shall sell, remove, &c.,
any fenented liquor, on which no stamp or a fraudulent one
has been affixed.
Trie act took effect generally from the 1st of August, 1866;*
mut so far as it changed existing laws relative to distilled and
fermented spirits, only from the Ist of September.
The 29th section enacts:
"That there shall be appointed by the Secretary of the
freasury an inspector for every distillery established according
to law, who shall take an oath faithfully to perform his duties;
and who shall take an account of all the meal and vegetable
productions or other substances to be used for the purpose of
producing spirits, when put into the mash-tub or otherwise
used; and shall inspect, gauge, and prove all the spirits dis.
tilled, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; and shall take charge
of I he bonded warehouse established for the distillery in conformity to law; and such warehouse shall be in the joint custody
of such inspector and the owner thereof, his agent or superintendent; and when any spirits shall be placed in such warehouse,
an entry therefor, in such form as shall be prescribed by regula
tions, shall immediately be made and signed by the owner of
Section 1

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S DISTmLLED

SPIRITS.

47

Statement of the case.

said spirits, and shall have indorsed thereon a certificate of the
inspector that tLe spirits mentioned have been duly inspected and
received in said warehouse, and suich entry and certificate shall
be filed with the collector of the district; and said inspector shall
not-engage in anyother business while employed as an inspector."

With this act in force, the attorney of the United States
for the Eastern District of Missouri, filed an information in
the District Court there, on the 7th of September, 1868, to
enforce a forfeiture of one hundred barrels of distilled spirits.
The fourth count of the information was founded on the first
of the above two quoted sections; that is to say, upon the
14th section of the statute, and was as follows:
" That the said one hundred barrels of spirits were manufactured at some place within the United States, to the said attorney unknown, and between the 1st day of September, A.D. 1866,
and the date of the said seizure, by some person or persons to
the said attorney unknown, and were then and there goods and
commodities on which a tax was then and there imposed by the
provisions of law, and the same were removed from the place
where distilled with intent to defraud the United States of such
tax, the same being then and there unpaid, contrary to the
form of the statutes of the United States in such case made and
provided."
One Henderson, of New Orleans, appeared to the monition
issued on the information and claimed the spirits as owner.
And he filed an. answer, putting in issue the material matters alleged in the information, and further alleged that the
said spirits " were purchased by him while the same were
in a bonded warehouse, and that he, the claimant, paid the
tax imposed thereon by law before he removed the same
from said bonded warehouse."
In answer to the count, the
claimant denied that the " spirits were removed -from the
place where distilled with intent to defraud the United
States of any tax being then and there imposed as alleged."
An agreement was filed in the District Court waiving a
jury trial, and the case was heard by the judge upon the
following facts, agreed to by the parties according to a stipulation flied befbre tbe trial:

48

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED

SPIRITS.

[SUp. Ct

Argument in favor of the condemnation.
"1st. That Henderson purch ..sed the spi rits while in a bonded
warehouse of the United States, at New Orleans, after the same
had been placed therein by the own, vs of the distillery at which the
same were made, and that he, He'derson, piid to the United
States collector the taxes due on the spirits and removed them
from the warehouse, according to law, without knowledge on
his part at any time before seizure, of any fraud on the part of
the distiller, either actual or alleged; that Henderson was a
purchaser, innocent and bond fide, and paid, himself, the tax on
the spirits.
"2d. That' he shipped the same to St. Louis, and that they
were in his constructive possession at the time of seizure.
"3d. That they were manufactured and distilled at a distillerr
in the first collection district of Louisiana, in May and June,
1868, carried on in the name of Nimrod Johnson, by the uso
and means of certain boilers, stills, and other vessels of which
Johnson was superintendent and owner.
"4th. That the fourth article in the information was true, but
that Henderson subsequently to removal from the distillery and
before removal from the bonded warehouse, and befbre seizure,
paid the tax on said spirits, and was a bond icle and innocent
purchaser thereof.
':5th. That he was not a purchaser from the United States,
and the United States at no time sold said spirits."
The District Court gave judgment for the claimant and
the Circuit Court affirmed the judgment, that court holding
that as the overt act alleged, namely, the removal was right.
ful, "it was difficult to see how it could have been made to
defraud the United States of the tax, and that a mere intent
to defraud, formed or existing in the mind of the distiller,
which intention had never been executed, or attempted to
be, was not made a ground of forfeiture."
The case was now here on error.
Mr. B. Hf. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney-General, for the United Stales, plaintfffs in
error:
1. If these spirits were liable to forfeiture under any count
of the information, the forfeiture attached at the moment of

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S DISTILLE)

SPIRITS.,

49

Argument against the condemnation.

the commission of the offence, and can be enforced against
the offending property in the bands of an innocent purchaser.*
2. The case agreed on admits the truth of the allegations
in the fourth count, namely, that the spirits were removed
from the distillery "with intent to defraud the United States
of said tax, the same being then and there unpaid." It
then comes by plain words within the 14th section of the
statute.
The fallacy of the reasoning of the Circuit Court was it
assuming it to be impossible that one step in an attempt to'
defraud the government of the tax due upon those spiritfi
could be their removal to a bonded warehouse. But it it
notorious that spirits have often been removed to United
States bonded warehouses from distilleries in accordance
with conspira6ies between distillers' and warehousemen in
order to defraud the government, by haviin.g the spirits
secretly drawn off from the barrels; and under agreements
with the revenue officers to have them released upon worthless security without payment of the tax.
Mr. J. A. Garfield, contra:
In Bennel v. liunler,t this court gave its construction of
the 4th section of the act of July 7th, 1862,T a highly penal
statute, in which it is provided, " that the title of, in, and to
every piece or parcel of land upon which said tax has iot
been paid as above provided sall thereupon become forfeited to
the United States." In construing this statute, the Chief
Justice, delivering the opinion of' the court, said:
"It must be remembered that the primary object ih the act
was undoubtedly revenue, .
a...
nd it seems unreasonable to
give to an sct considered as a revenue measure a construction
Robert v. Witherhead, 12 Modern, 92; Wilkins v. Despard, 6 Term,
112; United States v. Grundy, 3 Cranch, 338; United States v. 1960 Bags
of Coffee, 8 Id. 398; Wood v. Tie United States, 16 Peters, 342; Caldwell
v. The United States, 8 Howard, 366.
t

9 Wallace, 826.
VOL. XIV.

1 12 Stat. at Large, 294.
4

IIENDERSON'S

DISTILLED

SPIRITS

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument against the condemnation.

which would defeat the right of the owner to pay the amount
assessed, and relieve his land from the lien."
Speaking of the claim set up by the plaintiffs in that case,
that forfeiture worked co ins icnti on the failure of the owner
to pay the tax within the required time, the Chief Justice
said:
" It is certainly proper to assume that an act of sovereignty
so highly penal is not to be inferred from language capable of
any milder construction."
This principle of interpretation is applicable to this case.
2. The Circuit Court did not err in holding the spirits
were not forfeited under the fourth count in the information.
The 14th section, on which the fourth count ishbased, does
not apply to the removal of spirits. That section applies to
the removal from the place of manufacture, and to the deposit or concealment of articles named in the preies sections of the statute; among which articles liquors are not
included. Subsequent sectio s, it is, which govern them,
and the 45th section, which concludes this portion of, the
statute, provides a special and different penalty for the removal of spirits in violation of the law. Different penalties
are provided by section 54th for the unlawful removal of
fermented liquors, showing that Congress excepted them
from the operation of section 14th; a view strengthened by
the fact that the statute generally took effect on one date,
but that the provisions relating to distilled and fermented
liquors did not take effect till a later one.
Section 45th is, therefore, the law which applies to the
allegation in the fourth count of the information. But the
forfeiture prescribed in that sectiohi applies to the removal
of spirits ''from the place where the same are manufactured
otherw'ise than into a bonded warehouse," and the removal of
these spirits was not otherwise. It was a bonded warehouse
of the United States.
The allegation in the fourth count that the spirits were
removed " from the place where distilled, with intent to
defraud the United States of the tax," and which allegation

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S

DISTILLED

SPIRITS.

Reply.

is admitted in the case agreed on to be true-is rendered
nugatory by the other, the fact equally admitted, that the
removal was made by the distiller hiriself to a bonded warehouse of the United States. This act was legal, was in pur.
suance of the statute, was the very course prescribed by the
law "to secure the payment of the tax." No conspiracywhich is what, in truth, the opposing counsel assume to
have existed-is alleged in the information, nor in tile facts
agreed on. The contrary appears from the case agreed on.
If it did not, all the proceedings required of the inspector
by the 29th section*-numerous and stringent provisionsmust be assumed in the absence of any proof, or even allegation, to the contrary to have taken place. And the fact
that when Henderson purchased the spir its he paid the full
amount of the tax, and received the collector's certificate of
such payment, is conclusive that there was no conspiracy.
The government by accepting and retaining the taxes paid
to it by the claimant, is estopped to say the property all the
time belonged to it, by reason of previous forfeited title by
Ienderson had every possible
the vendor or the claimant.
assurance that he had acquired a perfect title to the property he purchased. If it now be declared forfeited, he lobes
both the tax and the property, by no fiult or negligence on
his part. In civil actions, and in all cases like this, which
involve a mere right to property, estoppel binds the govern
ynent as it does individuals.t
Reply: Section 45th is widely different from section 14th.
The gist of section 14th is the intent with which the spirits
are removed; forfeiture only taking place where they are
removed, deposited, or concealed in anyplace with intent to
defraud the United States. In section 45th the intent with
which the removal is made is immaterial, if they are removed
elsewhere than to a bonded warehouse. Thus an ibiforration can )e founded on section 45th, however innocent may
Quoted supra, pp. 46, 47.
t Lindsey v. Hawes et al., 2 Black, 554; Alviso v. United States, 8 Wal,
lace, 337.

1-FENDERSON'8 DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[sup. Or,

Opinion of the court.

have been the intention of the parties; but, when founded
on, section 14th, the intent to defraud the government becomes essential. The fact that an information for fraudulently removing spirits elsewhere than to a bonded wareLouse may be founded either on section 14th or section 45th,
does not show any conflict between the two sections, or that
the one limits the other. Such cumulative remedies are
very often provided in revenue laws.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Distilled spirits, upon which no tax had been paid according to law, were, by the thirty-second section of the act of
the thirteenth of July, 1866, subject to a tax of' two dollars
on each and every proof gallon, to be paid by the digtiller,
owner, or any person having possession thereof, and the
same section provided that the tax shall be a lien on the
spirits distilled, and on the distillery used for distilling the
same, with the stills, vessels, fixtures, and tools therein, &c.t
Express provision is also made by the fourteenth section of
that act, that all goods or bommodities, for or in respect
whereof any tax is or shall be imposed, or any materials,
utensils, or vessels pl'oper or intended to be made use of for
or in the making of such goods or commodities, in case they
shall be removed or shall be deposited or concealed in any
place with intent to defraud the United States of such tax,
or any part thereof, shall be forfeited.t Certain alterations
are made in each of those provisions by the fourteenth section of the act of the second of March, 1867, but the alterations are not material to the present case, as the same section
provides that the new, provision shall not exclude any other
,remedy or proceeding provided bi' law, which beyond all
doubt leaves in full operation the fourteenth section of the
prior act.§
Regular seizure of the one hundred barrels of distilled
spirits in question was made on the first day of September,
* The Distilled Spiris, 11 Wallace, 856, 364, 365.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 157.
l1b. 151.

Ib. 481.

Dec. 1871.]

HEI)EFRSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

68

Opinion of the court.

1868, by the collector of the district, as alleged in the information, and the record shows that the information was duly
filed by the district attorney on the seventh of the same
month, in the District Court of the United States for the
district where the seizure was jnade. Being a seizure on
land, the claimant was entitled to a trial by jury, but he appeared and the parties entered into a stipulation waiving a
jury and submitted the case to the court upon an agreed
statement of facts, as they had a right to do, even before
any legislative provision was enacted for waiving a jury by
a written stipulation.* Pursuant to that stipulation the
parties were heard, and the: District Court dismissed the information and rendered judgment for the respondent. Exceptions were duly taken by the district attorney and he
sued out a writ of error and removed the cause into the
Circuit Court, where the judgment rendered by the District
Court was affirmed, and the United States thereupon sued
out a writ of error to the Circuit Court and removed the
cause into this court for re-examination.
Seizure of the spirits was made, as before explained, by
the collector bf internal revenue for the district, and it is
alleged in the information that the collector still holds the
same in his possession and custody as forfeited to the United
States, under the provisions in the act to.amend the existig laws relating to internal revenue. Six articles, each
charging a forfeiturie of the spirits in question, are contained
in the information, but in the view of the case taken by the
court it will only be necessary to examine the fourth in the
series, which is as follows:
That the said one hundred barrels of spirits were manu.
factured at some place within the United States to said
attorney unknown, and between the first day of September,
1866, and the date of said seizure, by some person or persons to said attorney also unknown, and were then and there
goods and commodities on which a tax was then and there
Suydanm v. William son, 20 Howard, 484; United States v. Eliason, 16
Peters;,291

21 Id. 224.

Stimpsor v. Railroad, 10 Howard, 829; Campbell v. Boyreau

HENDERSON'S

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Su~p. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

imposed by the provisions of law, and the same were removed from the place where distilled, with intent to defraud
the United States of such tax, the same being then and there
unpaid, contrary to the form of the statutes of the said
United States in such case made and provided.
Seasonable claim in due fbrm was made fbr the spirits by
the defendant, and he appeared and filed ani answer, denying
all the material allegations of the information, and tendered
an issue to the country, which was joined by the United

States. Apart from that, he also answered each article separately, and in respect to the fourth article he denied that
the spirits in question were removed from the place where
distilled with intent to deh'aud the United States of any tax
then and there imposed, as alleged in the information.
Evidently the answer was precisely equivalent to the general issue, and made it incumbent upon the United States to
prove the charge as alleged, and the effect of the stipulation
submitting the ease to the court was to substitute the. court
for the. jury as the tribunal to determine the issue of fact
presented in the pleadings. Had the stipulation contained
nothing further, it is clear that the evidence on the one side
and the other must have been introduced to the court substantially as provided in the recent act of Congress upon
that subject, but the parties went further and stipulated in
writing as to what the facts in the ease were, in which stipulation it is agreed that the fourth article in the information
istrue, and it is insisted by the United States that that stipu-,
lation is equivalent to a confession of guilt, and that it entitles the United States to judgment, and the court would
certainly be of the same opinion if that admission was unaccompanied by what follows in the stipulation in the same
connection.

Standing alone, it isan admission that the charge as contained in the fourth article of the information is true, but it
must be read in connection with what follows as a part of
the same stipulation, and the question is whether the qualification annexed to the admission that the fourth article of
the information is true, changes the aspect of the evidence

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

56

Opinion of the court.

and entitles the defendant to the judgment rendered in hiA
favor by the subordinate courts.
Appended to the admission that the fourth article in the
information is true, is the statement that the defendant, subsequently to the removal of the spirits from the distillery,
and before their removal from the bonded warehouse, and
before the seizure, "paid the tax on said spirits, and that he
was'a bona fide and innocent purchaser;" and the question
is whether that statement, appended as it is to the admission,
qualifies the language of the admission in such a way that
the admission does not establish the truth of the charge contained in the fourth article of the information.
Due weight must'also be given to certain other facts stated
in the stipulation in determining the question whether the
judgment for the defendant was correct or incorrect. He
was not the purchaser from the United States, nor have the
United States ever sold the spirits in question, but the agreed
statement also shows that he purchased the spirits while
they were in a bonded warehouse in New Orleans, after the
same had been placed therein by the owner of the distillery
at which the same were distilled; that he paid the tax due
on the spirits to the collector, and removed the same from
the warehouse .according to law, without any knowledge on
his part, at any time before the seizure, of any fraud, either
actual or alleged, on the part of the distiller; that the spirits
were manufactured and distilled at a certain distillery in
that district, in the months of May and June, prior to the
seizure, by the person therein named, by the use and means
of certain boilers, stills, and other vessels of which the distiller was superintendent and owner, and the parties agree
to the effect that all the acts averred in the fifth and sixth
articles of the information as having been done in respect to
the spirits in question by some person unknown are true,
when the averments are applied to the person named in the
agreed statement as the manuficturer and distiller of the
said spirits.
Four material ingredients are involved in the e targe contained in the fourth article of the information: (1.) That the

HENDERSON'S

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. ct

Opinion of the court.

spirits were manufactured at some place within the United
States, between the day therein named and the date of the
seizure. (2.) That the spirits were then and there goods
and commodities on which a tax was imposed by some provision of law then in force. (3.) That the spirits were removed from the place where distilled with intent to defraud
the United States of such tax. (4.) That the tax was unpaid
at the time the spirits were so remo~red, with such fraudulent
intent.
Beyond all doubt the admission that the fourth article is,
true is a conclusive admission that each and every one of
the well-pleaded allegations which it contains are also true,
which, standing alone, would certainly 'be a confession on
the record thai the property is subject to forfeiture, unless
it can be shown that the fourth article in the information is
insufficient in law to warrant a judgment in favor of the
United States.
Viewed in that light, as the admission must be, the next
question is whether the statemeit appended to the admission
is sufficient to save the property from condemnation in the
possession of the defendant. Properly analyzed the statement appended to the admission contains two averments in
avoidance of the consequences which would otherwise follow from the admitted acts of the antecedent owner-, (1.)
That the defendant paid the tax subsequent to the removal
of the spirits from the distillery and before they were removed from the bonded warehouse and before the seizure
by the collector. (2.) That he was a bonrIfide and innocent
purchaser, without notice that the spirits were forfeited as
alleged in that article of the information.
Where the forfeiture is made absolute by statute the decree
of condemnation when entered relates back to the time of
the connission of the wrongful acts, and takes date from
the wrongful acts and not from the date of the sentence or
decree.* Subsequent payment of the duties, therefore, is
* Roberts v. Witherall, 1 Salkeld, 223 ; Robert v. Witherhead, 12 Modern,

92 ; United States v. Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; The Brigantine Mars,
lb. 417; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 WheatQn, 311 ; Caldwell v. United States, 8

Dec. 1871.1

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

57

Opinion of the court.

no defence to an information for a forfeiture founded upon
antecedent wrongful acts, as the effect of such wrongful acts,
where the forfeiture is made absolute by statute, is to divest
the owner of all property in the goods seized and to vest
the title to the same in the United States, incase a prosecution ensues, and a decree of condemnation follows, as the
decree of condemnation when entered by a court of competent jurisdiction relates back to the date of the wrongful
acts as alleged and proved at the trial or in the hearing of
the catqse.* Repeated decisions of this court have established that rule in all cases where the forfeiture is made
absofite by the act of Congress, and it necessarily follows
that, neither the' subsequent payment of the duties nor the
fact that the 'defendant is. an innocent purchaser, without
notice of the wrongful acts of the antecedent owner, constitutes any defence to the charge contained in the fourth article
of the information.t Many such adjudged cases are to be
found in the reported decisions of this court, and it must be
admitted that they establish the rule beyond all doubt, that
the forfeiture becomes absolute at the commission of the
prohibited acts, and that the title from that moment vests
in the United States in all cases where the statute its terms
denounces the forfeiture of the property as a penalty for a
violation of law, without giving any alternative remedy, or
prescribing any substitute for the forfeiture, or allowing any
exceptions to its enforcement, or employing in the :enactment
any language showing a diff6rent intent; and that-in all such
cases it is not in the power of the offender or former owner to
defeat the forfeiture by any subsequent transfer ofr the property even to a bond fide purchaser for Value without notice
of the Wrongful acts done and committed by the former
owner. Established as that rule has been by the decisions
of this court for more than half a century, it is insisted that
it should be applied in the case before the court, and it is
Howard, 381; United States v.Grundy, 3 Cranch, 338; Wood v.United
States, 16 Peters, 342; Clifton v. United States, 4 Howard, 248.,
* Fontaine v. Ins. Co., 11 John.son, 293; Kennedy v.Strong, 14 Id. 128.

t Wilkins v. D'espard, 5 Term, 112..

58

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

difficult to see any reason for rejecting the proposition, as
the words of the act under which the fourth article of the
informatio is drawn denounce the forfeiture of the property iii terms as absolute and unqualified as any which can
be chosen iii our langnage.* Goods and commodities falling
within that provision, it is enacted, shall be forfeited in ease
they shall be removed with intent to defraud the United
States of such tax, or any part thereof, and the language denouncing the forfeiture is explicit and absolute and without
any qualification whatever. Compare the language 6f the
act of Congress with the language employed in the fourth
article of the information and it will be seen that the charge
against the spirits is preferred in the same language as that
employed in the act of Congress denouncing the forfeiture,
as the fourth article alleges that the spirits in question were
then and there goods and commodities on which a fh.x was
then and there imposed by the provisions of law, and that
the same were removed from the place where distilled with
intent to defraud the United States of such tax, the same
being then and there unpaid; and the admission set forth in
the agreed statement is that the fourth article of the infor
nhation is true, which is a direct confession that the prohibited
acts charged in that article were done and eommitted at the
time and place and by the person and in the manner therein
alleged.
Concede all that and it is clear that the United States are
entitled to judgment, if it be true that the forfeiture relates
back to the (late of the wrongful acts charged in the information. Escape from that conclusion, it would seem, is
impossible, if it be admitted that the fourth article of the
information sets forth a good cause of forfeiture, and it is
clear that the affirmative of that proposition must be admitted, unless it be affirmed that the 14tl section of the act
of Congress, on which it is drawn, does not provide for such
a forfeiture, under the circnuistances therein described.
* United States v Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 308;, United States v. Grundy

8 Id. 338&

Dec. 1871.]

HENDErSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

59

Opinion of the court.

Such a proposition, whether so intended or not, is precisely
equivalent to a demurrer to the fourth article of the information or to a motion in arrest of judgment after verdict;
and if so, then it follows, as shown by all the authorities
upon the subject, that everything well pleaded in the fourth
article of the information must be taken as true, which is
the exact admission contained in the Agreed statement.
Nothing can be more certain in legal investigation than that
the decree must have been for the United States if the
claimant had demurred to the fourth article of the information, unless it can be held that the act of Congress denouncing the forfeiture is unconstitutional, as the article
in question embodies the exact language of that provision,
and it is equally certain that a motion in arrest of judgment
would also have been unavailing for the same reason, and
also because the validity of the act of Congress is beyond
all doubt.
Congress possesses the power to levy taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, and it is as clear that Congress may enact
penalties and forfeitures for the violation of such laws as it
is that Congress may levy the taxes or duties or pass laws
for their collection, safe-keeping, and disbursement.
Seetion fourteen, it is admitted, is broad enough in its
terms to einbrace the removal of spirits, on which ihere is a
tax, from the place where distilled, with intent to deftraud
the United States of the tax, but it is suggested that another
section of the same act requires that spirits, when removed
from the place where distilled, shall be deposited in a bonded
warehouse, and that the penalty imposed for a violation of
that requirement is different from the penalty imposed by
the fourteenth section of the act, and it must be admitted
that the suggestion is correct, but it is impossible to see in
what respect the suvvestioit tends to support the views of
teiodefendant in the ,wesentcases
Suggestion is also made that it is not an iltga[ act to remove spirits from the place where distilled to a bonded
warehouse, and that also is true, but the corollary attempted
to be drawn from the two suggestions is a ?won-sequitlur, and

60.

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cannot be sustained, which is that the charge that the spirits
were removed from the place where distilled, with intent to
defraud the United States, cannot be true if it appears that
the spirits were removed from the distillery to a bonded
warehouse, as the removal of spirits from the place where
distilled to a bonded warehouse is authorized by law. Undoubtediy such 'a removal of spirits from the place where
distilled to a bonded warehousc, if made to secure the payment of the tax to the government, is a lawful act, but it is
equally clear, if the removal is made even to a bonded Warehouse to defraud the United States of the tax, that the act
of removal is illegal, and that the spirits removed are forfeitedo
Both of these suggestions, however, are founded upon the
assumed theory that the record shows that the only removal
of the spirits alleged or prqved was a removal from the place
where distilled to a bonded warehouse, but that assumption
is. wholly unsupported either by the charge contained in the
fourth article of the information or by the admission that
the fourth article is true, as exhibited in the agreed statement. On the contrary, the fourth article of the information
alleges that the spirits were removed from the place where
distilled, with intent to defraud the United States of the
tax, without any specification as to the place to which the
same were removed, or where they Were deposited; nor is
that omission any objection to the form of the charge, as
that article of the information follows substantially the language of the fourteenth section of the act of Congress on
which it is drawn.
Tested by the charge, as made in that article, and the admission applicable to it, as exhibited in the agreed statement, as the question must be, and it is clear that the spirits
may have been removed elsewhere than to a bonded warehouse before they were placed in that depository by the
owner and distiller. Such certainly would be the legal conelusion if the defendant had demurred to the information,
and the court is of the opinion that the same conclusion
must follow from the admission that the fourth article of the

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIllrS.

61

Opinion of the cotirt.

information is true, as the admission is expressed in the
agreed statement.
Henderson, the claimant, purchased the spirits while they
were in the bonded warehouse and after they had been deposited therein by the owner of the distillery where the
spirits were manufactured,.and having made the purchase
without notice that any fraud had been practiced by the distiller, and having paid the tax before the spirits were removed from the bonded warehouse, it is insisted by his
counsel, in every possible form of argument, that his title is
perfect and that the spirits are not liable to forfeiture, but
.the decisive answer to all that is the one already given, that
the forfeiture relates back to the unlawful or wrongful acts
of the antecedent owner, and that he cannot by any subsequent transfer of the property defeat the title of the United
States, as settled by a series of decisions which, if traced to
their source, have their origin in the early history of the
common law.*
Rules of 'decision of such long standing and so necessary
to protect the public revenue cannot be changed, nor can it
be admitted that the charge contained in the fourth article
of the information may not be sustained, even if it appears
that the only removal of the spirits made by the distiller
was to the bonded warehouse, as assumed in argument by
the defendant.t
Unquestionably a removal of distilled spirits from the
place where distilled to such a depository, if made to secure
the payment of the tax, is a lawful act, but it is equally clear
that if it is made with intent to defraud the United States
of the tax it is an unlawful act, and subjects the spirits to
forfeiture.
Grant that the removal was righiful, as assumed by the
circuit judge, and the conclusion which he adopted would
follow, but it cannot be assumed in this case that the re4 Bacon's Abridgment, by Bouvier, 346; Plowden, 488, b Co. Litt. 25;
1 Chitty's Criminal Law, 727.
f Clarke v. Insurance Co., 1 Story, 109.

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED

SPIRITS.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

moval was rightful, as the charge in the fourth article of the
information is that it was made with intent to defraud the
United States of the tax, and the admission in the agreed
statement is that the foiurth article of the information is true,
which shows as fully as it can be shown that the United
States are entitled to a decree of condemnation, unless it
can be established that the fraudulent intent there charged
could not under any circumstances be carried into effect by
such a removal as that alleged in the fourth article of the
information and admitted in the agreed statement.
Suppose it be true, as assumed in argument, that the only
attenipt made to execute the unlawful intent charged was.
the removal of the spirits from the place where distilled to
the bonded warehouse, still it would by no means necessarily
follow, as is supposed, that the removal was a legal act, as
the removal, though to a bonded warehouse, may nevertheless have been made for the express purpose to defraud the
United States of the tax, and if so, then the removal was indubitably an illegal act, and the spirits are properly subject
to forfeiture as charged in the information.
Cases have arisen, as the records of this court show, where
the removal to the bonded warehouse was made as a part
of a preconcerted arrangement with other parties to avoid
the payment of the tax, and it would not be difficult to suppose other cases where the removal of the spirits f'om the
place where distilled to the bonded warehouse would be a
necessary part of a well-devised scheme to defraud the
United States by delivering the spirits to purchasers without the payment of the duties.*
Inspectors of spirits are required to be appointed by the
Secretary of the Treasury, and all distilled spirits, before
being removed from the distillery, are required to be inspected and gauged by a general inspector, whose duty it is
to mark the vessels or packages in the manner required by
law, and penalties are prescribed and imposed in case the
* Distilled Spirits, 11 Wallace, 364

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

63

Opinion of the court.

spirits are removed from the place where distilled without
a compliance with those requirements.*
Persons distilling spirits, and the owners of stills used fbr
the purpose of distilling spirits, are required to keep books

and to make certain entries therein, and to render certain
accounts to assessors, and if they do not comply with those
requirements they also are subject to certain penalties for
the neglect.t
Bonded warehouses are established for the storage of
spirits to be placed therein to secure the payment of the
and the provision is that if any perduties imposed by la,,,,
son shall ship, transport, or remove any spirits under any
other than the proper mark or brand, known to the trade as
designating the kind and quality of the contents of the casks
or packages containing the same, or cause the same to be
done, he shall forfeit the same, and shall, on conviction
thereof, be subject to an(l pay a fine of five hundred dollars.t
Cautious merchants, in consequence of those regulations,
and many others equally stringent, are often disinclined to
purchase spirits at the place where distillcd lest they should
be subject to forfeiture, if equally favorable terms are offered
by other parties who have made deposits in the bonded
warehouses. Distillers, therefore, intending to evade the
payment of the duties may find it a most effectual way to
accomplish their unlawful designs, in case they can, by bribery or otherwise, secure the co-operation of the inspector,
storekeeper, or collector, to remove the spirits to a bonded
warehouse, as spirits placed in that depository are less subject to suspicion and sell more readily than befbre they were
removed from the place where distilled.
Spirits placed in such a depository sell more readily than
before they were removed, because they are regarded as less
likely to be subject to forfeiture than while they remained in
the distillery, but it is clear that the tleory that an intent to
defraud the United States cannot be predicated of a removal
of spirits from the place where distilled to a bonded ware.
14 Stat. at Large, 156; 14 Id. 481.

t Ib. 157.

1 Ib. 155, 156.

HENDERSON'S

DISTILLED

SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct°

Opinion of Field, J., the Chief Justice, and Miller, J., dissenting.

house is an erroneous theory, as it is manifest that the dishonest distiller, if he can obtain the assistance of the inspector, storekeeper, or collector, as a partner or agent, will find'
such a removal an essential step in almost every scheme
which he may devise to accomplish his wicked designs.
Viewed in any light, therefore, the court is of the opinion
that the judgment of the Circuit Court is erroneous.
Questions are also presented in the record under the fifth
and sixth articles of the information, but the court having
come to the conclusion that the United States are entitled to
judgment uponthe fourth article of the information, do not
deem it necessary to express any opinion as to the other
questions.
JUDGMENT REVERSED

and the cause remanded with instruc-

tions to render
JUDGMENT FOR THE UNITED

STATES.

Mr. Justice FIELD, with whom colicurred the CHIEF
JUSTICE and Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the judgment of the majority of
the court, and will briefly state the grounds of my dissent.
The proceeding is an information for the forfeiture of one
hundred' barrels of distilled spirits. The forfeiture is not
decreed, on the ground that the government has not received
the taxes levied on the spirits, for it is admitted that these
have been paid; nor on the ground that the claimant has
committed or participated in the commission of any fraud
in the acquisition of the property, for it is conceded that he
purchased the spirits in good faith without knowledge of
his vendor's title. Nor is the forfeiture
any defect or taint in,
inflicted for any violation of law, in act or deed, on the part
of the distiller of whom the claimant purchased. He only
removed the spirits from the place of their manufacture to
the bonded warehouse of the United States, and that was a
lawful, and not an unlawful act. The forfeiture is decreed
because the former owner, in removing the spirits to the
bonded warehouse, intended at the time to defraud the gov-

Dec. 1871.]

IHENDERS0NS DISTILLRD SPIRITS.

65

Opinion of Field, J., the Chief Justice, and Miller, J., dissenting.

ernment of the tax thereon-an intent, however, which he
never attempted to carry into execution.
We thus have this singular and, I venture to say, unprecedented fhct, in the history of judicial decisions in this country, that the property of a citizen honestly acquired, without
suspicion of wrong in his vendor, is forfeited and taken from
him because such vendor, atsome period whilst owning the
property, conceived the intent to defraud the government of
the tax thereon, althe igh such intent was never developed
in action, and for the execution of which no step was evei
taken.
The presumption is that the majority of the court are right
in this decision, and that the minority are mistaken in their
views of the law governing the ease. It is, therefore, with
diffidence that I venture to dissent from their judgment, a
diffidence which is greatly augmented by the declaration of
the majority, that it is impossible to escape the conclusion
which they have reached.
But for this conclusion I should have supposed that it
would have been impossible, at this day and in this age, and
in our country, to obtain a decree confiscating the property
of a citizen for anything which a former owner of the
property may have intended to do, but never did, with
respect to it. I should have said thatithe intentions of the
mind, lying dormant in the brain, had long since ceased to
be subjects for which legislatures prescribed punishment.
Against threatened injuries to person or property remedies
are provided; .and this, it is believed, is the extent to which
legislation can legitimately go with respect to intentions,
however fraudulent or wicked, so long as they remain undeveloped by action. Penalties and forfeitres are not inflicted
at this day in any civilized and free government for the motives with which lawful acts are done.
The inability to ascertain, with certainty, the intentions
of a party, except as they-are exhibited in his acts, and the
injustice which must incessarily follow any attempt to inflict
punishment for them, except as they are thus exhibited,
have hitherto, in this country, prevented any legislation of
VOL. XIV,

5

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED

SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinl on of Field, J., the Chief Justice, and Miller, J., dissenting.

that charactcir, unless such legislation is found in the present
revenue act of' Congress. The injustice in its operation of
such legislation, assuminig such legislation to exist, could
not be more strikingly illustrated than in the present case.
But I am not prepared to admit, notwithstanding the cogency and persuasiveness of the able and elaborate argument in the opinion of the majority, that there is any such
legislation on our statute-book.
The act of Congress under which this proceeding was
taken provides, in its twenty-eighth section,* for the establishmnent of bonded warehouses for the storage of spirits
' to secenre the payment of the internal revenue tax thereon,"
and, in its forty-fifth section, prohibits "' the removal of distilled spirits- from the place where the same are distilled
otherwise Mhan into a bonded warehouse, as provided by law,"
imposing penalties upon parties making such removal, and
declarihig that '' the distilled spirits so removed" shall be
forfeited to the United States.
The same act declares, in its fourteenth section,. that if
any goods or commodities, upon which a tax is imposed, or
the materials, utensils, or vessels, proper or intended to be
used in their manufacture, are removed, deposited, or concealed in any place, "with intent to defrand the United
States of such tax, or any part thereof," they shall be forfeited to the United States. And it is upon the language of
this section, as applied to the facts admitted by the parties,
that the majority of the court found the decree of forfeiture.
The language is undoubtedly broad enough to cover any
removal of spirits, upon which a tax has been imposed,
from their place of manufacture; and, if it has any reference to articles of that cha'acter, it must be construed in
connection with the language of the forty-fifth section. And
the evident meaning of the two sections, if' they are construed together, is, that the rermoval, for which a forfeiture
is declared, is a removal to some other place than a bonded
* 14 Stat. at Large, 155.

f" 1b. 168.

$ 1b. 151,

Dec. 1871.]

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

67

Opinion of Field, J , the Chief Justice, and Miller, J , dissenting.

warehouse of the United States. Of a removal to such
warehouse it is difficult to perceive how an intent to defraud
the government can be, in truth, affirmed. It would be as
reasonable to declare that a debtor had an intention to defraud his creditor when lie placed in the hands of the latter
the money to pay his demand. It is plain, in my judgment,
or rather I should have said it was plain but for the opinion
of the majority, that the removal of spirits forbidden by
that section is a removal to some place beyond the reach of
the government, or where the government would be in some
way embarrassed or obstructed in the collection of its tax.
It seems to me a strange application of the prohibition to
make it cover a removal of spirits to a warehouse specially
provided by the government for their reception, and where
they are placed in the possession and enstody of the officers
of the United States.
But I am unable to convince myself that the fourteenth
section has any reference whatever to the removal of distilled spirits. The previous sections of the act relate to taxes
on a great variety of articles, of several hundred different
kinds, and it does not include distilled spirits among them.
The removal mentioned in the fourteenth section would
seem, therefore, to apply to the removal from the place of
their manufacture of the articles thus previously designated,
or at least of articles mentioned in the statute, for the removal of which no different penalties are specifically prescribed.
The sections of the act, from the twenty-first to the fortyfifth inclusive, relate to the tax on distilled spirits, and contain numerous provisions applicable only to them. The
punishment they prescribe for the removal of the spirits
from the place of their manufacture, otherwise than to a
bonded warehouse, in addition to their forfeiture, is different
from the penalty prescribed by the fourteenth section, for
the like removal of other goods. This fact would seem to
be conclusive, if other reasons were wanting, that the four
teenth section has no reference to the removal of distilled
spirits. The special provisions respecting them should ex-

68

HHNDERSON'S

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of Field, J., the Chief Justice, and Miller, J., dissenting.

cept them, according to all established canons of interpretation, from the general langnage of that section.
"That a law,"' says Chief Justice Marshall, "is the best
expositor of itself, that every part of an act is to be taken into
view for the purpose of discovering the mind of the legislature, and that the details of one part mtV contain regulations restricting the extent of general expressions used in
another part of the same act, are among those plain rules
laid down by common sense for the exposition of statutes,
which have been-uniformly acknowledged. '"
And it is laid down in the elementary treatises that where
a general intention is expressed in one part of a statute, and
a particular intention in another part, inconsistent with the
general intention, the particular intention is to be regarded
as an exception.t
The suggestion by the counsel of the government, that a
removalof distilled spirits to a bonded warehouse, although
the law provides for such removal as a means for securing
the payment of the tax, may be made with intent to defraud
the United States of such tax, inasmuch as there may be an
agreement between distillers and wairehbusemen to have the
spirits secretly drawn out from the vessels,'or to have the
spirits released upon insufficient security, does not strike
me as entitled to any consideration in this case. Conspiracies there undoubtedly may be With officers of the United
States to defraud the government, but in the absence of any
proof tending to establish such a conspiracy, the court would
not be justified in imagining its existence for the purpose of
working a forfeiture of goods in the hands of an innocent
party. It would rather indulge the more rational and just
presumption that all the officers of the government did their
duty, until at least some evidence to the contrary was produced.
This is a case of great hardship and manifest injustice.
The claimant found the spirits in. a bonded warehouse of the
v. Coxe, 2 Cranch, 52.
t Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 110; Sedgwick on Statutes, 428.
*Pennington

Dec. 1871.]

CHRISTMAS

v.

R USSELL.

Syllabus.

government, in custody of the officers of tKe United States.
He paid to them the tax due on the goods, and he, paid to
the owner their value. He had no suspicions that his vendor ever entertained any intention to defraud the governrnefit of the tax levied on them, and ,if he ever had such
suspicions lie might well have supposed that his vendor had
repented of his intention, when he delivered the property to
the keeping of the officers of the United States.
The government through its officers took from the innocent purchaser the duties upon the goods, thus saying to
him that the goods then belonged to the distiller who placed
them in the warehouse. The government now declares
through its officers that these goods all the time belonged to
it by reason of the previous forfeiture, and thus the honest
claimant loses both the taxes and the goods, or at least is
left to the doubtful chances of obtaining the former by petition to the government, and the latter by action against
his vendor.
The object of the act of Congress, under'which the forfeiture is declared, is to raise revenue; and it seems to me
that the severe construction in favor of forfeitures in the
hands of innocent parties, given by the majority of the court,
must have a tendency to defeat this object; for it will scarcely
be possible for any one to purchase merchandise with safety
when it may be seized and forfeited in his possession for
reasons such as are assigned in this case.
I am of the opinion that the judgment of the court below
should be affirmed.

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

1. Where a bill does not relate to some matter already litigated in the same
court by the same persons, and which is not either in addition to, or a
continuance of. an original suit, it is an original bill, not an ancillary
one.
2. Accordingly, when such bill is between citizens of the same Sttte, the
Circuit Courts have no jurisdiction.

