MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

be found collected in a learned note to Crogate's case by
Mr. Smith in his Leading Cases, and the decisions in this
country will be found collected in an equally learned note
by the American editors of that work.
But aside from the considerations mentioned, however the
replication might be regarded in some courts on special demurrer, its defective character, if at all defective, was cured
by the verdict. The objection to its sufficiency to put the
averments of the plea in issue cannot be raised after verdict.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MowRY V. WHITNEY.
1. Asa Whitney's patent of April 25th, 1848, for an "improvement in the
process of manufacturing cast-iron railroad wheels," was for a process,
not for a combination.
2. Where only vague and uncertain directions could be given as to the degree of foreign heat to be applied in any particular ease, there, when a
patentee in his specification, establishes a maximum and a minimum, the
ascertainment of the proper intermediate degree may be left to the skill
and judgment of the operator practicing the process.
3. It is as true of a process, invented as an improvement in a manufacture,
as it is of an improvement in a machine, that an infringer is not liable
to the extent of his entire profits in the manufacture.
4. In such a case the question to be determined is, what advantage did the
infringer derive from using the invention, over what he had- in using
other processes then open to the public and adequate to enable him to
obtain an equally beneficial result ? The fruits of that advantage are
his profits, and that advantage is the measure of profits to be accountea
for.
6 When a patent is for an entire process made up of several constituent
steps or stages, the patentee not pretending to be the inventor of those
constituents, his claim to the process as an entirety does not secure to him
the exclusive use of the constituents singly. WJiat is secured is their
use when arranged in the process.
6. The profits recoverable from an infringer are the measure of the paten* See Lytle v. Lee & Rugg]"s, 5 Johnson, 112, and the cases there cited.

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Statement of the case.

tee's damages, and though calledprofitsare really damages; and unliqui.
dated until a final decree is made.

7. Interest upon unliquidated damages is not generally allowable, and should
not be allowed before a final decree for profits.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Ohio; the suit being a bill by Whitney for an alleged infrin gement by Mowry, of a patent which Whitney had for
an improvement in the process of making wheels for railcars. The ease was thus:
APPEAL

Wheels for rail-cars require to be made in a special way.
The "tread" of the wheel, as it is commonly called-that is
to say, the periphery-the urfiaee which runs over the railmust be very hard, or else it will wear out. On the other
hand, the interior portions of the wheel, especially the hub,
against which there is no friction, but on which there is
great strain, need not be so hard, but must be very tough.
Now here are requisites which by a law of the metal do not
coexist in the same casting. Iron can be very hard only
when it exists in a state of laminaed crystallization, and then
it is brittle. It can be very tough only when it exists in a
state of granulaled crystallization, and then it is soft. Now
how is the "tread" to be made very hard and the interior
very tough ? This was the first problem in regard to iron
car-wheels. And it was thus solved. It had been long obserVed that where molten iron was cooled suddeply, it came
out solid in the laminated or hard and brittle form, but
when cooled slowly it came out solid in the tough and softer
form.
The problem, of course, then was to cool rapidly the part
of the melted mass of iron which was to make the " tread"
of the wheel, and to cool more slowly the rest which was to
make the interior of the wheel; that is to say, the spokes
and hub. To do this the moulds into which the molten iron
was to be cast were made of sand, surrounded by a circle of
iron; this circle, called in the manufacturer's language a
" chill." Iron being a rapid conductor of heat and sand a
slow one, the pai t of the molten mass which came tgainst

[Sul), Ct.

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Statement of the case.

the iron or chill-the part, in other words, of the molten
mass which was to form the tread, was cooled rapidly, and
came out in the laminated and hard (though brittle) form;
while the parts of the wheel nearer to the hub, and especially the hub itself (which is a very thick part of the wheel,
and where a very great strain is put when the rail-car is in
motion), cooling slowly, the requisite toughness was obtained,
through this part (and particularly the hub, owing to the
greater mass of it) coming out in the granulated and tough
(though soft) form. The cut below, which represents a piece
fl-actured from off that part of the wheel including the
flange, which runs over the rail, indicates the two forms.
The lower part or chilled " tread " (which in the ordinary
car-wheel itself is about half an inch deep) being distinguished by its laminated crystallizations and light gray color,
and the upper part which runs in the direction of the hub
by its granular crystallization, and a deeper gray line.
FIG. 1.

W

.Q

This problem, therefore-the problem of obtaining a hard
tread, and a tough interior and hub-was solved. The thing
desired was attained through the process of a sand mould
with an iron " chill."
But of this goot result in one way, a very bad one in anotheriwas the consequence. The wheels had no strength.
And here was the cause. A mass of iron in its'molten state

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V.

WHITNEY.

Statement of the case.

is larger than the same mass of iron when cold. Now here
the molten iron was poured into the mould at the hub.
Thence it flowed out through the sand mould of the spokes
to the tread. There it came in contact with the chill, and
as soon as it touched the chill it was cooled, crystallized, and
reduced in volume almost instantly. The metal immnediately behind it, on the contrary, being in contact with the
sand, parted with its heat more slowly, and remained in a
fluid or semifluid state much longer. Thus it happened that
the periphery of the tread cooling and shrinking first, reduced its diameter, while the hub and spokes remaining in
a fluid or soft state, presented little or no resistance to the
contraction of the tread or rim. But as these spokes and
FIG.

2.

FI. 8.

hub subsequently parted with their heat, and passed into the
solid state, an inherent strain began to be exerted between
the rim and hub. The spokes were too short. Restoration
of so much of'their length as bad been diminished by , the

rCl .

624

MOWRY V. W IITTNEY.

_,

/' iL

LOUP. u1-

Statement of the case.

prior cooling and shrinking of the rim was demanded. All
parts of the wheel having passed into the solid state, and
become comparatively unelastic, the spokes were severed
by mere tensile strain before the temperature of the whole
mass was reduced to that of the atmosphere. And the same
result followed when, instead of spokes, disks or plates were
used on the sides of the wheel, as shown in Figure 3.
To obviate this effect, a rude practice was, on the one
hand, to uncover and expose to the air the thick parts of
the wheel, sometimes, in addition, pouring cold water on
them ; while, on the other, the thin portions would be covered with burning fuel or hot sand. Still, however, the
wheel would always strain, and usually break.
The great matter now was to remove this difliculty. One
plan was to divide the hub into sections, as shown in Figures
2 and 3, instead of casting it solid. This, of course, relieved
the spokes from the tensile strain they were subjected to
when connected with the solid hul; the spokes conneeted
with each of the sections being left comparatively free to
contract in length (only, however, it
may be added) by carrying the section
of hub to which they were attached
with them.
To restore the requisite srrenglh to
"
i
5
the hub, the spaces between these seetions would be subsequently filled with
pieces of metal of the exact size of the
til
spaces, and wrouglt-iron bands would
be shrunk on to each end of the hub, so as to hold firmly
together all the sections, and the metal fillings or plates between them. Figure 4 illustrates the metal fillings or plates
and bands that woull be put into and on the hubs.
Wheels of this description were used till 1840. At that
date our roads began to be made more substantial, and
higher velocities upon them being demanded, the cast spokcwheel, thus filled out at the hub, began to show great defects. The expense of filling the spaces between the sections was considerable. There was difficulty in putting the

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY

V.

WHITNEY.

Statement of the case.

wrought-iron bands on the ends of the hub and of boring
out the divided hub so as to make it fit well on the axle
and to secure it from becoming loose. Yet if these things
were not effectually done, the wheel broke or changed its
position on the axle, and the cars were t~hrown from the
track.
To avoid these difficulties other means were employed to
compensate for the unequal cooling and shrinkFiG. 5.
ing of the parts. These were nearly all confined to making the hub solid, and connecting
the hub and rim by a disk or plate, which was
generally made double; two plates extending
from hub to rim, in fbrm convex, as in Fig. 5,
or otherwise curve(l, so as to be susceptible, as
was supposed, of contracting or expanding in
diameter as much as would be required by the
unequal cooling and contraction before noticed.
In one of these forms the hub was also divided,
as shown in Fig. 5, it being expected that with
the shrinking of the outer disks it would about
close up. These wheels, when skilfully made,
were an improvement on the spoke-wheel, with
the hub divided into sections, so far as safity was concerned,
but they were still faulty.
What, in this obviously not yet perfect art of waking castiron car-wheels, was wanted, was some way to make such
wheels, having a solid hub, and either spokes, or any desired
form of plales, single or double, straight or curved, as represented ini Figs. 6 and 7 below, and possessing all the requisites of durability and strength in the respective parts, and
yet free from the defects which had attended, up to this time,
all wheels yet made; and not requiring the expenditure of
special labor upon the inould or pattern before casting, nor
upon the finishing of the wheel for use, after it had been
cast and cooled; some new and effective device which should
eradicate and annihilate the difficulties which have been
already imperfectly described, and which were still baffling
manufacturers and inventors in this art. A new process of
VOL. XIV.

40

MowRY V. WHITNEY.

[SuP. Ct.

Statement of the case.

prolonging the time of cooling, in connection with annealing
wheels would, if rightly conceived, secure the desired end.
FiG. 6.

FIG. 7.

7/"

A

It was in this state of the art and of its necessity that
Whitney made a clarn for what he called " a new and useful improvement in the process of manufacturing cast-iron
railroad wheels," and on the 25th of April, 1848, obtained a
patent for it, for fourteen years,
The specification in his patent was thus:
"Uy improvement consists in taking railroad wheels from
the moulds in which they are ordinarily cast, as soon after
being east as they are sufficiently cool to be strong enough to
move with safety, or before they have become so much cooled
as to produce any considerable inherent strain between the thin
and thick parts, and putting them in this state into a furnace
or chamber that has been previously heated to a temperature
as high as that of the wheels when taken from the moulds. As
soon as they are deposited in this furnace or chamber, the opening through which they have been passed is closed, and the
temperature of the furnace or chamber, and its contents, gradually raised to a point a little below that at which fusion commences,

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V. WHIITNEY.
Statement of the case.

when all the avenues to and from the interior are closed, and
the whole mass left to cool no faster than the heat it contains
permeates through, and radiates from the exterior surface of
the materials of which it is composed. By this process all parts
of each wheel are raised to the same temperature, and the heat
they contain can only pass off through the medium of the confined atmosphere that intervenes between them and the walls
of the furnace or chamber; consequently, the thinnest and thickest parts cool and shrink simultaneously together, which relieves
them from all inherent strain whatever when cold.
"The figure below represents a vertical cross-section of the
FURNACE or CHAMBER, wherein is shown a pile.of wheels as they
Fie. 8.

x.11,1

are placed to be annealed. The cover of the furnace, being
movable, is raised when the wheels are put in, and then closed
and covered with earth, to prevent the too rapid escape of the
heat. The dahiper in the flue leading to the chimney is also
closed, after the wheels are put into the furnace, and the open,
ing in the lower wall stopped by an iron plate banked with
earth, which prevents the escape of' the heat in that direction.*
* There were other drawings and descriptions, not given by the reporter.

MOWRY v. WHITNEY.

[Slip. Ct,

Statement of the case.

"To heat this furnace, I have used anthracite coal, it mquiring less than one-fourth of' a ton to anneal two tons of whecis.
The heat required to perform the process may, however, be obtained by the use of any other fuel that may be less expensive
at the place where the process is to be performed ; or the requisite heat may be taken in asuitable conduit from the furnace in
which the metal is melted from which the wheels are made,
after it has performed that office, to the chamber in which the
annealing process is to be perfbrmed. In either case, however,
the furnace or chamber must be made of such form, and have
such appendages connected with it, as to enable the operator to
control the quantity and intensity of the heat used, by admitting more or less, of it into the chamber, and of excluding it entirely. ,
"The advantages resulting from the process of prolonging the
cooling and annealing, as above described, are that the wheels
may be made much stronger, when made of the same weight,
than they can be when cast and cooled in the ordinary manner;
and railroad wheels, having any form of spokes, or disks coniecting the rim and hub, if subjected to this process, will not
require'their hubs to be cast in sections, and the spaces between
the sections shbscquently filled with some suitable metal, and
wrought bands put on to the hub.
" Wheels subjected to this process of cooling and annealing
will be stronger without bands on their hubs than those of the
same weight cast and cooled in the ordinary way, having the
wrought-iron bands on. In this way the original cost is diminished, and the wheels rendered more durable than they would
be when made in any of the ways heretofore employed.
"I do not claim to be the inventor of annealing castings made
of iron or other metal, when done in the ordinary way; nor do
I claim to be the inventor of any particular form or kind of
furnace, in which to perform the process. But what I do claim
as my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is the
process of prolonging the time of cooling, in connection with
annealing railroad wheels, in the manner above described; that
is to say, the taking them from the moulds in which they are
cast, before they have become so much cooled as to produc6
such inherent strain on any part as to impair its ultimate
strength, and immediately after being thus taken from the
moulds, depositing them in a previously-heated furnace or

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Statement of the case.

chamber, so constructed, of such materials, and subject to such
control that the temperature of all parts of the wheels deposited
therein, may be raised to the same point (say a little below that
at which fusion commences), when they are allowed to cool so
fast, and no faster, than is necessary for every part of each
wheel to cool and shrink simultaneously together, and no one
part betbre anothcr."*
.
lWhitney being in possession of his patent as already described, one Mowry, of Ohio, conceived that he too had
made a valuable improvement in the same branch as Whittney professed to have made one; and on the 7th of May,
1864, also obtained a patent. His specification, illustrated
by a vertical cross-section of his furnace, says
"My invention consists in the use of charcoal or other equivalent substance, interlaid with the wheels in the annealing pits,
in connection with the regulated admission of air, fir the purpose of heating the wheels up to a proper temperature, prolonging the heat., and permitting them to cool in the course of
a given time, gradually, as will be more particularly explained
below.
" The operation of my invention is as follows: A layer of
charcoal having been laid on the perforated bottom of' the annealing pit, the wheels, as they are turned out of the moulds red
hot, are placed in the pits, with a layer of charcoal between
each wheel, a layer of charcoal being laid on the uppermost
wheel, and on this a perforated metal plate is laid.
"The charcoal, becoming now ignited by the hot wheels, the
cover of pit is then laid on, and the damper opened so as to admit just sufficient air to effect the combustion of the contained
charcoal, in the space of seventy-two hours, less or more, as may
* It may here be stated that, on the 7th of August 1849, there was granted
to one Murphy a pateat (extended subsequently for seven years from the 7th
of August, 1863) for a mode .of cooling car-wheels, which consisted in encasing and protecting from the air all parts of the wheels except the hubs,
and causing a current of' cold air, by means of connection with the main
chimney, to pass through the hubs, thus retarding the cooling of the plates
and speeding the cooliieg of the hubs. This process, it will be observed, was
the antithesis of Whitney's, the essence of which consisted in heating the
wheels until all parts of them had attained the same degree of heat.

MOWRY V. WHITNEY,

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

be found necessary for the annealing operation. The draft of
air in the apparatus shown on drawings, is from above downward, but it may, without affecting my invention, be from below
upwards, by conveying the air from the horizontal flue, up
through the pits, and through the aperture in cover, and from
thence through flues, into the main shaft or chimney C; the
result will be the same in both cases, and the adoption of one or
the other plan will be 8ictated by convenience."
FIG. 9.

Under his patent Mow'ry employed a process of annealing
such as it described; and Whitney thereupon filed a bill to
enjoin hitn as an infringer. Movry answered, denying infringement, alleging the invalidity of Whitney's patent fbr
want of novelty and for want of utility,
" Inasmuch as the said process would ruin and destroy the hardness on the rim of the (ar-wheels, known as the 'chill,' and thus
greatly detract from the usefulness and durability of the wheels."

Dee 1871.1

1MOWRY v. WHIlTNEY.
Statement of the case.

A large amount of testimony being taken on both sides,
the cause was brought to a final bearing on the pleadings
and proofs, and all the issues being found for Whitney, the
cause was referred to a master to take and state an account
of the gains and profits.which the defendant had derived
from the infringement of Whitney's patent.
The master reported, on the 1st of August, 1868, that
Mowry had made use of Whitney's patent in the manufacture of 19,819 wheels, and for the use of the process in
making these wheels charged him
Profits on these wheels,.
Interest or the said profits to 1st August, 1868,

$91,501 86
19,984 21

He further reported that Mowry, prior to the 1st of April,
1861, and without the use of the process complained of in
this cause, had built up his business to its then condition.
That the use of the process did not diminish, but did increase the cost of making the wheels manufiatured by
Mowry. That while Mowry used the said process, he did
not make amy diff'erence in the quality of iron used for the
manufacture of ear-wheels, nor in the weight or form of carwheels, nor by reason of the use of such process, in their
price. That Mowry's business was apparently not increased
by the use of the process; and that he had sold the wheels
he had since manufactured without the process complained
of, as readily as those manufactured by use of the process,
and at the same prices.
[The patentee himself, it should be here added, in 1862,
when applying for an extension of his patent, had stated,
under oath, that he believed there was no essential differOnce in the cost, per pound, of making cast iron chilled carwheels of the various patterns, and by the difflrent modes in
use, provided the same skill and system controlled the mannf cture; that by his process he was enabled to make them
lighter than those made in any other way for a similar service, and therefore could afford to sell them at the same
pri e per wheel as other makers, and save the cost of the

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

difference in weight; that this saving of metal lie deemed
to measure th6 essential advantage lie had over his competitors, and also the profits arising from his patent, and he
estimated that len pouls per wheel would be a fair averaye of
the metal saved by his process.*]
Mowry excepted to the charge made, as above stated by
the master, of profit derived by the entire manufacture of
the wheel, and the case was recommitted to the master with
instructions to inquire:
1st. Whether the wheels made and sold by Mowry had,
or could have any market value without being subjected to
the process patented by Whitney.
2d. If they had or could have been made to have such
value by any annealing or slow cooling process outside of
the Whitney patent, how much additional value, if any, they
derived from being subjected to that patented process?
To this the master returned that he was unable to report
any division of profits; and, being uninformed as to what
was covered by the patent, lie reported that, if the entire
process of reheating and prolonged cooling used by Mowry
in the manufacture of the wheels was an infringement of
the complainant's patent, the total profit realized by the defendant from the manufacture and sale of the wheels was
due to the use by him of the complainant's invention.
He reported, secondly, that if there was no infringement
of the complainant's patent, unless the wheels were subjected
to the process of reheating, that is to say, if the process of
slow cooling used in connection with reheating was old, and
not a part of the complainant's invention, nor included in
his patent, no part of the profits realized by the defendant
from the manufacture and sale of the wheels was due to the
use by him of the complainant's invention.
[This second finding of the master the court set aside, sustaining an exception to it, that not only the entire process
described in the patent but each part of such entire process
was the invention of Whitney, and the use of any material,
* See supra, 485, Mowry v. Whitney.

Dec. 1871.]

c OWRY V. WHITNEY.
Statement of the case.

substantial and essential part of such entire process-the
slow cooliug being a substantial and material part, whereby
only an improved chilled cast-iron railroad wheel could be
made, and beneficial effects the same in kind, if not in degree attained, that were attained by Whitney's entire process-was an infringement of Whitney's patent, and that
the profits derived from the use of such material, substantial and essential part should be accounted for in this case.]
But the master, in addition to the second finding thus, as
just mentioned, set aside, further found that, had the wheels
manufactured by the defendant been left to cool in the open
air, they would have had no value as car-wheels, and have
been worth only the value of the iron of which they were
made; that reheating in connection with slow cooling, or
slow cooling without reheating, was indispensable to make
marketable 'east-iron wheels of the configuration of those
made by the defendant; that there was no reheating process
for the manufacture of cast-iron car-wheels outside of the
complainant's patent.
The master also found that the wheels could have been
removed from the moulds and finished, without being subjected to the reheating process, or without any extraneous
heat, andlhe specified two modes in which it might be done.
Wheels so manufactured, he reported, have and did 'have,
during all the time in which the defendant used the complainant's process, a market value equal to tham of wheels
manuthetured by that process.
There were some other findings which may be briefly noticed:
1. That the 19,819 wheels were annealed wheels, and sold
as such.
2. That if the complainant's patent included prolonging
the time of cooling the wheels, as used by the defendant, the
process conferred Unon them their entire market value, above
their weight in iron, but not so if the complainant's patent
covered only the application of extraneous heat to the wheels
after they are taken from the moulds.
3. That taking annealing to mean reheating in connection

-634

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Mowry.

with slow cooling, no other process of annealing in connection with' slow cooling than that patented to the complainant
and that described in the patent of the defendant appeared to
Live been known.
4. That the wheels made by the defendant required no
treatment other than that described in the complainant's
patent to complete them as annealed wheels.
5. That still taking annealing to mean reheating in connection with slow cooling, the annealed wheels could not
have been made by any process outside the complainant's
patent.
Upon these findings the court below decreed against
Mowry the entire profits made by him in the manufacture
and sale of' the wheels from beginning to end;- the profits

resulting from the reheating, and regulated slow cooling in
connection, and those also which might have resulted from
mixing and melting the iron, casting in moulds, making the
chill, and from the possible advance on the iron above its
cost, with $10,980.62 additional interest on the whole, from
the 1st of August, 1868, when the original reports were
made, to August 1st, 1870; at which time the subject was
finally heard.
The final decree thus stood:
Profits on 19,819 wheels,
.
$91,501 86
Interest to date of original report (August 1, 1868), .
19,984 21
Interest on $91,501.86 (from August 1, 1868, to August 1, 1870),
10,980 22
$122,465 29

From this decree Mowry, the defendant, appealed.
Messrs. A. G. Thurman and C. B. Collier, for the appellant:
1. Whitney's patent is invalid for want of novelty, his
process being, at most, simply the application of a wellknown process to a purpose analogous to those purposes to
which, long anterior to him, it had been applied.
The Artist's Manual, &c., published by James Cutbush,
Philadelphia, 1814, under the head of '' Annealing," says:
"When a substance melted, or nearly in a state of fusion, is

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY

v. WHITNEY.

Argument for Mowry.

cooled very hastily, its texture is so much altered, that, if a
ductile metal, it loses much of its malleability, and cannot be
extended far under the hammer without cracking; or if a brittle
metal, a glass or, vitrescent mixture, it is liable to fly to pieces
by a very slight temperature or external injury. To avoid this,
the process of annealing is resorted to, which is nothing more
than cooling the heated or melted substance as slowly or equally
as possible, often in a separate furnace of the requisite heat, and
sometimes called an annealing oven. The utility of annealing,
is shown very conspicuously in the manufacture of glass, the
casting of speculum metal, or the heating of gold. By the process of annealing the glass is preserved for some time in a state
approaching to fluidity. A similar process is now used for rendering kettles and other vessels of east iron less brittle, which
admits of the same explanation as that above stated."
So the Philosophical Transactions of 1840,* after describing
experiments as to best alloy for speculum metal, &e., says:
"It was evident that the flaws of so frequent occurrence in
the plates formerly cast, and also their extreme brittleness, arose
from the contraction of the metal in some places more than
others, just at the time of transition from the fluid to the solid
state. The edge of the plates always became solid first, and the
central portions, thus prevented from contracting, were strained
when no longer ductile. When the metal has become solid in
the ingate or hole through which it enters the mould, the plato
is to be removed quickly to an oven heated a little below redness
to remain till cold, which, where the plates are nine inches
diameter, should be three or four days at least."
The same thing, with a special reference to speclum
metal, is treated of and declared in Jloltzapfel's Turning and
iechanical Manipulation, London, 1843.
Now in view of such well-known writings, what invenlion
was made by Mr. Whitney? The ultimate purpose of all
that lie describes is to relieve the wheels from inherent
strain. Is not this the very purpose of the processes which
the prior writers, whom we quote, also describe ?
* Royal Society of London, 1840, Account of Experiments on the Re.
fleeting Telescope. Lord Oxmantown.

636

MowRY v. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Mowry.

2. Whitney's patent is void because that which is described and claimed therein is not useful, inasmuch as it
designates and provides for such, degree of reheating, and
none other (" a little below that at which fusion commences ") as
will destroy the chilled periphery, or tread, an essential
feature to a useful car-wheel.
3. Mowry's process does not infringe Whitney's patent.
In Mowry's process, while the charcoal may raise the temperature of the plates of the wheels to some extent (it being
only applied to the plates), yet practically its effect is only to
retard the cooling of the plates. The current of free air
which is constantly passing through the tubs of the wheels
accelerates the cooling of those parts, and the contiguity of
the rims to the walls of the pits hastens their cooling.
The only language in Whitney's patent indicating the
degree of heat required is a point "a little below that at which
fusion commences." Now, should it be assumed that there
is a reheating of the wheels, or any pai'ts of them, in Mowry's
process, it is impossible in the nature of things that with a
current of cold air constantly pasaincg through the hubs, the
draft being caused by a connection with the main chimney,
the wheels being placed one upon the other, so as that the
hubs shall coincide with each other, the charcoal being confined to the plates, and the air for its combustion finding
its way only between the horizontal fiees of the hubs, the
combustion taking place, as the patent says, in " 72 hours,
more or less "-it is incredible that any such reheating is,
or could result in such a process as is contemplated in Whitney's patent.
4. As to the matter of damages. The manufacture of a castiron car-wheel is a succession of processes, consisting of,
1st. The mixing of the iron, having reference to the proper
proportion of iron possessing the property of receiving a
" chill."
2d. The melting, stirring, and pouring of the
metal, having reference to the duration of the operation,
and the temperature of the metal when poured. 3d. The
formatiou or the wheel, having reference, both to the con.
figuration of' the wheel, and the character of the mould in

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Argument for Whitney.

which it is cast, the same being composed in part of iron
and in part or sand. 4th. The removal of the wheel from
the mould, having reference to temperature. 5th. The prolonqalion (f the cooling of the wheel, having reference to uniforruity of contraction and proper adjustment of its particles,
so as to prevent inherent strains, and secure, as nearly as
possible, the ultimate strength of the casting.
Whitney's invention does not extend to either of the above
processes, but consists in ingrafting upon the fifth process
above-the slow cooling-the element of reheating. Mowry's infringement, if any, began when he added reheating to
slow cooling, and ended when he eeased to reheat and resumed slow cooling. The use of the reheating element determining the facl of infringement, the inquiry is, what pro-

portion of his aggregate profit was due to, or derived from,
the use of such element; in other words, what advantage
was gained from using thA element over what he might
have gained from using processes that he was unquestionably
free to use, and which would have brought about as good a
result. The profits, therefore, were found on quite a wrong
principle.
Messrs. B.
Jr., contra :

. Cartis, E. W. Stoughton, and [i. Baldwin,

1. Annealing, of course, has long been known; but it is
not pi'etended that a cast-iron car-wheel was ever before
the date or Whitncy's patent removed from its mould, placed
in a heated chamber, and there subjected to a process of
slow cooling, for the purpose of preventing inherent strains.
It is moreover not denied that time process, as described by
Whitney, will accomplish precisely what he states it will;
that is to say, simultaneous cooling and shrinkage of all
parts of the wheel, and relief from all inherent strain.
2. The specification is directed to persons skilled in casting car-wheels, and, of course, those having a chilled tread.
This chill is complete so soon as the wheel is sufficiently
cooled to be removed from the mould. This is not disputed;
and the direction in the specification is, to take the wheel

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for Whitney.

from its mould as soon after being cast as it can be removed
with safety, or before it has become so much cooled as to
produce any considerable inherent strain between the thin
and thick parts. The inventor ishere giving instructions
which cannot, from the nature of the subject, be so precise
as to dispense with the practical knowledge and skill of the
operator. All the inventor could do in his specification was
to state in what condition the wheel should be when removed,
leaving the operator to ascertain this.

3. The process employed by Mowry was a palpable infringement of Whitney's patent. Mowry usually removed
his wheels from their monlds as soon as they were so hardened by cooling as to maintain their shape, amd before they
had been subjected to any considerable inherent strain. It
is argued that as lie placed the first wheel in a cold instead
of a hot chamber, he thereby materially varied from the
respondent's process; but it should be remembered that,
before depositing this first wheel, th'ere was placed in the
bottom of the pit such a quantity of charcoal as the operator
saw fit to use ; and the moment the red-hot wheel was applied to this it ignited and commenced rapidly to heat the
chamber, so that, when the second and third of the series of
ten oritwelve were placed therein, each red-hot wheel being
accompanied by its quota of charcoal, each and all, after the
first and second, were thus deposited not only within a hot
chamber, but in a mass of flame fully c, pable of iehcating
the wheels to the condition they were in when taken from
the moulds, and no doubt to a much higher temperature,
depending, of course, very much on the quantity of charcoal
employed.
4. As to the damages. The specification of Whitney's patent
includes the entire process, and is not limited to the mere
reheating of the car-wheels.
The master finds that defendant made a certain profit by
using the patented process entire. Also, that if defendant
had used only a part of the process, he might have made
wheels which would have sold iii the market at an equal
profit. Does it affect the amount of profits to be recovered,

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY

v.

WHITNEY,

639

Opinion of the court.

that the def'endant might have used another process, not
patented, and thereby' made as miuch profit? In other words,
when a defendant has used the patent and the who-e of it,
as in this case, can he come i and say,," There was an outside process which I might have used as profitably ?" The
defendant is held as a trustee who has used another person s
property, and only has to account for the profits actually
made by this invasion. If a trustee uses trust funds in his
own business and makes profit, he is held to account for it
if the cestid que Irusl elects to have an account for them; they
are his. It could be no answer by the trustee to say, "I
could have borrowed money at six per cent., andi made more
profit than I have made by using your money." Equity
knows only what a trustee has done. It does not inquire
what he mighl have done if he had not done what he did do.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The defences set up to the complainant's bill for an infringenient are, that the patent is void for want of novelty
in the invention, and for w'ant of utility, and also that it has

not been infringed by the defendant.
To determine how far these defences are sustained it is
important to have a clear apprehension of the state of the
art when the patent was granted, and of the invention which
it was intended to secure to the patentee. Prior to the 2d
of August, 1847, east-iron railroad wheels had been cast, and
cast in chills, that is, they had been east in sand moulds with
an outer circuamference of iron. The efiet of this outer
circumference was to produce a more rapid chill on the periphery of the wheel, thereby crystallizing and hardening it,
so that the wheel was made stronger, and more capable of
resisting the friction of the rails. But the parts of the
wheel were of different thicknesses. The hub and the rim
were much thicker than the plate which connected them,
and of course they cooled after casting more slowly than the
plate. The consequence of this unequal cooling was to produce a strain between the thick and thin parts that greatly
impaired the strength of the wheel. Various devices had

MowRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court,

been made to guard against, or to remedy the mischief resulting from this inherent and inevitable strain, caused by
unequal contraction in cooling. The most common of these,
perhaps, was casting the wheel with the hub ill sections, in
order that the sections might accommodate themselves to
the contraction of the plate. But this was expensive. It
required the open space between the sections to be filled up
with other metal, and generally it require(] the hub to be
hooped. It is unnecessary, however, to describe these devices. It does not appear that in amy of them the idea ex.
isted of making a car-wheel with chilled tread, straight
plates, and solid hub, annealed and cooled so as to leave it
uninjured by the strain attendant upon the unequal cooling'
of the thick and thin parts.

Annealing some kinds of east-

ings was known and practiced before 1847. This is abun..
dantly proved by the witnesses, and various modes of' aniealing plain castings had been described by scientific wvriters
both in this country and abroad, befbre that time. But
there is no evidence that we have been able to discover that
cast-iron car-wheels had ever been subjected to an amnealigl
process, in connection with slow cooling, before'the process
was discovered or invented by Whitney. In all the experiments made for annealing other castings the object sought
was different, and in them all, as well as in the process described in the publications given in evidence, the efibet upon
the annealed metal or glass was not to leave them in the
condition in which it was sought to bring car-wheels, with
the crystallization or chill of the periphery unimpaired, and
the plate or thin part unaffected by strain. Cast-iron railroad wheels are castings of a peculiar kind. The methods
of slow cooling, or of auneali mgand slow cooling, which
were applied to other castings before 1847, were not adapted
to their peculiarities, or to what they needed. They are not
homogeneous throughout. They are of different thickness
in their several parts, and hardened at the tread, while the
plate and hub are not crystallized, but are soft and tough.
These difirent qualities of the different parts it is necessary
to prIeserve, and what was needed when Whitney's inven-

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V.

WHITNEY.

Opinion of the court.

tion was made, was to preserve them, and at the same time
relieve against any strain, caused by unequal cooling, which
might impair the strength of the wheel.
If now we proceed to inquire what Whitney's alleged invention was, as described in his specification and claim, it
will be seen that it was a process, not to make a car-wheel
or to destroy any of the advantages which had already been
secured, but to add another. Its avowed object was to obtain a new value, or rather exemption from imperfection.
It was to remedy the evil of strain resulting from the more.
rapid cooling of on part of the wheel than the cooling of
the other parts. And this was sought to be accomplished
by a process that insured the cooling of all parts, both the,
thick and the thin, with equal slowness. The process consists of several parts. The first is taking the wheels from
the moulds after the melted iron has been run into the
moulds, before they become so much cooled as to produce
strain on any part sufficient to impair their ultimate strength.
The second is placing the wheels immediately after their removal in a furnace or chamber previously heated to about
the temperature of the wheels when taken from the moulds,
the heat in the furnace being subject to control. The third
is applying heat until the temperature of all parts of the
wheels shall again be raised to the same point (indefinitely
said to be a little below that at which fusion commences).
The fourth and last stage in the process is allowing the
wheels after they have been thus reheated, to cool so fast
as, and no faster than, is necessary for every part of each
wheel to cool and shrink simultaneously together, and no
one part before another. It is therefore a patent for a process, not for a combination. Neither as a whole nor in
parts can it be considered without reference to the ultimate
object in view, which was to retard cooling by a second application of heat supplied until all parts of the wheel are
raised to the same temperature, and then permit the heat to
subside so gradually that the cooling of the parts shall not
only commence at the same point of temperature, higher
than that where hurtful strain begins, but shall continue
VOL

XIV.

41

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. (It.

Opinion of the court.

equable till all artificial heat ceases. The removal from the
moulds to the furnace or chamber, the removal at the time
described, befbre the incipient strain has become perma,
nently hurtful, and to a place. where more heat may be applied, and where the heat can be under control, are parts of
the process to secure equable cooling during the time when
cooling without such appliances is likely to produce strain
and consequent weakness. It is apparent that this is more
than a process for annealing. 'That is included, it is true,
but it is only a small part. It is applying foreign heat to a
hot chilled wheel, at the point of time when it has reached
a particular stage of cooling, by means of such foreign heat
bringing the whole casting up to a higher and uniform temperature, and maintaining an equable abatement of heat in
a furnace or chamber under the control of the operator.
We have sought in vain through the proofs submitted in
this case, for any satisfiatory evidence that this process was
known before 1847, when Whitney commenced it, or that
anything equivalent to the process was known. Certainly
nothing of the kind had ever been applied to cast-iron railroad wheels, and, as we have seen, they are castings of a
peculiar character, not admitting of the treatment that may
be applied to other castings. What they needed was (what
was substantially described by one of the witnesses), the discovery of the fact that the chilled cast iron, constituting one
part of the wheel, could be subjected to heat less than that
which would cause fusion, without producing any material
effect upon its hardness, while the cooling of other parts of
the wheel could be so prolonged by applying that heat externally, as to enable all pai'ts to cool wvithout being subjected to the strain attendant on unequal contraction, and,
in addition to the discovery, they needed the invention of a
process by which it could be practically carried out. Such
a discovery and such a process were needed for no other
castings. The novelty of the patentee's invention is not
therefore disproved by evidence that glass, or speculum
metal, or even other iron castings had been annealed and
slow-cooled, prior to the time when it was made. Of this

Dee. 1371.]

MOWVRY V. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the court.

there is very considerable evidence both in the testimony of
witnesses and printed publications. The specification disclaims invention of annealing iron castings done in the ordinary mode. It claims annealing when applied to cast-iron
railroad wheels, in the mode or by the process described.
It is not therefbre merely an old contrivance or process applied to a new object, a case of double use. A new and
previously unknown result is obtained, namely, the relief
of the plate of the wheels from inherent strain without impairing the chilled tread, a result which, though anxiously
sought, had not been obtained before Whitney's invention.
We are therefore of opinion that the defence set up that the
patent was void for want of novelty of invention is unsustarned.
The validity of the invention is next assailed for the reason that the process described in it, and claimed, is denied
to be useful, because it would destroy the hardness of the
rim, or tread of the car-wheel known as the chill, and thus
greatly detract from the durability and usefulness of the
wheels.
It is undoubtedly true that a chilled periphery or tread
is essential to the usefulness of a car-wheel. Indeed, the evidence is, that whenever car-wheels are spoken of; wheels
with chilled tread are meant, and any process which detroys the chill must render them valueless for the purposes
for which they are needed.
It is also true that the fusing-point of cast iron is in the
neighborhood of 2786 degrees of Fahrenheit, twelve or fifteen
hundred degrees above the point at which, according to the
evidence, the chill of the tread of a car-wheel would be destroyed. If, therefore, the process patented to Whitney,
requires, after the removal of the wheel to the heated furnace or chamber, the application of a degree of heat closely
approximating the point of fusion, it must be eonceded that
instead of being beneficial it is positively hurtful. And this
is what is contended by the appellant. The objection seems
to be aimed at the sufficiency of the description of the

MOWRY

V.

WHITNEY[

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

patentee's invention, which it is abundantly proved he practiced successfully through many years, rather than at its
utility. Whitney conceived a process and practiced it.
That process may have been a highly useful invention, and
therefore patentable, and yet he may have failed so to describe it as to teach the public how to practice it. The law
requires every inventor, before he can receive a patent, to
furnish a specification or a wvritten description of his invention or discovery, and of the manner and process of making,
constructing, using, and compounding the same, in such full,
clear, and exact terms, avoiding unnecessary prolixity, as to
enable any person skilled in the art or science to which it
appertains, or with which it is most nearly connected, to
make, construct, compound, and use the same. The specification, then, is to be addressed to those skilled in the art,
and is to be comprehensible by them. It may be sufficient,
though the unskilled may not be able to gather from it how
to use the inve.tion. And it is evident that the definiteness
of a specification must vary with the nature of its subject.
Addressed as it is to those skilled in the art, it may leave
something to their skill in applying the invention, but it
should not mislead them. The objection here is that in describing the degree of heat to be applied 'after the wheels
have been deposited in the heated chamber the patentee
states it to be such that the temperature of all parts of the
wheels " may be raised to the same point (say a little below
that at which fusion commences)," and the defendant insists
that this amounts to a direction to raise the heat to a degree
that must destroy the chill of the tread, and thus render the
casting valueless as a railroad car-wheel. But it is obvious
that only vague and uncertain directions could have been
given respecting the extent to which the heat is necessary
to be raised. It must differ with the difference in the progress of cooling which has taken place before the wheels are
removed from the nioulds. The process requires this removal before they have become so much cooled as to produce such inherent strain on any part as to impair its ultimate strength. Precisely when such a strain begins cauot

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY

V. WHITNEY.

Opinion of tho court.

be known. Cooling commences the instant the casting is
made, and with cooling commences contraction, and strain
must soon follow. Plainly it is impossible to describe the
point of time when the strain has proceeded so far as to impair the ultimate strength of any part of the wheel. That,
in the nature of things, must be left to the judgment of the
operator. But before that time the strain may be checked,
and this is what is contcmplated by raising the temperature
of all parts of the wheel to the same point or degree. The
moment that is done the strain ceases, and the primary object of the patentee's process is accomplished. The state
of things is reproduced which existed before the contraction
and attendant strain began, when the slow cooling is allowed
to follow in an atmosphere so heated and regulated that each
part of the wheel loses its heat at an equal pace with all
others.
Now, any one skilled in making cast-iron railroad carwheels in view of this specification must see that the object of
the process is to relieve from and guard against hurtful strain,
without destroying the chill, and that heat is applied only
for that purpose. It requires no particular science ori skill
to enable an operator to perceive that the moment all parts
of the wheel are raised from a point above where serious
itrain begins, and where yet the thick aind thin parts are
different stages of cooling, to a stage where the degree ot
temperature of all parts is the same, and above the degree
where serious strain commenced, the thing sought has been
attained. Then the avowed purpose of 'the inventor has
been accomplished. It would be most unreasonable to read
the directions of the specification without reference to the
object which they profess to have in view. The evidence is
that the chill is formed while the casting is in the mould,
and that the hurtful strains commence after the formation
of the chill. Indeed, it is manifest there can be no strain
until the chill is complete. It must be, therefore, that all
the heat which is needed to relieve from the strain is that
which sutiees to raise the temperature of the thin part, or
plate, to the degree at which the strain commenced-a lower

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

temperature than that which existed when the chill was
formed. Hence an operator, in following the directions of
the specification, would be taught by his practical knowledge
that the instant all parts of the wheel had been heated to
that temperature no more heat was needed.
And we do not think it a fair construction of the patentee's
language to hold that it requires the heat to be raised in all
cases to a degree only a little below the point of fusion. He
does not attempt to give any more definite direction than
that all parts of the wheel must be raised to the same temperature, suggesting in a parenthesis ("say, a little below
that at which f'usion commences"). lie fixes a maximlon.
The heat must not reach the point of fusion, and the prescribed minim.t is that degree where the beat of the differeut parts of the wheel is equal. Within those limits the
degree is left to the judgment of the operator, and within
those limits it is clear from the evidence that the process
imy be applied without injury to the chill. The proof is
that it has been successfully applied in the mannmlcture of a
vast number of wheels, and that failure has been very rare.
There are some witnesses who have testified that the
Whitney process, as they understand it, would destroy tie
chill of the wheel. But they explain their understanding to
1waliat the wheels are to be reheated to a degree fti' beyond
what is required to relieve from strain, and thus heated for
no purpose. They keep in sight the maximinm limit, and
approach near to that, overlooking entirely the minimum,
and disregarding the single object of the process, namely,
relief of' the plate, or thin part of the wheel, from the strain
caused by unequal contraction.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the patent is not void
for want of utility, and that the specification sufficiently describes the process invented and claimed.
The remaining defence is a denial that the process conducted by the defendant is an infringement of Whitney's
patent.
What the process 'of the defendant was is clearly set out

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the court.

in a patent which he obtained on the 7th of May, 1861. It
consists in placing in a pit the wheels as they are turned
out of the moulds red hot, with a layer of charcoal beneath
the lowest wheel, and a layer between each wheel as well as
above the uppermost, and covering the pit with a perforated
metal, plate. The charcoal is ignited by the hot wheel, and
just sufficient air is admitted to effect combustion of the
coal. Thus the wheels are, reheated and permitted gradually to cool. There are some minor details which it is unnecessary to mention. So far as relates to reheating the
wbeels and retarding the cooling by the application of additional heat, it is obvious that the process is substantially
the same as that covered l)y the complainant's patent. The
object is the same, and the mode of attaining it is in substance the same. The purpose of the charcoal interlaid with
the wheels is avowed to be to heat them in the pit to a
proper temperature, prolonging the beat and permitting
them to cool gradually in a given time, said to be seventytwo hours, more or less, as may be found necessary for the
annealing operation. The rapidity of combustion of the
charcoal is regulated by a damper in the flue. And this
process is followed, as the specification explains, that the
different parts of the wheels may adjust themselves to each
other, and accommodate the unequal contraction which results from the process of chilling. It is under this patent,
and in accordance with its directions, that the defendant has
prepared his car-wheels for market. As the object of the
patentees is the same, relief from the strain incident to unequal contraction, the only inquiry is whether the object is
attained by substantially the same means. The idea of
Whitney was undoubtedly arresting contraction before any
remediless strain had commenced, and regulating the progress of cooling so that all parts of the wheel may maintain
an equal temperature at all stages of cooling. Manifestly
the process of the defendant embodied the same idea, and
carried it out by means identical in principle. It reicheats
the wheels when removed from the moulds to the chamber
or pit. It prolongs the cooling ill connection with the re.

MowRY V.

WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

heating, and it subjects the rapidity of cooling to control of
the operator. The form or structure of the furnace, chainber, or pit, is not claimed by either patentee.
It hardly seems necessary to resort to the opinions of experts in order to reach the conclusion that the process of the
defendant is only formally different from that of Whitney,
while the essential element of the two processes is the same.
But the testimony of the experts examined, taken as a whole,
clearly supports such a conclusion. It is true some of the
witnesses testify that in their opinion the processes are different, but when they attempt to describe the diflerence
they point out ottly matters which are merely formal, only
variances in the mode of using the same process. On the
other hand, several witnesses, entirely competent to apprehend the principle of the invention, and the devices for practically using it, have testified that the processes of fhe dofendnt and of the complainant are substantially the samein principle, mode of operation, and in the effect produced.
We must, therefore, conclude that the charge of infringement made in the bill has been sustained, and that the complainant was entitled to a decree for an injunction and an
accoun t.
We come next to the eonsideration of the account stated
by the master and confirmed by the Circuit Court.
The master reported that Mowry, the defendant, used
Whitney's process in the manufacture of 19,819 wheels, and
the account has been stated on that basis. For the use of
the process in making these wheels the defendant has been
charged with $91,501.86 as'profits made by him (more than
four dollars and sixty cents on each wheel), besides $19,984.21
interest upon such profits to the first day of August, 1868,
and the further sum of $10,980.22, being interest fIom Au:
gust 1, 1868, to August 1, 1870.
It is very obvious, in view of what the patentee himself
stated, under oath, in 1862, when applying for an extension of
his patenrt,* that the account has been erroiieously stated. It'
*

See this statement, spra, in brackets, beginning at foot of p. 6U1.

Dec. 187!.]

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the court.

he was correct in this statement the profits arising from the
use of his patent in manufacturing19,819 wheels (valuing iron
at the price proved to have been paid for it by the defendant)
must have been less than $5500, instead of over $91,000, decreed in the Circuit (Court-about thirty cents per wheel,
instead of four dollars and sixty cents. It is not an unfair
presumption that if the profit to the patentee was no greater
than he claimed it was, it could not have been more when
the invention was used by an infringer. Now, it is clear
that Whitney is not entitled to receive mnore than the profits
actually made in consequence of the use of his process in
the manufacture of the 19,819 wheels. It is the additional
advantage the defendant derived from the process-advantage beyond what lie had without it-for which he must account. But he has been held liable far above this. The
master reported, in the first instance, the difference between
the cost of the wheels and the price for which they were
sold as the profits realized by Mowry, thus charging him
the profit obtained from the entire wheel, instead of that
resulting from the use of Whitney's invention in a part of
the manufacture; and this, though he found at the same
time and reported that Mowry had built up his business before he commenced the use of Whitney's process; that the
use of the process did not diminish the cost-of making
wheels, but increased it; that while he used the process he
used the same quality of iron that he had used before, and
made no difference in the weight or form of the wheels, or
in their price, and that the wheels made by him before he
commenced the use of Whitney's invention, and since he
has abandoned it, have sold as readily and at the same
prices as those manufactured by that process.
Exception was taken to the charge of the profit made by
the entire manufacture of the wheel, including not only the
selection and mixing of the iron, but its melting, pouring
into mouhs, forming the chill, removing from the moulds,
and cleaning, as well as annealing and slow cooling; and
the case was again sent to the master with instructions to
inquire:

MowRY v. WIIIINEY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

First. Whether the wheels made and sold by the defend.
ant had, i)r could have been made to have any market value
without being subjected to the process patented to Whitney;
and,
Secod. If they had, or could have been made to' have such
value by any annealing or slow-cooling process, outside of
the Whitney patent, how much additional value, if any, they
derived fromi being subjected to that patented process.
Upon the findings (stated supra, 632-IEi.) made by the
master on this order, the court decreed awgainst the defendant
the entire profits made by him in the manufacture and sale
of the wheels from beginning to end, not only the profits
resulting from the reheating and regulated slow cooling in
connection, but also those which may have resulted from
mixing and melting the iron, castitig in moulds, making the
chill, and from the possible advance on the iron above its
cost, with interest on the whole.
This we think was an error. The findings of the master
justified no such decree. It must be conceded that the findings are incomplete, obscure, and in sonic particulars incongruous, but-it is not a legitimate construction of them taken
together, that the benefit which the defendant derived from
the use of the complainant's invention was equal to the
aggregate of profits, he obtained from the manufheture and
sale of the wheels as entireties, after they had been completed. It is as true of a process invented as an improvement in a manufacture, as it is of an improvement ini a machine, that an infringer is not liable to the extent' of his
entire profits in the manufacture.* If the wheels made by
the defendant would have had no market value above that
of cast irou if they had not been annealed and slow cooled,
the same may be said if they had been cast without a chill.
The same principle, therefore, which gives to the complainants the aggregate profits of the entire manufacture would
give the same profits to a patentee of the process of chilling,
Jones v. Morehead, 1 Wallace, 155; Seymour v. M(Cormick, 16 Howard, 480.

Dec. 1871.]

MowlY V.

WHITNEY.

Opinion of the eourt.

if therewere one, and as there are niny processes in the
manufacture, for each of which it is conceivable there might
be a patent, and as every one of the processes is necessary
to make a marketable wheel, an infringer might be mulcted
in several times the profits he had made from the whole
manufacture. We cannot assent to such a rule. The question to be determined in this ease is, what advantage (lid the
defendant derive from using the complainant's in vention
over what he had in using other processes then open to the
public and adequate to enable him to obtain an equally beneficial result. The fruits of that advantage are his profits.'
They are all the benefits he derived from the existence of ihe
Whitney invention. It is found that there were other processes by which the inherent strain caused by unequal cooling could be, and was prevented, counteracting which strain
was the sole object of the complainant's invention, and a
ear-wheel could be prepared for similar service, valuable in
the market, and salable at a price not less than was obtained
for those which the defendant manufactured. The inquiry
then is, what was the advantage in cost, in skill required, in
convenience of operation, or marketability, in bringing carwheels by Whitney's process from the condition in which
they are when taken hot from the moulds, to a perfected
state ,over bringing them to the same state by those other
processes, and thus rendering them equally fit for the same
service. That advantage is the measure of profits. It is
quite unimportant what name was given to the products of
the processes, whether one could be called annealed wheels
and the other could not, except so far as affected their marketability.
The record shows that the court overruled the alternative
finding of the master, that if there is no infringement of the
coniplainait's patent unless the wheels are subjected to the
process of' reheating-that is to say, if the process of slow
cooling used in connection with reheating is o1, and not a
part of the complainant's invention, no part of the profit
derived by the defendant from the manufacture and sale of
the wheels was due to the use by him of' that invention

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the cout.

One exception taken to this finding was that not only the
entire process described in the patent, but each part of such
entire process was the invention of the complainant, and the
use of any material, substantial, and essential part of such
entire process, the slow cooling being a substantial and material part, whereby only an improved chilled cast-iron railroad wheel could be made, and beneficial effects the same
in kind if not in degree attained, that were attained by the
complainant's entire process, is an infringement of complainant's patent, and the profits derived from the use of such
material, substantial, and essential part, should be accounted
for in this case. This exception the court sustained and
thereby held that the defendant is chargeable with the
profits he derived from slow cooling alone. We cannot
assent to this. The patent is for an entire process, made up
of several constituents. The patentee does not claim to have
been the inventor of the constituents. The exclusive use of
them singly is not secured to him. What is secured is their
use when arranged in the process. Unless one of them is
employed in making up the process, and as an element of it,
the patentee cannot prevent others from using it. As well
might the patentee of a machine, every part of which is an
old and known device, appropriate the exclusive use of each
device, though employed singly, and not combined with the
others as a machine. The defendant was not, therefore, responsible for slow cooling alone, or for the profits he derived
from it. Ie was liable to account for such profits only when
be used slow cooling in connection with reheating'in the
manner described in Whitney's claim substantially, or when
extraneous heat was employed to retard the progress of cooling. We have said that slow cooling is not claimed in the
specification as the invention of the patentee. And it is
found by the master that there are other modes of slow cooling, and even other modes of relieving against the inherent
strain caused by unretarded cooling, than that practiced by
the complainant and claimed by him. Though, therefore,
slow cooling is ain essential part of the complainant's process, it is an equally essential part of other processes which

Dec. 1871.]

THE KEY CITY.
Syllabus.

the defendant was at liberty to use in preparing his carwheels for market.
We add only that in our opinion the defendant should not
have been charged with interest befbre the final decree.
The profits which are recoverable against an infringer of a
patent are in fact a compensation for the injury the patentee
has sustained from the invasion of his right. They are the
measure of his damages. Though called profits, they are
really damages, and unliquidated until the decree is made.
Interest is not generally allowable upon unliquidated damages. We will not say that in no possible ease can interest
be allowed. It is enough that the ease in hand does not
justify such an allowance.

The defendant manufactured

the wheels of which the complaint is made under a patent
granted to him in 1861. His infringement of the complainant's patent was not wanton. Ie had before him the judgment of the Patent Office that his process was not an invasion of the patent granted to the complainant, and though
this does not protect him against responsibility for damages,
it ought to relieve him from liability to interest on profits.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with instructions to proceed in accordance with the rules laid down IN
TIlS OPINION.

TIE KEY CITY.
1. While courts of admiralty are not governed by any statute of limitations,
they adopt the principle that laches or delay.in the judicial enforcement
of maritime liens, will, under proper circumstances, constitute a valid
defence.
2. No arbitrary or fixed period of time has been, or will be established, as
an inflexible rule; but the delay which will defeat such a suit must, in
every case, depend on the peculiar equitable circumstances of that case.
3. When an admiralty lien is to be enforced to the detriment of a purchaser
for value, without notice of the lien, the defence will be held valid

under shorter time, and a more rigid scrutiny of the delay than when
the claimant is the party who owned the property when the lien accrued.

