MOWRY V.

WHITREY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
1. The ancient mode of annulling or repeating the king'N patent was by
scire .facias generally brought in the chancery where the record of the
instrument was found.
2. In modern times the court of chancery, sitting in equity, entertained t
similar jurisdiction by bill when the ground of relief is fraud in obtaining the patent, and in this country it is the usual mode in all cases,
because better adapted to the investigation and to the relief to be administeved.
8. But scire facies could only be sued out in the English courts by the king
or his attorney-general, except in cases where two patents had been
granted for the same thing to different individuals, and the sixteenth
section of the act of July 4th, 1836, concerning patents for inventions,
is based upon analogous principles.
upon this authority and upon sound principle no suit can be brought
Both
4.
to set aside, annul, or declare void, a patent issued by the government,
except in the class of cases above mentioned, unless brought in the name
of the government or by the authority or permission of the AttorneyGeneral, so as to be under his control.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania; the case being thus:
Asa Whitney, of Philadelphia, had obtained, on the 25th
April, 1848, a patent for fourteen years for an improvement
in annealing and cooling cast-iron car-wheels. This patent
expired, of course, by its terms on the 25th of April, 1862.
Ju.st before its expiration, that is to say, on the 2tst of
March, Albert Mowry, of Cincinnati, also obtained a patent
for fodrteen years, for a process for annealing car-wheels, of
which he professed to be the inventor.
In March, 1862, Whitney-the expiration of his ,patent
now approaching-applied to the Commissioner of Patents
for an extension or the patent for seven years more. This
extension was applied for in pursuance of' a provision of the
Patent Act of 1848,* which authorizes an extension where
the patent has not been remunerative, and the act, therefore,
Act of May 27th, 1848, 6 Stat. at Large, 231, amending the act of July
4th, 1836; 5 Id. 124.

Dec. 1871.]

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
.Statement of the case.

requires that the patentee when applying for the extension
shall"Furnish to the Commissioner of Patents a statement in
writing, under oath, of the ascertained value of the invention,
and of his receipts and expenditures sufficient in detail to exhibit a true and faithful account of loss and profit, in any manner,
accruing to him from, and by reason of, the said invention."
Whitney did furnish to the commissioner a statement,
which purported to be such 'asthe act required; and accordingly the extension was granted April 25th, 1862, f6r seven
years from that date, or in other words, until 25th of April,
1869.
On the 21st of March, 1866,, Whitney filed a bill in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Ohio, to enjoin
Mowry against proceeding in his business of annealing carwheels, on the ground that he Mowry by his process of annealing was infringing his Whitney's patent; and it being
decided in the Circuit Court April 5th, 1867, on the hearing
of the case, that Mowry was by his plan of annealing, infringing Whitney's patent, the question of damages came
up. This being referred to a master, Whitney, in order to
swell his damages, sought to prove (as Mowry alleged) that
his profits had been very large; greatly larger than what he
had sworn they were in the statement which he made befbre
the commissioner, when seeking his extension.*
Hereupon, April 7th, 1870, Mowry filed a bill in chancery
in the court below, represeuting the fact of Whitney's patent, and of the extension of it (annexing as exhibits all the
patent, the certificate of extetsion,, and all the affidavits
and estimates on which the extension had been granted);
setting forth his own patent, that he was sued by Whitney
in a suit still pending; that in the progress of investigation
necessary to his defence in that suit he had discovered the
.fraud by which the extension was obtained, and praying that
it might be declared that Whitney's letters, granted on the
25th of April, 1848, and extended on the 7th of April,-1832,
For an account of this controversy see infra, p,621

436

MOWRY v. W HITNEV'.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

were, and aire void and of no effect from and after the 25th
of April, 1862.
The Patent Act of 1836,* it should be added, by its 16th
section thus enacts:
"That whenever there shall be two interfering patents, or
whenever'a patent, on application shall have been refused on an
adverse decision of' a board of examiners, on the ground that
the patent applied for would interfere with an unexpired patent
previously granted, any person interested in any such patent
either by assignment or otherwise, in the one case, and any such
applicant in the other case, may have remedy by bill in equity;
andl the court having cognizance thereof, on notice to adverse
parties and other due proceedings had, may adjudge' and declare either the patents void, in the whole or in part, or-inoperative and invalid in any particular part or portion of the United
States, according to the interests which the parties to such suit
may possess in the patent or the inventions patented; and may
also adjudge that such applicant is entitled according to the
principles and provisions of this act to have and receive a patent
for his invention as specified in his claim, or fbr any part thereof,
as the fact of priority of right or invention shall in any such
case be made to appear. And such adjudication, if it be in favor
of the right of such applicant, shall authorize the commissioner
to issue such patent, on his filing a copy of the adjudication and
otherwise complying with the requisitions of this act: Provided,
however, That no such judgment or adjudication shall affect the
rights of any person except the parties to the action, and those
deriving title from, or under them, subsequent to the rendition
of such judgment."
To the bill filed as above mentioned by Mowry, Whitney
demurred, on these two, among other grounds:
1. That it appeared from the bill that the government of
the United States was a necessary party complainant, but
that the government was not made a party, nor was the suit,
brought at the instance of, nor by the authority, nor with
the consent of the government.
2. That it appeared by the bill that the term for which
6 Stat. at Large, 124.

Dec. 1871.]

MWRY V. WHITNEY.
Argument for the appellant.

the letters-patent sought to be cancelled were granted and
extended had expired before the commreucetnent of the suit.
The court below sustained the demurrer on these grounds
an(1 dismissed the bill. From that decree Mowry took this
ap'peal.
Messrs. A. G. Thurman and C. B. Collier, for the appellant:
The bilJ charging and the demurrer confessing that the
extension was procured by fraud, the extended patent must
be regarded as void, ab ihiio, and as conferring no monopoly
upon the patentee as against the public or the complainant.
Notwithstanding the expiration by limitation of Whitney's
pateit prior to the filing of the bill, the extended patent, until declared void for fraud, was and is alive and in effect for
all purposes of suit for infringements of it that occurred
during its existence.*
By reason of, the fact that Whitney's patent had expired
prior to the filing of the complain ant's bill, the government
was neither a necessary nor a proper party to the bill, and
by reason of such expiration the bill could not have been
maintained, in the name of the government, it having no
interest in the subject-matter of the coutroversy.t
Mowry, as appears' ou the face of his bill, has a direct and
personal interest in the subject-,matter of the suit; he is sued
by Whit:ey for an alleged infringement of his patent in the
Circuit Court for Ohio; he cannot avail himself of the fraud
of the patentee as matter of defence to the suit in that court
and in that cause; he is without remedy save in the court
and according to the manner in which he has sought it by
this procceding.1
The extension of the patent having been confessedly
procured fraudulently, and the government not being able
to maintain a suit in* relation to the patent by reason of its
expiration, and having no further interest in it, the suit
was properly and could only be brought by one who had a
*Patent

Laws, act of 1870,

55.

t Bourne v. Goodyear, 9 Wallace, 811
1 Wood v. Williams, 1 Gilpin, 517.

438

MOwRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

continuing interest in the patent, and whose rights were,
notwithstanding its expiration, affected by it.
The primary object of the suit is that the complainant
may be relieved from a prosecution which is contrary to
equity and good conscience, and the court is asked to find
and declare that the patent, having been procured fraudulently, was ipso facto void as antecedent to obtaining the
relief prayed fbr.
Mr. Henry Baldwin, Jr., contra:
There is no provision of law for any such proceeding as
this to repeal a patent; and any proceeding for that purpose
must be at the instance of the government. Instead of this
bill being filed by the authority or with the consent of the
government, it is on its face filed by an adjudged infringer
against a patentee whose rights he has invaded, and whose
statute remedy he now seeks to enjoin.
The demurrer admits the facts stated in the bill only so
fir as they are relevant and well pleaded. On the coinplainant's own showing, the allegations of fraud and suppressions and concealment stated in the bill are refuted by
the exhibits annexed thereto and making part thereof.
The account rendered by the respondent to the Commissioner of Patents in connection with his application for extension, and a copy of which is annexed to the bill, is a public
document on file and of record in the United States Patent
Office at Washington City, for more than eight years prior
to the commencement of this suit. During all this time it
has been accessible to the knowledge and inspection of this
appellant. Upon recourse to these records he could have
discovered what he now relies on as newly-discovered evidence.*
The bill shows that the extended term of the respondent's
patent expired April 24th, 1869, while this proceeding was
not commenced until April 7th, 1870, nearly twelve months
thereafter.
Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wallace, 805; Lord v. Goddard, 13 Howb&rd, 198 (211) ; Truly v. Wanzer, 5 Id. 141 (143).

Dee. 1871.]

MOWRY

V. WHITNEY.

Opinion of the court.

There is consequently no equity to support this application to set the extension aside, nor does anything remain
which can bethe subject of a suit.*
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was demurred to, and the demurrer sustained, on
two grounds:
First. That the extended patent had expired, by its own
limitation, before the bill was filed; and
Secondly. That the complainant could not, in .his own
right, sustain such a suit.
,As regards the first of these propositions we do not deem
it necessary to make any decision. When a case arises in
which the United States, or the Attorney-General, shall
initiate a suit to have a patent declared null, ab inido, which,
though no longer in force as to present or future infringeinents, is used to sustain suits for infringements during its
vitality, the question will be considered; for we are of
opinion that no one but the government, either in its own
'name or the name of its appropriate officer, or by some form
of proceeding which gives official assurance of the sanction
of the proper authority, can institute judicial proceedings
for the purpose of vacating or rescinding the patent which
the government has issued to an individual, except ii the
cases provided for in section sixteen of the act of July 4th,
1836.
The ancient mode of doing this in the English courts was
by seire fiwias, and three classes of cases are laid down in
which this may be done.
1. When the king by his letters-patent has by different
patents granted the same thing to several persons, the first
patentee shall have a scirefacias to repeal the second.
2. When the king has granted a thing by false suggestion,
he may by scirefacias repeal his own grant.
3. When he has granted that which by law lie cannot
* Bourne v. Goodyear, 9 Wallace, 811.; Minnesota Co. v. National Co.,

Id. 832.

3

MOWRY

V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

grant, he jure regis, and for the advancement of justice and
right, may have a seirefticiasto repeal his own letters-patent.*
The seirefacias to repeal a patent was brought in chancery
where the patent was of record. And though in this country
the writ of' scirefacias is not in use as a chancery proceeding,
the nDature of the c.hancery jurisdiction and its mode of proceeding have established it as the appropriate tribunal for
the annulling of a grant or patent ftrom the government.
This is settled so far as this court is concerned by the case
of the United States v. Slone,t in which it is said that the bill
in chancery is found a more convenient remedy. A bill of
this character was also sustained in the English chancery in
the case of the Attorney-General v. Vernon,t on the ground
of the equitable jurisdiction in matters of fraud. And in
the case of Jackson v. Lawon,ยง Chancellor Kent says that in
addition to the writ of scire fJacis, which has ceased to be
applicable with us, there is another remedy by bill in the
equity side of the court of chancery.
It will be observed that in the case of a conflict under twa
patents granting the same right, the seirefteias may, according to the authorities cited, he brought in the name of one
of the patentees, but in the other cases, when the patent was
obtained by a fraud upon the -king, by fiilse suggestion, or
where it was issued without authority, and for the good'of
the public and right and justice it should be repealed, the
writ is to issue in the king's name o ' his attorney-general's.
It is also said that when a patent is granted to the prejudice
of the subject, the king of.right is to permit hini upon his
petition to use his name for the repeal of it, in scirefacias at
the king's suit.Ij
The 16th section of the Patent Act of 1836 seems to have
in view the same distinction made by the common law in
regard to annulling patents, for while it authorizes individuals claiming under conflicting patents, or one whose claim
* 4 Institutes, 88; Dyer, 197-8, and 276, 279.
1 Vernon, 277.
The King v. Sir Oliver Butler, 8 Levinz, 220.

t 2 Wallace, 525.
10 Johnson, 21

Dec.18'71.1

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the court.

to a patent has been rejected because his invention was covered hy a patent' already issued, to try the conflictilig claim
in chancery, and authorizes the court to annul mor
set aside a
patentt so far as may be found necessary to protect die right,
the suit by individuals is limited to that class ,ofeases. And
it is provided that the decree shall be of io validity except
between the parties to the suit. The general public is left
to the protection of the government and its oflicers.
It seeins reasonable that the remedy by bill in chancery,
which is substituted for the scirefaeias,should htave the like
limitation in its use. The reasons for requiring o)fficial authority for such a.proceediiig are obvious. 1. The fra ud, if
one exists, has been practiced on the government, and as the
party injured, it is the appropriate party to assert the rernedy
or seek relief. 2. A suit by an individual could ojly be conelusive in result as between the patentee and the party suing,
and it would remain a valid instrument as to all others. 3.
The patentee would or might be subjected to iniumnirable
vexatious suits to set aside his patent, since a docree in his
favor it one suit would be no bar to a suit by anotlier party.
If, on the other hand, an individual finds iiinsel injured,
either specially oi? as a part of the general public, it is no
hardship to require him to satisfy the Attorney-General that
the case is one in which the government ought to interfere
either directly by instituting the suit, or indirectly by authorizing the use of its name, by which the Attorney-General would retain such control of the matter as would enable
him to prevent oppression and abuse in the exercise of the
right to prosecute such a suit.
It would seriously impair the value of the title which the
government grants after regular proceedings berore officevrs
appointed for the purpose, if the validity of the instrument
by which the grant is made, can be impeached by any one
whose interest may be affected by it, and would tend to dis.
credit the authority of the government in such matters.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

