Dec. 1871.]

CHRISTMAS

v.

R USSELL.

Syllabus.

government, in custody of the officers of tKe United States.
He paid to them the tax due on the goods, and he, paid to
the owner their value. He had no suspicions that his vendor ever entertained any intention to defraud the governrnefit of the tax levied on them, and ,if he ever had such
suspicions lie might well have supposed that his vendor had
repented of his intention, when he delivered the property to
the keeping of the officers of the United States.
The government through its officers took from the innocent purchaser the duties upon the goods, thus saying to
him that the goods then belonged to the distiller who placed
them in the warehouse. The government now declares
through its officers that these goods all the time belonged to
it by reason of the previous forfeiture, and thus the honest
claimant loses both the taxes and the goods, or at least is
left to the doubtful chances of obtaining the former by petition to the government, and the latter by action against
his vendor.
The object of the act of Congress, under'which the forfeiture is declared, is to raise revenue; and it seems to me
that the severe construction in favor of forfeitures in the
hands of innocent parties, given by the majority of the court,
must have a tendency to defeat this object; for it will scarcely
be possible for any one to purchase merchandise with safety
when it may be seized and forfeited in his possession for
reasons such as are assigned in this case.
I am of the opinion that the judgment of the court below
should be affirmed.

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

1. Where a bill does not relate to some matter already litigated in the same
court by the same persons, and which is not either in addition to, or a
continuance of. an original suit, it is an original bill, not an ancillary
one.
2. Accordingly, when such bill is between citizens of the same Sttte, the
Circuit Courts have no jurisdiction.

CH~iSTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
8. A mere promise, though of the clearest and most solemn knd, to pay a
debt out of a particular fund, is not an assignment of the fund even in
equity. To make an equitable assignment there should be such an
actual or constructive appropriation of the subject-matter as to confer a
coniplete and present right on the party meant to be provided for, even
where the circumstance do not admit of its immediate exercise. If the
holder of the fund retain control over it, as ex gr., power on his own
account, to collect it or to revoke the disposition promised, this is fatal
to the thing as an equitable assignment.
APPEAL fron the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi; the case being thus:
Richard Christmas, of Kentucky, on 30th November,
1859, sold to one Lyons, of Mississippi, an estate there, and
received in consideration therefor his promissory notes, each
for $16,666, payable to him the said Richard or bearer, with
interest, with a mortgage on the estate.
These notes subsequently (May, 1866) passed into the
bands of II. HI. Christmas, also of Kentucky, the son of
Richard by his first wife, who, iN the fbllowing June, had a
settlement and compromise with Lyons, who paid a certain
sum in cash, and for the remainder executed his two promissory notes in favor of said H. 11. Christmas, for $8339.90
each; one payable December 1st, 1866, and the other February 1st, 1868. These notes were to be secured by the
mortgage aforemeutioned.
The said H. I. Christmas being indebted to Payne, Huntington & Co., of New Orleans, pledged to them, in February,
1867, the first of these notes. Neither note being paid, two
suits were instituted on them in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Mississippi; one in
the name of I1. H. Christmas, for the use of Payne, Huntington & Co., on the pledge above stated, and the other in
his own name and for his own use.
A bill was also filed to foreclose the mortgage on the
notes, on which these respective rights were asserted.
On the 1st May, 1868, II. HI. Christmas entered into a
written obligation with Mrs. Mary Christmas, the second
wife of said Richard (and like her husband, of Kentucky);
in which, in consideration of her assuming to pay the debt

Dec. 1871.]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.
Statement of the case.

due to Payne, Huntington & Co., he transferred to her the
note of Lyons, left in pledge with them. She having paid
the note by a sale of her separate estate, made by Richard,
under a power of attorney execuled by his wife, and by a deed
executed by 1dim, as truslee for her, in June,' 1868, the bill to
foreclose the mortgage was amended, by showing this transfer and the payment of the amount due to P., H1. & Co.,
and application was made to substitute her name for that of
P, TI. & Co., on the action at law. On the second of these
notes a judgment was rendered on 13th November, 1868,
for $8868. The other one remained in suit.
So fir as to this part of the case. And now the subjectmatter changes. It is thus:
On the 25th of May, 1860, one Russell, also of Kenlucky,
for himself and other persons there, for whom he sued, obtained a judgmient for about $12,000 against the father,
Richard Christmas, already named. -The judgment was
brought by writ of error to this court, and execution stayed
by a supersedeas bond executed by the said Richard and one
Yerger, and a certain Anderson, as his sureties. To induce
Yerger and Anderson thus to become his sureties, Christmas had promised them a counter security of some sort, and
he had in fact given them such security-the note of one
Malartin-which, however, to promote in some way his convenience, they had surrendered to him. The matter stood
thus until the war of the rebellion closed, A.D. 1865. Christmas had during the war gone to Texas, and thence went to
Havana, and thence to Europe. On reaching Liverpool he
wrote, October 28d, 1865, a letter to Yerger, thus:
"I feel great uneasiness about your liability on the bond in
suit of Russell against me. I have ever held the Lyons note as

sacred for the payment of this debt, and have it now in New York
endeavoring to sell it with the mortgage to pay this debt. I expect to
hear from it daily. If not sold I will send it to you as soon as I
return."

On the 14th of February, 1866, he wrote again, stating
that he had countermanded the sale of the Lyons note, and

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[SUP. (Xt

Statement of the case.

that he would make a liberal arrangement with him, and
adds:
"I could not safely send you Lyons's note by mail, as it is
payable to me or bearer, heuce, if lost, might put me to much
trouble."
On the 20th of February, 1866, he wrote again to Yerger,
stating that he had written on the 17th, proposing that if
Lyons would take up Russell's debt he wpuld allow it as a
credit, dollar for dollar, on the note; but reflecting that the
judgment might not be affirmed in the Supreme Court of
the United States, and that the note was well secured, he
requests that no further action be had until he can be better
informed, suggesting that the -rents of the land subject to
the mortoage would pay the amount'for which Yerger was
surety, and then adds:
"I will hold this note-$16,666, and many years' interestalways subject to this debt,-provided the judgment is affirmed,
until which time let the matter rest where it is. When a compromise is made it'must be through you as surety. I am sorry
you told Lyons of our understanding, as he will be apt to let
Russell know, and prevent an advantageous compromise."
On the 21st of February, 1866, he wrote again from Liverpool, saying, "I wrote you on the 17th and 20th," suggesting that he had written to Burwell to compromise the Russell debt, and adds:
"You may rest assured I will protect you with the Lyons
note. . This fact should not be known, to enable me to make
a good compromise."
On the 12th of May, 1866-after the transfer of the notes
to his son, H. H. Christmas, which he says he had been
compelled to make-he adds:
"In this I hope I have not lost sight of my purpose to protect
you," &c.
In this state of things-and Richard Christmas being now
wholly insolvent-Russell and the others, for whom he had

Dec. 1871.]

CHRISTMAS V. IRUSSELL.
Statement of the case.

recovered the judgment, filed a bill in the same, the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, against Lyons,
still of Mississippi, and all three of the Christmases, father,
wife, and son-these last three, like himself, as already mentioned, being citizens of Kentucky-setting forth the facts
above stated, including the citizenship; and seeking to enjoin Lyons from paying his notes to either Mrs. Christmas
or to the son, H. H. Christmas, and seeking to cause the
payment (when payment was to be made), to be made to
them, on the ground of their already-mentioned judgment
against the father, Richard Christmas (for the payment of
which Yerger and Anderson, his sureties, had, by the affirmance of the judgment,,in this court, become equally liable
with him), and on the thrther ground that the said Richard
had made an equitable assignment of the fund to them, and
that they were in equity entitled to enforce the security.*
The court below decreed for the complainants, "it appearing," as it said, " that the said Richard, with intent to
provide for the payment of the judgment, in ease the same
should be affirmed, and to induce the shid Yerger and the
said Anderson to become his sureties aforesaid, did agree
to provide special indemnity to them ; and with such intent,
and to the end that said judgment should be paid, and his
said sureties saved harmless, did assign to them, his said
sureties, the debt mentioned in the complainants' bill, as
due from the defendant, Lyons, to him, the; said Richard;"
"and did so assign and set apart the said debt to the sureties
aforesaid, as to give them a lien upon the said debt, which
in equity they are entitled to enforce for the purpose of paying the said judgiment, and that their lien attaches to and
binds the debt due from Lyons, and not converted by said
Harry and Richard, and which debt is evidenced by the
judgments recovered in this court in favor of LI. I. Christmas, and of 1I. H. Christmas for the use of Mary E. ChristYerger and Anderson, citizens of Mississippi, were also made defendants. Really, however, they were complainants. Lyons was, of course,
but a stakeholder. The real parties in interest were t. H. Christmas and
the wife.

74

CHRISTMAS v. RusSELL.

[Sun. Ct

Argument for the appellants.

mas, and by a decree in this court against Lyons in favor of
said H. II. Christmas and Mary E. Christmas, foreclosing
the mortgage, executed by said Lyons, to secure the payment of said debt due by him as aforesaid."
The court accordingly decreed l:)ayment to the complainants of the fund in court, which had been paid by Lyons,
$7873, and that the said Lyons pay to them $8192, with interest from the 21st May, 1869.
From this decree the present appeal was taken. The
errors assigned beingFirst. That under the Constitution, which declares that
the judicial power shall extend to " contr ov ersies between citizens of dih'rent Slates," the court below had no jurisdiction
over the deftndants, Richard, H. II., and Mary Christmas,
who were stated in the bill to be citizens of Kentucky.
Second. That if this was iot so, and if the court below
had jurisdiction, the evidence did not authorize the conelusion that there had been an equitable assignment.
Mr.

. Phillips, for the appellants:

As to jurisdiction. The complainants are citizens of Kentucky, and Richard, H. I., and Mary Christmas, the only
real defeudants, are citizens of the same State. The controversy between these parties arises out of the question,
whether Richard had made to the complainants, or to others
for their benefit, an equitable assignment of the three original
notes given by, Lyons to Richard on the purchase ofcertain
real estate. That controversy is for the first time brought
to the notice of the court by the bill filed in this case. The
court, therefore, by the language of the Constitution, had no
jurisdiction of the controversy, unless the bill was a bill not
original; that is to say, unless it was ancillary to a case of
which it had jurisdiction. Then, indeed, as of a matter but
ancillary to the former case, it would have jurisdiction,
though it would not have it as of an original proceeding.
This is all hornbook law.
Now, the bill here was an original bill, for it related to

Dec. 1,871.1

CHRISTMAS V.

RUSSELL.

Argument for the appellants.

matters not before litigated in the court by the same per,
sons, standing in the same interest.
The matter of this equitable assignment was never litigated before in the court, nor was the bill al addition to, or
a continuance of, an original suit. It is therefore nn original
bill. Catvcs on the subject in this court are, Logan v. Palrick,* Sims v. Gutlrie,t Dunn v. lark,j Clark v. Mathaewson,ยง
and lately, Jones v. Andvews.Il In all these cases the suit was
sustained irrespectively of citizenship; but in each the suit
was but a contiuation of a former controversy and between
the same parties. The same is true of Dunlap v. Slelson, a
circuit case. The absence of jurisdiction being thus clear,
the decree must on that ground be reversed and the bill
dismissed. This being so, the cou't cannot properly pass
upon the other point. Any decision of it would be extrajudicial.
But if the court thinks that the jurisdiction exists, the
case is clear on merits. As fiar back as Lord Hardwicke's
time, and in Ridgway's Cases,** in a suit where A. filed a
bill against B., and one of his debtors, praying that the
court would stay the money in the debtor's hands, and not
suffer it to be paid to B., fbr fear of his. misapplying it, B.
having promised to pay the complainant's demand out of
such specific debt, Lord HaI'dwicke refused to hear any
argument on the question. He dismissed the bil!, saying :
"If a debtor promises to pay his crbditor out of the money to
be recovered in a certain suit, and on the faith of this proiniso
the creditor forbears to sue him, this creates no specific lien on
the money recovered,"
And this same doctrine, declared frequently since, is thus
presented with emphasis of late times in the Leading Cases
in Equity :tt
"It is necessary, moreover, in order to constitute an assignment, either in ,law or in equity, that there should be such an

*

5 Cranch, 288.
12 Id. 170.
Page 194.

f' 9 Id. 19.
t 8 PetersO, 1.
jj 10 Wallace, 331.
4 Mascn, 849.
tt Vol. ii, part. 2, p. 233, Hare & Wallete's Notes.

CHRISTMAS V. R USSELL.

[Sup. (t.

Argument for the appellees.

actual or constructive appropriation of the subject-matter assigned as to confer a complete and present right on the assignee,
even when the circumstances do not admit of its immediate exercise. A covenant on the part ofa debtor, to apply a particular ftnd in payment of the debt as soon as be receives it, will
not operate as an assignment, for it does not give the covenantee
a right to the funds, save through the covenantor, and looks to
a future act on his part as the means of rendering it effectual."
Speaking of this extract, the Supreme Court of Ohio says:
"This rule seems to be well sustained and settled by the cases
cited in its support."
Mr. Iubley Ashton, contra:
Of course, if there is no jurisdiction the case is at an end,
and no question of merits arises. But there is jurisdiction,
for a bill of the c'haracter of the one filed in this case, to enjoin proceedings pending in the Circuit Court, and to prevent a wrongful use of the proceedings, is not regarded as dn
original suit; and non-resident plaintiffs in the proceedings
sought to be enjoined, or as to which relief is sought, being
in court as-parties, may be made such by the bill. This

court, in Freeman v. Ilowe,t correct the ease of Dunn v.
Clark, relied on by Mr. Phillips.
given in that case, they say:
"It would seem, from a
power of the court upon the
the original' parties to the
tended, as any party may file
the suit at law."

Referring to the opinion

remark in the opinion, that the
bill was limited to a case between
suit. This was probably not ina bill whose interests are affected by

The jurisdiction exists then, and question'of merits does
arise.
From the best authorities on the subject of equitable assignments,J the following propositions may be extracted:.
Christmas v. Griswold, 8 Ohio, N. S. 568.

t

t 24 Howard, 460.

See notes to the case of Row v.Dawson, 1 Vesey, 331, in Leading Cases
in Equity, 3d American edition, vol. 3, pp. 357--8; Raymoid v.Squire, 11
Johnson, 47; People v. Tioga, 19 Wendell, 73; 1 Strobhurt (Equity), 47;
6 Leigh, 534; Knapp v. Alvord, 10 Paige, 205.

Dec. 1871.]

CiRISTMAS

v.

RUSSELL.

77

Argument for the appellees.

1. Anything which shows an intention to assign on-the
one hnnd, and from which an assent to receive on the other
may be inferred, will operate as an assignment if sustained
by a sufficient consideration.
2. No writing or particular form of words is necessary if
the consideration be proved, and the meaning of the parties
apparent.
3. The obligation to indemnify sureties is a continuing
obligation, and a sufficient consideration for a transfer or
conveyance.
The object of the parties here is apparent. It was to
place Yerger and Anderson in the position of sureties with
specific indemnity. Christmas being under an express obligation to do so, and having obtained the surrender of the
first indemnity on an understanding that he was to replace
it by something equivalent, Yerger accepted it, and notified
Lyons of the understanding with Christmas. It was a power
of attorney coupled with an interest, a designation of the
fund as one to be used by the surety with power to uise it,
and notice to the debtor of that power and its object.
. There can be no doubt as to the effect of this pledge as
between the parties. A court of chancery could enforce it
against Christmas, and against any party occupying the position of I. 11. Christmas, who took the note long after it
was due, and for a pre-existing debt and not as actual payment. A party taking securities after maturity takes the
title of the vendor subject to all equities by which it is affected.* Then,, as to Mrs. Christmas, the whole matter was
conducted by Richard Christmas, who had, as her agent,full
nofice.
The right and justice of the claim of the sureties to have
this debt applied to their relief is clear. The opposing title
of the son and wife of Richard Christmas looks like a fabricated title. No fair-minded person can read the letter of
October 23d, 1865, in which the elder Christmas declares
that he has ever held the note "sacred for the payment of this
* Texas v. White, 7 Wallace, 735.

[VSup. (t.

CHRISTMAS v. IRUSSIELL.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

debt," that be " has it now in New York endeavoring to sell
it in order to pay this debt," and if not sold " will send it to
Russell," and not feel a disposition to sustain the decree
below, unless the claims of Mrs. Christmas and the son are
clear, which they are not.
Reply: The language cited from Freeman v. Howe el al.
was extra-judicial; dictum merely. It is unsupported by
the two cases to which it refers, to wit: Pennock v. Coe,* and
Guy v. Tide-waler Canal.t The question now under consideration did not directly arise, nor is it even remotely
referred to in the argument.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions have been argued and are presented for
our consideration. They are:
Whether the residence of the parties as disclosed in the
record was such as gave the court below jurisdiction of the
case ? and
Whether William Yerger and Warren P. Anderson had
such a lien, by equitable assignment, upon the fund in controversy as warranted the decree appealed rom.
The solution of these questions requires a brief statement
of the case as it appears in the record
Richard Christmas held three dotes of Lyons payable to
himself', all dated November 30th, 1859, each for the suni
of $16,666.50, and payable respectively, one, two, and three
years from date. Richard Christrmas assigned and delivered
them to his son, 11. H. Christmas. I. I. Christmas made
a compromise with Lyons Nvhereby these notes were delivered up to the maker, and lie executed to iT. II. Christmas,
in their stead, two notes, each for $8339.90, one payable De,ember 1st, 1866, the other February 1st, 1868. Both were
secured by a mortgage upon real estate. II. I. Christmas
hypothecated one of the notes to Payne, Hunitington & Co.,
of New Orleans, to secure a debt which he owed them.
* 23 Howard, 117.

t 24 Id. 262.

Dec. 1871.]

CHRISTMAS

v. RUSSELL.

79

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

Suits upon the notes were instituted in the court where this
bill was filed. The suit upon one of the notes was in the
name of II. H. Christmas for his own use. The other was
in his name for the use of Payne, Huntington & Co. A
bill was also filed in the same court to foireclose the mnortgage. It set out the rights of 1-1. H. Christmas and of Payne,
Huntington & Co. t-ouehing the notes. On the 1st of May,
1868, II. 11. Christmas entered into an agreement with Mary
Christmas; whereby in consideration of her assuming the
payment of' the debt due to Payne, Huntington & Co., he
transferred to her the note hypothecated to them. Payment
to them was made out of her means, and they delivered up
the note. The foreclosure bill was amended by the substitution of her name for that of Payne, Huntington & Co.,
and an application, which is still pending, was made for
the like substitution in the suit at law upon the note transferred to her. A judgment was recovered upon the other
note.
In this condition of things the complainants filed their
bill. It alleges the following state of facts: Russell, now
deceased, for himself and the use of the complainants other
than his executors, recovered a judgment against Richard

Christmas, which was taken to the Supreme Court of the
United States by a writ of error. William Yerger and
Warren P. Anderson became his sureties in the error bond.
The judgment was affirmed by this court, and the sureties
thus became liable on their bond. The sumeties executed
the bond upon a promise of indemnity by their principal.
He subsequently gave them a lien for this purpose upon one
)f tle original notes of Lyons. It is claimed that this lieu
attaches to the notes taken in substitution for them. Richard
Chi'istmas is hopelessly.insolvent, and has gone into bankruptey. The complaiiants seek to be subrogated to the
rights of the sureties and to enforce the alleged lien for the
satisfaction of the judgment. The bill alleges that the complainants are -fl residents of the State of Kentucky; that
the defendants, Richard, II. H., and Mary Christmas are all
residents of the same State, and that the defendants, Yerger

CHRISTMAS

v. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

and the legal representatives of Anderson and Lyons, are
residents of the State of Mississippi.
No party to the original suits has had aiiy connection with
the filing of this bill. Lyons, the defendant in these suits,
asks no protection against them. Ile did not answer the
bill, but allowed a decree pro confesso to go against him.
The case which the bill makes is wholly outside of the litigation in the suits at law. It is alien to everything involved
in those proceedings. It alleges a lien upon the liability of
Lyons, prior and paramount to the right of H. 1I. Christmas
as plaintiff for his own benefit in one of the suits at law, and
to that of Mary Christmas as cestdique use in the other. The
controversy is wholly between them and the complainants.
The bill is essentially an original one. Iii no sense can it
be held to be auxiliary or ancillary to the action at law.
Can such a bill be maintained ?
The Constitution, article 3, limits the judicial power of
the United States to " controversies between citizens of different States." There are exceptions which do not affect
this case, and need not, therefore, be more particularly adverted to. The act of 1789,- declares that "11no civil suit
shall be brought . .. against 'an inhabitant of the United
States by any original process in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant or in which he shall be found at
the time of servi-ng the writ." The act of 1839-' authorizes
the voluntary appearance of parties in regard to whom there
is no inherent and insuperable jurisdictional objection, in
suits elsewhere than in tile district in which they reside, or
in which they may be found.
In the light of these provisions it is clear that this bill
c"'nnot be maintained-as an original one; and we thini it
equally clear that it cannot be maintained as an auxiliary or
supplementary bill, because it is not one of that character.
The case ills clearly within the rules laid down by this
court, upon the subject of parties, in Shields v. Barrow.1
*

11, 1 Star. at Large, 78.

t 5 Id. 321.

1 17 Howard, 130.

Dec. 1871.]

. CHRISfTMAS V. IRUSSELL.
Opinion of the court.

The several adjudications of this court upon the point under
consideration have been referred to by the counsel on both
sides.* Those cases call for a few remarks. In tile five
earliest cases the defendants in the suits at law were. colnplainants in the suits in equity. In one of them, Dnn v.
Clark, a judgment had been recovered against Dunn and
others in the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio. The
plaintift who was a citizen of Virginia, had died. The defendants filed their bill in the same court, praying for a,
injunction and a conveyance of the premises. All the corn
plainants and all the defendants in the chancery suit weru
citizens of Ohio. This court said: "' The injunction bill is
not considered an original :bill between tile same parties aF(
at law, but if other parties are made in the bill and different
interests involved, it must be considered to that extent at
least an original bill, and the jurisdiction of the' Circuit
Court must depend upon the citizenship of the parties." It
was further said, that as there appeared to be matters of
equity in the case which could be investigated by a State
court it would be reasonable and just to stay all preceedings
on the judgment until the complainants shoulq have time
to seek relief from a State tribunal. The decree of the Circuit Court was modified accordingly.t
In Frerman v. Howe, it appears that White had sued in
the Circuit Court of -the United States for Massachusetts and
attached certain property of the defendant. The property
was taken from the possession of the marshal by a writ of
replevin issued from a State court. The marshal appeared
in that court and set up as a defence that he held the property
when it was taken from him, by viytue of process issued
fromn the Circuit Court. This defence was overruled and
the judgment against him was affirmed by the 'Supreme
Court of the State. That judgment was reversed by this
*Logan v. Patrick, 5 Cranch, 288; Simms v. Guthrie, 9 Id. 19; Dunn v.
Clark, 8 FPtors, 1 ; Clark v. Matthewson, 12 Id. 170; Dunlap v.Stetson. 4
Mason, 849; Freeman v. Howe, 24 Howar4, 450; Jones v. A ,dlews, 10
Wallace, 831.

t"See also Williams v: Byrne et al., Hempstead, 473.
VOL. XIV.

6

82

CURISTMAS v. RUSSEr,L.

[Sup. (.,t.

Opinion of the court.

court upon the ground that the Circuit Court, having first
acquired possession of the res, could not be deprived of that
possession until the litigation there was brought to a close.
This was the. Oily point involved in the case and the only
lone decided. The learned judge who delivered the opinion
remarked that the marsha'ds possession might have been

protected by a proceeding in equity. In that connection he
made certain remarks which were entirely proper as regards
the facts of the case before him, but it is a misapprehension
to suppose they are of universal application or that they can
affect a case of the character of the one under consideration.*
The last of this series of cases is .Jones v. Andrews. Andrews, a citizen of New York, recovered a judgment in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee against Reed and Bryson, by default. For the
satisfaction of' that judgment he sued out a writ of garnishment to seize in the hands of the judgment debtors the notes
to them of Jones, a citizen of Georgia. Thereupon Jones
filed abill in equity in the same court, wherein lie alleged
that Reed & Bryson had transferred the notes to Andrews
in paymemt of their'debt to him; that they owed Andrews
nothing when lie stued them; that the judgment was obtained by collusion, and that the writ of garnishment was a
contrivance to enable Andrews to avoid the necessity of a
direct suit against Jones, and to deprive Jones of a valid defence which lie had against the notes. Andrews appeared
in the case voluntarily. This court held that the bill was
well brought as an original one under the act of 1839, and
also as one incidental and auxiliary to the garnishment proceediig. On both points the judgment was correctly given.
According to the face of the bill Jones was to be as much
affected by the garnishment proceeding, and a bill was as
necessary for his protection and to the due administration
of justice as if' lie had been a party to the record in the garnishraent case.
The course indicated in Dan v. Clark should have been
* Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wallace, 834.

Dec.1871.]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the court.

pursued in this case. The bill should have been filed in the
proper State court and aii application should have been made
to the Circuit Court to hold the proceeds of the suits at law
under its control until the right to them should have been
settled by an adjudication of the State court between the
conflicting claimants. There would be no more inconsistency or embarrassment in these different proceedings than
there is where a mortgagor resorts in different courts to the
several remedies which he is entitled to pursue at the same
time. Ile may file a bill to foreclose in one court, sue at
law to recover his debt in another, and bring an action of
ejectment to recover possession of the mortgaged premises
in a third. Each of such courts will see in the end that its
process is not abused and that no wrong is done to the
debtor.
The evidence relied upon to support the alleged lien, consists, so far as it is necessary to consider it, of letters from
Richard Christmas to Yerger, written before Richard transferred to IT. H. Christmas the notes originally given to
Richard by Lyons. In a letter of the 25th of October, 1865,
Richard said: " 1 feel great uneasiness about your liability
on the bond in suit of Russell against me. I have ever held
the Lyons note as sacred for the payment of this debt, and
have it now in New York, endeavoring to sell it, with the
mortgage, to pay this debt; I expect to hear from it daily.
It'not sold I will send it to vou as soon as I return." On
the 14th of February, 1866, he wrote: "I could not safely
send you the Lyons note by mail as it is payable to me or
bearer-hence if lost might put me to much trouble." On
the 21st of the same month lie said: " You may rest assured
I will protect you with the Lyons note." In the next letter,
of the 12th of May following, he announced the transfer of
the notes to H. H. Christmas, and said: "In this I hope I
have not lost sight of my purpose to protect you." These
letters contain no words of transfer, and nothing which by
construction or otherwise can have any effect in that way.
At most they are only evidence of' a promise to pay the

CHRISTMAS V. RU'SSELL.

[Sup. (ot.

Opinion of the court.

judgment, if affirmed, out of the proceeds of one of the
notes, and to send the note, if not sold, to Yerger.
An agreement to pay out of a particular fund, however
clear in its terms, is not an equitable assignment; a covenant in the most solemn form has no greater effect. The
phraseology employed is not material provided the intent to
transfer is manifested. Such an intent and its execution are
indispensable. The assignor must not retain any control
over the fund-any authority to collect, or any power of revocation. If lie do, it is fatal to the claim of the assignee.
The transfer must be of such a character that the fundholder can safely pay, and is compellable to do so, though
forbidden by the assignor. Where the transfer is of the
character described, the fund-holder is bound from the time
of notice.* A bill of exchange or check is not an equitable
assignment pro nanto of the fands of the drawer in the hands
of the drawce.t But an order to pay out of a specified fund
has always been held to be a valid assignment in equity and
to fulfil all the requirements of the law.T These views are
fatal to the claim asserted by the complainants in behalf of
the sureties on the bond.
Upon both the grounds which have been considered, the
decree of the Circuit Court must be REVERSED, AND THE BILL
The cause will be remanded with directions to
DISMISSED.
PROCEED

ACCORDINGLY.

Rogers v. Hosack, 18 Wendell, 334; Hoyt v. Story, 3 Barbour's bapreme Court, 263; Dickenson v. Phelps, 1 Id. 461; Clayton v. Faucet, 2
Leigh, 19; Hopkins v. Beebe, 2 Casey, 85; Hall v. Jackson, 20 Pickering,
194.
t Copperthwaite v. Sheffield, 3 Comstock, "243.
$ Knapp v. Alvord, 10 Paige, 205; Yeates v. Groves, 1 Vesey, Jr,, 280;
Row v. Dawson, 1 Vesey, 831; Morton v. Naylor, 1 Hill, 585.

