PIHILPOT V. GRUNINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

PHILPOT V. GRUNINGER.
1. In the matter of a contract, a distinction sometimes exists between a
motive which may induce entering into it ahd the actual consideration
of the contract. Ex. gr., A person, in virtue of some benefit passing to
him, may be bound to give for it his promissory-note for a certain sum
and payable at a certain time, and yet refuse to give the note. Now, if
upon an expectation of some particular results in another transaction,
into which expectation he is led by his creditor in the original transaction, he gives the note, the original benefit to him, and not the expectation, must be regarded as the consideration of the note.
2. A promise by one party being a good consideration for a promise by
another, a jury will not, in a case where such mutual promises are
shown, and no dependence exists between them, be held to have been
misinstrueted by a direction which makes a distinction between motive
and consider'ttion, such as taken in the paragraph above, even if the
distinction be one not well founded The instruction could do no harm.
8. A consideration moving to A. and B., with whom C. aftervards enters
into partnersbip, and of which consideration C. thus gets the benefit,
will support a prdmise by C.
4. On an issue between a partnership and third parties as to the day when
the partnership was formed, the mere articles of partnership are not
evidence in favor of the partnership It must be shown by extrinsic
evidence, that they were made on the day when they purport to have
been made.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being this:
On the 19th of October, 1864, Gruninger, by articles of
agreement, sold, or agreed to sell, to B. Philpot and H1.
Picket, residing at Titusville, Pennsylvania (who, with
George Sherman, of Philadelphia, had been speculating in
oil wells), a well " on Mhe Blood Farm," near the town
named; Philpot and Picket agreeing by the articles to pay
Gruninger $3500 within thirty days. The money was not
thus paid. Gruninger, after the sale, went to Massachusetts,
but by the 24th of February, 1865, had returned to itusville,
On the day just mentioned Picket writes to hint expressing
satisfaction at his return, and acknowledging the receipt of a
letter from him " some time since ; an answer to which had
been neglected ,"n account of press of business until it had
passed out of mind," and saying:

Dec. 1871.]

PHILPOT v. GRUNINGER.
Statement of the case.

"I think we can fix up that Blood Farm natter satisfactorily,
when you come up."
By the 21st of April, 1865, Philpot, Picket, and the Sherman already named had become interested as partners,
under the name of Philpot, Sherman & Co., in the well on
Blood Farm (if indeed Sherman had not been partner with
the other two from the first) and in other oil wells; and on
that day the partfiership, under the firm name, along with
several other projectors in oil (not, however, including Gruninger) entered into an agreement to form a joint stock company; Philpot, Sherman & Co. agreeing to put into the
company certain wells, but not this one, which they had
bought or agreed to buy, on the Blood Farm.
On the 6th of May, 1865, Gruninger also agreed to put
in a certain well which he still owned; one on the Smith
Farm;- and on the same day, by deed, witnessed and acknowledged, "iin consideration of the sum of $3000," which
was acknowledged to have been to him "paid, and the receipt, of which he acknowledged," conveyed to Philpo/, Sherman & Go., the already mentioned well on the Blood Farm.
On that same day, but without reciting on acoount of what
transaction, Philpot gave the firm note for $3000, payable
to Gruninger on demand.
The joint stock company apparently fell through. Gruninger, at any rate, would not put in his well on Smith's
Farm.

On the 5th July, Picket, one of the persons to whom Gruninger had agreed to sell the well on the Blood Farm, and
a member of the now admitted firm of Philpot, Sherman &
Co., writes to Gruninger, from Titusville, signing the firm
name:

"We have learned that the note given you by our nrmn nas
been sent to Philadelphia for collection. All I can say is, we
are, at present, unable to pay it. The change in times has so
contracted our means as to make it doubtful if we are able to
pay your note in cash at all. We will be glad to settle with
you by letting you have some good property any time; but

PHILPOT V. GRUNINGER.

[-sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

money, at the present time, is out of the question with us. Let
us hear from you soon."
And on the same day Philpot, in Philadelphia, writes to
him from there:
"The note given by me to you has been presented by a collector for payment. We think this a strange proceeding under
the circumstances the note was obtained, and a part having
been paid. We have your name to a contract assigning us your
interest in well on the Smith Farm, and we woul d recommend
that you withdraw that note, and, as soon as convenient, meet
us in Philadelphia, when a satisfactory adjustment of the whole
can be arrived at. If you push that note, we shall assuredly
demand that interest which we have you bound for, and proceed accordingly."
Gr'uninger replies, two days afterwards, by a single letter
addressed to the firm:
"Yours of July 5th was received with one also of same date.
You write me that the note given by you to me was presented
to you by a collector for payment, and you think it a very
strange proceeding. I myself can't see anything strange in it.
You know that tho note ought to have been paid this long time.
I am in need of money, and must have it.
"1 am sorry to see you mention in your letter about a contract I assigned to you, and you would 'recommend me to withdraw that note as soon as convenient,' &c.; and that if I push
that note you shall demand the interest, which, you say, you
have me bound for, and proceed accordingly. If you think this
kind of talk goes with me, you better try it. I am sorry that
you have wrote so. And the note I have given, to collect must
I am sorry to answer you in this
and shall be collected, if-.
way, but you commenced it."
No arrangement being made, Gruninger sued all three
persons as partners on the note. Philpot and Picket pleaded
jointly and Sherman separately and alone. The defence
was, in substance, that the note was given by them to Gruninger in consideration of the agreement of Gruninger that
he would become a member of the proposed oil company,

Dec. 1871.]

PHILPOT v. GRIJNINGER.

573

Statement of the case.

and put certain property in it, and also in consideration of
the transfer to them of the well on the Blood Farm; and
that he had failed and refused to perform his agreement,
and that the well had no value.
Gruninger, on the other hand, asserted that it was given
in consideration alone of the transactions of October 19th,
1864, and of an existing debt.
The controversy thus involved was, of course, what the
consideration of the note really was.
On the trial the defendants offered in evidence articles of
partnership dated 8th November, 1864, and between them,
in order to show that the partnership between the three was
not in existence when the articles of agreement of October
19th, 1864, were made; but they did not offer or propose to
offer any other evidence of the same fact.
The court rejected the articles.
The plaintiff and defendants each gave evidence tending
to show on the one side that the well on the Blood Farm
was worth what it cost, on the other that it was worthless.
In charging, after adverting to the various letters already
quoted, including that of July 5th, by Picket, ih the firm's
name, in which no objection is taken to the validity of the
note, and the cause of its non-payment is stated to be that
the firm was then unable to pay it in money, and after adverting to some other evidence the court said:
"If, in point of fact, the note was given in consideration of
past transactions, of obligations already accrued or accruing,
then, of course, the defence fails.
"If, on the other band, the note was given in consideration
of the agreement, on the day, 6th of May, made by Gruninger,
to enter into the company; and also, in consideration of the
transfer of the said well, and he did not enter into the company,
but failed to comply with his agreement, and there was no
value in the well, as stated in the plea, then the defence is made
out."
The court, however, said further:
"But it is proper for you to consider whether or not this
might have been the state of' the case : that there were trans-

PHILPOT V.

GRUNINGER.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.
actions between the parties; that there was a claim on one side,
and which may have arisen, or did arise, in consequence of these
transactions. Now, was there a present, existing indebtedness
from Philpot and Picket, or from Philpot, Sherman & Co., to
Gruninger, and was the execution of this agreement by Gruninger, on the 6th of May, simply a motive fcr the giving of the note
and not the consideration of the note? It may be that that was
held out as an inducement to the defendants to give the note, as
a motive for putting the debt in the shape of a note rather than
let it remain in its then present form. If that were so, then the
detnce would fail, because that proceeds upon the ground, as I
understand, that the actual consideration of the giving of the
note, not the motive for putting the claim in that form, was the
signing of this agreement of the 6th of May, and the transfer
of the well on the Blood Farm.
"It may well happen that A. may owe a valid debt to B., and
B. may say to A., ' If you will put the debt in the shape of a note
I will do some aet for you;' and then, when it is done, the
promise to put the debt in that shape is not the consideration
of the note, but the debt which is due from one to the other."
The jury found for the plaintiff, and judgment was given
accordingly. On exceptions to the portion of the charge
last above quoted, and to the rejection of the partnership
articles, and on some other matters not necessary in any
part to be reported, the case was now here.
Messrs. S. B. Gookins and J. H. Roberts, for the plainlffs in
error:
I. The jury were misled in view of the evidence in this
caseFirst. By the distinction made by the court between the
violive or inducement for giving the note, and the consideration
of the note; and,
Secondly. (If the distinction were a sound one) in applying it to the contingency of a present existing debt from
Philpot and Picket or Philpot, Sherman & Co., whereas it
should have been confined to a present existing indebtedness
from Philpot, Sherman & Co.

Dec. 1871.]

PHILPOT v. GRUNINGER.

575

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

As to the latter propositionAssuming that the jury might have fairly found that there
was a debt'of $3500 from Philpot and Picket only for the
well purchased on the 19th of October, 1864, yet, as to
Sherman, who did not owe the debt, what possible motive
could he have for becoming liable to Gruninger for this
debt? " The execution of this agreement by Gruninger,"
says the court. Then, if without that agreement he would
not have been induced to put the debt in that shape, it follows that such agrement was, as to him, the consideration
of the note.
As to Sherman, therefore, especially, this distinction between the motive or inducement and the consideration, if
well founded in any case, was inapplicable to the facts in
evidence, and was, therefore, well calculated to, and in fact
did, mislead the jury.
Then, as to our first proposition, that the distinction made
by the court, in view of the evidence in this case, between
the consideration of the note and the motive or inducement operating to cause defendants to give it, misled the jury.
There was obviously controversy between Gruninger and
defendants just previous to and at the time this note was
given, as to the sale of the well on the Blood Farm. Concede that the evidence is insufficient to show that it was
worthless, and that on the whole the defendants were lawfully indebted to Gruninger $3500 for it, but in good faith
thought otherwise and refused payment or would only consent to pay or execute the note in question, provided Gruninger would agree to go into and put his property into the
proposed new company.
Now, says the court to the jury:
"It may well happen that A. may owe a valid debt to B., and
B. may say to A., ' If you will put the debt in the shape of a
note I will do some act for you;' and then, when it is so done, the
promise to put the debt in that shape is not the consideration of
that note, but the debt which is due from one to the other."
This was put by way of illustration, to show the distine-

PHILPOT V. GRUNINGER.

[SLIP. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

tion between the consideration and the motive or inducement. If this distinction is knoN%n to the books, it can only
apply to such a case as this put by the court, where A. owes
a valid debt to B. and does not dispute it, but it could never
apply to a case where, although A. owed a valid debt to B.,
he believed otherwise and denied it, and B. in order to induce A. to give him an acknowledgment of it in the shape
of a promissory note, promises on his part to do some other
thing. In such case, while the valid debt may be in part
the consideration of the note, it is not the whole consideration, and to allow B. to repudiate his promise and sue and
recover on that note would be to encourage fraud.
II. We submit also that the court erred in excluding from
the consideration of the jury the articles of copartnership
between Philpot, Sherman, and Picket.
Mr. 0. K. Hachings, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
That a part of the consideration of the note, was the debt
due for the oil well which Gruninger had sold six months
before to Philpot and Picket; or that the note was intended
as an adjustment of that debt, is but faintly denied ; but the
plaintiffs in error insist that a part at least of the consideration was the agreement of the promisee to contribute to the
formation of the proposed company, an agreement which
they allege he has failed to perform; and they complain that
the jury were misled by an instruction that they might consider whether the signing or the agreement, or the undertaking of Gruninger to put into the company the interests
mentioned, was anything more than an inducemeut to the
making of the note by the defendants, furnishing a motive
for giving it, but constituting f'o part of the consideration.
It is, however, not easy to see how the jury could have
been misled, to the injury of the plaintiffs in error, by calling attention to a possible distinction between the motive
which may have induced giving the note and its consideration, even if no such distinction can be made. For if it be

Dec. '1871..]

PHILPOT V. G RUNINGER.
Opinion of the court.

assumed, as was claimed, that the prorisec's undertaking
to unite in the formation of a joint stock company was a
part of the consideration, it could not aid the promisors. It
would not he a step toward showing that the consideration
had failed. Gruninger's neglect or refusal to perform his
agreement is not to be confounded with the agreement
itself. The latter was the consideration, not its performance.
He might be answerable in damages for non-performance,
but h'is undertaking to perform would have been the price
of the defendants' I omise. That undertaking they still
have, and with it the full consideration. Nothing is more
common than a promise in consideration of a promise, and
the defendapts' pleas in this case aver that G runinger's undertaking was the pride of their stipulation. Were it then
conceded, as the defendants claimed, the jury would not
have been warranted in finding that the consideration of the
note had failed.
It is, however, not to be doubted that there is a clear dis.
tinction sometimes between the motive that may induce to
entering into a contract aid the consideration of the contract. Nothing is consideration that is not regarded as such
by both parties. It is the price voluntarily paid for a promisor's undertaking. An expectation of results often leads to
the formation of a cont'act, but neither the expectation nor
the result is " the cause or meritorious occasion requiring a
mu'tual recompense in fact or in law."* Surely a creditor
may do a favor to his debtor, or may enter into a new and
independent contract with him, induced by which the debtor
may assent to giving a note for the previously-existing indebtedness. Without the favor or the new contract there is
in such a case a full consideration for the note, and the parties may not have contemplated that the favor or the new
contract was to be paid for. To regard them as entering
into the consideration of the note would be to make a contract for the parties to which their minds never assented.
It is argued that if Sherman did not owe the debt due
Dyer, 806 b.
VOL. XIV.

87

PHILPOT V. GRUNINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from Philpot and Picket to Gruninger (as the jury might
have found), there was no motive or inducement, much less
even consideration, for his becoming a joint promisor in the
,note, unless it was Grunii)ger's agreement, and hence it is
inferred that the jury were misled in being allowed to consider that agreement as merely a motive or inducement to
his assumption. But lie was then a partner of Philpot and
Picket, and a joint owner with them of the property for
which the debt had been contracted. A consideration moving to his copromisors was enough to support his promise.
The note was given for a smaller sum than the price for
which the property had been sold to them. It was accepted
as a settlement of the promisee's claim, and a conveyance
of tho property was made to all the defendants, including
Sherman. There was, then, adequate consideration for his
promise apart from Gruninger's agreement to put other
property into the proposed company. For these reasons,
we think, there was no error in the instructions given by
the court to the jury.
The second assignment is that the court erred in excluding articles of copartnership between the defendants, dated
November 8th, 1864. They were offered to show that the
partnership did not commence until after the sale of the oil
well was made to Philpot and Picket, which was on the
19th of October, 1864, and therefore that Sherman was not
a debtor to Gruniiiger at that time or when the note was
afterwards given. The proposed evidence seems to have
been intended to show that the debt due for the well was
not the consideration of Sherman's promise, and to raise the
inference that Gruninger's agreement to join in forming
the stock company was. We havealready considered that,
and from what we have said it appears that the rejection of
the evidence did not injure the defendants. That there was
error in the rejection has not been' seriously contended.
JUDGMENT IS AFFIRMED.

