402

O'DowD v. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

establishing their validity and to determine the amount owed
by the association, but the judgment when recovered will
not give the. creditor any lien on the property of the delinquent association, nor secure to the judgment creditor any
preference over other creditors whose claims are proven before the receiver. All alike must await the action of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and be conten't with a just and
legal distribution of the proceeds of the assets collected by
the receiver and liquidated by the comptroller according to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
Nothing further need be remarked in respect to the other
errors assigned, as it is clear that the conclusions announced
dispose of all the questions in the case which are examinable
under a writ of error to a State court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

O'DoWD V. RUSSELL.

1. A notice by one of three defendants to his co-defendants of his intention
to prosecute a writ of error, and a refusal by them to co-operate, is
equivalent to the old proceeding of summons and severance, and the
one defendant can take his writ accordingly.

2. A judgment in a court of last resort, that a judgment against A. (who
had been sued for not faithfully discharging the duties of a vendue-master of a city and been held discharged under the Bankrupt Act) be reversed, is a final judgment within the meaning of the Judiciary Act;
as is also a judgment in a court of last resort that a judgment in an
inferior court, holding B. and C. (the sureties of A. on his bond as
vendue-master) liable, be affirmed.
8. When the record does not show that acopy of the writ was lodged
within ten days in the clerk's office, nor that the bond was approved
and filed within the same term, the writ cannot be made to operate as
a supersedcas.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia.
Walker, Jones, and O'Dowd were sued in the Superior
by
Court of Richmond County, Georgia, upon a bond given

Dec. 1871.]

O'DOWD V. RUSSELL.
Argument for the dismissal.

Walker, as principal, and Jones and O'Dowd, as 'sureties,
for the faithful discharge by Walker of his duties as venduemaster in the city of Augusta.
The breach alleged was that Walker, h'aving received, as
vendue-master, certain goods for sale, and having sold them
and received the proceeds in his capacity as vendue-master,
failed to account. The defendants pleaded Walker's discharge under the bankrupt act, and the plea was sustained;
but the sureties were held liable under the 33d section of
that act, notwithstanding the dischaige of their principal.
Two writs of error were prosecuted upon this judgment to
the Supreme Court of Georgia. One by Jones and O'Dowd
to reverse the judgment against them, upon the ground
that the discharge of Walker was a bar to the suit against
them as sureties; and one by the plaintiff in the action,
upon the ground that Walker could not avail himself of his
discharge, the debt having been created by his defalcation
as a public officer, and while acting in a fiduciary capacity.
The judgment of the Superior Court in favor of Walker
was, on the 31st of October, 1871, reversed by the Supreme
Court, and the judgment against the sureties on the same
day affirmed. To reverse the judgment of the Supreme
Court, O'Dowd prosecuted a writ of error. Hie had given
written notice to both Walker and Jones of his intention to
carry the case to this court, and requested their co-operation
but each declined to carry on the controversy longer.
The writ (dated by mistake, October 16th, 1871), issued
November 10th, 1871, returnable to the first Monday of December followin, and was served by filing in the clerk's
office, and the case on that day removed by service of the
writ. The bond was dated on that same day, bnt when it
was allowed, or when it was filed, did irot appear; nor did
it appear that aiiy copy was lodged in the office of the clerk
of the Supreme Court for the defendant in error.
Mr. -H. M. Hilliard,for the defendant in error, now moved
to dismiss the case on these, among other grounds1st. Because it had been prosecuted by O'Dowd alone, and
vithqut summons and severance of Walker and Jones.

O'DOWD V.

RUSSELL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2d. Because the judgment was not "final" within the
meaning of the Judiciary Act, which gives a writ of error
only on judgments which are "final."
3d. Because the writ, the bond, the citation, and the copy
of the writ of error for the defendants, were not seasonably
served or filed.
As to this last ground assigned for dismissing the writ,
the reader will, of course, remember that the 23d section of
the Judiciary Act enacts that"A writ of error shall be a supersedeas and a stay of execution in cases only where the writ of' error is served by a copy
thereof being lodged for the adverse party in the clerk's office
where the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive,
after rendering the judgment and passing the decree complained of."
Mr. J. P. Carr, conrra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Several grounds are assigned for dismissing this writ. It
will be necessary to notice but three of them.
The first of these is, that the writ of error is prosecuted
by O'Dowd without summons and severance of his codefendants. Formerly this was held to be necessary when
one of several defendants desired to prosecute his writ of
error alone. But, in the case of Maslerson v. Herndon,* we
held that such a writ of error would be sustained, if it appeared from the record that the defendants, not joined, had
been notified in writing, and had refused to join. In this
case it appears, by the record, that written notice was given
to the co-defendants of O'Dowd, and that they declined to
join. This was equivalent to summons and severance.
It is also insisted that the motion to dismiss must be
allowed, because the judgment was not final. The judgment against Walker was reversed, because he was held not
entitled to the exemption which he claimed under the Bank10 Wallace, 418.

Dec. 1871.]

O'DOWD V. RUSSELL.

405

Opinion of the court.

rupt Act, and the judgment against the sureties was affirmed,
because they were held noi entitled to the benefit of his discharge. We think that both judgments were final, and that
both are brought under review by the writ of error.
Another reason assigned for dismissal is, that the writ of
error, the bond, the citation, and the copy of the writ of
error for the defendants, were not seasonably served or filed.
It appears, from the record, that the judgment of the Supreime Court was rendered on the 31st of October, 1871,
and on the 10th of November, 1871, a writ of error was
issued returnable on the first Monday in December, and was
served by filing in the clerk's office. The writ is dated on
the i6th of October, 1871. This was before the judgment
was affirmed, and is obviously a mistake. It does not, however, vitiate the writ. The case was removed by service on
the 10th of November.
The citation was served on the 3d of February, 1872.
This was sufficient to advise the opposite party that the
cause bad been removed' to this court, and was served and
returned within the term.
It does not, however, appear, from the record, that any
copy of the writ was lodged' for the defendants in error in
the clerk's office of the Supreme Court. It was necessary
that such a copy should be filed within ten days to make
the writ of error a supersedeas.*. Nor does it appear when
the bond was allowed and filed. It bears date of the 10th
of November. The allowance is not dated; nor is its filing
noted.
We are of opinion, therefore, that a writ of error cannot
operate as supersedeas; but the motion to dismiss must be
D)ENIED.

* Railroad Company v. Harris, 7 Wallace, 574.

