DENT v. E.MEGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

in Knox v. Lee and Parker v. Davis,* this was erroneous, and
for this cause alone the decree must be reversed.
DEcREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions
to proceed to an amended decree
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOREGOING OPINION.

DENT

v.

EMMEGER.

1. Inchoate rights in the Territory of Louisiana, such as those made A.D.
1789, by a concession of the then Lieutenant Governor of Upper Louisiana to Gabriel Cerre, were of imperfect obligation on the United States
when succeeding to the ownership of that Territory by the cession made
of it by France to us in A.D. 1803; nor until the Congress of the United
States gave them a vitality and effect which they did not before possess,
were they of such a nature that a court of law or equity coulid recognize
or enforce them. When confirmed by Congress they took their effect
wholly from the act of confirmation, and not from any French or
Spanish element which entered into their previous existence ; so that
the elder confirmee has always a better title than the younger, without
reference to the date of the origin of their respective claims or the circumstances attending it.
2. Held, accordingly, on an application of these principles, that the title of
the village of Carondelet, in Missouri, to lots 90 and 91 of the commons
tract of the town, as subdivided by the survey made by Jasper. Myer
A.D. 1837, which lots the village claimed under a confirmation by act
of Congress of 13th June, 1812, vesting the title of the United States in
the inhabitants of Carondelet for ill the lands lying within the outboundary line of said commons not previously granted by act of Congress-this followed by a survey in 1816 and a re-survey on the old
lines in 1817, with a relinquishment of right by Congress in 1831-was
a better title than that derived by Gabriel Cerre from a concession to him
A.D. 1789, by the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Louisiana, a confirmation by act of Congress 1836, in which the right of all adverse claimants
was saved, a survey of 1838, another act of Congress in 1869, confirming the claim of Cerre, "subject to any valid adverse rights, if any
such there be," and a patent in 1869.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.

Messrs. Glover and Shepley, for the plain iff in error; Mr. B.
A. Hill, contra.
* Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wallace, 467.

Dec. 1871.]

DENT V. EMMEGER.
Statenmnt of the case in the opinion.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion or the court.
The plaintiff in error brought an action of ejectment to
recover the premises described in his declaration. They
consist of thirty acres of land, and are lots 90 and 91 of the
commons tract of the town 6r village of Carondelet, as subdivided by the survey made by Jasper Myer, in 1837. The
parties waived the itutervention of a jury and submitted the
case to the court. The court found the ficts specially and
adjudged that the plaintiff could not recover and that the
Caroudelet title, which was beid to be the better one, was
in the defendants. In the progress of the cause, the plain,
tiff offered certain evidence which was excluded by the couirt,
and 'he thereupon excepted.
'Two questions are presented for our consideration:
Whether the facts found are sufficient to support the judgment given; and,
Whether the court erred in excluding the evidence to
which the bill of exception I-elates.
I The examination of these questions renders
it necessary
to consider the title'of the r'espective parties as disclosed in
the record, as well as the testimony excluded.
The premises in controversy are within the Territory of
Louisiana which belonged originally to France, was transferred by that country to Spain,.and by Spain subsequently
'jack to France, and by France to the United States by the
treaty of the 30th of April, 1803. Carondelet was a village
of that part of the Territory which subsequently bbcame the
State of Missouri, and contained fbur descriptions, of real
property. They were known as in-lots, out-lots; commonfield lots, and commons. It is with the last only that we
have to do in this case. At the period of the transfer to the
United States,.the claim of' the village to the premises in
controversy was supported by no clear and definite evidence,
and the out-boundaries of the tract had not been run. On
the 25th of December, 1797, Soularol, then the surveyorgeneral of the Territory of Louisiana, certified that at the
request of the inhabitants of the village of Carondelet, Ber-

[Sup. Ct,

DENT V. EMMEGER.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

thelemy had been appointed to survey the tract granted to
them as commons by Lieutenant Governor Trudeau, and
that he had failed to perform the work by reason of his
compass being found out of order, and that want of time
had prevented the surveyor-geneial subsequently from having the survey made.
This condition of things subsisted when the Territory
came into the possession of the United States under the
treaty with France of 1803, and it continued until Congress
acted upon the subject. By the act of June 13th, 1812,* it
was declared "that the rights, titles, and claims to town or
village lots, out-lots, common-field lots, and commons, in,
adjoining, and belonging to the several towns and villages,"
of which Carondelet is one, "which have been inhabited,
cultivated, or possessed prior to the 20th of December, 1803,
are hereby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective
towns or villages aforesaid according to their several rights
in conimon thereto." It was provided that nothing in the
act should affect the rights of persons whose titles had been
confirmed by the board of commissioners appointed to adjust and settle such claims. It was made the duty of the
principal deputy surveyor of the Territory to survey, where
it had not been done, the out-boundary. lines of the villages
named, so as to include the out-lots, common-field lots, and
commons belonging to them respectively. Plats of the surveys were to be forwarded to the surveyor-general, who was
required to forward copies to the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Recorder of Land Titles.
The act of April 29th, 1816,t provided for the appointment of a surveyor of the public lands in the Territories of
Illinois and Missouri, and after requiring him to appoint a
sufficient number of skilful surveyors as his deputies, made
it his duty, among other things, to cause to be surveyed the
lands in those Territories, claims to which had been or might
thereafter be confirmed by Congress, which had not already
been surveyed according to law.
* 2 Stat. at Large, 748,

1.

t

Id. 325.

Doc. 1871.]

DENT

V. EMMEGER.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Under the act of 1812, a survey of the out-boundary linEs
of Carondelet was made by Rector, a deputy surveyor, under
instructions from the office of his principal, and the survey
and field-notes were deposited in that office iii the year 1817.
The act of January 27th, 1831,* declared that the United
States did thereby relinquish to the inhabitants of the vi!lages named in the act of 1812 all the title of the United
States to the lots and commons "in, adjoining, and belonging to said towns and villages, to be held according to their
respective rights, to be regulated and disposed of according
to the laws of Missouri."
Pursuant to orders from the surveyor-general, his deputy,
Brown, retraced the lines of the commons of Carondelet, as
run by Rector, and re-established the corners. This resurvey was returned to the surveyor-general, and was approved
by him on the 29th of July, 1834.
This statement exhibits the several links in the defendants'
chain of title, so far as regards the action of the government.
That of the plaintiff in error had its inception also at a
period preceding the treaty of cession of 1803. In 1789 the
then Lieutenant Governor of Upper Louisiana, oh the petition of Gabriel Cerre, conceded to him a tract of land of
ten by forty arpents. In 1812 Cerre presented the claim for
confirmation under the acts of Congress of 1805 and 1807,
and it was rejected by the commissioners. It was presented
by Cerre's legal representatives before the commissioners
appointed under the act of Congress of July 9th, 1832, and
was by them recommended for confirmation, and was confirmed accordingly by an act of Congress of the 4th of July,
1836.t' The right of all adverse claimants, to assert their
claims in a court of justice was saved, and it was provided
that if any of the land confirmed had been located by any
other person under any law of' the United States, or had
been surveyed and sold by the United States, the confirmation should not avail against the title thus acquired; but that
* 4 Stat. at Large, 435.

tI) Id. 127.

DENT V. EMMEGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the, court.

the confirmee might, to the extent of the interference, locate
his claim elsewhere in the State of Missouri or the Territory of Arkansas, as the claim miglt have originated on one
or the other, upon any lands of the United States, subject to
entry at private sale. Under this act the claim of Cerre was
surveyed for the first time, and the survey was made within
the limits of the commons of Carondclet as previously run
by Rector in 1817, and by Brown in 1834. Befbre this survey the Cerre claim was totally undefined and uncertain as
regards its out-boundaries.
The act of March 3(1, 1869, declared that the claim of the
legal representatives of Cerre was thereby confirmed " in
place, subject to any valid adverse rights, if such there be,"
and that a patent should be issued accordingly. A patent
bearing date the 3d of July, 1869, was accordingly issued.
It was admitted in the court below that the plaintiff in error
held whatever title was conveyqd by this patent. The premises in controversy are within the lifnits of the Caroudelet
commons as surveyed by Rector and Brown, and embrace
the premises in controversy, in this suit.
The labors of our predecessors have left us little to do,
and a few remarks will be sufficient to dispose of the case.
Titles which were perfect before the cession of the Territory to the Utjited States, continued so afterwards, and were
The
in nowise afibected by the change of sovereignty.*
treaty so provided, and such would have been the effect of
the principles or the law of nations if the treaty had contained no provision upon the subject. According to that
code, a change of government is never permitted to affect
pre-existing rights of private pr operty. Perfect titles are
as valid under the new government as they were under its
predeeessor.t But inchoate rights such as those of Cerre
were of imperfect obligation and affected only the conscience of the new sovereign. They were not of such a
nature (until that sovereign gave them a vitality and efficacy
United States v. Roselius et al., 15 Howard, 36.
t Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 412.

Dec. 1871.]

DSNT V. EMMEGER.
Opinion of the court.

which they did not before possess) that a court of law or
equity could recognize or enforce them. When confirmed
by Congress they became American titles, and took their
legal validity wholly from the act of confirmation and not
from any French or Spanish element which entered into
their previous existence. The doctrine of senior and junior
equities and of relation back has no ai.°plication in the jurisprudence of such cases. The elder confirmee has always a
better right than the junior, without reference to the date
of the origin of their respective claims or the circumstances
attending it. Such is the settled course of adjudication both
by this court and the Supreme Court of Missouri.*
After the passage of the act of 1812 the claim of the city
was still indefinite and unenforceable until made definite
and located by the survey prescribed and provided for. A
survey made tnider the direction of the officer designated to
have it made and approved by him was final and conclusive
unless an appeal were taken to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office.t The survey made by Rector in 1817,
retraced by Brown, and approved by the surveyor-general in
1834, is bindiirg upon the village and estops her from claiming any land beyond the lines thus established.1 And those
lines must necessarily be of equal validity as regards those
claiming against her. The confirmation by the act of' 1812
was exclusive except as to adverse claims which had then
been confirmed. The Cerre claim was not within this category. It was confirmed subsequently, and after the lines
of the commons had been defined and established by the
surveys of 1817 and 1834. The action of Congress in confirming it was in every instance made subject to all prior
valid conflicting rights. The title of the village asserted in
this litigation was of that character.
Menard's Heirs v. Massey, 8 Howard, 807; Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Id.
845; Les Bois v.

Bramell, 4 Id.

449; Mackay v. Dillon, 1b. 480; Bird v,

Montgomery, 6 Missouri, 514; Widow and Heirs of Mackay v. Dillon, 7
Id. 7; Vasquez ot al. v. Ewing, 42 Id. 248.
t

Menard's Heirs v. Massey, 8 Howard, 813.

$ Carondelet v. St. Louis, I Black, 1.79.

814

FRENCH V. JSHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Upon principle, authority, and the express legislation of
Congress, we are constrained to hold that the adverse claim
of the plaintiff in error cannot prevail against the title of
the village.
The evidence excluded by the court is set out in full in
the bill of exceptions, and consists of copies of documents
relating to the surveys of Rector and Brown. The first of
these documents bears date on the 24th of September, 1839,
and the last on the 8th of October, 1855. They are communications from solicitors of the Land Office, setting forth
objections to the surveys, from Commissioners or the General Land Office, the Surveyor-General of Illinois and Missouri, the Secretary of War, and the Secretary of the Interior
upon the same subject; and finally a plat of the survey as
retraced by Brown-with a certificate appended by the Surveyor-General-which states that the survey so traced was
sanctioned by the Secretary of the Interior on the 23d of
February, 1855, with a large reservation in favor of the
United States at Jeffergon Barracks, and subject to all other
adverse claims.
As the right of the village, according to the judgment of
this court in Carondelet v. St. Louis,* had been fixed by the
resurvey of Brown, in 1834, which was conclusive, as regards all adverse individual claims, the testimony was clearly
irrelevant and incompetent and was properly r' jected. The
acts of 1812 and 1836 were inapplicable to the United States
and did not affct their rights.
JUDGMENT AFr'IRMED.

FRENCH

V.

SHOEMAKER.

1. A., B., C., and D., having a dispute about their rights in a railroad company, entered into a contract of settlement, by which they divided the
stock in certain proportions among them. A. refused to carry out the
contract. B. filed a bill to compel him to stand to his agreement. A.,

I Black, 179.

