Dec. 1871.]

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

511

Statement of the case.

GORHAM

COMPANY V.

WHITE.

I. The acts of Congress which authorize the grant of a patent for designs
contemplate not so much utility as appearance; and the thing invented
or produced for which a patent is given is that which gives a peculiar
or distinctive appearance to the manufacture or article to which it is
applied.
2. It is the appearance to the eye that constitutes mainly, if not entirely,
the contribution to the public which the law deems worthy of recompense, and identity of appearance, or sameness of effect upon the eye, is
the main test of substa tial identity of design.
8. It is not essential to identity of design that the appearance should be the
same to the eye of an expert. If, in the eye of an ordinary observer,
giving such attention as a purchaser usually gives, two designs are substantially the sanie,-if the resemblance is such as to deceive such an
observer, and sufficient to induce him to purchase one, supposing it to
be the other,-tho one first patented is infringed by the other.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of

New York; the case being thus:
The Patent Act of August 29th, 1842,* enacts:
"That any citizen or citizens, &c., who by his, her, or their
own industry, genius, efforts, and expense may have invented
or produced any new and originaldesign for a manufacture, whether
of metal or other material or materials, or any new and original
design for the printing of woollen, silk, cotton, or other fabrics,
or any new and original design for a bust, statue, or bas relief, or
composition in altozor basso relievo, or any new and original impression or ornament, or to he placed on any article of manufacture, the same being formed in marble or other material, or
any new and useful pattern, or print, or picture to be either
worked into or worked on. or printed, or painted, or cast, or
otherwise fixed on any article of manufacture, or any new and
original shape or. configuration of any article of manufaCture not
known or used by others before his, her, or their invention or
production thereof, and prior to the time of his, her, or their
application for a patent therefor, and who shall desire to obtain
an exclusive property or right therein to make, use, and sell,
and vend the same or copies of the same to others, by them to
* 5 Stat at Large, 548.

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

be made, used, and sold, may make application in writing to the
Commissioner of Patents expressing such desire, and the commissioner on due proceedings had may grant a patent therefor.
The duration of said patent shall be seven years."
A subsequent act,*, that of March 2d, 1861, re-enacts in
substance the same things apparently, and makes some
changes in the term of duration of the patent.
With these statutes in force, Gorham & Co., in July, 1861,
obtained a patent for a new design for the handles of tablespoons and forks, which under the name of the " cottage
pattern " became extremely popular; the most successful
plain pattern, indeed, that had been in the market for many
years.t The pattern is represented, further on, in the lefthand design on page 521. Gorham & Co. subsequently transferred their patent to the Gorham Manufacturing Company.
In the year 1867 one White obtained a patent for a design
which he alleged to be original with him for the same things;
the handles, namely, of forks and spoons; and in 1868 a
patent fbr still another design. Both of his designs are
shown on the page already mentioned, alongside of the cottage pattern and to its right hand on the page.
Manufacturing and selling quantities of spoons and forks
of these last two patterns, White interfered largely with the
interests of the Gorham Manufacturing Company, and that
company accordingly filed a bill in the court below to enjoin
his making and selling spoons and forks under either of his
patents. The validity of the patent held by the Gorham
Company, was not denied, nor was it controverted that the
defendant had sold spoons and forks which had upon them
designs bearing some resemblance to the design described
in the patent held by the company. But it was contended
12 Stat. at Large, 248.
t It was testified that the money value of the patent was " immense ;" at
least $50,000; a very small percentage, as it appeared, of new patterns introduced into the market succeeding; 1 in 40 said one silversmith; not 1 in
20 said another; 1 in 10 to I in 60 said a third; 1 in 18 or 20 said a fourth,
and it costing from $3000 to $4000 even to those in the trade, to make the
necessary dies to introduce any new pattern.

Dec. 1871.]

GORtHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.
Statement of the case.

that none of the designs on these articles thus sold were
substantially the same as the design covered by the patent
held by the company, and that they were independent of
anything secured by that patent. The sole question, therefore, was one of fitct. Had there been an infringement?
Were the designs used by the defendant substantially the
same as that owned by the complainants ?
Much testimony upon the question of infringement was
taken; the complainant producing witnesses sworn to b-'
Mr. Tiffany, of the well-known firm of jewellers and silver
smiths in New York, as representative men " in the trad,.
under consideration, unexceptionable in every respect."
Mr. Cook, of the firm of Tifftany & Cot, said
"I should say that the patterns are substantially like one
another. I think that an ordinary purchaser would be likely
to take one for the other."
E. W. Sperry, a manufacturer of forks and spoons for
thirty-seven years:
"I shofild say that the pattern of White of 1867 was certainly calculated to deceive any one but an expert. Any person seeing one of the Gorham spoons or forks at one end of the
table, and one of White's at the other end,'could not tell the
difference between them; not one man in fifty."
Martin Smith, of Detroit, a merchant jeweller, dealing for
ten years in silver spoons and forks
"In my judgment, if the White pattern were placed in a
store different from that in which they had before seen the cottage pattern, seven out of ten customers who buy silverware,
would consider it the same pattern."
Theodore Starr, of the Brooklyn firm of Starr & Marcus,
merchant jewellers, eight years in business:
"The essential features I consider the same. The resemblance
is such as would mislead ordinary purchasers."
I-. H. Hayden, of New York, engaged fbr several years
in manufacturing and selling metal goods:
"The two designs are substantially alike.
VOL. XIV.

33

In my opinion

614

GORHAM

COMPANY V.

WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

they would mislead, and would be considered one and the same
pattern by the trade; by the trade, I mean customers as well as
manufacturers."
Alfred Brabrook, agent of Reed & Barton, manufacturers
at Taunton, Massachusetts, of Britannia metal and German
silver plated ware:
"In many cases the resemblance would mislead ordinary purchasers."
J. T. Bailey, head of the house of Bailey & Co., large
dealers in jewelry and silver at Philadelphia:
"I don't think that an ordinary observer would notice any
difference on a casual observation. But, to a person skilled in
this business, of course there are some small differences. I
mean to say, that should an ordinary observer come into my
store and take up the two spoons, he would not notice any difference in them, unless desired to examine them critically."
IT. D. Morse, of the house of Crosby, Morse & Foss, jew
ellers and venders of silver in Boston, and whose department
had been to a good extent designing:
"They are substantially the same thing so far as appearance
goes; substantially alike in regard to general effect, with a slight
difference in outline. An ordinary observer would see no difference between them."
James A. Hayden, the selling agent of Holmes, Booth &
Haydens, manufacturers of spoons in New York:
"The similarity is so strong that it would not be detected
without an examination more careful than is usually made by
purchasers of such goods."
Mr. C. L. Tiffany, head of the house of Tiffany & Co.,
aged 55, and dealing in forks and spoons for more than
twenty-five years:
"I have no hesitation in saying they are substantially alike.
I think the resemblance would mislead ordinary purchasers;
and being asked I certainly might myself be misled by it, if not
beforehand told of the difference and my attention particularly
called to it."

Dec. 1871.]

GoRHAM

COMPANY V. WHITE.

515

Statement of the case.

Edward C. Moore, a member of the firm of Tiffany & Co.,
a designer:
There is a substantial difference between the patterns, but the
design .of all is so nearly alike that ordinary purchasers would
be led to mistake the one for the other. It seems to me that is
whqt the pattern of White is made for."
Newell Mason,. carrying on jewelry business iii Chicago
and Milwaukee for twenty years at least:
"The patterns are substantially different, but ordinary purchasers, seeing them apart, would mistake one for the other.
If the cottage pattern had acquired popularity in the market,
White's would derive advantage from that fact."
John Gleave, a die-sinker:
" Ordinary purchasers would be misled by the similarity between the cottage pattern and White's of 1867, but not on a
second comparison. If an ordinary purchaser had not a sample
of the cottage pattern before him, he would be apt to consider
White's of 1867 to be the same with it."
James Whitehouse, a designer in the employ of Tiffany
& Co.:
"From my knowledge and experience in the business, I do
not regard the designs of White as original, and think that
they were suggested by the design of Gorham & Co."
Morse, another of Tiffany & Co.'s designers:
"From my experience as a designer I should think that the
designer of White's must have intended to imitate the effect in
spirit of the previous design, and yet make a difference. If
spoons and forks made after the cottage pattern had obtained
a reputation and position in the trade, spoons and forks of
White's pattern would find sale by reason of the popularity of
the forks and spoons just mentioned. I should think they would
be sold for the same thing."
Mr. Henry B. Renwiek, aged 52, residing in New York,
whose principal occupation was the examination of machinery, inventions; and patents, and who during the last
sixteen or seventeen years had frequently been examined as

GORIIA-

COMPANY V.

WHITE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

expert in the courts of the United States for various circuits:
"I have examined the spoons and forks made by White, and
I have no doubt that they arc in all respects substantially identical with the Gorham design. Respecting the design secured
by White's patent of 1868, I have some little doubt, owing to
the increased concavity of' outline in the broad part or head of
the handle; but still think the better opinion is that it is within
the description and drawing of the Gorham patent.
"By the expressions 'substantially' like, I mean such an identity as would deceive me when going as a purchaser to ask for
one spoon, if I should be shown another which was slightly
different in minute points either of contour or ornamentation.
I had been shown the cottage patIn the present instance, if'
terns, at one end of a counter, and afterwards had been shown
White's pattern of 1867, at the other end of the same counter,
I should have taken both sets of exhibits to have been of the
same design, and I did, in fact, take them so to be until I laid
them side by side and compared them minutely.
"I do not think that every change either in contour or in
ornamentation makes a substantial difference in the design. For
instance, take one of Rogers's statuettes of soldiers,* and I do
not think the design would be substantially changed so as to
evade his patent by substituting a rifle for a musket, or by
taking the bayonet off the muiket, supposing one existed in the
design, or by changing boots for shoes, or vice versd. Or in the
case of one of his soldiers drinking, by substituting a round tub
for a square trough, or a glass for a tin cup. In a design for a
carpet I should think the design wassubstantially preserved if
the main features of' the figure were unaltered, and the minor
portion were changed by such changes as the substitution of a
ring of flowers for a ring of stars, or quatrefoil for a trefoil ornament, and other such changes. In the present instance, the
contours of the plaintiff's articles and the articles manufactured by the defendant are not only substantially but almost
identically the same. The Gorham articles and the articles
manufactured by White all have a threaded or reeded pattern
These were small casts, very popular at the time, from models by Mr.
John Rogers, of military figures and scenes during the late rebellion.-R ep

Dec. 1871.]

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

517

Statement of the case.

round the edges, all have a slight knob or boss at the point
whore there are small shoulders marking the dividing line between the stem and head of the handle, and all have knobbed
ornaments near the extreme end of' the handle and adjacent to
the pointed projection which, in all of them, forms that end.
There are, no doubt, minor differences; for instance, the Gorham spoon has two threads along the shank where the defendant's have only one, but fhat one is of nearly equal width with
the two and gives the same effect. In the Gorham the knobbed
ornament at the shoulders is connected with the outer thread,
while in White's it is connected with the inner thread; but
these knobbed ornaments in both are inthe same place and have
the same general effect; it requiring a very minute examination
and actual comparison of the spoons side by side, as I am now
making, to perceive and describe the distinction. In the Gorham
spoons the knobbed ornaments on the inner reed are at the head
of the spoon tarried upwards and outwards. In White's they
are turned downwards and inwards, and the reed is flattened
out, but the substantial shape or contour at the end of the spoon,
and the ornamentation thereof, by raised ornaments, partly connected and partly unconnected with the threading, is substantially the same in both. Now, I conceive the Gorham patent to
be for a design, one element of which is the contour or shape
of the handle, and the other the ornamentation thereof. The
bihapes of all the exhibits, as I have before stated, except that
made under White's patent of 1868, are identical, and regarding
it, as I have already stated, I think the better opinion is that it
is within the line of substantial identity. It might deceive me,
I think, in going ftom one store to another, but not if shown
me in the same shop where I had just examined one of the Gorham spoons. With regard to the ornamentation, the substantial characteristics of the design described in the patent are that
there shall be a threaded pattern around the edges of the handle,
with a small knobbed ornamentation at the shoulders, as before
stated; and also at the head of the handle, where it is finished
by, a pointed projection. I have already said that I find these
substantial characteristics in White's spoons, and as I hold the
views with regard to substantial identity and design which I
have endeavored to express, I therefore state, as before, that the
manufactures of White's are' without doubt, in my mind, substantially identical with the Gorham design, and that the better

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

opinion is that the design in White's patent of 1868 is in the
same category, although altered in degree of concavity at the
head of the handle, as I have before stated."
On the part of the defendant an equal number of witnesses
were produced, including Henry Ball, the senior member of
the well-known firm of Ball, Black & Co., New York City, a
silversmith and jeweller, who had been in this business since
1832, and numerous other persons, die-sinkers, engravers,
editors of scientific publications, persons engaged in the inspection of designs, solicitors of patents, &c. All these testified, one after the other, and pretty nearly in the same
words, that the designs were " substantially different;" one
witness that they were " substantially different, both in
shape and design." Mr. Edward S. iBenwick, especially, an
expert, whose reputation for competency is well known,
swore positively that the designs represented by all of the
White's manufactures were substantially different from the
Gorham design, and: stated in detail the items of difference;
as thus:
"In the Gorham design the stem of the handle, between the
shoulders and the bowl, has a second thread upon it, which
is parallel with and inside of the boundary thread. No such
second thread is found in White's."
lie pointed out fifteen differences of thi- mechanical kind
between the Gorham design and White's, patented in 1867,
and sixteen differences between the Gorham design and that
of White patented in 1868.
'The court below considered that there was no infringement. It said:
"1The question to be determined is, whether the designs ot
the White patents are or are not substantially the same as the
design of the plaintiffs' patent.' Each design may properly be
considered as composed of two elements, the outline which the
handle presents to the eye when its broader face is looked at,
and the ornamentation on such face. If the plaintiffs' design be
compared with the White design of 1867, a general resemblance
is found between such outlines in the two designs. In other

Dec.

1871.]

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

519

Statement of the case.

words, if the ornamentation on the handle in the plaintiffs' design
formed no part of such design, and such design were confined to
the form of the outline before mentioned, it would be difficult to
say that the plaintiffs' design and the White design of 1867 were
not substantially identical. But the moment the ornamentations on the faces of the two handles come to be considered,
striking differences appear between the plaintiffs' design and
the White design. In the former, the outer thread is broken
at the end of the handle, at the shoulders, and at the junction
of the handle with the bowl ; while, in the latter, such thread is
continuous around the entire handle, from the junction of the
stem with the bowl or fork back to the same point, it having
there the form of a Gothic arch. In the former, the outer thread
is, at the shoulders, turned inward to form rosettes, which present the appearance of two parts twisted together; while, in
the latter, the outer thread is continuous. In the former, there
is, on the stem of the handle, on each side, extending from the
shoulders to the bowl or fork, an inner.thread parallel with and
inside of the outer thread; while, in the latter, there is no such
inner thread. In the former, the inner threads on the enlarged
end of the handle turn outward from each other towards the
end of the handle; so as to form diverging scrolls; while, in the
latter, such ihner threads, as they approach the end of the handle, turn inwards and form re-entering scrolls. In the former,
the scrolls of the inner threads form, at the end of the handle, a
part of the outline boundary of the handle; while, in the latter,
such scrolls are entirely inside of such outline boundary. In
the former, the end of the handle is fbrmed by a tip inserted between the-two diverging scrolls into which the inner threads
are formed; while, in the latter, the continuous outer thread
forms such extreme end. In the latter, a figure in the form of
a shield is inserted. between the scrolls into which the inner
threads are formed and the outer thread; while, in the former,
no such figure is found, and no place exists where it could be
inserted. In the latter, there is, on each side, a third and short
thread, extending from the said scroll to the widest part of the
handle; while no such thread is found in the former, In the
fbrmer, the inner thread on the enlarged end of the handle
abuts, at the shoulder next the stem, against the scroll or rosette into which the outer thread is there formed, and looks as
if it were a continuation of the outer thread on the stem passed

520

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

under the said scroll; while, in the latter, the inner thread on
the enlarged end of the handle is, at the shoulders, turned into
a scroll or'rosette, and has no appearance of being a continuation of the outer thread in the sterm. In the former, the inner
threads on the stem unite in a swell or boss near the bowl or
fork; while no such swell or boss is found in the latter. It is
also to be noted, that, in the former the outline at the end of
the enlarged end of the handle has the form of a portion of a
trefoil; while, in the latter, it has the form of a Gothic arch;
and that, in the former, the surface of the enlarged end between
the thrcads is swelled between the shoulders, and such swell is
gradually flattened towards the widest part of the handle, so
that the swell at such part is substantially different in appearance from the swell at the shoulders; while, in the latter, the
swell is substantially the same from the shoulders to the broadest part of the enlarged end.
" The differences thus observed between the plaintiffs' design
and the White design of 1867, exist also between the plaintiffs'
design and the White design of 1868. In addition, in the plaintiffs' design, the contour of the enlarged end of the handle
spreads outward progressively from the shoulders until the
widest part of the handle is reached ; while, in the Whi4e design of 1868, the sides of the enlarged end turn inward for a
distance after leaving the shoulder and then spread outwards
to the widest part.
" From the comparisons thus instituted, it appears that the
plaintiffs' design and the White design of 1867, are, in what has
been called outline, very much alike, while they differ from each
other in a marked manner in what has been called ornamentation, while the plaintiffs' design and the White design of 1868
differ from each other in a marked manner, both in outline and
in ornamentation; and that the two White designs differ from
each other in outline in a marked manner, while they scarcely
differ at all from each other in ornamentation.
"There can be no doubt, in the proofs, that the plaintiffs' design is a very meritorious and salable one. The entire strength
of their case, on the question of infringement, is put on the
claimed ground, that the resemblance between their design'and
each of the two designs of White is such as to mislead ordinary
purchasers and casual observers, and to induce them to mistake

Dec. 1871.]

52t

GORIIAM COMPANY V. WHITE.
Diagrams.

GoRHANIA Co.

WHITE, 1867.

WHITE, 1868.

GORI AM

COMPANY V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the one design for the other. It is argued that the merit of a
design appeals solely to the eye, and that if the eye of an ordinary observer cannot distinguish between two designs, they must
in law be substantially alike. In the present case, it is asserted
that the eye of the ordinary observer is and will be deceived
when looking at a handle of the plaintiffs' design and a handle
of either ofthe designs of White, because, in addition to the resemblance in contours, the handles have all of them a threaded
pattern around the edges, and small knobbed ornamentations at
the shoulders, and small knobbed ornamentations near the end,
and a pointed projection at the end, and that the general effect
on the eye of the ordinary observer is not and will not be modified by the differences which have been pointed out.
" It is impossible to assent to the view, that the test in regard
to a patent for a design is the eye of an ordinary observer.
The first question that would arise, if such a test were to be
admitted, would be, as to what is meant by 'an ordinary observer,' and how he is to exercise his observation
One of the
witnesses for the plaintiffs' testifies that the plaintiffs' design
and the White design of' 1867 are sufficiently alike to mislead
ordinary purchasers as to their identity, but not on a second
examination.; and that if an ordinary purchaser did not have
before him a sample pf the plaintiffs' design, he would be apt to
consider the White design of 1867 to be the same pattern as the
plaintiffs' design. Another of the witnessest for the plaintiffs
states that he does not think that an ordinary observer would
notice any difference between the two designs on a casual observation. The expertl examined for the plaintiffs testifies that
in sayingthat the White designs are substantially identical with
the plaintiffs' design, he means such an identity as would deceive him when going as a purchaser to ask fbr one spoon and
being shown another; and that when he saw articles of the
plaintiffs' design and of the White design of 1867, separately, he
took them to be of the same design, until he laid them side by
side and compared theta minutely.
"The same principles which govern in determining the question of infringement in respect to a patent fbr an invention connected with the operation of machinery, must govern in deter.
John Gleave, szpra, p. 515.
fcuy
~
U
B. Ren wick, supra, p. 516.

] J. T. Bailey, supra, p. 514,

Dec. 1871.]

GORHAM OPMPANY V. WHITE.

52D

Statement of the case.

mining the question of infringement in respect to a pdtent for a
design. A design for a configuration of an'article of manufacture is embraced within the statute as a patentable design, as
well as a design for an ornament to be placed on an article of
manufhcture. The object of the former may solely be increased
utility, while the object of the latter may solely be increased
gratification to a cultivated taste addressed through the eye.
It would be as reasonable to say that equal utility should be the
test of infringement in the first case, as to say that equal appreciation by the eye should be the test of infringement in the
latter case. There must be a uniform test, and that test can
only be, as in the case of a patent in respect to machinery, substantial identity, not in view of the observation of a person
whose observation is worthless, because it is casual, heedless,
and unintelligent, and who sees one of the articles in question
at one time and place and the other of' such articles at another
time and place, but in view of the observation of a person
versed in the business of designs in the particular trade in question-of a person engaged in the manufacture or sale of articles
containing such designs-of a person accustomed to compare
such designs one with another, and who sees and examines the
articles Containing them side by side. The question is not
whether one design will lie mistaken for another by a person
who examines the two so carelessly as to be sure to be deceived,
but whether the two designs can be said to be substantially the
same when examined intelligently side by side. There must be
such a comparison of the features which make up the two dosigns. As against an existing patented design, a patent for another design cannot be withheld 'because, to a casual observer,
the general appearance of the latter design is so like that of the
earlier one as to lead him, without proper attention, to mistake
the one for the other. The same test must be applied on the
question of infringement.
" Applying these principles to the evidence in this case, and
comparing the designs of White with the plaintiffs' design, it is
satisfactorily shown, by the clear weight of testimony, that the
designs of White are not substantially the same as the plaintiffs'
design. - The strength of the testimony of the witnesses on the
part of the plaintiffs themselves leads to this conclnsion. The
-ubstanco of the evidence of the most intellig iit of them, persons in the trade, is merely to the effect that the White designs

GORHAM

COMPANY V.

WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

OpInion of the court.

are not substantially the same as the plaintiffs' design, but were
intended to appear to be the same to an ordinary purchaser,
and will so appear to him, but that a person in the trade will
not be deceived, by the resemblance, into purchasing an article
of the one design for an article of the other.
"A patent for a design, like a patent for an improvement in
machinery, must be for the means of producing a certain result
or apl)earance, and not for the result or appearance itself. The
plaintiffs' patent is for their described means of producing a
certain appearance in the completed handle. Even if the same
appearance is produced by another design, if the means used in
such other design to produce the appearance are substantially
different from the means used in the prior-patented design to
produce such. appearance, the later design is not an infringement of the patented one. It is quite clear, on a consideration
of the points of diffprence before enumerated, between the plaintiffs' design and the designs of White, that each of the latter is
substantially different from the former in the means it employs
to produce the appearance it presents. Such is the undoubted
weight of the evidence, and such is the judgment of the court."
The Circiit Court accordingly decreed a dismissal of the

bill, aiud from that decree the Gorham Company brought
the case here, where, after an elaborate and interesting argument by Messrs. C M1. Keller and C. F. Blake, for the
appellants, and Messrs. G. Gftbrd and W. C. Wilier, eonra,Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question is one of fact. Has there been an infringement? Are the designs used by the defendant substantially the same as that owned by the complainants? To
answer these questions correctly, it is indispensable to understand what constitutes identity of design, and what amounts
to infringement ?
The acts of Congress which authorize the grant of patents
for designs were plainly intended to give encouragement to
he decorative arts. They contemplate not so much utility
as appearance, and that, not an abstract impression, or pic-

ture, but an aspect given to those objects mentioned in the

Dec. 1871.]

GcRHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.
Opinion of the court.

acts. It is a new and original design for a manufacture,
whether of metal or other material; a new and original design for a bust, statue, bas relief, or composition in alto or
basso relievo; a new or original impression or ornament to
be placed on any article of manufacture; a new and original
design for the printing of woollen, silk, cotton, or other
fabrics; a new and useful pattern, print, or picture, to be
either worked into, or on, any article of manufacture; or a
new and original shape or configuration of any article of
manufacture--it is one or all of these that the law has in
view. And the thing invented or produced, for which a
patent is given, is that which gives a peculiar or distinctive
appearance to the manufacture, or article to which it may
be applied, or to which it gives form. The law manifestly
contemplates that giving certain new and original appearances to a manufactured article may enhance its salable
value, may enlarge the demand for it, and may be a meritorious service to the public. It therefore proposes to secure
for a limited time to the ingenious producer of those appearances the advantages flowing from them. Manifestly the
mode in which those appearances are produced has very
little, if anything, to do with giving increased salableness to
the article. It is the appearance itself which attracts attention and calls out favor or dislike. It is the appearance
itself, therefore, no matter by what agency caused, that constitutes mainly, if not entirely, the contribution to the public
which the law deems worthy of recompense. The appearance may be the result of peculiarity of configuration, or of
ornament alone, or of both conjointly, but, in whatever way
produced, it is the new thing, or product, which the patent
law regards. To speak of the invention as a combination or
process, or to treat it as such, is to overlook its peculiarities.
As the acts of Congress embrace only designs applied, or to
be applied, they must refer to finished products of invention
rather than to the process of finishing them, or to the agencies
by which they are developed. A patent for a product is a
distinct thing from a patent for the elements entering into it,
or for the ingredients of which it is composed, or for the com.

526

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

bination that causes it. We do not say that in determining
whether two designs are substantially the same, differences
in the lines, the configuration, or the modes by which the
aspects they exhibit are not to be considered ; but we think
the controlling consideration is the resultant effect. Such
was the opinion of Lord Chancellor Ilatherly in McCrea v.
loldsworth.* That was a suit to restrain an infringement
of a design for ornamenting a woven fabric. The defence
was a denial that the design used by the defendants was the
same as that to which the plaintiff was entitled. The ornament on both was, in part, a star, but on one it was turned
in af opposite direction, from that in the other;.yet the effect
of the ornament was the same to the eye. The Lord Chancellor" held the important inquiry was whether there was
any difference in the effect of the designs, not whether there
were differences in the details of ornament. "If," said he,
"the designs are used in exactly the same manner, and have
the same effect, or nearly the same effect, then, of course, the
shifting, or turning round of a star, as in this particular case,
cannot be allowed to protect the defendants frdmn. the consequences of the piracy." This seems most reasonable, for,
as we have said, it is the effect upon the eye which adds
value to articles of trade or commerce. So in Iloldsworth v.
Me Crea,t Lord Westbu ry said, " Now, in the case of those
things in which the merit of the invention lies in the drawing, or in forms that can be copied, the appeal is to the eye,
and the eye alone is the judge of the identity of the two
things. Whether, therefore, there be piracy or not is referred to an unerring judge, namely, the eye, which takes
the one figure and the other figure, and ascertains whether
they are or are not the same." This was said in a ease
where there was nothing but a drawing of the design.
We are now )repared to inqpire what is the true test of
identity of design. Plainly, it must be sameness of appearance, and mere difference of lines in the drawing or
6 Chancery Appeal Cases, Law Reports, 418.
t 2 Appeal Cases, House of Lords, 388.

Dec. 1971.1

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.
Opinion of the court.

sketch, a greater or smaller number of lines, or slight variances in configuration, if sufficient to change the effect
upon the eye, will not destroy the substantial identity. An
engraving which has many lines may present to the eye the
same picture, and to the mind the same idea or conception
as another with much fewr lines. The design, bowever,
would be the same. So a pattern for a carpet, or a print
may be made up of wreaths of flowers arranged in a particular manner.

Another carpet may have similar wreaths,

arranged in a like manner, so that none but very acute observers could detect a difference. Yet in the wreaths upon
one there may be fewer flowers, and the wreaths may be
placed at wider distances from each other. Surely in such
a case the designs are alike. The same conception -,vas in
the mind of the designer, and to that conception le gave
expression.

It,then, identity of appearance, or (as expressed in McCrea
v. Holdsworth) sameness of effect upon the eye, is the rhain,
test of substantial identity of design, the only remaining
question upon this part of the case is, whether it is essential
that the appearance should be the same to the eye of an
expert. The court below was of opinion that the test of a
patent for a design is not the eye of an ordinary observer.
The learned judge thought there could be no infringement
unless there was " substantial identity' "in view of the observation of a person versed in designs in the particular
trade in question-of a person engaged in the mnanufacture
or sale of articles containing such designs-of a person accustomed to compare such designs one with another, and
who sees and examines the articles containing them side by
side." There must, he thought, be a comparison of the
features which make up the two designs. Witi this we
cannot concur. Sich a test would destroy all the protection
which the act of Congress intended to give. There never
could be piracy of a patented design, for human ingenuity
has never yet produced a design, in all its details, exactly
like another, so like, that an expert could not distinguish
them. No counterfeit bank note is so identical in appear-

GORHIAM COMPANY V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ance with the true that an experienced artist cannot discern
a difference. It is said an engraver distinguishes impressions made by the sam.e plate. Experts, therefore, are not
the persons to be deceived. Much less than that which
would be substantial identity in their eyes would be undistinguishable in the eyes of men generally, of observers of
ordinary acuteness, bringing to the examination of the article
upon which the design has been placed that degree of observation which men of ordinary intelligence give. It ispersons of the latter class who are the principal purchasers of
the articles to which designs have given novel appearances,
and if they are misled, and induced to purchase what is not
the article they supposed it to be, if, for example, they are
led to purchase forks or spoons, deceived by an apparent
resemblance into the belief that they bear the " cottage 1,
design; and, therefore, are the production of the holders of
the Gorharn, Thurber, and Dexter patent, when in fact they
are' not, the patentees are injured, and that advantage of a
market which the patent was granted to secure is destroyed.
The purpose of the law must be effected if possible; but,
plainly, it cannot be if, while the general appearance of the
design is preservedIminor differences of detail in the manner in which the appearance is produced, observable by
experts, but not noticed by ordinary observers, by those who
buy and use, are sufficient to relieve an imitating design
fron condemnation as an infringement.
We hold, therefore, that if, in the eye of an ordinary observer, giving such attention as a purchaser usually gives,
two designs are substantially the same, if the resemblance is
such as to deceive such an observer, inducing him to purchase ,one supposing it to be the other, the first one patented
is infringed by the other.
Applying this rule to the thcts of the present case, there
is very little difficulty incoming to a satisfactory conclusion.
The Gorham design, and the two designs sold by the defendant, which were patented to White, one in 1867, and
the other in 1868, are alike the result of peculiarities of outline, or configuration, and of ornamentation. These make

Dec. 1871.]

GORHAM COMPANY V. WHITE.
Opinion of the court.

up whatever is distinctive in,appearance, and of these,'the
outline or configuration is most impressive to the eye.
Comparing the figure or outline of the plaintiffs' design
with that of the White design of 1867, it is apparent there
is no substantial difference. This is in the main conceded.
Even tile minor differences are so minute as to escape observation unless observation is stimulated by a suspicion
that there may be diversity. And there are the same resemblances bQtween the plaintiffs' design and the White design of 1868, and, with a single addition, the minor differ
ences are the same. That additional one consists in this,
At the upper part of the handle, immediately above thsa
point where the broader part widens from the stern with a
rounded shoulder, while the external lines of both designs
are first concave, and then gradually become convex, the
degree of concavity is greater in the White design. How
much effect this variance has must be determined by the
evidence. In all the designs, the ornament is, in part, a
rounded moulding or bead along the edge with scrolls at
the shoulders and near the top. There are, however, some
diversities in this ornament, which are discoverable when
attention is called to them. In the plaintiffs' the head is
interrupted at the shoulders and at the tip by the scrolls,
while in both the designs of White it is continued unbroken
around the scrolls. In the plai ntifEs' tle scrolls torn iniward
at the shoulders and outward at the tip. In the White design they turn inward both at the shoulders and at the upper
end. But there are the same number of scrolls iii all the
designis, and they are similarly located, all having tile appearance of rosettes. In all the external bead is formed by
a depressed line running near the edge of the handIle, hut in
the plaintiffs' there is an inner line, making at second very
thin bead, nearly parallel to the external bead common to
them all. In the White designs this inner liie is vanting
ou the stem of tle handle, though not on the broad part,
but as the single line is wider it presents much the same
appearance as it would present if divided into two. There
are other small differences which it, is needless to specify.
VOL. XIV.

34

530

GORHAM

COMPANY

V.

WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

What we have mentioned are the most prominent. No
doubt to the eye of an expert they are nll real. Still, though
variances in the ornament are discoverable, the question remains, is the effect of the* whole design substantially the
same? Is the adornment in the White design used instrumentally to produce an appearance, a distinct device, or
does it work the same result in the same way, and is it,
therefore, a colorable evasion of the prior patent, amounting
at most to a mere equivalent ? In, regard to 'this we have
little doubt, in view of the evidence. Both the White designs we think are proved to be infringements of the Go'ham patent. A large number of witnesses, familiar with
designs, and most of them engaged in the trade, testify that,
in their opinion, there is no substantial difference in the
three designs, and that ordinary purchasers would be likely
to mistake the White designs for the " cottage" (viz., that
of the plaintiffs). This opinion is repeated in many forms
of expression, as, that they are the same.pattern; that the
essentitl features are the same; that seven out of ten customers who buy silverware would 'consider them the same;
that manufacturers as well as customers would consider
them the same; thaft the trade generally would so consider
them ; that, though there are differences, they would not be
noticed without a critical examination ; that they are one
and the same pattern, &c., &c. This is the testimony of men
who, if there were a substantial diflbrence in the appearance,
or in the effect, would most readily appreciate it. Some
think the White designs were intended to imitate the other,
and they all agree that they are so nearly identical that ordinary purchasers of silverware would mistake one for the
other. On the other hand a large number of witnesses have
testified on behalf of the defendant that the designs are substantially unlike, but when they attempt to define the dissimilarity they specify only the minor differences in the ornamentation, of which we have heretofore spoken. Not one
of them denies that the appearance of the designs is substantially the same, or asserts that the effect upon the eye
of an observer is different, or that ordinary purchasers, or

Dec. 1871.]

MORGAN V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

even person~s in the trade, would not be led by their similarity to mistake one for another, Their idea of what constitltes identity of design seems to be that it is the possibility of being struck from the same die, which, of course,
cannot be if there exists the slightest variation in a single
line. They give little importance to configuration, and none
to general aspect. Such evidence is not an answer to the
complainants' case. It leaves undisputed the facts that whatever differences there may be between the plaintiffs' design
and those of the defendant in details of ornament, they are
still the same in general appearance and effect, so much
4like that in' the market and with purchasers they would
pass for the same thing-so much alike that even persons
in the trade would be in danger of being deceived.
Unless, therefore, the patent is, to receive such a construction that the act of Congress will afford no protection to a
designer against imitations of his invention, we must bold
that the sale by the defendant of spoons anid forks bearing
the designs patented to White in 1867 and 1868 is an infringement of the complainants' rights.
DECREE REVERSED and the cause remitted with instructions to enter a decree in ACCORDANCI WITH THIS OPINION.

'Justices MILLER, FIELD, and BRADLEY dissented.

MORGAN V. UNITED STATES.
Where the owners of a vessel let her to the government in time of war,they officering and manning tier and agreeing to keep her in repair, and
fit for the service in which she was engaged-and they to take the marine risks, but the government the war risks-Held,that a stranding of
the vessel incurred by her attempt to cross a bar, in charge of a government pilot, upon an order of the quartermaster of the government when
the wind was high and the water low-the quartermaster having seen
the vessel strike on a previous attempt to cross, and he giving the present,
-a second, order with a full knowledge of the danger of crossing, and

