Dec. 1871.]

ERSKINE

v.

HIIoHNBACII.

Syllabus.

marine policy anj which might be expected to arise from
the service in which the vessel was engaged. The contract
of the government was not intended to apply to the usual
risks attendant upon the performance of a service such as
was here mentioned, but risks outside and beyond them.
The risk incurred was of a possible collision with a sunken
anchor in the harbor. This was an ordinary'risk which
every vessel must run that enters a harbor, and is one which
every marine policy covers.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

ERSKINE, COLLECTOR, V. HOIHNBACH.
1. An appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from an assessment
is only a condition precedent to an action for the recovery of taxes paid,
and not a condition precedent to any other action where such action is
permissible.
2. A collector of taxes of the United States cannot revise or refuse to enforce
an assessment regularly made by the assessor of his district in the exercise of the latter's jurisdiction. The duties of a collector in the enforcement of a tax assessed are purely ministerial. The assessment, duly
certified to him, is his authority to proceed, and constitutes his pro.
tection.
8. If an officer or tribunal possess jurisdiction over the subject-matter upon
which judgment is passed, with power to issue an order or process for
the enforcement of such judgment, and the order or process issued
thereon to a ministerial officer is regular on its face, showing no departure from the law, or defect of jurisdiction over the person or property
affected, then, and in such cases, the order or process will give full and
entire protection to the ministerial officer in its regular enforcement

against any prosecution which the party aggrieved thereby may institute
against him, although serious errors may have been committed by the
officer or tribunal in reaching the conclusion or judgment upon which
the order or process is issued.
4. The replication of de injurid, interposed to a special plea, justifying the
seizure and conviction of property sued for by one as collector of internal revenue unider an assessment against the plaintiff, duly made by the
assessor of the district and certified to him, puts in issue the material
averments of that plea. It throws upon the defendant the burden of
proving so much of the plea as constitutes a defence to the action.

ERSKINE

v.

I-oHNBACH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
5. When to a declaration two special pleas are interposed, each setting up
substantially the same defence, and by the replication to one issue is
joined on the merits, and by the replication to the other an immaterial
issue is formed, and upon the trial all the issues are found for the plaintiff, it is a matter of discretion in the court whether to arrest the judgment for the verdict on the immaterial issue and award a repleader,
with which this court will not interfere.
6. The effect of the replication de iijuria considered upon the authorities.
However regarded, its sufficiency to put the material averments of the
plea in issue cannot be raised after verdict.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin; the case being thus:
The 19th section of the act of July 13th, 1866,* enacts:
"That no suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery
of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed
or collected, until appeal shall have been duly made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to the provisions of
law in that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury established in pursuance thereof, and a decision of said
commissioner be had thereon."

With this statutory provision in force, Ilohnbach sued
Erskine, a collector of internal revenue, in an aclion of blespass for the seizure by him, the said collector, and conversion to his use of certain personal property of the alleged
value of $10,000, belonging to him, the plaintiff.
The declaration was in the usual form in such cases, and
alleged that the seizure and conversion were made in May,
1869, at Milwaukee, in the State of Wisconsin. To this the
defendant pleaded the general issue, and two special pleas,
in which he justified the acts complained of on the ground
that they were done by him as collector of internal revenue
of the first collection district of Wisconsin, in the enforcement of an assessment chargeable against the plaintiff, duly
made by the assessor of the district, and certified to him,
with an order directing its collection. Both pleas set up the
same defence of justification as collector of internal revenue,
14 Stat. at Large, 152.

Dec. 1871.]

ERSKINE v, HoHNBAcG.

615

Statement of the case.

differing only in the particularity with which the facts of
assessment and distraint and sale of the property were detailed.
To the first special plea the plaintiff replied de injuria sua
proprid absque tali caus6-that the defendant committed the
several trespasses mentioned in the declaration of his own
wrong, and without the cause alleged by him; and upon
this replication issue was joined.
To the second special plea the plaintiff replied that the tax
assessed, which was upon tobacco sold and materials used in
its manufacture, was never chargeable to him, inasmuch as
he did not manufacture and sell, or remove, within the period mentioned in the assessment, the tobacco described, or
any part thereof, and that he had paid all the taxes chargeable against him upon the tobacco manufactured by him,
and sold or removed for consumption or use during that
period. To this replication the defendant rejoined that the
plaintiff had not paid the sum assessed against him, as stated
in the plea, for the tobacco thus manufactured by him and
sold or removed for consumption. The conclusion was to
the country, and the plaintiff joined in the issue.
On the trial which followed the jury found the several
issues in fiavor of the plaintiff, and assessed his damages
accordingly.
The defendant then moved in arrest ofjudgment on several
grounds. -They amounted, however, substantially to this:
that the second special plea set forth a good defence to the
action, inasmuch as it showed that the seizure and conversion complained of were made by the defendant as collector
of internal revenue in the enforcement of a tax regularly and
legally assessed against the plaintiff; and that the replication
did not answer this plea because it did not allege that the
plaintiff had taken an appeal from the assessment to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, without which the action
was not maintainable. The motion was denied, and judgment was entered upon the verdict for the plaintiff To review this judgment the defendant brought the case here on
writ of error.

616

ERSKINE V. HoHN nAc.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Mr. 0. -H. Rill, Assislant Allorney-General, for the plaintiff
in error; Messrs. Smith and Stark, contra,
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not think that the omission, in the replication, to
allege that the. plaintiff had taken an appeal from the assessment to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue affected the
character of the replication, or that the insertion of' the alle..
gation would have aided it. The defect; of the replication
consisted in the fact that it raised an immaterial issue. An
appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from an
assessment is only a condition precedent to an action for the
recovery of taxes paid. It is not a condition precedent to
any other action where such action is permissible.
The collector could not revise nor refuse to enforce the
assessment regularly made by the assessor in the exercise of
the latter's jurisdiction. The duties of the collector in the
enforcement of the tax assessed were purely ministerial.
The assessment, duly certified to him, was his authority to
proceed, and, like an execution to a sheriff, regular on its
face, issued by a tribunal having jurisdiction of the subjectmatter, constituted his ,protection.
Whatever may have been the conflict at one time, in
the adjudged cases, as to the extent of protection afforded
to ministerial officers acting in obedience to process, or orders issued to them by tribunals or officers invested by law
with authority to pass upon and determine particular facts,
and render judgment thereon, it is well settled now, that if
the officer or tribunal possess jurisdiction over the subjectmatter upon which judgment is passed, with power to issue
an order or process for the enforcement of such judgment,
and the order or process issued thereon to the ministerial
officer is regular on its face, showing no departure from the
law, or defect of jurisdiction over the person or property
affected, then, and in such cases, the order or process will
give full and entire protection to the ministerial officer in
its regular enforcement against any prosecution which the
party aggrieved thereby may institute against him, althougb

Dec. 1871.]

ERSKINE v. HOHNBACH.
Opinion ofthe court.

serious errors may have been committed by the officer or
tribunal in reaching the conclusion or judgment upon which
the order or process is issued.*
Now, the replication to the second special plea did not
deny th'e jurisdiction of the assessor to make an assessment
under the circumstances alleged in the plea; nor that the
assessment made by him was duly certified to the defendant
as collector of the district, with ail order to proceed to enforce it, nor that the property assessed was subject to taxation ; but only averred that the assessment made was not
chargeable against the plaintiff, because he had not manufactured and sold or removed the property assessed within
the period mentioned, and had paid all the taxes chargeable
against him upon such property-an avernct which, if
true, would only have shown that the assessor had erred in
his judgment in making the assessment, and could not have
controlled the action of the collector, nor have justified him
in suspending the enforcement of the tax. A judgmcnt
debtor might as well complain of the enforeement of an execution by a sheriff on the ground that the court erred in
finding that he was indebted to the plaintiff and so giving
judgment against him.
An immaterial issue having been thus tendered the proper
course for the defendant to pursue was to demur to the replication, and thus force the plaintiff to join issue on the
merits of the defence pleaded, or to allow judgment to pass
against him. Had the issue here made been the only one
iii the case tendered to the defence pleaded by the second
special plea, the defendant, not being able to set up that defence nder the general issue, would have been entitled after
verdict to an arrest of judgment and an award of repleader."
But such was not the fact here. The first special plea set
up the same defence as the second. Il both of the special
pleas the defendant justified the seizure and conversion of
* Savacool v. Booghton, 5 Wendell, 171; Earl v. Camp, 16 Id. 563; Cho.
garay v. Jenkins, 5 New York, 376; Sprague v. Birchard, 1 Wisconsin, 457.
t Gould on Pleading, chap. x, . 29.

ERSKINE v.

OHNAcII.u.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

the property, described in the declaration, as collector of internal revenue, under an assessment against the plaintiff duly
made by the assessor of the district and certified to him.
The difference in the language used in the two pleas, and in
the particularity with which the assessment of the tax and
the distraint and sale of the property were set forth, did not
change the substantial identity of the defence made.
Now the replication of de ihjuria, which was interposed to
the first special plea, put in issue the material averments of
that plea. It threw upon the defendant the burden of proving so much of the plea as constituted a defence to the action. As.no error in tile ruling of the court on the trial is
presented, we are forced to presurie that the defendant was
affbrded every opportunity allowed by.law to establish the
facts averred by him. To arrest judgment upon the verdict
rendered on this issue because an immaterial issue was
formed upon a replication to another plea setting up the
same defence, and award a repleader, would be in effect to
allow the same matter to be twice tried. Such being the
case, the granting or refusing the motion rested in the discretion of the court below, with which this court will not
interfere.
We are aware of numerous decisions in this country to
the effect that the replication de injuriO is only a good replication where the plea sets up matter of excuse, and is not
good where the plea sets up matter of justification, though
the justification be under process from a court not of record,
or rest upon some authority of law other than a judgment
of a court. Such are the decisions of the Supreme Court of
New York,* and they proceed upon the supposed doctrine
of the resoJutions in Crogale's Case.t But an examination
of that case will show that the doctrine is not supported
to the extent laid down in the New York decisions. The
third resolution in Crogate's case does state that a replication de bijurid is bad where the justification is under au* Griswold v. Sedgwick, 1 Wendell, 131; Coburn v. Hopkins, 4
t 8 Coke, 132.

Id. 577.

Dec. 1871.]

ERSKINE

v.

IIOHNBACIt.

Opinion of the court.

thority of law, but, as observed by Mr. Justice Patteson, in
Selby v. Bardons,* this, if taken to the full extent of the
terms used, is inconsistent with that part of the first resolution which states that where the plea justifies under proceedings of a court not of' record the replication may be
used. In that case the declaration was in replevin for goods
and chattels. The avowry of the defendant stated that the
plaintiff was an inhabitant and occupier of a tenement in a
certain parish ; that a rate for the relief of the poor of the
parish was duly made and published, in which the plaintiff
was rated at spven pounds; that he had notice of the rate
and was required by the defendant, as collector, to pay the
same, which he refused ; that he was then sumnioned befoire
two justices to show cause why he refused; that he appeared,
but showing no cause, the justices issued a warrant to the
defendant to distrain the plaintiff's goods and chattels, under
which he, and the other defendant as his bailiff, took the
goods and chattels mentioned in the declaration. To this
avowry the plaintiff" filed the plea of de i juria, to which a
special demurrer was interposed, assigning for ca'use that the
plea offered to put in issue several distinct matters, and was
pleaded as if the avowry consisted wholly in excuse of the
taking and detaining and not as a justification and claim of
right. The court considered at length both causes, and held
that the plea was good. On error to the Court of Exchequer
Chamber this ruling was affirmed,t and the decision, it is
believed, has never been departed from in the English courts.
The plea de ibjuria in this ease to the avowry stands like the
replication de ijuria to a plea setting up similar matter in
an action of trespass. There is no distinction in the effect
of the plea in one case and the replication in the other.
This was reld by the King's Bench in the ease cited, and by
the Court of Exchequer Chamber on error.
This case is authority for the sufficiency of the replication
to the first special plea. Other cases might be cited to the
same purpIort. The decisions in England on this point will
* 8 Barne'vall & Adolphus, 2.

t 8 Tyrwhitt, 480.

MOWRY V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

be found collected in a learned note to Crogate's case by
Mr. Smith in his Leading Cases, and the decisions in this
country will be found collected in an equally learned note
by the American editors of that work.
But aside from the considerations mentioned, however the
replication might be regarded in some courts on special demurrer, its defective character, if at all defective, was cured
by the verdict. The objection to its sufficiency to put the
averments of the plea in issue cannot be raised after verdict.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MowRY V. WHITNEY.
1. Asa Whitney's patent of April 25th, 1848, for an "improvement in the
process of manufacturing cast-iron railroad wheels," was for a process,
not for a combination.
2. Where only vague and uncertain directions could be given as to the degree of foreign heat to be applied in any particular ease, there, when a
patentee in his specification, establishes a maximum and a minimum, the
ascertainment of the proper intermediate degree may be left to the skill
and judgment of the operator practicing the process.
3. It is as true of a process, invented as an improvement in a manufacture,
as it is of an improvement in a machine, that an infringer is not liable
to the extent of his entire profits in the manufacture.
4. In such a case the question to be determined is, what advantage did the
infringer derive from using the invention, over what he had- in using
other processes then open to the public and adequate to enable him to
obtain an equally beneficial result ? The fruits of that advantage are
his profits, and that advantage is the measure of profits to be accountea
for.
6 When a patent is for an entire process made up of several constituent
steps or stages, the patentee not pretending to be the inventor of those
constituents, his claim to the process as an entirety does not secure to him
the exclusive use of the constituents singly. WJiat is secured is their
use when arranged in the process.
6. The profits recoverable from an infringer are the measure of the paten* See Lytle v. Lee & Rugg]"s, 5 Johnson, 112, and the cases there cited.

