670

PROPELLER

COMPANY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

did not require a stamp, and also that a writing on the back
of the note by the indorser waiving demand, protest, and
notice, and agreeing to'be liable without them, was good
without a stamp. We think this ample authority for holding that a gratuitous extension of time did not require a
stamp, as both the writings relied on it that case have more
of the elements of an agreement than-the one before us. In
the matter of the stamp, we think the court committed no
error.
But for the error first considered the judgment is REVERSED, and the case remanded for further proceedings,
IN

PROPELLER

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

COMPANY V.

UNITED STATES.

A vessel was let by its owners to the United States for an indefinite period,
not less than thirty days, and the government undertook to pay $150
for each day that she might be employed under the contract, and to
bear the war risk. In addition to this the value of the vessel was fixed
at $40,000, and it was agreed that should she be retained in the service
of the United States until the money paid and due on account of the
charter should be equal to such value, she should become the property
of the United States without further payment, except of such sum as
might then be due on account of her hire under the charter. It was
further agreed that if at any time during the continuance of the charter
the United States should elect to purchase her, they might take her at
$40,000, in which ease all. money paid and due on account of the charter
should be applied on account of the purchase. theld that this was not a
mere affreightment; that transmission of the ownership of the vessel to
the United States was also contemplated ; that this transmission was to
be at the option of the United States ; that in no event were the owners
to have more than $40,000 for her, and that tlis sum might be paid in
full by the per diem hire, in \vhich case the vessel was to become the
property of the government so soon as the hire should equal in amount
the price named or at such earlier time as the United States might elect
to take her at that price. The vessel having accordingly been lost by a
war risk, after $11,397.64 had been paid on account of her hire, the

Dec. 1871.]

PROPELLER

COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

671

Statement of the case.
government was held bound to pay no more than the difference be
tween that sum and $40,000; that is to say, bound to pay no more than
$28,602.36.

the Court of Claims; the case being this:
The New Bedfbrd and New York Propeller Company, by
a charter-party dated the 5th of April, 1864, chartered a
steamner to the United States at $150 per day. The charterparty contained these clauses:
APPEAL from

"The war risk is to be borne by the United States, the ma-

rine risk by the owner, for a period of thirty days, and as much
longer as the service. of the vessel may be required to be employed in such service as the United States may direct.
"The vessel is valued at $40,000, and should she be retained
so long in the service of the United States that the money paid
and due on account of the charter (deducting therefrom the actual
cost of running and keeping in repair the said vessel during the
said time, together with a net profit of 33 per cent. per annum
on said appraised value) shall be equal to said appraised value,
then the said vessel shall become the property of the United
States without further payment, except such sum as may then
be due on account of the services of sai vessel, rendered under
the said vessel-charter.
' And, further, if at any time during the continuance of this
charter the United States shall elect to purchase the vessel,
then they shall have the right to take her at the appraised
value at the date of charter, and all money then already paid
and due on account of' said charter (deducting therefrom the
actual cost of running and keeping in repair the said vessel
during the said time, together with a net profit of 33 per cent.
per annum on the original appraised value) shall apply on account of the said purchase."
The steamer remained in the military service of the government until the 4th of March, 1865, when she was sunk
in the Cape Fear River by the explosion of a torpedo placed
there by the enemy. The owners presented to the government a claim for $ 40,000 for the loss of said steamer. This
claim being transmitted to the proper officer, he made out
an account thus:

672

PROPELLER

COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

Dit.

By valuation as per charter,

..

$40,000 00

By 33 per cent. per annum, from 12 M., April 5th,
1864, to 4 P.mr., March 4th, 1g65, 10 27--3' 4-24

months,
..
By running expenses, 11 months, at $2100 per
month,.

11,906 11
23,100 00
$75.096 11

CR.

To amount received from United States for services
from 12 m., April 5th. 1864, to March 4th, 1866,
4 P.M., being 333 6-24 days, at $150, $49,975 00
Less 23 5-24 days lost
. 3,481 25
--

Balance due,

$46,493 75
$28,602 86

The amount so found due and no further sum was paid
to and received by the owners of the vessel.
In this state of the case the owners filed a petition in the
Court of ClaimsClaiming as still due,
In addition to the sum received, viz.
So as to give the whole valuation,

$11,897 64
28,602 36
$40,000 00

The Court of Claims found that the steamer was worth
$40,000; that the United States never at any time notified
to the owners their election to purchase her or to take her
under the accruing or purchase clauses of the charter-party
above quoted.
And held that "the United States, under such a charterparty, became the equitable owner of the vessel to the extent of the sum earned over and above the expenses and
profits stipulated for, and that to the extent of such sum the
owners had received so much payment on the price of the
vessel, and that whether she was taken by the United States
under the option given to purchase at any time, or perished
by one of the perils agailst which the United States engaged
to insure, this accruing clause was equally applicable." The
court accordingly decreed that it was only the balance diia

Dec. 1871.]

PROPELLER COMPANY

V.

UNITED STATES.

673

Argument for the ship-owners.

on the price of the vessel which the original owner could
claim, and not the amount of the valuation.
The owners appealed.
Messrs. N. P. Chiprnan and T. J. Durant, with whom was
Mr. C. f Peek, for the appellants:
The government could purchase only during the continuance of the charter-party; but at the time of the alleged
purchase, the charter-party had come to an end by the de.
struction of the vessel. In addition to this, the steamer (lid
not exist ; the circumstance of a sale could not be predicated
of it; it had ceased to be the subject of such a contract; the
owner then had no property to transfer. There can be no
valid sale when the subject of the intended sale has no ex.
istence.
Even if this were not all plainly true the Court of Claims
has committed error. According to its reasoning the United
States became joint owners day by day, and while the petitioner would le paying the defendants' (if owner) portion of
the expenses of crew and provisions,. and of ordinary repairs, defendants (if owner) would be paying petitioner hire
for their own (in part) steamer. This is inconsistent with
the terms of the contract and the meaning of the parties,
and the premises which give rise to such conclusions must
necessarily be false.
The contract gives the right of purchase to the United
States on the happening of a future and uncertain event;
they are not bound to purchase; they might decline to do
so; but the petitioner on the happening of the event could
not compel the United States to take the vessel.
The obligation was in its nature indivisible, and could not
be executed in part; the happening of the event of the net
earnings being equal to $40,000, was an entirety; and the
clause makes no mention of fractions, so that the obligation
is indivisible by the contract and by its nature.*
The contract made by the parties is not to be changed
* Parsons on Contracts, vol. 2, p. 520, edition 1866.

VOL. XIV.

43

674

PROPELLER COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under notions of equity. Such a contract as the court be.
low made for them might have been a better orte, perhaps,
than the one they made, but it is the province of courts to
enforce such contracts as are presented, and not to make
new ones.

Mr. G. H1. Williams, Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The agreement between the plaintiffs and the United
States was not a mere contract of affreightment. The vessel, it is true, was let to hire for an indefinite period, not less
than thirty days, and the charterers undertook to pay $150
for each and every day she might be employed under the
contract, and to bear the war risk, the marine risk being
borne by the plaintiffs. But, beyond this, the contract looked
to a sale of the vessel to the charterers at a stipulated price.
Her value was fixed at $40,000, and it was agreed that should
she be retained in the service of the United States until the
money paid and due on account of the charter should be
equal to such value (after deducting therefrom the cost of
running and keeping her in repair, together with a percentage on her appraised value), she should become the
property of the United States without further payment, except of such sum as might then be due on account of her
hire under the charter. Another clause in the agreement
stipulated, in effect, that at any time during the continuance
of the charter, namely, while the vessel was employed by the
charterers, and until she should be returned to the owners
at New York, the United States might elect to purchase her,
they might take her at her appraised value (viz., $40,000),
in which case all money paid and due on account of the
charter, after making the deductions above mentioned, it
was agreed should he applied on account of the purchase.
The plain meaning of these stipulations is that transmission
of the ownership of the vessel to the United States was contemplate(,]; that the transmission of ownership was to be at
the option of the United States; that in no event were the

Dec. 1871.]

PROPELLER COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

675

Opinion of the court.

plaintiffs to have more than $40,000 for her, and that this
sum might be paid in full by the per diem hire, in which
case the vessel was to become the property of the government so soon as the hire, less the specified deductions, should
equal in amount the price named, or at such earlier time as
the United States might elect to take her at that price. The
plaintiffs, therefore, were in no contingency entitled to more
than the price fixed for the vessel by the contract. Whether
received as freight or in direct payment of the stipulated
price, all money which was paid thorn, or became due to
them, was consideration for the transmission of title, if the
United States chose so to regard it. In effect, therefore, the
contract vested an equitable ownership in the defendants,
proportioned to the money paid and due under the charter.
Had a third party, with knowledge of the agreement, bought
the vessel from the plaintiffs, he would doubtless have acquired only a right to the purchase-money remaining unpaid
at the time of his purchase, if the charterers had afterwards
elected to take the vessel during her retention as purchasers,
or had retained her until the freight equalled the price agreed
upOnl.

It is true the United States became insurers against war
risks, and the vessel was destroyed by such a risk before the
freight earned amounted to the appraised value or price.
But as insurers they were only bound to make good the loss
the plaintiffs sustained, and as the plaintiffs had agreed to
sell for $40,000, that loss could not have exceeded what remained unpaid of that sum. It cannot be doubted that the
United States had also under the contract an insurable interest. Suppose both they and the plaintiffs had insured
severally for their interests, as they might have done, with
another underwriter, could more than $40,000, the value of
the vessel, have been recovered on both the policies? That
will not be maintained. Or, suppose the plaintiffs had insured against marine risks, and the vessel had been lost by
one of them. By the contract they undertook such risks.
If the vessel had been lost on the day before the freight, less
the deductions agreed upon, would have amounted to he!

rr

676

WILLARD V. FPRESBURY.

i

[SUp. Ut.

Statement of the case.

entire value, could the plaintiffs have recovered the whole
$40,000, and have retained it, together with the $39,850 paid
or due for freight? Would not the policy have enured to
the benefit of the United States to the extent of the payments made? To hold that it would not would be giving
to the contract a most unreasonable construction. And it
not, how can the plaintiffs now be entitled to the whole value
of the vessel, in addition to all they have received for her
hire, as if no part of her price had been paid, or as if the
United States had no interest ? We think they are not thus
entitled. In our opinion the government had an equitable
interest in the vessel at the time she was lost, and as the interest of the plaintiffh amounted to no more than $40,000,
which sum they have already received, they have no further
just claim.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WILLARD V. PRESBURY.
1. Congress has power to confer on the city of Washington authority to
assess upon the adjacent proprietors of lots, the expense of repairing
streets with a new and different pavement, or of repairing an old pavement. The tax need not be a general one on the city.
2. A bill charging fraudulent misrepresentations in procuring the passage of
an ordinance to pave a street, with the intent to cast on lessees of certain property on the street the burden (the lessees, by their leases, being
bound to pay all taxes), and so to benefit the lessor's reversionary interest, dismissed on proofs held insufficient.
APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being this:

An act of Congress, passed February 23d, 1865, provides:
"That the corporation of the city of Washington shall have
full power and authority to levy taxes on particular wards,
parts, or sections of the city for their particular local improvements, and to cause the curbstones to be set, the foot and
carriage-ways (or so much thereof as they may deem best) to
be graded and paved."

