Tim BRIDGEPORT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

York, on which the Louisiana court revoked its former action, were collusive and fraudulent as against the defendants,
who, under-the facts found by the court, are entitled to be

protected in their possession.
As this was the conclusion of the Circuit Court, its judgment is
AFFIRMED IN BOTH CASES.

THE BRIDGEPORT.
1. A steamer navigating the East River, opposite Corlaer's Hook, Now
York, by night, condemned in a collision case for injury done by her to
a ship lying in a recess in the Hook, two hundred feet and more outside of the open channel, and three hundred or four hundred feet from
the ordinary track of steamers; it being held to be no excuse for the
collision that the steamer was rounding the Hook and going into her
dock about three-quarters of a mile below ; that her officers could not
see in consequence, of a fog which suddenly rolled up, and that they
supposed they were far enough off the shore and far enough advanced
to change their course for rounding the Hook.
2. Where a boat is fastened to the shore, and out of the proper path of vessels navigating a port, she is not bound, in the absence of harbor regalations requiring it, to keep a light on deck.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

New York.
On a September night of 1865, the ship Margaret Evans,
having a night watchman on board, but no light on deck,
lay at a wharf at Corlaer's Hook, on the East River side of
New York. She was not lying at the front of -the wharf in
the open stream, but at the end or'return thereof, in a rectangular recess, as if she were inside of a pier, the wharf
projecting some thirty or forty feet beyond her into -the

river, and a large sloop of war lying outside of that.

She

was thus more than two hundred feet outside of the open
channel, and three hundred or four hundred feet from the

ordinary track of steamers passing along the East River in
their usual course.

Dec. 1871.]

THE

BRIDGEPORT.

Statement of the case.

The river, which is about a mile broad here, makes nearly
a right angle. Vessels from Long Island Sound come down
on a southerly course to this point, and having rounded the
Hook they then pursue a westerly and southwesterly course
to gain the lower part of the city.
On the night referred to the steamer Bridgeport was
coming dowii, the Sound, on her regular trip from Bridgeport, Connecticut, to the city of New York, bound for her
berth at Peck slip, which is about three-quarters of a mile
below Corlaer's Hook. She arrived off the Houston Street
ferry, in the East River, half a mile above Corlaer's Hook,
about three o'clock in the morning. The night was sufficiently clear fbr the persons in charge of the steamer to see
their location and to maintain their usual speed up to this
point. But here they struck a fog bank, which, as they
entered it, shut out the view of the shore. They could discern the nearest lights and hear the bells at the ferry slips.
The steam was shut down and the vessel proceeded slowly
on her course. The tide being flood, and 'pretty strong, she
had to work against it; but this gave her sufficient steerageway without necessitating much absolute speed. The vessel
was making three or four miles an hour. When she passed
the Grand Street ferry, only three or four hundred feet above
Corlaer's Hook, the ferry lights on the New York side were
observed, and the bell was distinctly heard. Neither lights
jnor the bells on the Williamsburg (or Long Island) side
were noticed. The vessel was thus shown to be nearer to
the New York than to the other shore; and must of course
have been hugging the New York shore closely foI"so dark
a night, in so crowded a place. When they saw the lights
of the Grand Street ferry, the wheelsman commenced turning fbr the purpose of rounding the point. "We judged
ourselves," he testified, " well enough off to make our Way;
pretty close in, but far enough to clear her." Unfortunately,
they shaved the point a little too closely. In less than two
minutes after passing the ferry lights, and about a minute
and a half after the wheelsman began to hold up for a change
of course, the bow of the steamer struck the Margaret

THE BRIDGEPORT.

[sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Evans on her starboard side, just abaft the fbrerigging, se.
verely injuring her. Her owners accordingly libelled the
Bridgeport for damages. The District Court held that there
was negligence on the part of the master,
1. In not knowing the proper time and place when and
where to round the point.
2. In commencing to turn when opposite Grand Street
ferry, which he should not have done until she had passed
some two hundred and sixty feet below the ferry, and
3. In drawing in too close to the New York shore.
The decree in the District Court was accordingly for the
libellants; a decree which the Circuit Court affirmed. The
case was now here for review.
Mr. -E. I. Owen, for the appellants:
The court below decided the case on facts and circumstances as they appeared in the light qf the event, whereas they
should have decided it upon the facts and circumstances as
they existed, and as they appeared to the master at the time
and place of the accident. The master's judgment as to the
proper mode of navigating the boat had to be fbrmed at night,
in a thick fog suddenly coming upon him, when he could not
see, and when the officers of the boat. supposed that they
were far enough off from shore and far enough advanced to
change their course for rounding the Hook. No witness
pretends to say that the judgment was unwisely or improperly formed.
The Margaret Evans was lying in harm's way, having no
light on her deck. This should be regarded as a fault on
her part. Even if it were not a fault, it is a circumstance to
be taken into consideration in deciding whether there was
any fault or negligence on the part of the steamboat.
Mr. D. D. Lord, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The point where the Margaret Evans was struck by the
steamer was over two hundred feet outside of the open

Dee. 1871.]

TH B
]RIDGEPORT.
Opinion of the court.

channel or passage-way for vessels, and three or four hundred feet from the track which the steaiiier ought to 'have
pursued. The latter had got that much out of her way in
one and a half or two minutes, whilst running not more
than five or six hundred feet. It seems almost impossible
that she could have gone so far astray in so short a time,
with points of observation so near at hand, without great
want of skill, or great inattention to the compass and other
indicia of course and position. When off the Grand Street
ferry her officers must have known nearly her precise position in the river. Her deviation from the channel seems
utterly inexcusable. The only excus'e which her officers
proffer is, that it was so dark they could not see, and they
supposed they were far enough off from shore, and far enough
advanced, to ch'ange their course for rounding the Hook.
An attempt is made, indeed, to throw the blame on the
Margaret Evans herself, because she did not have a light,
and because she had no anchor watch. The fact is, she had
a night watchman on board, and as to a light, we think it is
hardly necessary for a vessel lying at a wharf, more than
two hundred feet outside of the channel, to anticipate the
visit of stray steamboats i-A the night-tine and to make provision for such an exigency. In Culbertson v. S/hav,* Mr.
Justice McLean states the law to be: " When a boat is anchored in the path of vessels, a light is indispensable; but
it is ,iot required where the' boat is fiLstened to the shore,
especially at a place set apart for such boats." If it were
shown that the local harbor regulations required it, the caso
might b diffhrent. But there is no proof that the harbor
regulations of New York required vessels moored at a wharf,
out of the track of other vessels, to carry a light; and without an express regulation to that effect the law does not
make it incumbent on them to do so. In the case of The
Granile Slate,t it was shown that the harbor regulations of
New York did not make it obligatory on barges inoored at
awharf to have either a light or a watch; and the colliding
* 18 H:oward, 584.

t 3 Wallace, 310.

ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

steamer in that case was held liable, though it was so dark
that the barge could not be seen till close to her, and though
at the time the steamer was seeking to avoid contact with
other vessels coming out of their docks. Where the question of fault in a collision lies between a vessel at anchor, or
at a wharf, out of the track of other vessels, and not derelict in duty, and a steamer navigating a channel of sufficient
width for her to move and stop at pleasure-there being no
unusual stress of weather or superior force to drive the
latter out of her course-it was held in the case just cited
that the fault, under almost. any circumstances, would be
held to be with the steamer. In this case we see no fault at
all in the Margaret Evans. She had a competent night
watchman on board, and was entitled to be considered as safe
from any collision from vessels navigating the East River.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH INTEREST AND COSTS.

ARMSTRONG V.

MORRILL.

1. Judgment in ejectment, in favor of a single plaintiff, sustained, where
some counts in the declaration alleged a possession in himself alone, at
the time of the ouster, though other counts alleged the possession to
have been in him jointly with others; there having been no motion in
arrest of judgment or other objection made below to the judgment in
the form mentioned, which was one upon a verdict thus finding.
2. The mere makiTng of a deed to one as trustee does not vest the trustee
with title it he never in any form have accepted the trust; and to show
that the trustee did not accept it, a declaration, not under seal, but
signed by him, nine years after the deed, making known to all whom
the matter concerned, "that immediately on his receiving notice of the conveyance he did positively refuse to accept, or to act under the trust intended to
be created, and that lie had at no tine since accepted the trust or acted in any
wise as trustee in relation to it, " is pr6per evidence to show the fact, the
party being dead and his handwriting proved.
3. Under the act of Virginia, of June 2d, 1788, authorizing the governor to
isue grants with reservation of claims to lands incld'ed within surveys
then made, the reservation in patents granted under the act excludes
from the operation of the patent all lands held by prier claimants at the
date of the surVey, within the exterior boundary of the patent, whether
the title was only ,uchoate or had been perfected by grants.

