Dec. 1871.]

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

Syllabus.

the period of time therein mentioned, which the bond makes
upon the same subject, being given for interest thereafte." to
become due upon the bond, which interest is parcel of tlh.e
bond and partakes of its nature and is not barred by lapse
of time except for the same period as would bar a suit on
the bond to which it was attached.* Coupons are substantially but copies of the stipulatioi in the body of the bond
in respect to the interest, and are so attached to the bond
that they may be cut off by the holder as matter of convenience in collecting the interest, or to enable hint to realize
the interest due or to become due by negotiating the same
to bearer in business transactions without the trouble of presenting the bond every time an instalment of interest falls
due.

For these reasons we are of the opinion that the ruling of
the Circuit Court was correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

1. Where the terms of a mortgage or deed of trust require that before any
foeclosure or sale under it is made, sixty days' notice shall be given in
certain newspapers, a sale without the notice conveys no title.
2. Although a mortgagee who takes possession of the mortgaiged premises,
under what purported to be a sale of the property, may be liable for
rents and profits of the estate notwithstanding that the sale was wholly
void, yet to be so liable he must have had such a possession as gives an
actual enjoyment and peruancy of profits. A false claim of title is of
itself insufficient.
B. A mortgagor, who on a bill attempting to charge his mortgagee with
reception of profits of the estate because of a foreclosure whiel:, though
void for requisite notice of the intended sale in foreclosure, was gone
through with in form, has had his bill dismissed, with a decree that he
is himself still owner and liable for a balance of unpaid mlortgaga-money,
cannot object, on error, that the decree did not order the heirs of the
formal purchaser (the purchaser himself being dead) to convey, if the
bill have not made such heirs parties, or if they have not been callod in
2 Revised Statutte
Wallace, 483.

of Kentucky, 126 and 127; The City v. Lamson, 9

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the cage
4. However, the execution of the decree for the payment of the mortgage
money may be stayed in such case till an outstanding title made by
the propeediugs purporting to have been in foreclosure shall have been
brought back to ihe mortgagor.
5 A decree ordering the payment in coin of a debt contracted before the

passige of the Legal Tender Acts reversed on the authority of the Legal
Tender Cases (12 Wallace, 457).

APPEAL f'rOni the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia;
the case being thus:
On the 2d April, 1853, Waller, of Virginia, made an agreement in writing with one Bigler, of New York, to sell to
him for $30,000 an estate on the York River, Virginia, consisting of about 2400 acres, to be paid for in successive annual payments through a term of ten years. The agreement
contained this covenant:

"Said Waller will.-allow said Bigler to sell such portion of the
land as he may see fit, from time to time; the said Bigler paying
over to said Waller such proceeds of sales as will afford ample
security for the liquidation of the residue of the debt."
On the 10th of May, 1853, Bigler paid $5000 of the purchase-money, gave his bond for the balance, $25,000, took
a deed of the property, and at the same time took possession
of the estate. On the 22d day of June following, he made
a deed of trust or mortgage to one Saunders (lile Waller,
of Virginia) to secure the payment of the bond. This deed
provided for the sale of the estate indefiult of payment according to the terms of'the bond; but it provided also that
in case of s'ale the trustee shall gice sixty dacys' notice in newspapers in Richmond and in the, city oJ New York. There was
nothing said in either the deed of May 10th to Bigler, nor
in the deed of trust to Saunders to secure the purchasemoney, of the covenant contained in the agreement of April
2d about Waller's allowing Bigler to sell any portions of
the estate.
Bigler having taken possession, as already said, made improvements; wharves, mills, a hotel, store church, schoolhouse, &c., and laid out a village. In the autumn of 1853
and spring of 1854 lie had offers for portions of the estate

Dec. 1871.]

BIGLERt V. WALLER.
Statement of the case.

(village lots), its most central and valuable part, and applied
to Waller to release the mortgage lien; a matter which, in
consequence of the opinion expressed by some persons
whom he consulted, that the security might be impaired,
Waller refused to do. Releases, however, of other and more
considerable pa'.'ts, situated less centrally, were given on the
price of them being paid over.
Bigler fulfilled his agreement about annual payments until
May 10th, 1861, at which date there remained $13,000 unpaid on the bond, of the original purchase-money. Subsequently to this, the war having now broke out, and Bigler
having remained in the North, the rebel army, then in that
part of Virginia, took possession of this estate; and about
the 1st of March, 1862, Waller caused a sale of the estate to
be made at public auction on the premises; the sale being
in professed execution of the deed of trust and for nonpayment of the debt due on the purchase; bl ?o volice of
any kind haring been in netwspapers of either Richmond or New
York. Waller bought it in himself for $17,000, and took a
deed thereof from the trustee, Saunders, cancelled the bond
($13,000), and gave his notes for the balance of the $17,000
,-purchase-money. While the rebel army was in possession
of the estate a eertain Drake, one of its officers, burned two
mills and a valuable wharf, and greatly injured the houses
and orchards. This destruction occurred a month after Waller's purchase; but Waller was not attached in any way to
the rebel Army of the Peninsula, was away at this particular
time, and was not shown to have counselled or approved,
or even known of what was done. Whether Waller went
into actual possession, or whether he had ever been on the
estate after the sale, or whether he ever received any of its
ents or issues or profits, did not appear, and he denied that
lie ever was in such Dossession or ever had received any
profits. But it appeared that he had settled with the Confederate government for the waste committed' by then while
they were in possession thereof, which damage amounted to
more than thirty thousand dollars.
Though he sometimes spoke of himself as owner, he fre-

800

BIOLER V. WALLER.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

quently declared that he held only to protect the property
from seizure and confiscation, as Bigler's, a Northern man's,
by the Confederate government; and that when the war
closed he should offer the property again to Bigler; he paying the purchase-money.
On the suppression of the rebellion Bigler went to Virginia and resumed possession of his property. He saw its
devastated condition and learned of the sale that had been
made in professed execution of the trust. Ou the other
hand Waller came North and sued Bigler in one of the New
York courts for the balance, $13,000, which was due to him
on the outbreak of the rebellion.
iHereupon Bigler filed a bill in equity in the court below.
It set out the admitted history of the case as already given;
that is to, say, the agreement of April 2, 1853, for the sale
of the land, the subsequent sale on the 10th of May, the execution of the deed of trust, the possession taken by the
compl'ilant, the improvements made, the abandonment of
possession in 1861, and its resumption in 1865. It charged
that the complainant made contracts for the sale of portions
of the landi and tendered to Waller the proceeds of such
sales sufficient to afford ample security for the liquidation
of the part of the residue of the debt for the purehase-money
then due, but that Waller declinerA to ratify the sales, in disregard of his contract, and greatly to the damnage of the complainant; that about September 1, 1861, Waller authorized
Saunders, the trustee, to sell the lands, and that a sale was
then made to Waller himself, but without such publication
as was required by the deed of' trust; that out of the proceeds of sale the trustee saislied the complainant's obligation, and tidied to pay over the balance; thatt Waller then
took possession, both of'the land and of the personal property
thereon, and applied the proceeds of the personalty to the
payment of the eomplait'mnt's debt; that he received large
sums for rents.of the real estate, and also received compensation from the Confederate authorities for the destruction
of the property. The bill further charged the pendency of
the suit in New York, and that Saunders, the trustee, was

Dec. 1,871.]

BiGLElt v. WALLER.
Statement of the case.

proceeding again to sell the property without advertising
the sale sixty days in newspapers of the city of New York,
as required by the deed of trust. It averred also that Waller
was insolvent, that he and Saunders would confederate to
cheat the complainant in the sale, and that if the sale should
be made, the complainant would be unable to recover from
Waller what was due to him, or to avail himself in the courts
of Virginia of his just rights. The relief prayed was that
Saunders, the trustee, might be enjoined against selling the
land, and Waller against assigning his interest in the cornplainant's obligation, until the determination of the action
in the State court of New Yorki, or until the matter was referred to a naster to take an account of the rents and sales
made by him, and an inquiry of the damage done by Waller
to the complainant's property; that whatever should be found
due the complainant might be decreed to be paid him, and
all his proper offsets be allowed. The bill also contained a
prayer that all deeds and papers in the defendant's possession
concerning the sales be'decreed to be delivered up, and coneluded with a prayer for general relief.
The answer of Waller denied that he was ever in possession after the deed of trust was made, denied that he
sold or appropriated any of the personal property thereon,
that he received any of the rents, issues, and profits, or that
he committed waste, or induced the Confederate forces to
do so.
The suit in New York having been discontinued, and the
bill coming on to be heard in the court below on the pleadings and proofs, that court directed a master to state an account between the parties of what was due to Waller on the
bond and of the offsets in the nature of waste, rent, and
damages due from Waller to Bigler, and to make any
recommendations. The master found $13,000 with interest,
to be unpaid on the bond; $43,000 with interest, to be due
from Wallor to Bigler on account of damage, waste, and
rent, and concluded with showing a balance of $26,186 due
from Waller to Bigler, for which j udgment should be entered
in favor of Bigler. The report recommended that the bond

BIOLER V. WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

be cancelled, and that Waller and Saunders execute a release
deed to Bigler of all claims to the land.
During the pendency of the suit (it should be added) Wal
ler died and the bill was revived against his administrator.
Saunders also died, and a new trustee, Henry Coalter Cabell, was appointed, with his powers, in his place.
On a final hearing the Circuit Court, overruling the master's report, decided that Waller was not liable for the waste
done to the premises, nor entitled to interest on the bond
during the war; nor bound to pay damages for not releasing;
that Bigler was liable fbr the amount of the bond, payable in
coin, and entitled to recover $151.88 (this sum being $2000
Confederate money reduced to the specie equivalent), damages received by Waller of the rebel authorities, for the injury done the estate.
From this decree (which of course assumed that the foreclosure in 1862 was a nullity) Bigler appealed.
Messrs. E. L. Fancher amd .J K. Hayward,for the appellants:
The court below proceeded on the apsumption that Waler's foreclosure in 1862 was a nullity and that the property
is now Bigler's. But this is an error. The estate does not
belong to Bigler, but belongs to Waller under the foreclosure. Hence the bond has been satisfied by the sale Under
tfe trust, and there is even a considerable sum of the pui'chase-money under the foreclosure still due Bigler, for which
Waller is liable.
But if the court will' compel Bigler to retake title to the
property, then what was Waller's relation to the estate durin g the interregnuin, and what are his responsibilities, if
any, growing out of that relation ? It cannot be said that
Wailer's actual relation to the property was not sufficiently
intimate to warrant his being said to be in actual possession.
Ile regularly bought it, paid for it, and took a deed thereof.
Possession follows the title. In fact he exercised all the acts
of dominion over the property possible under' the then condition of that portion of the country. Waller could have
maintained ouster, eviction, adverse possession, and dis-

Dec. 1871.]

BIOLER V. WALLUlt.

303

Opinion of the court.

seisin, as against Bigler, from April, 1862. The doctrine of
the Federal courts as to what will constitute actual adverse
possession is thus stited in Smith's Leading Cases,* and
cases there cited; especially in Roberlson v. Norris:t
"It may with safety be said that where acts of ownership
have been done upon land which, from their nature, indicate a
noto ious claim cf property'in it, &e., such acts are evidence of
an ouster of a former owner, and an actual adverse possession
against him, if the jury shall think that the property was not
susceptible of a more strict or definite possession than had been
so taken and held; and the continued claim of property has
been evidenced by public acts of ownership, such as he would
exercise over property which he claimed in his own right, and
would not exorcise over property he did not claim."
If the plaintiff is compelled to retake the estate he should
have releases from Waller's heirs; for if Bigler pays the
bond he is entitled to have a clean record from Waller.
Only Waller's heirs-at-law can make this reconveyance, and
they were not made parties at the time the administrator
was let in to defend.
Finally, in any view, since the reversal in the legal tender
cases of Hepburn v. Griswold, the 'decree directing the pay.
ment in coin must be reversed.
Mr. Conway -Robinson, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the' opinion of the court.
The complainant insists that the Circuit Court erred in
assuming that the sale which was made by Saunders in 1862
was a nullity, and that the property remained the complaiiiant's notwithstanding. Tlis position is taken in order that
it may be inferred the residue of complainant's bond for the
purchase-money was satisfied by a sale under the trust, and
that Waller has not only been thus paid, but that he is accountable for the excess of his bid at that sale above the
amount then due him by virtue of the bond. The position
Vol. 2, p. 641, 643, m. 566i sixth Am. ed.

f 5 Jurist, .N. S. 1238.

BIOLER V.' WALLER,

[sup. (It.

Opinion of the court.

is certainly a strange one. It is directly in conflict with the
law of the case and with the complainant's bill. By the
deed of trust it was stipulated that in case of a sale the trustee should give sixty days' notice in newspapers in Richmond
and in the city of New York. To a valid execution of the
power of sale such notice wa indispensable, and a sale without it of course conveyed no title. It is not pretended that
such notice was given. Otu the contrary, the bill charges
that it was not, and to this the answer of Waller makes no
denial, while the answer of Saunders expressly admits that
{ihere was no .advertisement in a New York paper, giving
as a reason for the failure thus to advertise that communication with the Northern States was then prohibited. The
fact that the sale was Tnade without the requisite notice is

then an established fact, and the inevitable inference is that
the sale was inoperative to divest the ownership of the complainant. Without confirmation by him it was a mere nullity, disturbing no right and conferring, non6. But if this
were not so, tho theory of the complainant's bill is that his
title was not divested. It chargqs that the necessary notice
was not given. It ciomplains that possession was taken by
Waller after the sale, that he received the rents, issues, and
profits, down to 1866, received compe-nsatiou for injuries
done to the improvements by the Confederate military
forces, and it asserts that Waller is accountable to the complainant for such possession, rents, and profits, as well as for
the compensation he obtait ed. All this is utterly inconsistent with the assertion tha the sale was effectual to change
the title. But this is not all. There is much more in the
bill that asserts continued ownership of the complainant,
and the invalidity of the sale made'in 1862. The averment
that the trustee is about to sell the lands again under the
trust-deed, and the charge hat the sale will be conducted in
such -a partial and unjust manner as to cheat and defraud
the complainant are full of meaning. So is the prayer for
an injunction against another sale, and the prayer for the
delivery. over of the deeds. In view of all this it is impossible for the complainant to maintdin now that the attempted

Dec. 1871.]

BIGLER V. WALLER.
Opinion of the court.

foreclosure in 1862 was not a nullity, ineffective to transfer
his right to Waller. Even if he could have affirmed the
sale, lie has precluded himself from doino so, and has left
nothing for the court but to adjudicate upon tile case as he
has made it. There has then been no actual payment of the
bond.
The next inquiry is whether Waller is chargeable with
the rents, issues, and profits of the property fromn the 1st of
April, 1862, w'hep the sale was made, until the spring of
1865, when the complainant returned to the land and resumed actual possession. This, of course, assumnes that tho
sale had no validity, for if it worked a foreclosure of the
complainant's equity, if it vested the title in Waller, there.
can be no pretence that he is liable for subsequently-accruing
rents and profits. It is only while he can be considered as
holding the possession in trust for the mortgagor that he
can be called to account. Had he entered in pursuance of
his purchase, claiming title in himself by virtue thereof, he
would doubtless be chargeable as a trustee, though the purchase was wholly void ; and it' may be conceded, if lie had
taken actual possession without claim of right, that he might
be treated as such. But actual o'eeupation of the mortgaged
premises is indispensable to the existence of such a liability.
It is the enjoyment of tile property, or the pernancy of
its profits, that raises the trust. A false claim of title is, of
itself, insufficient.
The difficulty of the complainant's case is, there is no
proof that Waller was in actual possession, or even that he
was on the land at all, from the time of the sale until this
bill was filed, or that he ever received any of its rents, issues,
or profits. There is a total failure of any such evidence.
The most that can be alleged is, that lie claimed sometimes
to be the owner without ever enjoying any of the rights of
ownership. It is proved that he had possession neither of
the personalty nor of the realty.
Equally unsustained is the chdim, that Waller is responsible
for the waste committed upon the land, and the destruction
of improvements. The property was greatly injured beVOL. xIV.

20

BIGLER V. WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tween 1861 and 1865, during the existence of the civil war,
but' the evidence wholly fails to show that the injury was
caused by any act of the defendant's. It was done by the
Confederate military forces in Waller's absence, and, so far
as it appears, without his knowledge.
It is further insisted, on behalf of the complainant, that
the Circuit Court erred in refusing to allow him a credit for
damages which,.it is alleged, he sustained in consequence of
a refusal by Waller to release portions of the land from the
operation of the deed of trust in order' to enable him to sell
them. This claim is founded upon the clause in an executory agreement between the parties, dated April 2d, 1853, by
which it was stipulated that Waller would allow Bigler to
sell such portions of the land as, from time to time, he might
see fit, Bigler paying over such proceeds of the sales as
would afford ample security for the residue of the debt due
for the purchase-money of the land. The deed for the land
from Waller to Bigler was, however, not made until the
10th of May, 1853, and probably not delivered until the 22d
of June next following, when the deed of trust was executed. Neither the deed nor the deed of trust contaias any
such stipulation for, releases as is contained in the agreement of April 2d, and it might perhaps be maintained that
the agreement was subsequently changed, or merged in the
after-executed contracts. But, assuming that it was not,
what is the evidence of the breach of the agreement ? It
does appear that, in 1853 or 1854, the complainant had offers
to purchase someparts of the land situated in the heart of
it; that he applied to Waller for releases, and that they were
refused. But it does not clearly appear that those lots thus
located could have been sold without so impairing the value
of the remainder as to leave it less than ample security for
the payment of the residue of the debt. Applications were
afterwards made for releases of other and larger portions
differently situated, and the releases were given. That those
first asked were not given, when only one-sixth of the purchase-money of the whole property had been paid, ought
not to be regarded as a violation of the agreement without

Dec. 1871.1

BIGLER V,, WALLER.

Opinion of the court.

very clear evidence that Waller knew they could have been
given with entire safety. Besides, it does not distinctly appear that the complainant was injured by the refusal, or that
he ever claimed compensation for it until this bill was filed.
From year to year, down to 1860, and including that year,
he paid the annual instalments of the purchase-money called
for by his contract without claiming any deduction-a course
of conduct inconsistent with the existence of any just claim
to compensation for a prior breach of his creditor's engagement. There is, then, no sufficient reason for the allowance
of a credit on his bond in consequence of Waller's refusal
to execute releases.
It is further objected to the decree of the Circuit Court
that it does not direct a conveyance by the heirs of Waller
to the complainafit. His heirs were not called in, and they
are no parties. No decree could, therefore, have been made
against them; nor was any necessary. If, by the conveyance of Saunders to Waller in 1862, ard his subsequent
death, the legal, title was cast upon Waller's heirs, it was
only a naked legal right, which they may be compelled to
surrender whenever the purposes of the trust shall be accomplished-when the debt secured by the deed of trust
shall be paid. Besides, Saunders, the trustee, has also died,
and a new trustee has been appointed clothed with all the
rights, duties, and responsibilities of the trustee named in
the deed.
It is, however, easy to protect the complainant against
any outstanding title in the heirs of Waller by staying the
execution of any decree until those heirs shall have conveyed to Henry Coalter Cabell, the new trustee, all the interest, if any, conveyed to their father by the deed of Saunders to him, to be held by Cabell under and subject to the
trust declared in the deed of trust to Saunders. Such an
order the Circuit Court may properly make.
There remains to be considered but one other objection
made to the decree. It is that the sum found by the account
due to the administrator of Waller was-decreed to be paid
in United States coin. In view of the ruling of this court

DENT v. E.MEGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

in Knox v. Lee and Parker v. Davis,* this was erroneous, and
for this cause alone the decree must be reversed.
DEcREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions
to proceed to an amended decree
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOREGOING OPINION.

DENT

v.

EMMEGER.

1. Inchoate rights in the Territory of Louisiana, such as those made A.D.
1789, by a concession of the then Lieutenant Governor of Upper Louisiana to Gabriel Cerre, were of imperfect obligation on the United States
when succeeding to the ownership of that Territory by the cession made
of it by France to us in A.D. 1803; nor until the Congress of the United
States gave them a vitality and effect which they did not before possess,
were they of such a nature that a court of law or equity coulid recognize
or enforce them. When confirmed by Congress they took their effect
wholly from the act of confirmation, and not from any French or
Spanish element which entered into their previous existence ; so that
the elder confirmee has always a better title than the younger, without
reference to the date of the origin of their respective claims or the circumstances attending it.
2. Held, accordingly, on an application of these principles, that the title of
the village of Carondelet, in Missouri, to lots 90 and 91 of the commons
tract of the town, as subdivided by the survey made by Jasper. Myer
A.D. 1837, which lots the village claimed under a confirmation by act
of Congress of 13th June, 1812, vesting the title of the United States in
the inhabitants of Carondelet for ill the lands lying within the outboundary line of said commons not previously granted by act of Congress-this followed by a survey in 1816 and a re-survey on the old
lines in 1817, with a relinquishment of right by Congress in 1831-was
a better title than that derived by Gabriel Cerre from a concession to him
A.D. 1789, by the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Louisiana, a confirmation by act of Congress 1836, in which the right of all adverse claimants
was saved, a survey of 1838, another act of Congress in 1869, confirming the claim of Cerre, "subject to any valid adverse rights, if any
such there be," and a patent in 1869.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.

Messrs. Glover and Shepley, for the plain iff in error; Mr. B.
A. Hill, contra.
* Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wallace, 467.

