Dec. 1871.]

COLLINS V. RIGGS.

491

Statement of the case.

was no special finding of the facts. Had there been a jury,
the defendant might have called upon the court for instructions, and thus raised the questions of law which he deemed
material. Or, had the law, which authorizes the waiver of
a jury, allowed the parties to require a special finding of the
facts, then the legal questions could have been. raised and
presented here upon such findings as upon a special verdict.
But, as the law stands, if a jury. is waived and the court
chooses to find generally for one side or the other, the losing
party hs no redress on error, except fbr the wrongful admission or rejection of evidence.
However, as there was no proof that the government
agents, when the mortgage was given, had any notice of
Breese's unrecorded deed, and as the mortgage in such case
would have the superior efficacy, and would entitle the
mortgagee or his assigns to possession of the land on nonpayment of the money at maturity, we do not see on what
possible ground the defendant could have claimed to succeed.
No error appearing on the record, the judgment of the
court below is
AFFIRMED.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was heard another from the same Circuit Court, and similar to it in all
respects, with, however, one additional feature. It was the
case of
COLLINS V. RIGcS.
To redeem property which has been sold under a mortgage (as is alleged
irregularly) it is not sufficient to tender the amount of the sale. The
whole mortgage-money must be tendered, or, if sit be brought, be paid

into court.

IN this case, Riggs had brought ejectment in the court below
against Collins to, recover a lot, one of the several ones men.
tioned in the preceding case as having been inort aged by Rus.

COLLINS V.

RIGGS.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

sell to the United States, and bought by Corcoran from the
United States after the foreclosure by the government of their
mortgage and the purchase in by them of all the several lots
included in it. Riggs was the grantee of Corcoran.
The lot in controversy in this ease, like that in contrbversy
in the preceding case, had been conveyed previously to the
mortgage, by a deed not put on record, toBreese.
On the trial, the defendant made the same objections to
Riggs's title, that in the preceding case he had made to Morris's; to wit, that Breese, as grantee of Russell, of the lot, prior
to the date of the mortgage to the United'States, and so owner
of the equity of' redemption, had not been brought into the foreclosure suit; and assuming this to be true the defendant inferred
.and assumed that the mortgage was still, therefore, in existence.
iHe then offered to prove that during the pendency of the present,
suit in ejectment he had tendered to Riggs the amount for which
this particular lot now in controversy had been struck off at the
marshal's sale, together with the taxes, interest, and costs; informing the plaintiff at the time of this tender that he, the defondant, was willing to treat him, the plaintiff, as the equitable
assignee of so vuch of the mortgage as had been paid at the sale
for the land in controversy, and that le wished to redeem the
said land, and that he, the defendant, made the tender fbr that
purpose ; which tender the plaintiff declined to receive; the defendant offering to prove, further, that the sitid sum of money
was then paid into court as a tender to redeem the land in con-'
troversy from the mortgage.
The court below decided, simply, that the evidence as presented was not competent or sufficient to constitute a defence
to the action, but upon what ground this decision was niade did
not appear.
.Mr. B. C. Cook, for the plaintiff in error (iterating and enforcing,
as to the other parts of the case, the arguments of' Mr. Fuller,
already presented in the report of the preceding case) argued
upon this now point that Breese not having been brought in,
and the mortgage being so still in existence, Corcoran was but
an assignee of' part of' it, and Riggs his assignee, nothing more;
that the defendant could, therefore, properly tender payment
of it; that the only question was as to amount; that as to this,
Riggs's rigLt in the mortgage was to secure only such a pro

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED'STATES

V.

POWELL.

,Syllabus.
portion of the whole as the value of this tract represented,
which value or amount was shown by the marshal's sale; that
this sum, with costs, taxes, and interest, had been tendered and
was now in court.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson (a brief of Mr. Thomas Dent
being filed on the same side) argued contra, that the defendant, by
his tender, substantially confessed that he could not resist the
mortgage, but that his willingness to liquidate it pro tanto, by
showing a tender of a sum of money to the plaintiff some time
after the commencement of the suit, was no valid tender, that
the amount was insufficient, and that the whole mortgage-money
should be tendered. Independently of this, that such an attempt
to avoid an action of ejectment was unheard of; that'after condition broken, the mortgagor's rights were purely equitable,
and that he could obtain relief only in chancery.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is clear that the criterion by which the amount tendered'
was gauged was incorrect. To redeem property which has been
sold under a mortgage for less than the mortgage debt, it is not
sufficient to tender the amount of' the sale. The whole mortgage debt must be tendered or paid into court. The party offer
ing to redeem proceeds upon the hypothesis that, as to him, the
mortgage has never been foreclosed and is still in existence.
Therefbre he can only lift it by paying it. The money will be
subject to distribution between the mortgagee and the purchaser, in equitable proportions, so as to reimburse the latter
his purchase-money and pay the former the balance of his debt.
JUDGMENT

UNITED

STATES V.

AFFIRMED.

POWELL.

I. On a distiller's bond, given under the 7th section of the Internal Revenue
Act of July 20th, 1868 (15 Stat. at Large, 128), conditioned that the
obligors "shall in all respects comply with all the provisions (f law in
relation to the duties and business of distillers," the condition is prospective as well as present, and embraces such provisions of law relating

