DOLTON V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

nois, they are conclusive upon the rights of the parties to
this suit.
On the hypothesis that there was no judgment against
Craddock, it is clear that if he had conveyed the lot or any
part of it in 1858 (the date of the judgment against him),
without the waiver of the homestead, and then in October,
1863, conveyed it with the waiver (as he did), and then left
the premises (as he did), the deed of 1858 would bind the
land.
It follows equally, that the deed of 1863 with the clause
of the waiver, did not convey the absolute title to the west
half of the lot, because there was a de~d made by the law
under a judgment of 1858, and which operated (just as a
deed made by Craddock himself would have operated) upon
the west half a, soon as it ceased to be a homestead-that
is by abandonment. And this is true while conceding that
on neither hypothesis, that is deed without the waiver and
sale under the judgment, could Craddock's homestead right
be disturbed-his occupation of the lot.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

DOLTON V. CAIN.
1. Under the limitation laws of Illinois which declare in substance "that
whoever has resided on a traot of land for seven successive years prior to the
commencement of an action of ejeetment, hav.ng a connected title in law or
equity deducible of record from the State or the United States, can plead the
possession in bar of the suit," it is not necessary that the entire title of
the defendant be evidenced by acts of record. If the source or founda-

tion of the title is of record it is available to every person claiming a
legal title who can connect himself with it, by such evidence as applies
to the nature of the right set up.

2. If a party to a contract does all that it can be reasonably expected that
he will do, he will be considered in equity as having performed his part
of the contract so far as to come within the limitation laws above men-

tioned; as ex 9r., if a party bound to pay money to an agent of his creditor resident beyond seas, offer to pay it to one who was the agent of that
creditor, and Aho declines to receive it only boause he had heard ru-

Dec. 1871.]

DOLTON V. CAIN.
Statement of the case.

mors bf the principal's death, and had always been and.still is ready to
pay it to any one having authority to call for it.
8. Where A. in A.D. 1823 convoys to B., intrust for C., habendum "to the
said party of the second part his heirs and assigns," and B. dies in 1845,
and C. conveys in 1848, equity would find a way to protect C.'s grantees
against a deed made by B.'s heirs in 1864; supposing such a dead made
without undue influence, a supposition hard to make.
4. Where a power of attorney is made by husband and wife, French people
resident in France, to sell lands in Illinois,-the power, a long French
instrument with the usual verbiage of the style de notaire, speaking of the
lands as lands which 11Mr. and Madame," &c., own there-there being
evidence that the husband owned land there, but none that the husband
and wife did, the presumption is that the joinder of the wife was made
to alienate some supposed right of dower, and not to describe lands
owned by the wife and husband jointly, instead of by the husband alone;
this at least in favor of a bon fide purchaser, long in possession.
5. A mistake in the baptismal name of an obligor to a bond executed by his
attorney duly authorized to execute a bond in his right name, does not
vitiate the bond, the error being shown to be purely accidental.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Illinois; the case being this:
Certain statutes of limitation in Illinois,* declare in substance that whoever has resided on a tract of land for a term
of seven successive years, prior to the commencement of an
action of ejectment, " having a connected title in law or equity
deducible of record from the State or the United States,"
can plead the possession in bar of suit to dispossess him.
These provisions of limitation b6ing in force, Dolton sued
Cain, A.D. 1865, in ejetment, to recover a piece of land in
the State just named.

The plaintiff showed as title,
1st. A patent, A.D. 1818, from the United States to one
Stephenson for the land.
2d. A deed, A.D. 1820, from Stephenson to one McGuire.
3d. A deed, A.D. 1823, from McGuire "to Auguste
Thiriat, in trust for Ren6 Marie Ferdinand Jacquerart" (a
resident of Fvance), the habendum clause being thus:
"To have ard to hold the said premises with the appurteRevised Statutes of 1845,

8, chapter 24; Id. 2 8 and 11, chapter 66.

474

DOLTON V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the ease.

nances unto the said party of the second part, and his heirs and
assigns forever."
4th. The death of Thiriat in 1845, and of Ja-,quemart in
1848; no more particular dates being shown.
5th. Conveyance, A.D. 1864, by the heirs of both Thiriat
and Jacquemart, to Dolton (the plaintiff).
Title in Jacquemart having been, as above stated, shown
by the plaintiff, the defendant relied on:
1st. August 10th, 1847, a power of attorney, " each one
for themselves," from Reng Marie Ferdinand Jacquemart
and wfe; to F. R. Tillon and W. L. Cutting, with power of
substitution,'authorizing them to sell any lands in Illinois
"which Mr. and Madame Jaequernartat present own; and in
which the said constituents have interests, of any kind soever
to be protected," and " to sign the contracts of sale in the
respective names of the constituents."
2d. September 20th, 1847. A substitution by Tillon and
Cutting of one Cockle, to their power to sell, &c.
3d. Proof that on the 29th July, 1848, Cockle As attorney
for Jacquemart and wife, sold the land to Cain, the defendant,
for $300; of which $100 was to be paid down, and the residue secured by three notes, one for $68, at one year, and two
for $66 at two and three years respectively; that the $100
waspaid and the three notes given ; that contemporaneous
with the sale, he, Cockle, professing to act as attorney of Jean
Ferdinand Jacquemart (the name of Jean instead of Rena
Marie, having as Cockle himself testified, been sign ed " by
inadvertence and mistake," and "the intention having been
to execute the instrument in Jacquemart's true name,") executed and gave to Cain a bond for $600, reciting the sale
and the terms of it, and conditioned that if Cain paid the
notes on the days specified for their payment, and Jacquemart should upon such full payment of the purchase-money
execute and deliver to Cain a warranty deed with the usual
covenants, then the bond should be void; that the sale was
reported within a month to Tillon and Cutting,who alproved
it; that the first and second notes were paid as.they came

-Dee, 1871.]

:DOLTON V). CAIN.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

due, and with the $100 cash were devoted by Cockle to the
paying of taxes, on other lands of Jacquemart; that Cain
offered payment of the third note at its maturity, but that
Cockle refused to receive it, replying to Cain's offer to pay
it, that it was rumnored that Jacquetnart was dead; that Cain
had always been ready and willing to pay the note which
from the cause mentioned was remaining unpaid, but that
he did not know who was entitled to receivethe money.
4th. Proof that the defendant took possession of the land
very soon after his purchase, and had occupied it continuously by himself or his tenants from that time till the time
of'the suit brought (A.D. 1865), and for seventeen years had
paid taxes on it.
On the facts thus proved, the court belov decided that the
possession of Cain was protected by the limitation laws of
Illinois, already in substance stated, and gave judgment accordingly. From this judgment the plaintiff sued out the
present writ of error. The sole question in the case was,
whether the defendant, Cain, was within the protection of
these laws.
Mr. B. C. Cook, for the plaintiff in error:
Cain had no connected title deducible of record, either in
law or equity, to the premises in question. The title must
be connected; it must be deducible of record. Cain in fact
had no title in equity at all; though he may have had interest
in equity. No title in equity could have arisen until he had
paid all his notes, for not till then could he have come into
chancery and demanded a conveyance. He held, in short,
but that inchoate interest which might or might not ripen
into an equitable title. iReference by the court to decisions
of the Supreme Court of Illinois,* will show that no other
view can be taken consistently with them.
Further. All the claim that Jacquemart had to the land
arose from McGuire'p deed to Thiriat. That deed conveys
* Steele v. Magie, 48 Illinois, 397; Stow v. Steel, 45 Id. 328 i Nicoll v.
Ogden, 29 Id. 377.

DOLTON V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to Thiriat, in trust for Jacquemart indeed, but with a haben.
dum whose effect was obviously to give the estate to Thiriat
alone.-*
Then these lands, if Jacquemart's at all, were Jacquemart's alone. His wife did not have any ownership in them.
The bond was executed by him alone if by anybody. But
the power of attorney does not authorize the sale of the
lands of either Mr. or Madame Jacquemart alone, but only
the lands owned by them jointly.t
Finally, Renh Marie is quite a different name from Jean.
Mr. Jackson Grimshaw, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of, the court.
The limitation laws of Illinois relied on by the defendant,
in substance, declare that whoever has resided on a tract of
land for a period of seven successive years prior to the commencement of an action of ejectment, having a connected
title in law or equity deducible of record from the State or
the United States, can plead the possession in bar of the suit.
It is objected that the entire title of the defendant is not
evidenced by acts of record, but this is not necessary. If
the source or foundation of tile title is of record it is available to every person claiming a legal or equitable interest
under it who can connect himself with it by such evidence
as applies to the nature of the right set up.t
Is the right set up by Cain, then, within the purview of
the statute?
It is conceded to be, if the bond was executed under a valid
power of attorney, coupled with full payment of the purchase-money, and the obligor had the legal title to the land.
This concession was necessary, because it is too plain for
controversy that a union of these elements would constitute
a complete equitable title, which a court of chancery, on tho
*

Brown v. Combs, 6 Dutcher, 36.

t Dodge v. Hopkins, 14 Wisconsin, 630.
: Co'lins v. Smith, 18 Illinois, 163; Poage's Heirs v. Chinn's Heirs, 4
Dana, 4.

De(. 1871.].

DOLTON V.

CAIN.

Opinion of the court.

proper application, would perfect into a legal title. But
there are other principles by which an equitable title can be
tested, and, in their application to this case, relieve it of all
difficulty. If a party has done all that could reasonably be
expected of him to perform his part of the agreement, it
will be considered, in equity, as having been done. Cain is
within this condition. He purchased the land from Cockle,
paid him all he agreed to pay, except the sum of $66, and
this he was ready and willing to pay, but Cockle would not
receive it, on the plea that it was rumored his principal was
dead. Was not this offer equivalent to payment? What
more, under the circumstances of this case, would a court
of equity require? It would be a harsh rule to say that the
purchaser should lose his land because he did not institute
inquiry, in France, to ascertain whether the rumor of Jacquemart's death was well founded or not. There was no
revocation of the power, and Cockle was the proper person
to receive the money, unless Jacquemart were dead; and
there is nothing in the record to show that Cain ever received any information on the subject, except what was contained in the reply of Cockle when he offered to pay him
the money. Naturally a man in the predicament of Cain
would rest in security, until advised by Cockle that he could
safely pay the money to him, or until some one having authority called upon him for payment. This was never done;
and, after sixteen years' residence on the land, he is called
upon to surrender it because he did not employ unusual
means to ascertain the proper parties to whom the small
balance due on tie land should be paid. If there were no
limitation law in Illinois applicable to this case, the action
of ejeetment would, on proper application, have been enjoined until Cain could, through a court of equity, have perfected his title so as to make it available as a legal defence
in a court of law. If, then, Cain had such a title as a court
of equity would recognize and convert, by its decree, into a
legal title, it must be considered a title in equity within the
meaning of the statute. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive
what the law does mean by a title in equity if this be not

478

DOLTON, V: CAIN,

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

one. It must be something less than a legal title, else these
wordF in the statute can have no effect. The law was designed to protect both kinds of title 'like, and, unless equal
influence is extended to both, there is a practical repeal of
a portion of the statute. In no proper sense can it be said
that Cain broke his agreement. It is true he did not formally tender the money to Cockle, but this would have been
a useless act, as Cockle told him, on his application to pay,
that he could not receive the money. Besides, he had good
right to suppose, from what had previously occurred, that
the offer to pay Cockle'was as valid as the offer to pay
Jacquemart.
Why, theu,has not Cain, having shown a record foundation, brought himself within the scope of the statute?
It is urged, as an additional reason against this, that
Jacquemart (lid not own the legal title, because one of the
mesne conveyances made in 1823 was to Thiriat in trust for
Jacquernart. This is true, but Thip'iat died in 1845, and
Jacquemart; the beneficial owner of the land, assumed to
have the right to sell it in July, 1848, when he executed his
letter of attorney to Tillon and Cutting, with power of substitution. Nothing is heard from the heirs of Thiriat for a
period of nineteen years from the death of their ancestor,
when, in 1864, they convey, as do also the heirs of Jacquemart, the tract of land in controversy to the plaintiff After
such a lapse of time, in the absence of any proof on the
subject, it is difficult to resist the conclusion, that some
undue influence must have 'been used to procure these conveyances; but, be this as it may, the title of Cain is not less
an equitable one on account of them, and, if so, the statute
will not allow his possession, rightfully obtained and continued the requisite length of time, to be disturbed. Without discussing the eff ct of the deed of Thiriat's heirs, in its
application to this case, it is enough to say that a court of
equity, looking through forms to the substance of things,
would find a way to protect Cain's purchase.
It is urged, as an additional reason why this defence cannot prevail, that the bond is in the name of Jacquomart

Dec. 1871.]

CROSS V.

UNITED STATES.

Syllabus.

alone, while the power was to convey the joint property of
husband and wife. There would be some force in this position, if the original deed to Thiriat had been in trust for the
wife as well as the husband; but, as this was not the case, the
joinder of the wife could only have been intended to alienate
any supposed right of dower in the event that she sur'vived
her husband. She had no present title to the land, either
legal or equitable; and, although Cockle was empowered to
use her name, as well as her husband's, in any instrument
of sale he might execute, the failure to do so cannot, in any
event, operate to invalidate the bond for a deed which he
gave to Cain.
It is hardly necessary to notice the objection, that Jacquemart's name is incorrectly given in the contract of sale.
Cockle testifies that this was a. mistake, and it is the business
"of a court of equity to see that Cain is not harmed by it.
On the whole case we are of the o'inion that the defendant is within the protection of the limitation laws of Illinois, which he invoked for his defence, and which he had a
right to do for that purpose, although the title used to accomplish this object could not be employed by a plaintiff in
an action of ejectment, who can only recover when he has
the paramount legal title.
In conclusion, it is proper to state that we have examined
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, to which we
have been referred as affecting the question at issue, and do
not find anything decided which militates against the views
we have presented.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CROSS V.

UNITED STATES.

The government had leased from A. a warehouse for ten years, the rent

payable by instalments.

A. assigned his lease to B. and died.

B. sued

the government in the Court of Claims for certain instalments of the
rent which became due after the assignment. The Court of Claims dis-

mjssed the claim solely on the technical ground that the assignment of

