OCTOBER TERM, 2003

Syllabus

JOHNSON v. CALIFORNIA
CERTIORARI TO THE SUREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA
No. 03-6539.

Argued March 30, 2004-Decided May 3, 2004

In reversing petitioner's conviction, the California Court of Appeal held
that he was entitled to relief under California v. Wheeler, 22 Cal. 3d
258, 583 P. 2d 748, and Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79, but did not
determine whether his separate evidentiary and prosecutorial misconduct claims would independently support the conviction's reversal. The
State Supreme Court addressed only the Wheeler/Batson claim in reversing and remanding the case for further proceedings.
Held: The case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction. This Court's jurisdiction is limited to review of "[f]inal judgments ... rendered by the
highest court of a State in which a decision could be had." 28 U. S. C.
§ 1257. The instant case falls outside of the exceptional categories of
cases that can be regarded as "final" under § 1257 despite the ordering
of further proceedings. Because compliance with § 1257 is an essential
prerequisite to this Court's deciding a case's merits, the Court has an
obligation to raise any such compliance question on its own. However,
the Court is not always successful in policing this gatekeeping function
without counsel's aid. Part of the problem here was that the portion of
the State Court of Appeal's decision certified for publication addressed
the Wheeler/Batson claim, but the unpublished portion addressed petitioner's evidentiary claims to provide guidance for the trial court on
retrial. Petitioner appended only the opinion's published portion to his
certiorari petition. Had the full opinion been brought to this Court's
attention, it might have been more evident that the State Supreme
Court's decision was not final under § 1257. Attention to whether a
decision is indeed a "[f]inal judgmen[t]" is mandated by this Court's
Rules and will avoid expenditure of resources of both counsel and the
Court on an abortive proceeding such as this.
Certiorari dismissed. Reported below: 30 Cal. 4th 1302, 71 P. 3d 270.

Stephen B. Bedrick, by appointment of the Court, 540 U. S.
1102, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the
briefs was Eric Schnapper.
Seth K. Schalit, Supervising Deputy Attorney General of
California, argued the cause for respondent. With him on
the brief were Bill Lockyer, Attorney General, Manuel Me-

Cite as: 541 U. S. 428 (2004)
Per Curiam

deiros, State Solicitor General, Robert R. Anderson, Chief
Assistant Attorney General, Gerald A. Engler, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Laurence K. Sullivan, Supervising Deputy Attorney General.*
PER CURIAM.

We granted certiorari in this case to review a decision of
the Supreme Court of California interpreting Batson v.
Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79 (1986). 540 U. S. 1045 (2003). The
case was briefed and argued, but we now conclude that we
are without jurisdiction in the matter.
The California Supreme Court reversed the California
Court of Appeal's decision reversing petitioner's conviction.
30 Cal. 4th 1302, 71 P. 3d 270 (2003). The Court of Appeal
held that petitioner was entitled to relief under People v.
Wheeler, 22 Cal. 3d 258, 583 P. 2d 748 (1978), and Batson v.
Kentucky, supra. 105 Cal. Rptr. 2d 727 (2001). It also
noted petitioner's separate evidentiary and prosecutorial
misconduct claims, App. 87, but did not determine whether
those claims would independently support reversal of petitioner's conviction. The California Supreme Court addressed only the Wheeler/Batson claim, and, after reversing
on that ground, remanded "for further proceedings consistent with [its] opinion." 30 Cal. 4th, at 1328, 71 P. 3d, at 287.
Under 28 U. S. C. § 1257, our jurisdiction is limited to review of "[flinal judgments or decrees rendered by the highest court of a State in which a decision could be had." In
Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn, 420 U. S. 469 (1975), we
described four exceptional categories of cases to be regarded
*A brief of amici curiae urging reversal was filed for the NAACP Legal
Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., et al. by Elaine R. Jones, Theodore
M. Shaw, Norman J Chachkin, Miriam Gohara, Christina A. Swarns,
Steven R. Shapiro, Alan L. Schlosser, David M. Porter,BarbaraR. Amwine, Thomas J Henderson,Michael L. Foreman,Audrey Wiggins, Sarah
Crawford, and Barry Sullivan.
A brief of amicus curiae urging affirmance was filed for the Criminal
Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson.

JOHNSON v. CALIFORNIA
Per Curiam

as "final" on the federal issue despite the ordering of further
proceedings in the lower state courts. In a post-oralargument supplemental brief, petitioner argues that the
fourth of these categories fits this case. That category involves situations
"where the federal issue has been finally decided in the
state courts with further proceedings pending in which
the party seeking review here might prevail on the merits on nonfederal grounds, thus rendering unnecessary
review of the federal issue by this Court, and where
reversal of the state court on the federal issue would be
preclusive of any further litigation on the relevant cause
of action rather than merely controlling the nature and
character of, or determining the admissibility of evidence in, the state proceedings still to come. In these
circumstances, if a refusal immediately to review the
state-court decision might seriously erode federal policy,
the Court has entertained and decided the federal issue,
which itself has been finally determined by the state
courts for purposes of the state litigation." Id., at
482-483.
Here, petitioner can make no convincing claim of erosion of
federal policy that is not common to all decisions rejecting a
defendant's Batson claim. The fourth category therefore
does not apply. See Floridav. Thomas, 532 U. S. 774, 780
(2001). "A contrary conclusion would permit the fourth exception to swallow the rule." Flynt v. Ohio, 451 U. S. 619,
622 (1981) (per curiam).
The present case comes closest to fitting in the third Cox
category, but ultimately falls outside of it. That category
involves "those situations where the federal claim has been
finally decided, with further proceedings on the merits in the
state courts to come, but in which later review of the federal
issue cannot be had, whatever the ultimate outcome of the
case." Cox, supra, at 481. In the event that the California

Cite as: 541 U. S. 428 (2004)

Per Curiam

Court of Appeal on remand affirms the judgment of conviction, petitioner could once more seek review of his Batson
claim in the Supreme Court of California-albeit unsuccessfully-and then seek certiorari on that claim from this Court.
Compliance with the provisions of § 1257 is an essential
prerequisite to our deciding the merits of a case brought here
under that section. It is our obligation to raise any question
of such compliance on our own motion, even though counsel
has not called our attention to it. See, e. g., Mansfield, C. &
L. M. R. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. 5. 379, 384 (1884). But as the
present case illustrates, we are not always successful in policing this gatekeeping function without the aid of counsel.
Part of the problem was that the California Court of Appeal's decision was certified by that court for partial publication. It addressed the Wheeler/Batson claim in the published portion. 105 Cal. Rptr. 2d 727 (2001). In the
unpublished portion, the court briefly addressed petitioner's
evidentiary claims to provide guidance for the trial court on
retrial, and noted that it would not address whether petitioner's objections were properly preserved or consider petitioner's prosecutorial misconduct claim. App. 58. Petitioner
appended only the published portion of the California Court
of Appeal's decision to his petition for a writ of certiorari.
This Court's Rule 14.1(i) instructs petitioners to include,
inter alia, any "relevant opinions ... entered in the case" in

the appendix to the petition for certiorari. The full opinion
of the California Court of Appeal was not filed in this Court
until the joint appendix to the briefs on the merits was filed.
App. 58-112. Had the full opinion been brought to this
Court's attention, it might have been more evident to us that
the Supreme Court of California's decision was not final for
the purposes of § 1257.
A petition for certiorari must demonstrate to this Court
that it has jurisdiction to review the judgment. This
Court's Rule 14.1(g). And a respondent has a duty to "address any perceived misstatement of fact or law in the peti-

JOHNSON v. CALIFORNIA

Per Curiam

tion that bears on what issues properly would be before the
Court if certiorari were granted." Rule 15.2. Our Rules
also require that each party provide a statement for the basis
of our jurisdiction in its brief on the merits. Rule 24.1(e).
At all stages in this case, both parties represented that our
jurisdiction was proper pursuant to § 1257(a). Pet. for Cert.
1; Brief in Support 1; Brief for Petitioner 1; Brief for
Respondent 1.
It behooves counsel for both petitioner and respondent to
assure themselves that the decision for which review is
sought is indeed a "[f]inal judgmen[t]" under § 1257. Such
attention is mandated by our Rules and will avoid the expenditure of resources of both counsel and of this Court on
an abortive proceeding such as the present one.
We dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
It is so ordered.

