STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

in a manner differing from that given it by the state court?
How would it be a different question if the legislature had in
terms authorized the corporation to borrow currency only? In
either case the question would simply be a construction of the
state statute, in the one case from plain language used therein,
and in the other from a reading of the whole act and a
decision derived therefrom as to the actual meaning. of the
state law. In both cases the decision is entirely the same in
its nature, and in both it is a decision of a local question into
which there does not enter any feature of a Federal question.
The decision of this court that the bonds were on their face
solvable in money of the United States ivhat6ver its description, and were, therefore, valid, seems to me so plainly a decision as to the meaning of a contract in opposition to that
taken by the state court, where the decision of the latter
tribunal is conclusive upon us, that I cannot give assent to it.
I think the writ should be dismissed.

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 681.

Argued March 9, 1896.-Decided April 18, 1896.

On the trial of a person indicted for murder, although the evidence may
appear to the court to be simply overwhelming to show that the killing
was ift fact murder, and not manslaughter or an act performed in self
defence, yet, so long as there is evidence rplevant to the issue of man.slaughter, its credibility and force are for the jury, and cannot.be matter
of.law for the decision of the court.
A review of the evidence at the trial of the defendant (plaintiff in error)
in the court below shows that there was error in the refusal of the court
of the request of the defendant's counsel to submit the question of manslaughter to the jury.

THiE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Fred Beall for plaintiff in error.
.Mul .e filed a brief for same.

3r.

oseph P,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Atorney General Dickinson for defendants,
in error.
i.R.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was indicted in the United States Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Texas, at the term commencing on the 20th of November, 1893. The indictment charged
the defendant with the crime of murder in killing one Joe
Gaines on the 22d of August, 1893, in Pickens County, in the
Chickasaw Nation, in the Indian Territory, the same being
annexed to and constituting a part of the Fifth Circuit, and
annexed to and constituting a part of the Eastern District of
Texas for judicial purposes. The defendant was tried at the
Circuit Court held for the Eastern District of Texas in April,
1895, and was convicted by the jury of murder, as charged in
the indictment, and sentenced to be hanged. He then sued
out a writ of error from this court. It will be necessary to
notice but one exception taken by counsel for the plaintiff
in error, upon the trial. After the evidence was in, he requested the court to submit to the jury a charge upon manslaughter, " but the court refused to submit that issue to
the jury, to which action of the court in failing and refusing
to submit to the jury such charge, the defendant at the time
excepted."
The question is whether the court erred in refusing this
request. The evidence as to manslaughter need not be uncontradicted or in any way conclusive upon the question; so
long as there is some evidence upon the subject, the proper
weight to be given it is for the jury to determine. If there
were any evidence which tended to show such a state of facts
as might bring the crime within the grade of manslaughter,
it then became a proper question for the jury to say whether
the evidence were true and whether it showed that the crime
was manslaughter instead of murder. It is difficult to think
of a case of killing by shooting, where both men were armed
and both in readiness to shoot, and w-here both did shoot, that
the question would not arise for the jury to answer, whether

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the killing was murder or manslaughter, or a pure act of self
defence. The evidence might appear to the court to be simply
overwhelming to show that the killing was in fact murder,
and not manslaughter or an act performed in self defence,
and yet, so long as there was some evidence relevant to the
issue of manslaughter, the credibility and force of such evidence must be for the jury, and cannot be matter of law for
the decision of the court.
By-section 1035 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States it is enacted that "in all criminal causes the -defendant
may be found guilty of any offence, the commission of which
is necessarily included in that with which he is charged in
the indictment, -or may be found guilty of an attempt to
commit the offence so charged: Provided,That each attempt
be itself a separate offence." Under this statute the defendant
charged in the indictment with the crime of murder may be
found guilty of the lower grade of crime, viz., manslaughter.
There must, of course, be some evidence which tends to bear
upon that issue. The jury would not be justified in finding
a verdict of manslaughter if there were no evidence upon
which to base such a finding, and in that event the court
would have the right to instruct the jury to that effect.
Sparf v' United States, 156 U. S. 51.
The ruling of the learned judge was to the effect that, in
this case, the killing was either murder, or'else it was done
in the course of self defence, and that under. no view which
could possibly be taken of the evidence would the jury be at
liberty-to find the defendant guilty of manslaughter. The
court passed upon the strength, credibility and tendency of
the evidence, and decided as-a matter of law what it seems to
us would generally be regarded as a question of fact, viz.,
whether under all the -circumstances which the jury might,
from the evidence, find existed in the case, the defendant was
guilty of murder, or whether he killed the deceased, not in
self defence but unlawfully and unjustly, although without
malice. The presence or absence of malice would be the
material donsideration in the case,'provided the jury should
reject the theory of self defence, aid yet this question of fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

is, under the evidence in the case, determined by the trial
court as one of law and against the defendant.
A review of some of the evidence stated in the bill of
exceptions is necessary in order to discover whether there was
justification for this holding by the learned judge. It may be
-premised that we do not give very much of the evidence tending to show malice in the defendant and that which tended to
show an intentional and deliberate murder of the deceased by
him. We give only so much of the evidence as is necessary
to permit an intelligent view of the transaction and of that
portion of the evidence in addition which might be regarded
as tending to show that the defendant was only guilty of
manslaughter and not of murder. If there were some appreciable evidence upon that subject, its proper weight and credibility were for the jury.
There was evidence tending to show the following facts:
The deceased was a deputy United States marshal. One 3.
D. Davidson was a lawyer by profession and a commissionei
of the United States for one of the territorial courts. On the
22d of August, 1893, Davidson was at Paul's Valley in the
Indian Territory. He knew the defendant, and he was also
acquainted with Joe Gaines, .the deceased. Davidson saw the
defendant in the evening of that day at his (Davidson's) hotel.
A man named George Mitchell had been bound over by
Davidson, and had failed to give a proper bond, and Mitchell
came to him and asked if he would take John Stevenson, the
plaintiff in error, on the bond. Davidson told him he would
if Stevenson could justify. Mitchell left, and soon thereafter
brought Stevenson around, who told Davidson he had some
personal property -he didn't know what it was exactly but it did not amount to $500 above exemptions and liabilities. Davidson told-him he would have to schedule other
property, and plaintiff in error thought he ought to take a
farm he had, and did not like Davidson's refusal, and went
off. That same-night, after supper and about 9 o'clock, while
Davidson was talking with other persons, plaintiff in error
came to the door and commenced cursing and abusing Davidson, saying, as Davidson testified, "everything he could put

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

his tongue to," Stevenson left, still cursing, and went south,
and he could be heard as he went away cursing and swearing.
Gaines, the deceased, soon thereafter came in the room in the
hotel where Davidson was and asked what all "this racket
or fuss was about." Davidson told him, and -Gaines said, "I
will go and arrest him and stop him ;." he said he "would
arrest him and hold him until morning," and went out for
that purpose. Davidson heard some loud talking on the street
soon after, and went out of his house and saw Gaines and
Stevenson and a lady, whom he was told was Stevenson's wife,
standing on the platform in front of the hotel talking, and
Davidson passed by them and went on; he returned to the
hotel soon after this, and in about a half hour he heard two
shots fired, and Gaines, the deceased, got up and walked
across to the north side of the room where he and Davidson
were sitting, and picked up his pistol from a sewing machine,
where he.always kept it, and said he would go and "get him
and fasten him, and keep him in charge and not release him
any more." He then walked out of the house, and in about
two minutes two shots were heard. Davidson then started to
go, and some one prevented him; he soon afterwards saw
Gaines, the deceased, when brought to the hotel dead; he
had two wounds, one in his arm, the other in the breast; his
coat sleeve had the appearance of being powder burned. This
is the substance of Davidson's evidence.
"Anotherwitness says that soon after Gaines left Davidson's
room for the purpose of arresting Stevenson, he (Gaines) and
the plaintiff in error were seen together; it was about 9
o'clock, after dark; they were standing on the sidewalk .back
of Underwood's drug store; when the witness first heard
Stevenson speak the latter said, "Don't draw that pistol; if
you do I Will cut you." Stevenson and the deceased were
standing on the sidewalk then; the witness walked into the
middle of the street and said to Stevenson, "John, put up
your knife and go home and behave .yourself." They then
walked over to where the witness was, Stevenson holding
with his left hand to Gaines' right arm; Stevenson was
holding a knife in his right hand; after they came over to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

where witness was, "Stevenson turned the officer loose, and
as soon as he turned loose of Mr. Gaines and started off
Gaines drew his pistol on him, and told Stevenson to drop
his knife or he would kill him; he walked a step or two
towards Gaines." Witness said: "John, for God's sake
throw your knife down or he will kill you. Stevenson
dropped his knife and Gaines told me (the witness) to take
hold of him; I picked up the knife, and then took hold of
him; Gaines and defendant kept quarrelling; Gaines said,
'John, I am determined to take you;' and Stevenson said,
'All right, I will go with you.'" They went along quietly,
and witness went back to the drug store; he was there some
ten or fifteen minutes, and saw Stevenson and his wife go
back down the street from the direction of the hotel, and
heard defendant say, "Smith, give me your gun." Smith
told him he did not have any. Stevenson said, " I will go
home and get my Winchester and come back and I xill make
the son of a bitch hide out." In about thirty minutes after
this the witness heard two shots in quick succession at the
billiard hall; he opened the barber shop door and saw Gaines
lying in the street flat on his back; he gasped once after
witness got to him and died. This witness says that at the
time "Gaines threw his pistol down on Stevenson," at the
interview bad just before they separated and shortly before
the killing, "Stevenson had turned and was walking off from
Gaines, and while Stevenson had hold of the officer I heard
him -say to the officer, ' Don't draw that gun, or I will cut
you."
Immediately after the first altercation had taken place
between the parties, and they had separated, the plaintiff in
error went into a saloon and called for cider, and wanted
everybody to come up and drink; he made a general invitation. At that time he seemed, as the witness described it,
"to be excited and mad." He had his gun in several positions, and just before the killing had it in his right hand.
This was within a very few minutes after the first altercation
took place. While the plaintiff in error was still in the saloon,
and after he had given a general invitation to come up and

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cour

drink the cider, and while standing near the counter, the
deceased, in the language of one witness, "approached the
cider joint; he was coming very rapidly'; as he ran up to
the light he had his six shooter in both hands in shooting
posaion; he ran right up to the door without saying a word,
pushed the six shooter in, and fired; he fired instantly; he
did not halt a moment; he did not say a word. Immediately
after this I heard a report from the inside of the house; the
two shots were far enough apart that I could distinguish
between them; Gaines fired the first shot; I think the wound
in Gaines' arm was made when he had the pistol in both
hands; don't see how it could have been done otherwise."
Another witness testified, "The ball from Gaines' pistol
imbedded in the counter, missing Stevenson five or six
inches."
The testimony of another witness was as follows: "I was
in Paul's Valley the night of the shooting; I saw the deceased
at the-Underwood drug store about half an hour before the
killing; deceased said,' I thought I would stay a few minutes
and maybe Stevenson will come back;' he says, 'I ought to
have killed the son of a bitch when he was here awhile ago,
and if he comes back I am going to kill him.' I was at
Bandy's saloon; saw the deceased as he approached; saw one
shot fired; deceased came not in a run but in a kind of trot,
with his pistol in both hands; as he approached the door in
a trot he threw his pistol in and fired; he said.nothing; I did
not see where the defendant was standing at the time of the
shooting; lie had ordered cider just a moment before; I heard
two-shots close together; the first came from the pistol; -after
thatanother shot from the inside."
This is a portion of, but not all-, the evidence given upon
the trial tending to show the circumstances under which the
killing was done. Was there enough, in any view that could
be taken: of- such evidence, to require the submission of the
question, of 'manslaughter to a jury? We think there was,
and therequest of counsel for plaintiff in error to submit that
issue to the jury should have been granted. We do not mean
to intimate an opinion, as to what the jury ought to find upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

such evidence, taken in connection with all the other evidence
in the case, but it seems to us entirely clear that there was
enough to ask the jury to decide whether the killing was,
upon all the evidence in the case, murder or manslaughter.
The jury should have been permitted to determine the credibility of the evidence, as above detailed, and, if true, whether
the effect of the conduct of the deceased in shooting, as he
did, into the saloon, and considering all the circumstances
of the case, was such as naturally tended to and did excite
in the mind of the plaintiff in error a sudden passion, either
of rage or fear, and under the influence of which he fired the
shot and killed the deceased wilfully and unlawfully, but at
the same time without malice. If he thus fired the pistol,
would not a jury have the right to say that the consequent
killing was manslaughter instead of murder? Is it not clearly
a question of fact for a jury to determine just what the mental.condition of plaintiff in error was in.regard to malice?
MNanslaughter at common law was defined to be the unlawful and felonious killing of another without any malice, either
express or implied. (Wharton's American Criminal Law,
8th ed. ยง 304.) Whether there be what is termed express
malice or only implied malice, the proof to show either is 6f
the same nature, viz., the circumstances leading up to and
surrounding the killing. The definition of the crime given
by ยง 5341 of the Revised Statutes of the United States is
substantially the same. The proof of homicide, as necessarily
involving malice, must show the facts under which the killing
was effected, and from the whole facts and circumstances
surrounding the killing the jury infers malice or its absence.
Malice in connection with the crime of killing is but another
name for a certain condition of a man's heart or mind, and
as no one can look into the heart or mind of another, the only
way to decide upon its condition at the time of a killing is to
infer it from the surrounding facts, and that inference is one
of- fact for a jury. The presence or absence of this malice
or mental condition marks the boundary which separates the
two crimes of murder and manslaughter. As we have already
said, there may be a case of killing by shooting where the

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

facts necessarily show malice, but, taking all the evidence
in this case, we think it was one for the jury to determine
upon the issue of manslaughter.
In Brown v. United States, 159 U. S. 100, Mr. Justice HarIan, when speaking of an affray in which the plaintiff in error
was charged with having murdered a man, stated that "the
verdict of guilty of manslaughter or murder should not have
turned alone upon an inquiry as to the way in which the killing was done. The inquiry rather should have been, whether
at the moment the defendant shot there were present such
circumstances, taking all of them into consideration, including
the mode of killing, as made the tiking of the life of the deceased manslaughter and not murder." Who is to make the
inquiry, the court or the jury under proper instructions froh
the court? There might be cases where the uncontradicted
evidence was so clear and overwhelming of a deliberate purpose, involving malice, that a court might be justified in stating to the jury if they found the evidence to be true, they
ought to infer malice; but.this is not such a case.
In this case, the plaintiff in error was fresh from an altercation with the deceased, the one having a knife and the other
a pistol, and each had threatened to use his weapon upon the
other. The plaintiff in error, by reason, of the previous circumstances, was laboring under great excitement at the
saloon, and, as one of the witnesses says, "seemed to be mad."
The deceased came up to the saloon door and at once'shot his
pistol into the room, and the bullet came within a few inches
of the head of the plaintiff in error, who immediately fired
his rifle in the direction of the deceased. The ruling of the
trial judge in effect was to say that as matter of law there
was nothing in all this evidence, if true, which would permit
the jhry to find that the plaintiff in error when he fired his
rifle was so much under the influence of sudden passion,
caused by these circumstances and by this assault upon him,
as not to have been actuated by that malice which the law
defines as a necessary ingredient in the crime of murder. Is
it perfectly plain and clear, as a conclusion of law, that shoot-

ing at another under circumstances such as were detailed by
voL. CLX.II-21

OCTOBER TERMv.

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

some of the witnesses in this case can have no tendency to
raise within the mind of the person thus assaulted such a sudden passion of anger or terror as to deprive his subsequent
act of that malice which is, necessary to make it murder? If
it .is not to be so asserted as matter of law, then it becomes a
question of fact in such case, and that question must be answered by the jury. Whether the witnesses told the truth in
regard to such circumstances is not for the court to say, nor
is it for the court to decide upon the weight to be given to
them if proper for the consideration of the jury.
It is objected that while the evidence above set forth was
proper to be submitted to the jury upon the issue of self defence,
it was not of that character to even raise an issue as to the
grade of the crime, if the theory of self defence were not sustained. We do not see the force of the objection. The fact
that the evidence might raise an issue as to whether any crime
at all was committed is not in the least inconsistent with a
claim that it also raised an issue as to whether or not the
plaintiff in error was guilty of manslaughter instead of murder. It might be argued to the jury, under both aspects, as
an act of self defence and also as one resulting from a sudden
passion and without malice. The jury might reject the theory
of self defence, as they might say the shot from the pistol of
the deceased had already been fired and the plaintiff in error
had not been harmed, and, therefore, firing back was unnecessary and was not an act of self defence. But why should the
other issue be taken from the jury and they not be permitted
to pass upon it as upon a question of fact?
It seems to us quite plain, that an assault upon another by
means of firing a pistol at him, is naturally calculated to excite
some kind of passion in the one upon whom such an assault is
made. It might be one of anger or it might be terror. If
either existed to a sufficient extent to render the mind of a
person of ordinary temper incapable of cool reflection, it
might be plausibly claimed that the act which followed such
an assault was not accompanied by the malice necessary to
constitute the killing murder. Whether such a state of mind
existed in this case, and whether the plaintiff in erior fired the

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

shot under the influence of passion and without malice, cannot
be properly regarded as a question of law.
A judge maybe entirely satisfied from the whole evidence
in the case that the person doing the killing was actuated by
malice; that he was not ih. any such passion as to lower the
grade of the crime from murder to manslaughter by reason of
any absence of malice; and yet if there be any evidence fairly
tending to bear upon the issue of manslaughter, it is the province of the jury to determine from all the evidence what the
condition of mind was, and to say whether the crime was
murder or manslaughter.
It is also objected that as all the testimony is not set forth
in the bill of exceptions, it must be assumed there was some
which was given on the trial that would show there was no
issue of manslaughter in the case. The evidence which has
been returfied does, in our opinion, show the existence of such
an issue, and if there were other and further evidence of a different nature, which is not in the bill of exceptions, the question as to which should be credited was for the jury, and
should not have been taken from it by the court. The plaintiff in error may have been guilty of murder, there was certainly sufficient evidence on that issue to render it necessary
to submi it to the jury. W6 have no power and no inclination to pass upon that question of fact. We only decide that
the question as to the grade of the crime, Whether murder or
manslaughter, should have been submitted to the jury as well
as the question of self defence.
For the error idrefusing to do so, the judgment of conviction must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the court below with
instructions to grant a new trial.

