GIRARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER.

529

Statement of the Case.

GIRARD INSURANCE AND TRUST
COOPER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COMPANY v.

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 164. Argued March 23, 1896. -Decided

April 20, 1896.

A coal and railway company contracted with C. to construct a building for
it in the Indian Territory. After the work was begun a receiver of the
property of the company was appointed under foreclosure proceedings.
This building was not covered by the mortgage. C. was settled with for
work up to that time, and all further work was stopped, except such as
might be necessary for the protection of the building,.which was to be done
under order of court. -An order was issued for roofing, which C. did, and
then continued work on the building without further authority from the
court. The receiver, on learning this, notified him to stop and make out
his bill to date of notice; said that he would furnish designs for further
work to be done; and asked C. to name a gross sum for doing it. C.
stopped as directed, the designs were furnished, and C. named the desired
gross sum. No further order of court was named, lior was any contract
signed by the receiver; but the architect employed by the receiver drew
up a contract and specification, and the work was done by C. in accordance therewith with the knowledge and approval of the receiver. The
receiver having declined to sign the contract, or to make payments thereunder, C. filed a petition in the foreclosure proceedings for payment of
the amount due him. Thereupon a reference was made to a master, who
reported in favor of C. The court adjudged the claim to be a valid one,
entitled to preference, and the receiver was ordered to pay the amount
reported due ; which decree was, on appeal, affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Held, that there was no error in the court's ordering
C.'s bill to be paid as a preferred claim, as the work had been commenced
before the receivership and was done in good faith for the benefit of the
company and the receivers, and as the building must either have been
finished or the work already done become a total loss to the company;
that it appeared to have been constructed for the accommodation of the
officers of the road, and in other respects in furtherance of the interests
of the road, and was an asset in the hands of the receivers, which might
be sold, and the money realized therefrom applied to the payment of the
claim; and that the fact that it was not covered by the mortgage rendered it the more equitable that the prodeeds of the sale should be applied
to the payment of the cost of its construction.

THIS was a petition by the firm of W. H. Cooper & Son,
originally filed in the United Sta:tes court for the Indian
VOL. cLxIt-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Terkitory, against Edwin D. Chadick and Francis 1. Gowen,
receivers of the Choctaw Coal and Railway Company, a corporation created under the laws of the State of Minnesota,
with a right, among other things, to build and operate railways and to own and develop coal mines, and which had been
authorized by acts of Congress approved February 18, 1888, and
February 13, 1889, to construct a railway within the. Indian
Territory.
The company having become embarrassed, Chadick and
Gowen were, on January 8, 1891, appointed co-receivers, and
continued to act as such until August 28, 1891, when an order
was made giving said Chadick a leave of absence for one year,
and in the mean time vesting all the power of both receivers
in Gowen for the period named. In connection with the building and operation of its railway and the development of its
mining industries, the company, in May, 1890, undertook the
erection at South McAlester, in the Indian Territory, of a
building to be used as a hotel and offices for the company;
and on May 23, 1890, Chadick entered into a contract with
Cooper & Son for the furnishing of the greater part of the
work and material needed in the erection of the building,
which was called the Kali-Inla Hotel. This contract was
signed by W. H. Cooper & Son, and by H. W. Cox, architect,
for E. D. Chadick.
It seems that Chadick, at the instance of the board of directors, had gone before the Judiciary Committee in Congress,
and said that, if Congress would locate a United States court
at South McAlester, the company would provide accommodations for the court and its officers, free of cost to the United
States, and that Congress, accepting the proposition thus
made, designated South McAlester as one of the points for
holding court in the Territory.
At the beginning of the receivership (January 8) Cooper &
Son were settled with in full, and all work was to be stopped,
except such as was. necessary to protect the building, which
work was to be carried on under the order of the court.
Shortly thereafter, a petition was presented to the court for
permission to enter into a contract for the roofing of the

GIRARD INSURANCE COMPAIY v. COOPER.

531

Statement of the Case.

.building, to protect it from the weather, and an order to that
effect was obtained from the court before the work was begun.
This appears to have been the only order obtained for any
further work upon the building, but after this job had be6n
finished, Cooper & Son continued their work without further
authority from the 6ourt.
In June, 1891, :Mr. Gowen, learning that Cooper & Son had
continued working upon the building, wrote Mr. Cooper the
following letter, addressed to Cooper & Son, and signed by
both receivers:
"SouTH MOALESTER, IND. TEE., June 3, 1891.
"Messrs. W. H. Cooper & Son,
"South .MeAlester, I T.
"GENTLEmEN : Under direction of the court we notify you
to stop all work on the Kali-Ina Hotel from this date, and
make out your bill. for the work done .up to and including
to-day.
"We will then furnish you with designs and directions as
to the work to be done, ahd you will name a gross sum for
the performance of the same, which we will submit to the
court for their approval or disapproval.
" EDWIN D. CHADICK,
" FRANOis I. GOWEN,

"Receivers Choctaw Coal and Railway Co."
Upon receipt of this letter Cooper & Son ceased work upon
the building, and made out a bill or statement of the sum
then due them,, which was approved by the auditor of the
receivers.
On or about June 7; H.W. Cox, who acted for the receivers
as supervising architect, furnished Cooper & Son with details
and specifications, of the work required to be done to fit the
building for occupancy by the court and officers of the company, which Cooper & Son agreed to do, by letter written to
Mr. Chadick June 24, 1891, for the sum of $10,250, allowing
the company $2500 for the value of material on hand. Their
proposition was not formally accepted by the receitiers, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

no order of court was obtained authorizing it, but on July 7,
1891, a contract was prepared by Cox, to which were attached
certains plans and specifications. The contract was not signed
by any one, but the plans and specifications were signed by
W. H. Cooper'& Son and by "H. W. Cox, supervising architect," and the contractors proceeded with the work therein
called for, with the knowledge and approval of Chadick, the
receiver who then had immediate charge. of the work being
done on the railway line.
At the hearing, the master, whowas also clerk of the court,
stated that the plans and specifications were submitted to him
and to the judge of the court to see if the court apartments
suited them, and whether they had any suggestions as to the
arrangement of the rooms, but no order was made by the court
as to the price to be paid for the work, or as to the manner of
payment; and that neither he nor the court knew anything
as to what the price of the work was. The contract of July 7
was not signed, accepted or approved by either receiver, and
.was not submitted to Mr. Gowen until the 29th day of August,
1891, which was the first knowledge he had that any such
contract was in existence. Cooper then presented his contract,
to Mr. Gowen, as a prerequisite to his permitting the marshal
to take possession of the rooms which had been fitted up for
the clerk and marshal's offices. At this time Cooper did not
ask for any pay and was not promised any payment, and all
that he insisted upon was that his contract should be signed.
.Mr. Gowen refused to sign the contract because the work had
not -been authorized by the court, and because he was not
satisfied that the price named in the contract was proper and
reasonable, but promised Mr. Cooper that he would undertake
to ascertain whether the price named was a proper one; and
to this end .he secured the services of an architect, and had
him make a thorough examination of the building with a view
of determining the value of the work done and materials
furnished.
Cooper & Son made out their bills for the amount claimed
to be due them-for work done since June 3, which was certified as correct by the architect having supervision of the work

GIRARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER.

533

Statement of the, Case.

done in remodelling the building. , For the purpose of securing
payment of the sums claimed to be due them, the contractors
filed a petition in the foreclosure proceedings, setting forth
the facts and praying for an order upon the receivers, directing them to make payment of the sums claimed to be due,
and further praying that a lien in their favor be put upon the
building, and for other relief. To this petition Gowen, as
receiver, and the Girard Life Insurance, Annuity and Trust
Company, as trustee, filed answers, and thereupon the court,
on October 13, 1891, entered an order, which was drawn and
consented to by the receiver and the trustee of the bondholders, "that the claim of W. H. Cooper & Son be referred
to the master to take testimony thereon, and to ascertain the
amount justly and equitably due, as the true value of the work
done and the materials fufnished by them upon and for the
Kali-Inla Hotel building at South McAlester, and that receiver's certificates bearing 7% interest be issued and delivered to them for one third of the amount so found to be
due, and to sell and deliver in settlement thereof lumber at
the market price thereof for one third of said amount and the
balance in cash to be borrowed on certificates, as hereinafter
authorized."
Upon a hearing by the master in pursuance of this order
he made a report, finding a balance due Cooper & Son of
$14,919.37, and also made certain findings of fact and law
printed in the margin,' to which report appellants filed excepFINDINGS Or FACT.

"1. I find that the vouchers above mentioned are valid, and were issued
in good faith by agents of the receivers, having authority so to do; and
that W. H. Cooper & Son were given credit upon the books of said company for the amounts so vouchered, and were charged with such vouchers;
and that said amounts constitutedand bedame a debt from the receivers to
WV.H. Cooper & Son,.due and payable upon date of issuance.
"2. I find that the contract under and by virtue of which all work was
done and materials furnished upon Kali-Iula Hotel from and after June 3,
1891, and the specifications, plans and drawings furnished therewith were
executed, furnishdd and delivered by agents of the receivers having authority so to do, and under the special direction and approval of the receivers
themselves and this honorable court.

OCTOBER TERiM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tions. Cooper & Son thereupon moved the court to strike out
these exceptions, upon the ground that the report of the special master was conclusive upon the facts involved, and binding upon the receiver and also because the Girard Life
Insurance etc. Company was not a party to the proceeding
and had no interest therein.
Upon the hearing of this m6tion to strike the exceptions
"3. That the work performed and material furnished were so furnished
and performed by W. H. Cooper & Son hnder and by virtue of and in reliance upon the contract aforesaid, and that the receivers knew that said
W. H. Cooper & Son were so performing work and furnishing materials
under and by virtue of said contract, and in full reliance thereon; and with
such knowledge approved of the work of said Cooper & Son, and managed
and directed said Cooper & Son in the progress of said work, and have now
received the benefit of said work, and are in the possession of said hotel.
" 4. I find that said W. H. Cooper & Son did all of the work done under
the contract of July 7, 1891, in strict accordance with the details, plans and
specifications furnished them with said contract by said receivers, and are
entitled to the contract price.
" 5. Further, that the extra work charged for was done under and by
virtue of a provision in said contract, and at the suggestion of the supervising architect, furnished by the receivers, and with his approval; and
that the prices charged for such extra work and materials furnished are
reasonable and true.
"F

INDINGS OF LAW.

1. I find, as a matter of law, that the vouchers hereinbefore mentioned
are in the nature of accounts stated, and having been acquiesced in by both
parties cannot now be impeached by either party except through allegation
and proof of fraud or mistake.
"2. I find, as a matter of law, that the receivers having had full knowl,edge of the fact that W. H. Cooper & Son were doing work and furnishing
materials on Kali-Inla Hotel, in reliance upon contract of July 7, 1891, and
that the receivers .having encouraged and countenanced their work thereunder and furnished them with a supervising architect to superintend the
same, and that the receivers having received and gone into possession
thereof, are now estopped from denying their obligations to said Cooper &
Son under said contract, and that their only defence to that part of the
claim of sdid Cooper & Son is in showing that the work performed by said
Cooper & Son and materials furnished by them were not in accordance with
the details, plans and specifications attached to said contract.
"WILLIAM

NELSON,

"S1pecial Master."

GIRARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER.

535

Argument for Appellants.

from the files, the court held that the order of October 13,
1891, was.conclusive as to the validity of the claim of Cooper
& Son, and the court, having referred the claim to a special
master with instructions to find the amount due, and having
further ordered that the receiver should pay the amount so
found to be due, granted the motion and entered a final
decree in favor of Cooper & Son against the receivers in the
sum of $14,749.45, costs and interest.
A rehearing having been demanded by the receivers and
also by the Girard Life Insurance &c. Company, and denied,
they appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, by which court the case was heard and the decree of
the court beloiv affirmed, with costs, in so far as it awarded,
judgment for the sum therein named,. and the case was remanded with directions "to enter an order directing the mode
and time of payment, such as the court may be advised is
required by the equities of the case, in conformity with the
opinion of this court." 4 U. S. App. 631.
Whereupon the Life Insurance Company and the acting
receiver appealed to this court.
Mr. Samuel Dickson. (with whom was Mr. J. W. McLeod
on the brief,) for appellants.
In view of the statement of the master and of the acts of the
parties, it is indisputable that the court never gave precedent
authority to accept and execute the contract, and with all deference to the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is submitted with great
confidence that one of the receivers, at least, never assented
to the contract. Under these circumstances, the contention
of the trustee and of Mr. Gowen was most reasonable... No
attempt was made to throw out the claim altogether, and all
that was asked was that only so much should be charged upon
the trust estate as was justly and equitably due, or, in other
words, that the recovery should be upon the basis of quantum

meruit.
This was the basis adopted in the leading case of Vanderbilt v. Little, 43 N. J. Eq. 669, where a most elaborate opin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellants.

ion was delivered by Mr. Justice Magie, and the contract
reformed and compensation allowed upon an equitable basis.
This case is cited with approval by Mr. Justice Jackson in
Chicago .Deposit Co..v. .alulta,
153 U. S. 554, and fully
justifies the position- taken by the appellants before the
master and in the courts below.
As the claimants haye refused to accept compensation upon
the basis of what their work was actually worth, it seems entirely proper and justifiable to point out that they are not
legally entitled to anything. The ruling in -Fosdickv. Schall,
99 U. S. 235, which displaced liens of record in favor of certain equitable claimants, was avowedly made as an innovation,
and was justified upon the score of necessity. Acting under
its authority, courts having supervision of receivers have felt
warranted in sanctioning expenditures in the way of railroad
extensions and betterments, which have resulted in sweeping
away the entire corpus of the mortgaged property, which the
courts had undertaken to conserve an.d protect.
It is not proposed to question the plenary power of the
court where the addition or betterment is strictly appurtenant
to the mortgaged property and the fruit of the expenditure
becomes subject to the lien of the mortgage. . In the land
grant cases, of which the St. Paul and Pacific is a type, the
precedent set by Judge Dillon may be technically justifiable,
though in many cases the practical result has been most disastrous, as in the .Miltenberger case, 106 U. S. 286; or in
Stanton v. Alabama & Chattanooga Railroad, 2 Woods, 506,
where the receivers' certificates authorized to complete the
road to Chattanooga exceeded the value of the entire road.
But the captain cannot put a bottomry bond on the ship to
carry out a contract having no relation to the vessel, and the
court below had no power to spend the money of the mortgage creditors of a railroad to build an hotel or court house
upon land belonging to others, and to which the railroad
company and the receivers had no title. If the judge had
even proceeded judicially, and received testimony and called
upon the receivers to justify the proposed construction, he
might, perhaps, have elicited and found facts to warrant his

GIRARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER.

537

Opinion of the Court.

action, but it appears affirmatively, on the record, that the
question of cost and the terms and conditions of the contract were never considered, and no action in court was ever
taken. Something more than this is necessary to warrant
the diversion of trust funds and the cancellation of liens of
record.
The language of Mfr. Justice Brewer in Kneeland v. American Trust Co., 136 U. S. 89, 97; of Mr. Justice Blatchford
in Union, Tust Co. v. Illinois Midland Railway, 117 U. S.
434, 477; and of Mr. Justice Jackson in Chicago Deposit Tault
Go. v. Mc.aluita, 153 U. S. 554, has been understood to mean
that mortgage securities are not to be postponed or confiscated except in cases of overruling necessity, ascertained and
adjudicated after careful examination and patient hearing.
No such necessity did, in fact, exist in the present case; but
if it did, it was fiever made to appear, and-was never judicially adjudged and decreed.
Xr. Arthur G. Moseley for appellees.
M . JUSTIcE BRowN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
There can be no doubt of the correctness of the master's
finding with regard to the work done by Cooper & Son prior
to June 3, 1891. This work was done under a contract made
May 23, 1890, between Cooper & Son and Chadick, who was
at the time general manager of the Choctaw Coal and Railway Company, and who, by authority of the board of directors, had arranged. with the Judiciary Committees of Congress
for the location of the United States court at South McAlester, upon condition that the company would provide the
officers of the court, free of all cost, yith suitable quarters.
While the contract was not signed by Chadick, but by Cox,
the architect, it was so signed under special authority from
Chadick, and it provided that the work was to be done to the
satisfaction and under the supervision of the architect. Bills
were rendered for this work, which were certified by the chief
engineer and assistant manager-of the company. Mr. Chadick

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

testified that the appellee's claim for this work is just and correct, and in a letter of June 19, he says that he is unable to
settle the amount due, but expects to be able to do so early
in July. It is true that the company, in December, 1890,
was put into the hands of receivers; but, with full knowledge
of all that was being done, they allowed the work to continue
without interruption, until June 3, 1891, and were justly held
to be liable for what had been done up to that time, according to the terms of the contract. A settlement appears to
have been had on January 8, and some of the subsequent
work was done without a prior order of the court, but no objection was ever made to it by the receivers upon that ground
prior to June 3 when the work was stopped.
The principal matter in dispute relates to the proper interpretation of the order of October 13, 1891, referring the
claim of Cooper & Son to the master, "to ascertain the
amount justly and equitably due as the true value of the work
done and materials furnished," and to the refusal of the master, under the terms of this order, to permit the appellants to
prove the cost and value of the building, without reference to
any contract. In this connection, the master found that the
contract under which the work was done was executed by
agents of the receivers, having authority so to do, and under
special direction and approval of the receivers themselves, and
of the court; that the worli was performed and materials furnished in reliance upon this contract; that the receivers knew
of this, and with such knowledge approved of this work, received the benefit of it, and took possession of the hotel; and
also that the work was done in strict accordance with the
plans and specifications. While the findings of the master in
this particular are not absolutely binding upon the court, there
is a presumption in their favor, and they will not be set aside
or modified in the absence of some clear error or mistake.
Camden v. Stuart, 144 U. S. 104, 118.
On June-3 the receivers ordered the work to be stopped,
and a bill to be rendered for what had been done up to that
time, saying that the receivers would " then furnish you with
designs and directions as to the work to be done, and you

GIRARD INSURANICE COMPANY v. COOPER.

539

Opinion 6f the Court.

will name a gross sum for the performance of -the same, which
we will submit to the court for their approval or disapproval."
The matter rested here until June 23, when, as the result of
a conference between Mr. Cox, the architect, and Major Nelson, the master in chancery, the receiver addressed the following letter to Cooper & Son:
"GENTLEmEN: We have been advised by Maj. William Nelson, master, of the following order of the United States court:
'You are hereby directed to finish up court-room, 41 the offices on lower floor of hotel building, and also such rooms on
the second floor as may be necessary, in accordance with estimates to be hereafter furnished."'
-Inthe meantime, and in consequence of the same conference,
Chadick instructed the architect, Mr. Cox, to make the plans
'and specifications of what was required for the accommodation
of the court, and send them up to Muscogee for the inspection of Major Nelson, the master. He sent thom there on
June 6. The master appears to have submitted them to the
judge and marshal, who approved of them, and directed the
work to be done, though no order of court was entered to that
effect, and no question of price was considered, this matter
being left to the receivers. Upon the return of these plans
and specifications to Mr. Cox, .the architect, he drew up a contract in compliance with them, sent one copy to Mr. Cooper,
with specifications annexed, and another copy to Mr. Chadick's office. Cooper & Son, who appear to have already seen
the plans and. specifications, addressed Mr. Chadick a letter
under date of June 21, agreeing to do the work for $10,250.
Chadick testified that his recollection was that the receivers
accepted the proposition, though he seems never to have
formally answered the letter. But however this may be, a
contract was drawn up bearing date July 7, and signed by
Cooper & Son, and by Cox, as supervising architect, not at
the foot of the contract itself, but at the end of the specifications, which followed the contract. Mr. Cox testified that
Chadick ordered the work to go ahead, and knowing the
amount, he inserted it in the contract; that Mr. Chadick came

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to the building after this, told him what the court wanted
and approved of, and ordered him to go ahead with it. In
the same connection, Chadick testified that the contract was
drawn up by Cox and submitted to him; that he approved it,
not formally, because Mr. Gowen was not there, but looked
it over and thought it was just and right. Mr. Cox was the
supervising architect, appointed first by the manager and continued by the receivers, and all the contracts for buildings
and specifications for buildings before this had been drawn by
him. This was in the ordinary line of his business and duty.
"I knew that Mr. Cooper was working upon this building
'in reliance on this contract and in accordance with its terms;
I supposed these specifications would govern the settlement
of it; Mr. Gowen knew of this contract at the time; he was
present when it was given to me in the early part of July."
Mr. Cooper also testified that he made his bid in compliance
-with directions.from Mr. Chadick; that he, Chadick, accepted
it and told him to go to work, which he did, and completed
the work according to the contract, plans and specifications
furnished him by Mr. Cox. It further appears that after the
contract was completed a bill was made out showing an
amount due of $11,092.71, and that ir. Cox certified to the
correctness of the account.
In this connection Mr. Gowen, the principal witness for the
appellants, states that, shortly after his appointment, permission was asked of the court to enter into a contract for the
roofing of the building, and an order procured to that effect,
and that he concurred in the making of a contract for this
work; that he gave the matter no further consideration until
March, when his attention was called to the fact that the
inside work was still going on; that he then called Mr. Chadick's attention to the matter, who said that nothing was
being done beyond making the building weathertight, and
undertook to have authority procured to do the necessary
work in closing the building. Subsequently, upon Chadick's
representations that their offices were so cramped as to greatly
interfere with the efficient transaction of business, he agreed
to tle -fitting up of quarters in the hotel building, and after

GIRARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

consulting as to the amount of room required, Chadiok undertook to secure the necessary order of the court.
Upon the occasion of his next visit, which was in the ladter
part of May, he learned that the work was still progressing,
and had an altercation with Mr. Chadick upon the subject, in
which he reminded him that he had undertaken to have the
work entirely stopped, to which Mr. Chadick stated that he
thought he would be able to make an advantageous use of the
building upon its completion, and that he had assumed the
responsibility for the continuance of the work, although against
Mr. Gowen's wish. The result of this conversation was the
stoppage. order of June 3, which was designed to prevent
Cooper's entering into any further arrangement without his
concurrence and the prior approval of the court. He further
stated that he never saw or heard of the letter. of June 24 of
Cooper & Son, proposing to do the work for $10,250, although
he knew and saw that work upon the court-rooms and offices
was going on, and was informed by Mr. Chadick that this
was being done by direction of the court; and that he believed
that Cooper was going on with the work without furnishing an
estimate or making any contract, as had been the case heretofore, and felt certain that Mr. Cooper would not be allowed
any excessive sum; that the first intimation he had of the
existence of the contract was on August 29, when he was
asked to sign such contract as a prerequisite to Mr. Cooper's
allowing the marshal to take possession of the rooms fitted up
for the court and its officers; he declined to sign the contract;
never promised to pay Mr. Cooper the amount claimed, because he was not satisfied that the price named therein was a
proper one, and that he subsequently obtained an appraisement
by builders of his own employment, who reported that the
charges were grossly excessive. He further stated that he
never gave Mr. Cox authority to bind the receivers by estimates or contracts such as this
It seems that, near the end of August, when Mr. Cooper
had this conversation with Mr. Gowen, he was told there was
going to be a change in the administration; that Gqwen
was going to take charge as managing receiver; that he was

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

reluctant to turn over the building until he had some assurances of -his money, and so notified the receivers; but, as he
says, upon the assurance of Mr. Gowen that it would be only
a matter of a few days when he would have his money, he
allowed them to take possession of the building. The statement in this particular is confirmed by McLoud, the attorney
of the Insurance Company, who advised Mr. Cooper that he
would lose no right by giving up possession of the building.
On October 8, this petition was filed, alleging that the work
subsequent to June 3 was done by virtue of direct authority
from Messrs. Chadick and Gowen and Major Nelson, the
master in chancery, and in compliance with the specifications
signed by Cooper & Son and Cox. The answer of Gowen
denied the contract of July 7, though it admitted an arrangement made with Mr. Chadick, with the approval of the judge
and special master, to make certain alterations and additions
to the hotel building, to fit it up for a court-room and the
rooms necessary for the officers of the court.
In this state of the case, and on October 13, Mr. Gowen, as
receiver, and the Life Insurance Company, by its attorney,
appeared before the court and submitted to it the so-called
Ardmore order, which was entered by the court with. the
consent of all the parties. This order, upon its face, is undoubtedly susceptible of the interpretation put upon it by the
appellants, and authorized the master to receive testimony as
to the actual value of the work done and materials furnished,
irrespective of any contract between the parties; and yet in
view of the antecedent facts it does not seem probable that
the court thereby intended to rule out all evidence of the contract. The petition of Cooper & Son relied upon their arrangement with Chadick as a contract. The answer denied the
-contract,and under these allegations it can scarcely have been
intended by Cooper & Son to waive entirely the benefit of
such contract, if it existed. In fact, it would appear that,
prior to this order, it had been determined by the court that
such contract was made, since in the final decree, which was
entered on January 19, 1892, it is said "that in the order
there made October 13, 1891, the court, upon the evidence then

GIRARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER.

543

Opinion of the Court.

adduced, recognized and declared the validity of the claim of
W. H. Cooper & Son," and that it was not the intention of the
court to confine Cooper & Son to a quantum meruit is patent
from the further clause of such decree, "that it being stated
by receivers that they were entitled to certain credits upon
said account, the court referred the said claim to the special
master, with instructions to ascertain the amount due upon
said claim, the validity of which had been adjudged by the
ourt."
If such contract existed, was within the competency of the
parties, and was proven to the satisfaction of the court, it
superseded the necessity of introducing testimony as to the
actual value of the work done.
We think the testimony fully justified the master in his
finding that a contract had been made with Mr. Chadick for
the work. The stoppage order of June 3 indicated an intention on the part of the receivers to furnish Cooper & Son
with further designs and directions as to the work to be done,
for which work they anticipated a bid, and agreed to submit
the same to the court for its approval or disapproval. Within
a few days thereafter,, plans and specifications, furnished by
the architect of the receivers, with a notice that the court had
ordered the court-room, all the offices on the lower floor of the
hotel building, and also such rooms on the second floor as might
be needed, to be finished up, were sent to Cooper & Son; and
after an examination of the plans and specifications, they made
a bid for a certain amount, which Chadick, acting for the receivers, accepted verbally. Cooper & Son thereupon signed
the plans and specifications, with the architect, and proceeded
to do the work in reliance upon the contract. Whether the contract'was actually sigded by the receivers was quite immaterial, so long as the terms of the contract were agreed upon and
understood between the parties, and, as observed by the court
below, "when Cooper & Son were directed to proceed with
the wo.k called for by the plans, the contract between the
parties was closed, and the preparation and signing of a formal writing would only have called into existence additional
evidence of the fact."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said, however, that the contract being for the construction of a large building, not necessary to the company in
the conduct of its regular business, and upon land which did
not belong to the company and was not covered by the lien
of the mortgage, was such a one as required a prior order of
the court, and that no such order was given in this case.
Assuming this to be so, the objection is a purely technical one.
It appears that the plans and -specifications were laid before
the judge and other officers of the court; were approved by
them, and the work directed to be ,done, though no order of
the court was formally entered. Subsequently, the court,
with full knowledge of the facts, and "upon evidence then
adduced," declared the validity of the claim and referred it to
the master to ascertain the amount due. We think this is a
sufficient ratification of the act of -Mr. Chadick in directing
the work to be done; and, so far as the price is concerned, his
action, or that of his authorized agent, Cox, is binding in the
absence of fraud or mistake. It certainly would have been
more satisfactory if the court had been fully informed of the
terms of the contract, and especially of the price to be paid,
and had given the receiver the requisite authority before he
entered into it, but it was a question for the court whether it
should not leave the price to be determined by the discretion
of the receiver.
In the very case of Vanderbilt v. Qentral Railroad Co.,
43 N. J. Eq. 669, so strongly relied upon by appellants, it was
remarked in the opinion of the court, p. 684::
"It must have been contemplated that in the performance
of those multifarious duties some degree of discretion might
be accorded to the receiver. Whether a power to exercise
such discretion -would not be assumed to exist in every case
without a special order need not be considered, for it is clear
that the chancellor may accord such discretionary power to a
receiver by a general order- such as was made in this
cause.

.

.

"If the contract has been completely performed and its performance accepted by the receiver, and the claim is merely
for compensation, relief of that nature would seem necessarily

41RARD INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOPER,

545

Opinion of the Court.

to be awarded, unless the applicant. should appear to have
dealt fraudulently or collusively with the receiver to the detriment of the trust. Even if, in the j~udgment of the chancellor, the contract was improvident and unreasonable, unless
the contractor should appear to have contracted with notice
of the improper character of the contract, no just reason could
be given for debarring him.from the agreed-on compensation
which the receiver might, for his negligence or misconduct, be
required to repay to the fund."
The work done having thus received the sanction and
approval of the court, it can make no difference, so far as
the legal aspect of the case is concerned, whether the contract was executed by one or both of the receivers. Indeed,
in view of the fact that two or more receivers of a railway
are frequently appointed who sometimes reside at considerable distances from each other, we are unwilling to say that
a contract may not lawfully be made by one of such receivers, which shall be binding upon the estate. The necessities of the case may sometimes require that contracts of a
local character shall be made, where it is inconvenient, or
perhaps impossible, to obtain the consent of the other receiver. So, if by arrangement between themselves one is
constituted managing receiver, his authority may have a
broader scope and may approximate to that of a sole receiver. Mr. Chadick may have made an injudicious bargain
in agreeing to pay $10,250 for the job, but so long as no bad
faith is imputed to him and no fraud or mistake is charged,
it is difficult to see how the company can escape payment.
The contract having been fully performed, evidence of the
actual value of the work and materials was irrelevant, and in
this view of the case the master did not err in ruling it out:
and holding the receivers to the contract. "The true value
of the work done and materials furnished" may -b6, with
entire appropriateness, said to be the value which the parties
have deliberately and knowingly put upon them, and "the
amount justly- and equitably due" the contractor under such
circumstances is the amount which the receiver has promised
to pay him. In addition to this, there was extra work perYOL. CLxII-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

formed by Cooper & Son, the amount of which was to be
determined upon the principles of quantum nmeruit, as to
which work this language was especially applicable.
The fact that the court did not direct the computation to
be made irrespective of the contract, and that it subsequently
recognized the validity of the claim and directed it to be
paid, is inconsistent with the idea that it did not intend
that the contract should be respected. If Mr. Gowen, who
appears to represent more particularly the interests of the
bondholders and knew the work was being done, had desired
to know the terms upon which Cooper & Son were doing the
work, he might easily have informed himself, as he had
done before, and called the attention of the court to the
matter, when it may be assumed the court would have
protected his rights. His testimony that he did not suppose
the work was being done under contract is somewhat inconsistent with his stoppage order of June 3, which plainly
contemplated a contract for future work.
There was no error in the court ordering the bill of Cooper
& Son to be paid as a preferred claim. The work had been
commenced before the receivership and was done in good
faith, for the benefit of the company and the receivers. The
building must either have been finished or the work already
done become a total loss to the company. It appears to
have been constructed for the accommodation of the officers
of the road, and in other respects in furtherance of the -interests of the road, and is an asset in the hands of the receivers,
which may be sold, and the money realized therefrom applied
to the payment of the claim. The fact that it is not covered
by the mortgage renders it the more equitable that the proceeds of this sale shall be applied to the payment of the cost
of its construction.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

