TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE CO1V. COM.

197

Syllabus.

withholding judgment in such a matter until an issue shall be
made and the facts found, itself fixes a rate, that rate is prejudged by the Commission to be reasonable.
We prefer to adopt the view expressed by the late Justice
Jackson, when Circuit Judge, in the case of the Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.,
43 Fed. Rep. 37, and whose judgment was affirmed by this
court, 145 U. S. 263:
"Subject to the two leading prohibitions that their charges
shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that they shall not
unjustly discriminate, so as to give undue preference or disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the act
to regulate commerce leaves common carriers as they were at
the common law, free to make special contracts looking to
the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust
and apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities of commerce, and generally to manage their important interests
upon the same principles which are regarded as sound, and
adopted in other trades and pursuits."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
ffirmed.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 821.

Argued January 29, 30, 1896. -Decided

March 30, 1896.

The Interstate Commerce Commission is a body corporate, with legal capacity to be a party plaintiff or defendant in the Federal courts.
The Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York had jurisdiction
of the acts complained of in this suit.
The Southern Pacific Company, although a proper, was not a necessary
party to this suit.
In enacting the interstate commerce acts Congress had in view, and intended to make provision for commerce between States and Territories,
commerce going to and coming from foreign countries, and the whole

OCTOBER TER',

1895.

Syllabus.
field of commerce except that wholly within a State; and it conferred
upon the Commission the power of determining whether, in given cases,
the services rendered were like and contemporaneous, whether the respective traffic was of a like kind, and whether the transportation was
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions.
If the Commission has power, of its own motion, to promulgate general
decrees or orders, which thereby become rules of action to common carriers, such exertion of power must be confined to the obvious purposes
and directions of the statute, since Congress has not granted it legislative powers.
Tie action of the defendant company in procuring from abroad, by steamship connections, through traffic for San Francisco which, except for
the modified through rates, would not have reached the port of New
Orleans, and in taking its pro rata share of such rates, was not of itself
an act of " unjust discrimination" within the meaning of the interstate
commerce act.
In construing the terms of a-statute, especially when the legislation is
experimental, courts must take notice of the history of the legislation,
and, out of different possible constructions, must select the one that best
comports with the genius of our institutions.
In enacting the statutes establishing the Interstate Commerce Commission,
the purpose of Congress was to facilitate and promote commerce, and
not to reinforce the provisions of the tariff laws; and the effort of the
Commission to deprive inland consumers of the advantage of through
rates, seems to create the mischief which it was one of the objects of
the act to remedy.
The conclusions of the court, drawn from the history and language of the
acts under consideration, and from the decisions of the American and
the English courts, are:
(1) That the purpose of the act is to promote and facilitate commerce
by the adoption of regulations to make charges for transportation
just and reasonable, and to forbid undue and unreasonable preferences or discriminations;
(2) That in passing upon questions arising under the act, the tribunal
appointed to enforce its provisions, whether the Commission or
the courts, is empowered to fully consider all the circumstances
and conditions that reasonably apply to the situation, and that, in
the exercise of its jurisdiction, the tribunal may and should consider the legitimate interests as well of the carrying companies as
of the traders and shippers, and in considering whether any particular locality is subjected to an undue preference or disadvantage the welfare of the communities occupying the localities where
the goods are delivered is to be considered as well as that of the
communities which are in the locality of the place of shipment;
(3) That among the circumstances and conditions to be considered, as
well in the case of traffic originating in foreign ports as in the
case of traffic originating within the limits of the United States,

TEXAS & PAC.RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 199
Statement of the Case.
competition that affects rates should be considered, and in deciding whether rates and charges made at a low rate to secure foreign freights which would otherwise go .by other competitive
routes are or are not undue and unjust, the fair interests of the
carrier compauies and the welfare of the community which is to
receive and consume the commodities are to be considered;
(4) That if the Commission, instead of confining its action to redressing on complaint made by some particular person, firm, corporation, or locality, some specific disregard by common carriers of
provisions 'of the act, proposes to promulgate general orders,
which thereby become rules of action to the carrying companies,
the spirit and letter of the act require that such orders should
have in view the purpose of promoting and facilitating commerce,
and the welfare of all to be affected, as well the carriers as the
traders and consumers of the country.
The mere fact that in this case the disparity between through and local
rates was considerable did not warrant the Circuit Court of Appeals in
finding that such disparity constitutes an undue discrimination, especially as that disparity was not complained of by any one affected thereby.
THIs was an appeal from a decree of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, affirming a
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, filed October 5, 1892.
The original bill of complaint was brought by the'Interstate Commerce Commission, created by virtue of an act of
Congress, entitled "An act to regulate commerce," approved
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by an act
approved February 10, 1891, c. 128, 26 Stat. 743, against the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company, a corporation chartered
and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the United
States, having its principal office at New York City.
The object of the bill was to compel the defeiidant company to obey an-order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made on January 29, 1891, whereby the said defendant
was ordered to "forthwith cease and desist from carrying any
article of imported traffic shipped from any foreign port
through any port of entry of the United States, or any port of
entry in a foreign country adjacent to the United States, upon
through bills of lading destined to any place within the
United States, at any other than upon the inland tariff covering other freight from such port of entry to such place of des-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tination, or at any other than the same rates established in
such inland tariff for the carriage of other like kind of freight,
in the elements of bulk, weight, value and expense of carriage;" and which order the said defendant was alleged to
have wholly disregarded and set at naught.
It appears by the bill that on March 23, 1889, the Commission, of its own motion and without a hearing of the parties
to be affected, had made a certain order wherein, among other
things, it was provided as follows:
"Imported traffic transported to any place in the United
States from a port of entry or place of reception, whether in
this country or in an adjacent foreign country, is required
to be taken on the inland tariff governing other freights."
2 Interstate Com. Com. Rep. 658.
Subsequently complaint was made to the Interstate Commerce Commission, in a petition filed by the New York
Board of Trade and Transportation, that certain railroad companies were disregarding said order, and, in violation of the
act to regulate commerce, were guilty of unjust discrimination in that they were in the habit of charging -the regular
tariff rates upon property when delivered to them at New
York and Philadelphia for transportation to Chicago and
other Western points, while charging other persons rates
which were lower and even fifty per cent thereof for a like
and contemporaneous service under substantially similar -circumstances and conditions, when the property was delivered
to them at New York or Philadelphia by vessel or steamship
lines, under through bills of lading from foreign pots and
foreign interior points, issued under an arrangement between
the said railroad companies and such vessels and steamship
lines and foreign railroads, for the continuous carriage at
joint rates from the point or port of shipment to Chicago and
other Western points, the railroad companies' share of each
through rate being lower than their regular tariff rates.
The Commercial Exchange of Philadelphia and the San
Francisco Chamber of Commerce intervened and became
parties complainant also.
The companies first warned and called upon to answer the

TEX kS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE C0M. C0M. 201
Statement of the Case.

complainant were the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, the
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne and Chicago Railway Company, and
the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway Company,
but, after the coming in of the answers of said companies, it
was deemed necessary to make quite a number of other railroad companies parties defendant-among them the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, the defendant in the present
case, and the Southern Pacific Company. The several defendant companies filed answers. The answer of the Texas and
Pacific Railway Company, admitting that both before and
since March 23, 1889, it had carried imported traffic at lower
rates than it contemporaneously charged for like traffic originating in the United States, justified by claiming that through
shipments from a foreign country to the interior of the United
States differ in circumstances and conditions from shipments
originating at the American sea-board bound for the same
interior points, and that defendant company. has a legal right
to accept for its share of the through rate a lower sum than it
receives for domestic shipment to the same destinatibn from
the point at which the imported traffic enters this country.
The result of the hearing before the Interstate Commerce
Commission was, so far as the present case is concerned, that
the Commission held that the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company was not justified in accepting, as its share of a
through rate on imported traffic, a less charge or sum than it
charged and received for inland traffic between the port of
reception and the point of delivery, and the said order of January 29, 1891, commanding that said company desist from
distinguishing in its charges between foreign and inland
traffic, was made. 4 Interstate Com. Corn. Rep. 447.
As the Texas and Pacific Railway Company declined to observe said order, the Commission filed its present bill against
sqid company in the Circuit Court of the United States for
.the Southern District of New York.
The railway company filed a plea in abatement, denying
that its principal office was in the Southern District of New
York, and denying that it had violated or disobeyed the
order of the Commission within' the State of New York, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

at any place within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Certain affidavits were filed, upon a stipulation, as to the facts,
and, after hearing, the plea was overruled, and also a motion
to dismiss the proceedings for want of jurisdiction was denied
- and to these rulings exceptions were taken and alloved.
The defendant company answered, alleging that the Interstate Commerce Commission was not a corporation, person
or body politic capable of bringing or maintaining this suitthat the petition or bill failed to allege or show any facts
constituting a violation by the defendant of the order of January 29, 1891, and did not show or allege any specific act or
acts by the defendant in violation of the act of Congress that the Southern Pacific Company, as participant with the
defendant in the making and division of the through rates, was
a necessary party, and that the bill should be dismissed for
want of such necessary party.
The answer, admitting that the company had charged and
received, since January 29, 1891, rates for the transportation
of commodities from Liverpool and London, England, via
New* Orleans and the Texas and Pacific Railway and the
Southern Pacific Company to San Francisco, California, different from the rates charged and received for the transportation of inland commodities from New Orleans by the sane
route to San Francisco, asserted that it had a legal right so
to do, and that such action was not in violation of the act
of Congress regulating commerce, or of any valid order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. The answer set up a
number of facts which it alleged sustained its defence.
The cause was heard upon the petition, answer and sundry
exhibits, and resulted in a decree declaring that the order of
January 29, 1891, was lawful, and that the same had been
disobeyed by the defendant, and enjoining the defendant
from further continuing such disobedience of said order. An
appeal, with errors assigned, was taken from this decree to
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, by which,
on June 3, 1893, the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed
with costs. 20 U. S. App. 1. An appeal was then taken, on
errors assigned, from said decree to this court.

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE CON. COIi. 203
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. John F. Dillon and Xr. E. Baxter, (with whom was
-Mr. Winslow F. Pierce on the brief,) for appellant.
Air. Simon S'terne and -Mr. John D. Eernan for appellee.
Mit. JUSTICE SimAs,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It was claimed in the courts below, and it is also urged in
this court, that the Interstate Commerce Commission is not
a corporate body or person in whose name a suit can be instituted. It seems to be thought that the Commission can only
sue in the names of the persons composing it.
The 16th section of the act to regulate commerce, as
amended March 2, 1889, -c. 382, 25 Stat. 859, provides that
"whenever any common carrier, as defined in and subject to
the provisions of that act, shall violate, or refuse or neglect
to obey or perform, any lawful order or requirement of the
Commission created by the act, not founded upon a controversy requiring a trial by jury, as provided by the Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, it shall
be lawful for the Commission, or for any company or person
interested in such order or requirement, to apply in a summary way, by petition, to the Circuit Court of the United
States sitting in equity in the judicial district in which the
comamon carrier complained of has its principal office, or in
which the violation or disobedience of sucf order or requirement shall happen, alleging such violation or disobedience,
as the case may be; and the said court shall have power to
hear and determine the matter, on such short notice to the
common carrier complained of as the court shall deem reasonable; and such notice may be served on such common carrier,
his or its officers, agents or servants, in such manner as the
court shall direct; and said court shall proqeed to hear and
determine the matter speedily as a court of equity, and without the formal pleadings and proceedings applicable to ordinary suits in equity, but -in such manner as to do equity in the
premises."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The -language contained in the I1th section creating the
,Commission is as follows, act of February 4, 1887, c. 1041, 24
Stat. 379, 383: "That a Commission is hereby created and
established to be known as the Interstate Commerce Commission, which shall be composed of five commissioners, who
shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate.

.

.

.

No vacancy in the Com-

mission shall impair the right of the remaining commissioners
to exercise all the powers of the Commission," and in the 17th
section it is provided that "said Commission shall have an
-official seal, which shall be judicially noticed."
In the case of. Interstate Commerce commission v. Baltimore

4 Ohio Railroad, a suit was instituted by the Commission
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, and the decree of that court was affirmed by
this court. 145 U. S. 2641. Likewise, in the case of Interstate
(omimer e Commission v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fi5

Railroad, a suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, by the Commission eo nomine against that company, wherein it was held by
this court that an appeal did not lie directly to this court since
the creation of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 149 U. S. 264.
In neither of these cases was any objection made to the
"right of the Commission to sue by its statutory designation.
We think that the language of the statute, in creating the
-Commission, and in providing that it shall be lawful for the
Commission to apply by petition to the Circuit Court sitting
in equity, sufficiently implies the intention of Congress to
-create a body corporate with legal capacity to be a party
plaintiff or defendant in the Federal Courts.
Another formal objection made to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court was raised by a plea in abatement denying that
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company had its principal
-office in the State of New York, or that th-. acts complained
-of took place within the judicial district of said court.
Upon facts made to appear by affidavits submitted by both
parties, under a stipulation, the Circuit Court overruled the
plea. Our examination of the facts so submitted, and which

TEXAS & PAC.RAILWAY v.INTERSTATE COK. 00M.

206

Opinion of the Court.

are brought before us by a bill of exceptions, has not convinced
us that the court erred in overruling the plea.
Another objection urged is that, as the. order of the Commission involves rates participated in by the Southern Pacific
Company, as owner of a portion of the line over which the
through freight is carried, that company was a necessary
party. Undoubtedly that company would have been a proper
party, but we agree with the Circuit Court in thinking that it.
was not a necessary one.
We come now to the main question of the case, and that is.
whether the Commission erred, when making the order of
January 29, 1891, in not taking into consideration the ocean
competition as constituting a dissimilar condition, and in hold-.
ing that no circumstances and conditions which exist beyond
the sea-board in the United States could be legitimately regarded by them for the purpose of justifying a difference in
rates between import and domestic traffic.
The answer of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company to
the petition of the New York Board of Trade and Transportation before the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the
answer of said company to the petition of the Commission
filed in the Circuit Court, allege that rates for the transportation of commodities from Liverpool and London, England,
tb San Francisco, California, are in effect fixed and controlled
by the competition of sailing vessels for the entire distance;
by steamships and -sailing vessels in connection with railroads.
across the Isthmus of Panama; by steamships and sailing
vessels from Europe to New Orleans, connecting these under
through arrangements with the Southern Pacific Company to
San Francisco: That, unless the defendant company charges
substantially the rates specified in its answer, it would be prevented, by reason of the compeiition aforesaid, from engaging
in the carrying'and transportation of property and- import
traffic from Liverpool and London to San Francisco, and
would lose the revenue derived 1y it therefrom, which is considerable, and important and valuable to said company: That
the rates charged by it are not to the prejudice or disadvantage of New Orleans, and work no injury to that community.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

because, if said company is prevented from participating in
said traffic, such traffic would move via the other routes and
lines aforesaid without benefit to New Orleans, but, on the
contrary, to its disadvantage: That the foreign or import
traffic is upon orders by persons, firms and corporations in
San Francisco and vicinity buying direct of first hands in
London, Liverpool, and other European markets; and if the
order of the Cbmmission should be carried into effect it would
not result in discontinuance of that practice or in inducing
them to buy in New Orleans in any event: That the result
of the order would be to injuriously affect the defendant company in the carriage of articles of foreign imports to Memphis,
St. Louis, Kansas City and other Missouri River points: And
that by such order the defendant company would be prevented from competing for freight to important points in the
State of Texas with the railroad system of that State, having
Galveston as a receiving port, and which railroad system is
not subject to the control of the Interstate Commerce Commission. These allegations of the answer were not traversed
or denied by the Commission, but are confirmed by the findings of the Commission attached as an exhibit to the petition
in the case; and by said findings it further appears that the
proportion the Texas and Pacific Railway receives of the
through rate is remunerative -that the preponderance of its
empty cars go north during eight months of the year, and if
something can be obtained to load, it is that much found, and
anything is regarded as remunerative that can be obtained to
put in its cars to pay mileage -that the competitiofi which
controls the making of rates to the Pacific coast is steamship
by way of the Isthmus and in cheap heavy goods around Cape
Horn -that the competition to interior points, such as IMissouri River points and Denver, is from the trunk lines direct
from the Atlantic sea-board -that the ships engaged in carrying to San Francisco around Cape Horn are almost wholly
British bottoms -that the through bill of lading furnishes a
collateral for the transaction of business, takes from the shipper and consignee both the care as to intermediate charges,
elevators, wharves and cost of handling, and puts it on the

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

207

Opinion of the Court.

carrier; it reduces the intermediate charges, very much facilitates the transaction of business, and helps to swell its:volume
- and that the tendency of the through bill' of lading -is to
eliminate the obstacles betwcen the producer and consumer,
and it has done much in that direction. ,These and other Uncontroverted facts that appear in this
record would seem to constitute "circumstances and conditions" worthy of consideration; when carriers are charged with
being guilty of unjust discriminatiowor of giving unreasonable
and undue preference or advantage to any person or 'locality.
But we understand the view of the Commission 'to have
been that it was not competent for 'the Commission to consider such facts -that it was. shut up by the terms -of. the act
of Congress, to consider only such "'circumstances and conditions" as pertained to the articles of traffic after they had
reached and been delivered at a-port of the United States or
Canada.
It is proper that we should give the views of the Commission in its own words:
"The statute has provided for the regulation of interstate
traffic by interstate carriers, partly by rail and partly by
water, or all rail, shipped from onepoint-in the United States
to another- destination within the United States, 'or from 2
point- of shipment in the' United States to a'port of entry
within the United States or an adjacent foreign country, or
from a port of entry either within the United States or in an
adjacent foreign country, -on import traffic brought to such
port of entry from a.foreign port of shipment and destined to
a place within the United States. 'In providing for this regulation the statute' has also provided -for the methods of such
regulation by publication of tariffs of rates and charges at
points where the freight is received and at which it is delivered, and also for taking into consideration the circumstances
and conditions surrounding the transportation of the property.
The statute has undertaken no such regulation. from foreign
ports of shipment to ports of entry'either within the United
States or to ports of entry in an adjacent foreign country, and
as between these ports has provided for no publication of tar-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

iffs of rates and charges, but has left it to the unrestrained
competition of ocean carriers and all the circumstances and
conditions surrounding it. These circumstances and conditions are indeed widely different in many respects from the
circumstances and conditions surrounding the carriage of
domestic interstate traffic between the States of the American
Union by rail carriers; but as the regulation provided for by
the act to regulate commerce does not undertake to regulate
or govern them, they cannot be held to constitute reasons in
themselves why imported freight brought to a port of entry
of the United States or a port of entry of an adjacent foreign
country destined to a place within the United States should
be carried at a lower rate than domestic traffic from such
ports of entry respectively to the places of destination in the
United States over the same line and in the same direction.
To hold otherwise would be for the Commission to create
exceptions to the operation of the statute not found in the
statute; and no other power but Congress can create such
exception in the exercise of legislative authority.
"In the one case the freight is transported from a point of
origin in the United States to a destination within the United
States, or port of transhipment, if it be intended for export,
upon open published rates, which must be reasonable and just,
not unjustly preferential to one kind of traffic over another,
and relatively fair and just as between localities; and the circumstances and conditions surrounding and involved in the
transportation of the freight are in a very high degree material. In the other case the freight originates in a foreign
country, its carriage is commenced from a foreign port, it is
carried upon rates that are not open and published, but are
secret, and in making these rates it- is wholly immaterial to
the parties making them whether they are reasonable and just
or not, so they take the freight and beat'a rival, and it is
equally immaterial to them whether they unjustly discriminate
against surrounding or rival localities in such foreign country or not. Imported foreign merchandise has all the benefit
and advantage of rates thus made in the foreign ports; it also
has all the benefit and advantage of the low rates made in the

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE

0M. 0CM.

209

Opinion of the Court.

-ocean carriage arising from the peculiar circumstances and conditions under which that is done; but when it reaches a port
of entry of the United States, or a port of entry of a foreign
country adjacent to the United States, in either event upon a
through bill of lading, destined to a place in the United States,
then its carriage from such port of entry-to its place of destination in the United States under the operation of the act to
regulate commerce must be under the inland tariff from such
port of entry to such place of destination, covering other like
kind of traffic in the elements of bulk, weight, value and of
carriage; and no unjust preference must, be,given to it in carriage or facilities of carriage over other freight. - In such case
all the circumstances and conditions that have surrounded its
rates and carriage from the foreign port to the port of entry
have had their full weight and operation, and in its carriage
from the port of entry to the place of its destination in the
United States, the. mere fact that it is foreign merchandise
thus brought from a foreign port is not a circumstance or condition, under the operation of the act to regulate commerce,
which entitles it to lower rates or any other preference in
facilities and carriage over home merchandise, or other traffic
of a like kind carried by te inland carrier from tie portv of
entry to the place of destination in the United States for the
same distance and over the same line.
"The act to regulate commerce will be examined in vain to
find any intimation that there shall be any difference made in
the tolls, rates or charges -for, or any difference in the treatment of home and foreign merchandise in respect to the tame
or similar service rendered in the transportation, when this
transportation is done under the operation of this statute.
Certainly it would require a proviso or exception plainly
engrafted upon the face of the act to regulate commerce,
before any tribunal charged with its administration would be
authorized to decide or hold that foreign merchandise wvas
entitled to any -preference in tolls, rates or charges made for,
or any difference in its treatment for, the same or similar service as against home merchandise. Foreign and home merchandise, therefore, under the operation of this statute, when
VOL. CLXII-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court,

handled and transported by interstate carriers, engaged in
carriage in the United States, stand exactly upon the same
basis of equality as to tolls, rates, charges and treatment for
similar services rendered.
"The business complained of in this proceeding is done in
the shipment of foreign merchandise from foreign ports
through ports of entry of the United States, or through ports
of entry in a foreign country adjacent to the United States, to
points of destination in the United States, upon through bills
of lading." 4 Interstate Com. Com. Rep. 512-516.
It is obvious, therefore, that the Commission, in formiulating
the order of January 29, 1891, acted upon that view of the
meaning of the statute which is expressed in the foregoing
passages.
We have, therefore, to deal only with a question of law,
and that is, what is the true construction, in respect to the
matters involved in the present controversy, of the act to
regulate commerce ? If the construction put upon the act by
the Commission was right, then the order was lawful; otherwise it was not.
Before we consider the phraseology of the statute, it may
be well to advert to the causes which induced its enactment.
They chiefly grew out of the use of railroads as the principal
modern instrumentality of commerce. While shippers of
merchandise are under no legal necessity to use railroads, they
are so practically. The demand for speedy and prompt movement virtually forbids the employment of slow and old
fashioned methods of transportation, at least in the case of
the more valuable articles of traffic. At the same time, the
immense outlay of money required to build and maintain railroads, and the necessity of resorting, in securing the rights of
way, to the power of eminent domain, in effect disable individual merchants and shippers from themselves providing such
means of carriage. From the very nature of the case, therefore, railroads are monopolies, and the evils that usually accompany monopolies soon began to show themselves, and were
the cause of loud complaints. The companies owning the
railroads were charged, and sometimes truthfully, with mak-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COI. COM.

211

Opinion of the Court.

ing unjust discriminations between shippers and localities,
with making secret agreements with some to the detriment of
other patrons, and with making pools or combinations with
each other, leading to oppression of-entire communities.
Some of these mischiefs were partially remedied by special
provisions inserted in the charters of the companies, and by
general enactments by the several States, such as clauses restricting the rates of toll, and forbidding railroad companies
from becoming concerned in the sale or production of articles
carried, and from making unjust preferences. Relief, to some
extent, was likewise found in the action of the courts in enforcing the principles of the common law applicable to common carriers- particularly that one which requires uniformity
of treatment in like conditions of service.
As, however, the powers of the States were restricted to
their oWn territories, and did not enable them to efficiently
control the management of great corporations whose roads
extend through the entire country, there was a general demand that Congress, in the exercise" of its plenary power over
the. subject of foreign and interstate commerce, should deal
with the evils complained of by a general enactment, and' the
statute in question was the result.
The scope or purpose of the act is, as declared in its title,
to regulate commerce. It would, therefore, in advance of an
examination of the text of the act, be reasonable to anticipate
that the legislation Would cover, or have regard to, the entire
field of foreign and interstate commerce, and'that its scheme
of -regulation would not be restricted to a partial treatment
of the subject. So, too, it could not be readily supposed that
Congress intended, when regulating such commerce, to interfere With and interrupt, much less destroy, sources of trade
and commerce already existing, nor to overlook the property
rights of those who had invested money in the railroads of the
country, nor to disregard the interests of the consumers, to
furnish whom with merchandise is one of the principal objects
of all systems of transportation.
Addressing ourselves to the express language of the statute,
we find, in its first section, that the carriers that are declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to be subject to the act are those "engaged in the transportation of passengers or property wholly by railroad, or partly
by railroad and partly by water when both are used, under a
common control, management or arrangement, for a continuous carriage or shipment, from one State or Territory of the
United States, or the District of Columbia, to any other State
or Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia,
or from any place in the United States to an adjacent foreign
country, or from any place in the United States through a
foreign country to any other place in the United States, and
also to the transportation in like manner of property shipped
from any place in the United States to a foreign country and
carried from such place to a port of transhipment, or shipped
from a foreign country to any place in the United States and
carried to such place from a port of entry either in the United
States or an adjacent foreign country.".
It would be difficult to use language more unmistakably
signifying that Congress had in view the whole field of commerce (excepting commerce wholly within a State) as well
that between the States and Territories as that going to or
coming from foreign countries.
In a later part of the section it is declared that "the term
transportation ' shall include all instrumentalities of shipment
or carriage."
Having thus included in its scope the entire commerce of
the United States, foreign and interstate, and subjected to its
regulations all carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or property, by whatever instrumentalities of shipment or carriage, the section proceeds to declare that "all
charges made for any service rendered or to be rendered in
the transportation of passengers or property as aforesaid, or
in connection therewith, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling -of such property, shall be reasonable and
just; and every unjust and unreasonable charge for such service is prohibited and declared to be unlawful."
The significafice of this language, in thus extending the
judgment of the tribunal established to enforce the provisions
of the act to the entire service to be performed by carriers, is
obvious.

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COX. COM.

213

Opinion of the Court.

Proceeding to the second section, we learn that its terms
forbid any common carrier, subject to the provisions of the
act, from charging, demanding, collecting or' receiving from
any person or persons a greater, or less compensation for any
service rendered or to be rendered, in the trafhsportation of
passengers or property, subject to the, provisions- of -the act,
than-it charges, demands, collects or receives from any other
person or persons for doing for him or them-a like and contemporaneous service in the transportati6n of a- like 'kind oftraffic under substantially similar circumstances ahd conditions," and declares that disregard, of such prohibition shall
be deemed "unjust diScrimination," and unlawful.
Here, again, it is'observable that this section c6ntemplates
that there shall 'be a tribunl' capable 'of determining whether,
in given cases, 'the services rendered are "like and contemporaneous," whether the respective traffic is of a "like kind,"
arid whether the transportation is, under "substantially similar circumstances and conditions."
.
The third section makes it "unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of the act'' to make or give any
undue or unreasonable 'preference or advantaige to any particular persbn, company, firm, corporatio. or locality, any particular description of traffic, in any'respect whatsoever, or to
subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation or
'locality, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvan-tage in any respect whatever." It 'also provides that every
such common carrier shall afford "all reasonable, proper
and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between their
respective lines, and for the receiving, forwarding and delivering'of passengers and property to and from their respective
lines and those connecting therewith, and shall not discriminate in their rates and charges between such -connecting lines."
The fourth section makes it unlawful for any such common
carrier to "charge or receive any greater compensation in the
aggregate for the transportation of passengers or of like kind
of property, under substantially similar circumstances and con.
litions, for a shorter than for a longer distance over th same
line, in the- same direction, the shorter being included within
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the longer distance; but this shall not be construed as authorizing any common carrier to charge and receive as great compensation for a shorter as for a longer distance," and provision
is likewise made that, "upon aplilication to the Commission
appointed under the provisions of this act, such common carrier may, in special cases, after investigation by the Commission, be authorized to charge less for longer than for shorter
distances for the transportation of passengers or property;"
and that "the Commission may from time to time prescribe
the extent to which such designated common carrier may be
relieved from the operation of this section of the act."
The powers of the Interstate Commission are not very
clearly defined in the act, nor is its method of procedure very
distinctly outlined. It is, however, declared in the 12th section,
as amended March 2, 1889, and February 10, 1891, that the
Commission "shall have authority to inquire into the management of the business of all common carriers subject to the
provisions of the act, and shall keep itself informed as to the
manner and method in which the same is conducted, and shall
have the right to obtain from such common carriers full and
complete information necessary to enable the Commission to
perform the duties and carry out the objects for which it was
created; and the Commission is hereby authorized and required to execute and enforce the provisions of the act." It
is also made the duty of any district attorney of the United
States to whom the Commission. may apply to institute in the
proper court, and to prosecute under the direction of the
Attorney General of the United States all necessary proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions of the act and for
the punishment of all violations thereof. And provision is
made for complaints to be made by any person, firm, corporation, association or any mercantile, agricultural or manufacturing society, or any body politic or municipal organization.
before the Commission; and for an investigation of such c
plaints to be made by the Commission; and it is made the
duty of the Conmission to make reports in writing in respect
thereof, which shall include the findings of fact upon which
the conclusions of the Commission are based, together with

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE C021. COM.

215

Opinion of the Court.

its recommendation as to what reparation, if any, should be
made by any common carrier to any party or parties who may
be found to have been injured'; and such findings so made
shall thereafter in all judicial proceedings b6 deemed prima
facie evidence as to each and any fact found.
In the present case no complaint! seems to have' been made
before the"Commission by-any, person, firm, company or other
organization against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company,
of, any disregard, by said company '6f any provision df the
statute resulting in any specific loss .or damage to any one,,
nor has the Commission, in its findings, disclosed any such
loss or damage to any individual complainant. And it is
made one, of the contentions of the defendant company that
the entire proceeding was outside -of; the sphere 6f iaction ap-,
pointed by the act to the Commission,' which only had power
as claimed by defendant, to inquire into complaint made by
some person or body injured by some described act of the
defendant company.
The complaint in the present case was made by certain corporations of New York, Thiladelphia and San Francisco,
known as Boards of Trade, or Chambers of Commerce, which
appear to be composed of merchants and traders in those
cities, engaged in the business of reaching and supplying'the
consumers of the United States with imported luxuries, necessities, and manufactured goods generally, and as active
competitors with the merchants at 'Boston, Montreal, Philadelphia, New Orleans, San Frandisco, Chicago and merchants
in foreign countries who import direct 9n through bills of
lading issued abroad.
We shall assume, in the disposition of the present-case, that
a valid complaint may 'be made before the Commission, by
such trade organizations, based on a mode or manner of treating import traffic by a defendant company, without disclosing
or containing charges of specific acts of discrimination or
undue preference, resulting in loss or damage to individual.
persons, corporations, or associations.
We do not wish to be understood -as implying that it would
be competent for the Commission, without a complaint made

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

before it, and without a hearing, to subject common carriers
to penalties. It is also obvious that if the Commission does
have the power, of its own motion, to promulgate general
decrees or orders which thereby become rules of action to
common carriers, such exercise of power must be confined
to the obvious purposes and directions of the statute. Congress has not seen fit to grant legislative powers to the
Commission.
With these provisions of the act and these general principles
in mind, we now come to consider the case in hand.
After an investigation made by the Commission on a complaint against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company and
other companies by the boards of trade above mentioned, the
result reached was the order of the Commission made on January 29, 1891, a disregard of which was complained of by the
Commission in its bill or petition filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States.
The Texas and Pacific Railway Company, a corporation
created by laws of the United States, and also possessed of
certain grants from the State of Texas, owns a railroad extending from the city of New Orleans, through the State
of Texas, to El Paso, where it connects with the railroad
of the Southern Pacific Company, the two roads forming
a through route to San Francisco. The Texas and Pacific
Railway Company has likewise connections with other railroads and steamers, forming through freight lines to Memphis, St. Louis and other points on the Missouri River, and
elsewhere.
The defendant company admitted that, as a scheme or
mode of obtaining foreign traffic, it had agencies by which, and
by the use of through bills of lading, it secured shipments of
merchandise from Liverpool and London, and other European
ports, to San Francisco and to the other inland points named.
It alleged that, in order 'to get this traffic, it was necessary
to give through, rates from the places of shipment to the
places of final destiiation, and that, in fixing said rates, it
was controlled by an ocean competition by sailing and steam
vessels by way of the Isthmus and around the Horn, and also,

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE CO0X.CO.

21V

Opinion of the Court.

to some extent, by a competition through the Canadaroute to
-the Pacific coast. These rates, so fixed and controlled, left
to.the defendant company and to the Southern Pacific Company, as their share of the charges made and collected, less
than the local charges of said companies in transporting similar merchandise from New Orleans to San Francisco, and so,
too, as to foreign merchandise carried to other inland points.
The defendant further alleged that unless it used said means
to get such traffic the merchandise. to the Pacific coast would,
none of it, reach New Orleans, but would go by the. other
means of transportation; that neither the community of New
Orleans nor any merchant or shipper thereof was injured or
made complaint -that the traffic thus secured was remunerative to the railway company and was. obviously beneficial to
the consumers at the places of destination, who were thus
enabled to get their goods at lower rates than would prevail
if this custom of through rates was destroyed.
Aswe have already stated, the Commission did not charge
or find that the local rates charged by. th'e defendant company
were unreasonable, nor did they find that any.complaint was
made by the city of New Orleans, or by any person or ,Qrganization there doing business. Much less did they find that
any complaint was made by the localities to which this traffic
was carried, or that any cause for such complaint existed.
The Commission justified its action wholly upon the construction put by it on the act to regulate commerce, as forbidding the Commission to -consider - the "circumstances and
conditions" attendant upon the foreign traffic as such "circumstances and conditions" as they.-are directed in the act
to consider. The Commission thought it was. constrained by
the act to regard foreign and domestic traffic as like kind
of traffic under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, and that the action of the defendant company in procuring through traffic that would, except for the through rates,
not reach the port of New Orleans, and in taking, its pro
ratashare. of such rates, was an act of "unjust discrimination-"
within the meaning of the act.,.
In so construing the act we think"the-Commission erred.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

As we have already said, it could not be supposed that
Congress, in regulating commerce, would intend to forbid or
destroy an existing branch of commerce, of value to the common carriers and to the consumers within the United States.
Clearly, express language must be used in the act to justify
such a supposition.
So far from finding such language, we read the act in question to direct the Commission, when asked to find a common
carrier guilty of a disregard of the act, to take into consideration all the facts of the given case - among which are to be
considered the welfare and advantage of the common carrier,
and of the great body of the citizens of the United States who
constitute the consumers and recipients of the merchandise
carried; and that the attention of the Commission is not to
be confined to the advantage of shippers and merchants who
deal at or near the ports of the United States, in articles of
domestic production. Undoubtedly the latter are likewise
entitled to be considered;, but we cannot concede that the
Commission is shut up by the terms of this act to solely regard,
the complaints of one class of the community. We think
that Congress has here pointed out that, in considering questions of this sort, the Commission is not only to consider the
wishes and interests of .the shippers and merchants of large
cities, but to consider also the desire and advantage of the
carriers in securing special forms of traffic, and the interest of
the public that the carriers should secure that traffic, rather
than abandon it, or not attempt to secure it. It is self-evident
that many cases may and do arise where, although the object
of the carriers is to secure the traffic for their own purposes
and upon their own lines, yet, nevertheless, the very fact that
they seek, by the charges they make, to secure it, operates in
the interests of the public.
Moreover, it must not be overlooked that this legislation is
experimental. Even in construing the terms of a statute,
courts must take notice of the history of legislation, and, out
of different possible constructions, select and apply the one
that best comports with the genius of our institutions and,
therefore, most likely to have been the construction intended

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

219

Opinion of the Court.

by the law-making power. Commerce, in its largest sense,
must be deemed to be one of the most important subjects of
legislation, and an intention to promote and facilitate it, and
not to hamper or destroy it, is naturally to be attributed to
Congress. The very terms of the statute, that charges must
be 'reasonalle, that discrimination must not be unjust, and
that preference or advantage to any particular person, firm, corporation or locality must not be undue or unreasonable,necessarily imply that strict uniformity is not to be enforced; but
that all circumstances and conditions which reasonable men
would regard as affecting the welfare of the carrying companies, and of the producers, shippers and consumers, should
be considered by a tribunal appointed to carry into effect and
enforce the provisions of the act.
The principal purpose of the second section is to prevent
unjust discrimination between shippers. It implies that, in
deciding whether differences in charges, in given cases,. were
or were not unjust, there must be a consideration- of the several questions whether the services rendered were "like and
contemporaneous," whether the kinds of traffic were "like,"
whether the transportation was effected under "substantially
similar circumstances and conditions." To answer such questions, in any case coming before the Commission, requires an
investigation into the facts; and we think that Congress must
have intended that whatever would be regarded by common
carriers, apart from the operation of, the statute, as matters
which warranted differences in charges, ought to be considered in forming a judgment whether such differences were or
were not "unjust."
Some charges might be unjust to shippers - others might be unjust to the carriers. The rights
and interests of both must, under the terms of the act, be regarded by the Commission.
The third section forbids any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage in favor of any person, company, firm,
corporation or locality; and ,as there is nothing in the act
which defines what shall be held to be due or undue, reasonable or. unreasonable, such questions are questions not of law,
but of fact. The mere circumstance that there is, in a given

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

case, a preference or an advantage does not of itself show that
such preference or advantage is undue or unreasonable within
the meaning of the act. Hence it follows that before the
Commission can adjudge a common carrier to have acted unlawfully, it must ascertain the facts; and here again we think
it evident that those facts and matters which carriers, apart
from any question arising under the statute, would treat as
calling, in given cases, for a preference or advantage, are facts
and matters which must be considered by the Commission in
forming its judgment whether such preference or advantage
is undue or unreasonable. When the section says that no
locality shall be subjected to any undue or unreasonable prej=
udice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever, it does not
mean that the Commission is to regard only the welfare of
the locality or community where the traffic originates, or
where the goods are shipped on the cars. The welfare of the
locality to which the goods are sent is also, under the terms
and spirit of the act, to enter into the question.
The same observations are applicable to the fourth section,
or the so-called long and short haul provision, and it is unnecessary to repeat them.
The only argument, urged in favor of the view of the Commission, that is drawn from the language of the statute, is
found in those provisions of the statute that make it obligatory on the common carriers to publish their rates, and to file
with the Commission copies of joint tariffs of rates or charges
over continuous lines or routes operated by more than one
common carrier; and it is said that the place at which it
would seem that joint rates should be published for the information of shippers would be at the place of origin of the
freight, and that this cannot be done, or be compelled to be
done, in foreign ports.
The force of this contention is not perceived. Room is left
for the application of these provisions to traffic originating
within the limits of the United States, even if, for any reason,
they are not practically applicable to traffic originating elsewhere. Nor does it appear that the Commission may not
compel all common carriers within the reach of their jurisdic-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

221

Opinion of the Court.

tion to publish such rates, and to furnish the Commission with
all statements or reports prescribed by the statute. Nor was
there any allegation, evidence or-finding, in the present case,
that the Texas and Pacific Railway Company -has failed to
file with the Commission, copies of its joint tariffs, showing
the joint rates from English ports to San -Francisco, nor, that
the company has failed to make publicsuch joint rates-in such
manner as the Commission may have directed.,r
Another position taken by the Comromssion, in its report, and
defendodin the. briefs of counsel, is, that it is the duty of the
Commission to so construe the act to regulateicommerce as to
make it practically cobperate with what is assumed to be the
policy of the tariff laws. This view is thus stated in the report:
"One paramount, purpose of, the act to regulate commerce,
manifest in all its provisions, is to give to:all dealers and shippers the same rates for similar services rendered by the carrier in transporting similar freight over its line. Now, it is
apparent from the evidence in this case, that many American
manufacturers, dealers and localitibs, in almost every line of
manufacture and business, are the competitors of foreign
manufacturers, dealers and localities, for supplying the wants
of American consumers at interior places in the United States,
and that under domestic. bills of lading they seek to require
from American carriers like service as their foreign competitors in order to place their manufactured goods, property and
merchandise with interior consumers. The act to regulate
commerce secures them this right. To deprive them of it by
any course of transportation business or device is to violate
the statute." 4 Interstate Coin. Coin. Rep. 514, 515.
Our reading of the act does not disclose any purpose or intention, on the part of Congress, to thereby reinforce the provisions of the tariff laws. These laws differ wholly in their
objects from the law to regulate commerce. Their main purpose is to collect revenues with which to meet the expenditures
of the government, and those of their provisions, whereby
Congress seeks to so adjust rates as to protect American manufacturers and producers from competition, by foreign lowpriced labor, operate equally in all parts of the country.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The effort of the Commission, by a rigid general order, to
deprive the inland consumers of the advantage of through
rates, and to thus give an advantage to the traders and manufacturers of the large sea board cities, seems to create the very
mischief which it was one of the objects of the act to remedy.
Similar legislation by the Parliament of England may Tender it profitable to examine some of the decisions of the courts
of that country construing its provisions.
In fact, the second section of our act was modelled upon sec-tion 90 of the English "Railway Clauses Consolidation Act"
of 1845, known as the "Equality Clause," and the third section
of our act was modelled upon the second section of the English "act for the better regulation of the traffic on railways
and canals" of July 10, 1854, and the eleventh section of the
act of July 21, 1373, entitled "An Act to make better provision for the carrying into effect the Railway and Canal Traffic
Act) 1854, and for other purposes connected therewith."
One of the first cases that arose under the act of 1854 was
that of HMozier v. The Caledonian Railway, 1 Nev. & Mae.
Railway Cases, 27; S. . 17 Sess. Cas. 302; 24: Law Times, 339;
where Hozier filed a petition against the railway company,
alleging that he was aggrieved by being charged nine shillings
for travelling between -'otherwell and Edinburgh, a distance
of forty-three miles, while- passengers travelling in the same
train and in the class of carriage between Glasgow and Edinburgh were charged only two shillings, which was alleged to
amount to an undue and unreasonable preference. But the
petition was dismissed, and the court, by Lord Curriehill,
said: "The only case stated in the petition is that passengers
passing from Glasgow to Edinburgh are carried at a cheaper
aggregate rate than passengers from Motherwell to either of
these places. Now that is an advantage, no doubt, to those
passengers travelling between Edinburgh and Glasgow. But
is it an unfair advantage over other passengers travelling between intermediate stations? The complainer must satisfy us
that there is something unfair or unreasonable in what he
complains of, in order to warrant any interference. Now, I
have read the statement in the petition and I have listened to

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

223

Opinion of the Court.

the argument in support of it to find what there is unreasonable in giving that advantage to through passengers. What'
disadvantage do Motherwell passengers suffer by this? I
think that no answer was given to this, except that there was
none. This petitioner's complaint may be likened to that of
the -laborer who, having worked all day, complained that
others who had worked less received a penny like himself."
The case of Forem -w
v. Great'EasternRailway Co., 2 Nev.&
Mac. 202, was decided by, the English :Railway Commissioners
in 1875. The facts were -that the"complainafts imported coal,
in their own ships, from points in the North of England to
Great Yarmouth, and forwarded the coal to various stations
on the -'defendants', railway, between Great Yarmouth and
Peterborough. The complaint was that the defendants' rates
for carrying coal from Yarmouth to stations in the interior,
at which complainants dealt, were unreasonably greater than
the rates charged in the opposite direction, from Peterborough
to such stations; and that such difference in rates was made
by the defendants for the purpose of favoring the carriage of
coal from the interior as against coal brought to Yarmouth
by sea, and carried thence into the interior over the defend-'
ants' railway. The Commissioners found that it was true that
the defendants did carry coal from the interior to London, Yarmouth and other seaports on their line, at exceptionally low
rates, but that this was done for the purpose of meeting the
competition -existing at those places. It appeared that the
rate from Pete rborough to Thetford, 51 miles, was 4 shillings,,
while the rate from Peterborough to Yarmouth, 100 miles,
was only 3 shillings. The Commissioners said: "As, however,
the complainants do not, as far as their trade in Yarmouth
itself is concerned, use the Great Eastern Railway at all, the
.company cannot be said to prefer other traffic to theirs; nor
does the Traffic Act prevent a -railway company from having
special rates of charge to a terminus to which traffic -can be
carried by other routes or other modes of carriage with which
theirs. is in competition."
In Harrisv. Cookermouth Railway, 1 Nev.& Mac. 97; S. 0.
3 0. B. (N.S.) 693, the court held it to be an undue preference

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

for a railway company to concede to the owner of a colliery a
lower rate than to the owners of other collieries, from the
same point of departure to the same point of arrival, merely
because the person favored had threatened to build a railway for his coal, and to divert his traffic from defendant's
railway. But Chief Justice Cockburn said: "I quite agree
that this court has intimated, if not absolutely decided, that a
company is entitled to take into consideration any circunistafices, either of a general or of a local character, in considering
the rate of charge which they will impose upon any particular
traffic. . . . As, for instance, in respect of terminal traffic,
there might be competition with another railway; and in respect to terminal traffic as distinguished from intermediate
traffic, it might well be that they could afford to carry goods
over the whole line cheaper, or proportionately so, than they
could over an intermediate part of the line."
In the case of Budd v. London & Northwesteo'n Railway
Co., 4 Eng. Ry. and Canal Traffic Cases, 393, and in -London
& ]Northwestern Railway v. Evers4ed, 3 App. Cas. 1029, it
was held that it was not competent for the railway company
to make discriminations between persons shipping from the
same point of departure to the same point of arrival, but, even
in those cases, it was conceded that there might be circumnstances of competition which might be considered. Ac any
rate, those cases have been much modified, if not fully overruled by the later cases -particularly in Denaby M1ain Colliery Company v. JiManchester,Sheffleld & Lincolnsire Railway
Co., 11 App. Cas. 97, and in Phipps v. london i .Lorthwestern Railway, 2 Q. B. D., 1892, 229, 236.
The latter was the case of an application under the Railway and Canal Traffic acts for an order enjoining the defendants to desist from giving an undue preference to the owners
of Butlins and Islip furnaces, and from subjecting the traffic
of the complainants to an undue preference, in the matter of
the rates charged for the conveyance of coal, coke and pigiron traffic; and also for an order enjoining the defendants
to desist from giving an unreasonable preference or advantage to the owners of Butlins and Islip furnaces and the

TEXAS & PAC.RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

225

Opinion of the Court.

traffic therefrom, by making an allowance of four pence per
ton inrespect of coal, coke and pig-iron conveyed for them
by the defendants. The sidings of the Duston furnaces, belonging to the complainants, were situated on the London and
Northwestern Railway, at a distance of about sixty miles from
Great Bridge, one of the pig-iron markets to the westward.
The sidings of the Butlins and Islip furnaces were situated
on the same railway to the east of the Duston furnaces, and
a distance from the pig-iron market as to Butlins, of about
seventy-one miles, and as to Islip of about eighty-two miles.
Duston had only access to the London and Northwestern, but
Butlins and Islip had access not only to the London and Northwestern, but also to the Midland Railway. The London &
Northwestern Company, which carried the Butlins pig-iron
eleven miles further and the Islip pig-iron twenty-two miles
further than the Duston pig-iron, charged Butlins 0.95d. per
mile, and Islip 0.84d. per mile, while they charged Duston
1.05d. per mile, so that the total charge per ton of pig-iron
from Duston to the western markets was five shillings two
pence, while the total charge per ton from either Butlins or
Islip was five shillings eight pence.
When the case was before the Railway Commissioners, it was
said by Wills, J. : "It is complained that, although along the
London and Northwestern^ Railway every ton of pig-iron, every
ton of coal, and every ton of coke travels a longer distance
in order to reach Islip than- in order to reach the applicant's
premises, the charge that is put upon it, although greater than
the charge-which is put upon the traffic which goes to the
applicant's premises, is not sufficiently greater to represent
the .increased distance. . . . I first observe that these
are, in my judgment, eminently practical questions, and if
this court once attempts the hopeless task of dealing with
questions of this kind with any approach to mathematical
acouracy, and tries to introduce a precision which is unattainable in commercial and practical matters, it would do infinite
mischief and no good.

.

.

.

It seems to me that we must

take into account the fact that at Butlins and Islip there is
an effective competition with the Midland. Although effecVOL. CLXII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tive competition with another railway company or canal company will not of itself justify a preference, which is otherwise
quite beyond the mark, yet still it is not a circumstance that
can be thrown out of the question, and I think there is abundance of authority for that. It follows also, I think, from
the view which I am disposed to take of these, being eminently practical questions, that you must give due consideration to the commercial necessities of the companies as a matter
to be thrown in along with the others. . . . I wish emphatically to be considered as not having attempted to lay
down any principles with regard to this question of undue
preference, or as to the grounds upon which I have decided
it. In my judgment, undue preference is a question of fact
in each case."
The Railway Commissioners refused td interfere, and the
case was appealed. Lord Ierschell stated the case and said:
"This application is made under the second section of the
Railway and Canal Traffic act, 1854, which provides that
'no railway company shall make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to or in favor of any particular person or company, or any particular description of
traffic, in any respect whatever, nor shall any such company
subject any particular person or company, or particular description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatever.'
"The question, therefore, which the tribunal, whether it be
the court or the Commissioners, before whom such a question
comes, has to determine is, whether an undue preference or
advantage is being given, or whether the one party is being
unduly prejudiced or put to a disadvantage as compared with
the other. I think it is clear that the section implies that
there may be a preference, and that it does not make every
inequality of charge an undue preference.
"Of course, if the circumstances so differ that the difference
of charge is in exact conformity with the difference of circumstances, there would be no preference at all. But, as has
been pointed out before, what the section provides is that
there shall not be an undue or unreasonable preference or

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

22T

Opinion of the Court.

prejudice.- And it cannot be doubted that whether in particular instances there has been an undue or unreasonable prejudice or preference is a question of fact. In Palmer v. Zondon
& Southwestern Railway Co. (.,. R. 1 0. P. 593), Chief Justice Erle said: 'I beg to say that the argument from authority seems to me to be without conclusive force in guiding
the exercise of this jurisdiction; the question whether undue
prejudice has been caused being a question of fact depending on the matters proved in each case.'
"In Denaby -Main Colliery Company v. .Manchester, &c.,
Railway Co., 3 Railway and Canal Traffic Cases, 426, when
it was before the Court of Appeals, on an appeal arising
out of the proceedings before the Railway Commissioners,
Lord Selborne, then Lord Chancellor, said: 'The defendants
gave a decided, distinct and great advantage, as it appears to
me, to the distant collieries. That may be due or undue,
reasonable or unreasonable, but, under these circumstances,
is not the reasonableness a question of fact? Is it not a question of fact and not of law whether such a preference is due
or undue? Unless you can point to some other law which
defines what shall be held to be reasonable or unreasonable, it
must be and is a mere question not of law but of fact.'
".The Lord Chancellor there points out that the -mere circumstance that there is an advantage does not of itself show
that it is an undue preference vithin the meaning of the act,
and further, that whether there be such undue preference or
advantage, is a question of fact, and of fact .alone of the act
of 185-4. NSo rule is given to-guide the court or the tribunal
in the determination of cases or applications made under
this second section. The conclusion is one of fact to be, arrived at, looking at the matter broadly and applying common
sense to the facts that are-proved. I quite agree with. Mr.
Justice Wills that it is impossible to exercise a jurisdiction,
such as is conferred .by this section, by any process of mere
niathematical or arithmetical calculation. When you have a
variety of circumstances differing in the one case -from the
other, you cannot .say that a difference of circumstances
represents-or is equivalent to such a fraction of a penny dif-

OCTOBER TERM. 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ference of charge in the one case as compared with the other.
A much broader view must be taken, and it would be hopeless
to attempt to decide a case by any attempted calculation. I
should say that the decision must be arrived at broadly
and fairly, by looking at all the circumstances of the case,
that is, looking at all the. circumstances which are proper to
be looked at; because, of course, the very question in this case
is whether a particular circumstance ought or ought not to be
considered; but keeping in view all the circumstances which
may legitimately be taken into consideration, then it becomes
a mere question of fact. . . . Now, there is no doubt that
in coming to their determination the court below did have
regard to competition between the MAidland and the Northwestern, and the situation of these two furnaces which rendered such competition inevitable. If the appellants can make
out that, in point of law, that is a consideration which cannot
be permitted to have any influence at all, that those circumstances must be rigidly excluded from 6onsideration, and that
they are not circumstances legitimately to be considered, no
doubt they establish that the court below has erred in point
of law. But it is necessary for them to go as far as that in
order to make any way with this appeal, because once admit
that to any extent, for any purpose, the question of competition can be allowed to enter in, whether the court has given
too much weight to it or too little, becomes a question of fact
and not of law. The point is undoubtedly a very important
one.
"As I have already observed, the second section of the act
of 1854 does not.afford to the tribunal any kind of guide as
to what is undue or unreasonable. It is left entirely to the
judgment of the court on a review of the circumstances. Can
we say that the local situation of one trader, as compared
with another, which enables him by having two competing
routes to enforce upon the carrier by either of these routes a
certain amount of compliance with his demands, which would
be impossible if he did not enjoy that advantage, is not among
the circumstances which may be taken into consideration? I
am looking at the question now as-between trader and trader.

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COMI.

229

Opinion of the Court.

It is said that it is unfair to the trader who is nearer the
market that he should not enjoy the full benefit of the advantage to be derived from his geographical situation at a point
on the railway nearer the market than his fellow-trader who
trades at a point more distant; but I cannot see, looking at
the matter as ,between the two traders, why the advantageous
position of the one trader in having his works! so placed that
he has two competitive routes is not as much a circumstance
to be taken ifto consideration as the geographical position of
the other trader, who, though he -has not the advantage of
competition, is situated at a point on the line geographically
nearer the market. Why the local situation in regard to its
proximity to,the market is-ito be the only consideration to be
taken into accoufit in dealing with the matter as a matter of
what is reasonable and right as between the two traders, I
....
cannot understand.
"Of course, if you are to exclude this from consideration
altogether, the result must inevitably be to deprive-the trader
who has the two competing routes of a certain ambunt of the
advantages which he derives from that favorable position of
his works. All that I have to say is that I cannot find anything in the act which indicates that when you are left at
large, for you are left at large, as to whether as between two
traders the company' is showing an undue and unreasonable
preference to the one as compared with'the other, you hre'to
leave out that circumstance any more than any other circumstance which would affect men's mind.
. . . One class of
cases, unquestionably intended to be covered by the section, is
that in which traffic from a distance,, of a character that competes with the traffic nearer the market, is charged low rates,
because unless such low rates were charged, it would not come
into the market at all. It is certain, unless some such principle
as that were adopted, a large town would necessarily have its
food supply greatly raised in price. So that, although the
object of the company is simply to'get the traffic, the-public
have an interest in their getting the traffic and allowing the
carriage at a rate which will render that 'traffic possible, and
so bring the goods at a cheaper rate, and one which makes it

OCTOBER TERVt, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

possible for those at a greater distance to compete with those
situate nearer to it.

.

.

.

I cannot but think that a lower

rate which is charged from a more distant point by reason of
a competing route which exists thence is one of the cases
which may be taken into account under those provisions, and
which would fall within the terms of the enactment.
"Suppose that to insist on absolutely equal rates would
practically exclude one of the two railways from the traffic, it
is obvious that these members of the public who are in the
neighborhood where they can have the benefit of this competition, would be prejudiced by any such proceedings. And
further, inasmuch as competition undoubtedly tends to diminution of charges, and the charge of carriage is one which
ultimately falls upon the consumer, it is obvious that the public have an interest in the proceedings under this act of Parliament not being so used as to destroy a traffic which can
never be secured but by some such reduction of charge, and
the destruction of which would be prejudicial to the public by
tending to increase prices."
The learned judge then proceeded to discuss the authorities,
and pointed out that the case of Budd v. .ondon & Forthwestern Railway Co., and L'vershed's case, are no longer law,

so far as the second section of the act of 1854 is concerned.
Lindley and Kay, Lord Justices, gave concurring opinions,
and the conclusion of the court was that the Commissioners
did not err in taking into consideration the fact that there was
a competing line together with all the other facts of the case,
and in holding that a preference or advantage thence arising
was not undue or unreasonable.
The precise question now before us has never been decided
in the American cases, but there are several in which somewhat analogous questions have been considered.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa F4 Railroadv. Denver & New

Orleans Railroad,110 U. S. 667, was a case arising under a
provision of the constitution of the State of Colorado which
declares "that all individuals, associations and corporations
shall have equal rights to have persons and property transported over any railroad in this State, and no undue or unrea-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

231

Opinion of the Court.

sonable discrimination shall be made in: charges or facilities
for transportation of freight or passengers within the State,
-and no, railroad company shall give any preference to individuals, associations or corporations, in. furnishing cars or motive
power." This court held that under thig constitutional provision a railroad company which had made ,provisions with a
connecting road for the transaction of joint business, at an
established union junction was not required ,to make similar
provisions with a rival connecting line at another near point
on its line, and that the constitutional provision is. not violated
by refusing to give to a connecting road. the same arrangement
as to through rates which are given to another, connecting
line, unless the conditions as to the service are substantially
alike in both cases.
The sixth section of the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, relative to the Union Pacific Railroad Company provided that the
government shall at all times have the preference in the use
of the railroad "at fair and reasonable rates of compensation,
not to exceed theamount paid by private parties for the same
kind of service." In ,the ,case of Union Pacifc Railway v.
United States, ,117 U. S. 355, it was, in effect, held that the
service rendered by a, railway company in transporting local
passengers from one point on its line to another is not identical with the service rendered in transporting through ,passengers over the same rails.
A petition was filed before the Interstate Commerce Commission by the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railway
Company against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
seeking to compel the latter company to withdraw from its
lines of road, upon which business competition with that of
the petitioner was transacted, the so called "party rates,"
for an
and to decline to give such rates in the future -also
order requiring said,company to discontinue the practice of
selling excursion tickets at less than the regular rate. The
cause was heard before the Commission, which held the so
called party rate tickets, in so far as they were sold for lower
rates for each member of a party of ten or more than 'rates
contemporaneously charged for the transportation of single

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

passengers between the same points, constituted unjust discrimination and were therefore illegal. The defendant company
refusing to obey the mandate of the Commission, the latter
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, asking that the defendant be enjoined from continuing in its violation of the order of the
Commission. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill. Some of
the observations made by Jackson, Circuit Judge, may well
be cited. 43 Fed. Rep. 37: "Subject to the two leading prohibitions that their charges shall not be unjust or unreasonable,
and that they shall not unjustly discriminate, so as to give undue preference or advantage, or subject to undue prejudice or
disadvantage persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the
act to regulate commerce leaves common carriers as they were
at the common law, free to make special contracts looking to
the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust
and apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities of commerce, and generally to manage their important interests upon
the same principles which are regarded as sound, and adopted
in other trades and pursuits. Conceding the same terms of
contract to all persons equally, may not the carrier adopt
both wholesale and retail rates for its transportation service ?"
Again: "The English cases establish the rule that, in passing
upon the question of undue or unreasonable preference or disadvantage, it is not only legitimate, but proper, to take into
consideration, besides the mere differences in charges, various
elements, such as the convenience of the public, the fair interests of the carrier, the relative quantities or volume of the
traffic involved, the relative cost of. the services and profit to
the company, and the situation and circumstances of the respective customers with reference to each other as competitive or otherwise."
The case was brought to this court and the judgment of
the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was affirmed. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 145
U. S. 263. The court, through Mr. Justice Brown, cited with
approval passages from the opinion of Judge Jackson in the
court below, and among other things said: "It is not all dis-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COIM. COM.

233

Opinion of the Court.

criminations or preferences that fall within the inhibition of
the statute; only such as are unjust and unreasonable."
Again,.speaking of the sale of aiticket for a number of passengers at a less rate than for a single passenger, it was said:

"It does not operate to the prejudice of the single passenger,
who cannot be said to be injured by the fact that another is

able, in a particular instance, to travel at a less rate than he.
If it operates injuriously to any one it is to the rival road,
which has not adopted corresponding rates, but, as before observed,. it was not the design of the act to stifle competition,
nor is there any legal injustice in one person procuring a particular service cheaper than another., ..
If these tickets
were withdrawn the defendant road would lose a large amount
of travel, and the single-trip passenger would gain absolutely
nothing."
The conclusions that we draw from the history and language of the act, and from the decisions of our own and the
English courts, are mainly these: That the purpose of the act
is to promote and facilitate commerce by the adoption of
regulations to make charges for transportation just and reasonable, and to forbid undue and unreasonable preferences
or discriminations: That, in passing upon questions arising
under the act, the tribunal appointed to enforce its provisions,
whether the Commission or the courts, is empowered to fully
consider all the circumstances and conditions that reasonably
apply to the situation, and that, in the, exercise of its jurisdiction, the. tribunal may and should consider the legitimate
interests as well.of the carrying companies as of the traders
and shippers, and in considering whether any particular locality is subjected to an undue preference or disadvantage the
welfare of the communities occupying 'the localities where
the goods are delivered is to be considered as well as that of
the communities which are in the locality of the place of shipment: That among the circumstances and conditions to be
considered, as well in the case of traffic originating in foreign
ports as in the case of traffic originating within the limits of
the United States, competition that affects rates should be
considered, and in deciding whetherrates and charges made at,

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

a low rate to secure foreign freights which would otherwise
go by other competitive routes are or are not undue and unjust, the fair interests of the carrier companies and the welfare of the community which is to receive and consume the
commodities are to be considered: That if the Commission,
instead of confining its action to redressing, on complaint
made by some particular person, firm, corporation or locality,
some specific disregard by common carriers of provisions of
the act, proposes to promulgate general orders, which thereby
become rules of action to the carrying companies, the spirit
and letter of the act require that such orders should have in
view the purpose of !romoting and facilitating commerce, and
the welfare of all to be affected, as well the carriers as the
traders and consumers of the country.
It may be said that it would be impossible for the Commission to frame a general order if it were necessary to enter
upon so wide a field of investigation, and if all interests that
are liable to be affected were to be considered. This criticism, if well founded, would go to show that such orders are
instances of general legislation, requiring an exercise of the
law-making power, and that the general orders made by the
Commission in March, 1889, and January, 1891, instead of being
regulations calculated to promote commerce and enforce the express provisions of the act, are themselves laws of wide import,
destroying some branches of commerce that have long existed,
and undertaking to change the laws and customs of transportation in the promotion of what is supposed to be public, policy.
This is manifest from the facts furnished us in the report
and findings of the Commission, attached as an exhibit to the
bill filed in the Circuit Court.
It is stated in that report that the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, one of the respondents in the proceeding before
the Commission, averred in its answer that it was constrained,
by its obedience to the order of March, 1889, to decline to
take for shipment any import traffic, and, to its great detriment, to refrain from the business, for the reason that to meet
the action of the competing lines it would have to make a
less rate on the import than on the domestic traffic.

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM.COM. 235
Opinion of the Court.

Upon this disclosure that their order had resulted in deprivin g that company of a valuable part of its traffic (to say nothing of its necessary effect in increasing the charges to be
finally paid by the consumers), the Commission in its report
naively remarks: "This lets the Illinois Central Railway
Company out." 4 Interstate Com. Com. Rep. 458.
We also learn from the same source that-there was competent evidence adduced before the Commission, on the part
of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, that since that company, in obedience to the order of March, 1889, has charged
the full inland rate on the import traffic, the road's business
in that particular has considerably fallen off -that the steamship lines have never assented to the' road's charging its full
inland rates, and have been making demands on the road for
a proper division of the through rate -that if it were definitely determined that the road was not at liberty to charge
less than the full inland rate, the result would be that it would
effectually close every steamship line sailing to and from Baltimore and Philadelphia.
The Commission did not find it necessary to consider this
evidence, because the Pennsylvania Railroad Company was
before it in the attitude of'having obeyed the order.
We do not refer to these matters for the purpose of indicating what conclusions ought to have been reached by the Commission or by the courts below in respect to what were proper
rates to be charged by the Texas and Pacific Railway Company. That was a question of fact, and if the inquiry had
been conducted on a proper basis we should not have felt
inclined to review- conclusions so reached. But we mention
them to show that there manifestly ,was error in excluding
facts and circumstances that ought- to have been considered,
and that this error arose out of a misconception of the purpose and meaning of the act.
The Circuit Court held that the order of January 29, 1891,
was a lawful order, and enjoined the defendant company from
carrying any article of import traffic shipped from any foreign
port through any port of entry in the United States, or any
port of entry in a foreign country adjacent to the' United

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

States, upon through bills of lading, and destined to any place
within the United States, upon any other than the published
inland tariff covering the transportation of other freight of
like kind over its line from such port of entry to such place
of destination, or from charging or accepting for its share of
through rates upon imported traffic a lower sum than it
charges or receives for domestic traffic of like kind to the
same destination from the point at which the imported traffic
enters the country.
I In treating the facts of the case the court says: "It must
be
conceded as true, for the purposes of the present case, that
the rates for the transportation of traffic from Liverpool and
London to San Francisco are, in effect, fixed and controlled by
the competition of sailing vessels between these ports, and also
by the competition of steamships and sailing vessels in connection with"railroads across the Isthmus of Panama, none of
which are in any respect subject to the act to regulate commerce. It must also be conceded that the favorable rates
given to the foreign traffic are, for reasons to which it is now
unnecessary to revert, somewhat remunerative to the defendant; and it must also be conceded that the defendant would
lose the foreign traffic, by reason of the competition referred
to, and the revenue derived therefrom, unless it carries at the
lower rates, and by so doing is enabled to get part of it, which
would otherwise go from London and Liverpool to San Francisco around the Horn or by the, way of the Isthmus." Interstate Commerce Commission v. Texas & Pacific Rai.way, 52
Fed. IRep. 187.
The Circuit Court did not discuss the case at length, either
as to its law or facts, but, in effect, approved the order of
January 29, 1891, as valid, and enjoined the defendant company from disregarding it.
The Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have disapproved of
the construction put on the act by the Commission. The language of the court was as follows: "The Commission contended that the defendant had violated the second section of
the act to regulate commerce, which prohibits unjust discrimination in the c6mpensation charged for like and contempo-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE CM. COM.

237

Opinion of the Court.

raneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, and
had also violated the third sedlion, which prohibits any undue
or unreasonable preference or advantage to any :particular
description of traffic. The defendant insisted that the dissimilar conditions growing out of- the .ocean competition freed
its conduct from the prohibition of, the statute. The Commission, held that, this class of dissimilar conditions was not in
the contemplation of the statute, and was-not to be regarded
in the regulation of inland tariffs of rates." Then, after citing
a passage from the report of the Commission, the court proceeds to say: "Its-conclusion was that foreign and home merchandise 'under the operation of the statute, when handled
and transferred by interstate carriers engaged in carriage in
the United States, stand'exactly upon the same basis of equality as to tolls, charges,- and treatment for similar services rendered.' This rule, having been founded upon a construction
of the statute, is a very broad one. It is applicable to all the
foreign circumstances and conditiqns which affect rates, and
the question whether it must be universally applied without
regard to any circumstances which may exist in a foreign
country, and whether dissimilarities which have a foreign origin are to be excluded from consideration under the operation of
the statute, is an exceedingly important-one, the ultimate decision of -which may hate a wider influence upon the interstate
commerce of the country than we~can foresee. This legal question was not discussed in the export rate case, which was treated
'as one of practical policy.' We are not disposed to pass
authoritatively upon this question, except in a case which demands it, and in which the effect of this construction of the statute is naturally the subject of discussion." 20 U. S. App. 6-9.
Having thus intimated its dissent, from, or, at least, its distrust of, the view of the Commission, the court proceeded to
affirm the decree of the Circuit Court and the validity of the
order of the Commission, upon the ground that, even if ocean
competition should be regarded as creating a dissimilar condition, yet that, in the present case, the disparity in' rates was
too great to be justified by that condition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

This course proceeded, we think, upon an erroneous view of
the position of the case. That question was not presented to
the consideration of the court. There was no allegation in the
Commission's bill or petition that the inland rates charged
by the defendant company were unreasonable. That issue
was not presented. The defendant company was not called
upon to make any allegation on the subject. No testimony
was adduced by either party on such an issue. What the
Commission complained of was that the defendant refused to
recognize the lawfulness of its order; and what the defendant
asserted, by way of defence, was that the order was invalid,
because the Commission had avowedly declined to consider
certain "circumstances and conditions" which, under a proper
construction of the act, it ought to have considered.
If the Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that the
Commission in making its order had misconceived the extent
of its powers, and if the Circuit Court had erred in affirming
the validity of an order made under such misconception, the
duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals was to reverse the decree, set aside the order, and remand the cause to the Commission, in order that it might, if it saw fit, proceed therein
according to law. The defendant was entitled to have its
defence considered, in the first instance at least, by the Conmission upon a full consideration of all the circumstances and
conditions upon which a legitimate order could be founded.
The questions whether certain charges were reasonable or
otherwise, whether certain discriminations were due or undue,
were questions of fact, to be passed upon by the Commission
in the light of all facts duly alleged and supported by competent evidence, and it did not comport with the true scheme of
the statute that the Circuit Court of Appeals should undertake, of its own motion, to find and pass upon such questions of fact, in a case in the position in which the present
one was.
We do not, of course, mean to imply that the Commission
may not directly institute proceedings in a Circuit Court of
the United States charging a common carrier with disregard
of provisions of the act, and that thus it may become the duty

TEX-AS & PAC.RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 239
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

of the court to try the case in the first instance. Nor can it
be denied that, even when a petition is filed by the Commission for the purpose of enforcing an order of its own, the court
is authorized to "hear and determine the matter as a court of
equity," which necessarily implies that the court is not concluded by the findings or conclusions of the Commission; yet
as the act provides that, on such hearing, the findings of fact
in the report of said Commission shall beyrimafacieevidence
of the matters therein stated, we think it plain that if, in such
a case, the Commission has failed in its proceedings to give
notice to the alleged offender, :or has unduly restricted its
inquiries upon a mistaken view of the law, the court ought
not to accept the findings of the Commission as a legal basis
for its own action, but should either inquire into the facts on
its own account, or send the case back to the Commission to
be lawfully proceeded in.
The mere fact that the -disparity between the through and
the local rates was considerable did not, of itself, warrant the
court in finding that such disparity constituted an undue discrimination -much
less did it justify the court in finding
that the entire difference between the two rates was undue
or unreasonable, especially as there was no person, firm, or
corporation complaining that he or they had been aggrieved
by such disparity.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Apeals is reversed; the
decree of the CircuitCourt is also reversed; and the cause is
remanded to that court, with directions to dismiss the bill.
MR. JUSTICE HAiRLAN, with whom concurred MR.JUSTICE
BRowN, dissenting.
The Interstate Commerce Act, as amended March 2, 1889,
requires every common carrier, subject to its provisions, to
print and keep open to public inspection schedules showing its
rates and char'ges for the transportation of passengers and
property. It also requires that such schedules "shall, plainly
state the places upon its railroad between which property, and
passengers will be carried, and shall contain the classification
of freight in force ;" further, that any common carrier subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

to the provisions of the act, "receiving freight in the United
States to be carried through a foreign country to any place in
the United States shall also in like manner print and keep
open to public inspection, at every depot or office where such
freight is received for shipment, schedules showing the through
rates established and charged by such common carrier to all
points in the United States beyond the foreign country to
which it accepts freight for shipment."
The act contains no provision for printed schedules to be
kept open to public inspection, of freight shipped from a foreign country, not adjacent to this country, on a through bill of
lading, and to be carried, after it reaches an American port, to
some place in the United States. I think the reason for this is
that Congress did not intend that the rates to be charged for
service by carriers subject to the provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act should depend upon or be affected by rates
established abroad for ocean transportation.
The Commission, thus interpreting the act of Congress, and
in order that American interests might not be injuriously
affected by freight arrangements made by railroad companies
with companies engaged in ocean transportatiofi and which
were not subject to our laws, issued on the 23d day of March,
1889, the following general order: "Imported traffic transported to any place in the United States from a port of entry
or place of reception, whether in this country or in an adjacent foreign country, is required to be taken on the inland
tariff covering other freights."
Subsequently, November 29, 1889, proceedings were commenced before the Commission by the petition of the New
York Board of Trade and Transportation against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and
Chicago Railroad Company and the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati
and St. Louis Railroad Company.
The petition charged that those companies violated the
Interstate Commerce Act and were guilty of unjust discriminations, in that they charged their regular tariff rates upon
property delivered to them at New York and Philadelphia for
transportation to Chicago and other Western points, while

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE 00M. COIN

241

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

charging rates much lower for a like cotemporaneous service
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions when
the property was or is delivered to them at New York or
Philadelphia by vessels and steamship lines, under through
bills of lading from foreign ports and foreign interior ports,
issued under common arrangement between the defendants
and such vessels and steamship lines and foreign railroads for
continuous carriage at joint rates from the point or port of
shipment to Chicago and other Western points; the defendants' share of such through rate for the inland transportation
being lower than its regular tariff rates, in some cases as low
as fifty per cent thereof.
The petition further charged that the defendants failed to
state in their published tariffs or in such through bills of lading the inland charge separately from the ocean and other
charges in order to prevent ascertainment of the actual inland
rates; that they made and gave undue and unreasonable
preferences and advantages to persons, firms, companies, corporations and localities interested in the transportation of
imported traffic from the seaboard under such through bills
of lading, and had subjected persons, companies, firms and
corporations, in and about some localities to- undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage by reason of the higher
rates charged to them for like and contemporaneous service
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions;
that there are no conditions or circumstances relating to the
transportation of imported traffic which justify any difference
in rates between imported traffic transported to any place in
the United States from a port of entry and other traffic from
such ports, and that the inland published tariff must by law
be the same for all such freights.
In the course of the proceedings different Commercial
Exchanges and Chambers of Commerce became co-plaintiffs,
and other railroads were made defendantg.
It appears from the opinion of the Interstate Commerce
Commission that numerous roads conformed to the order of
March 23, 1889, and insisted that their inland rates were the
same for all traffic, whether domestic or imported.
VOL. cLx-x-16

OCTOBER TERNI?,

1895.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

In the progress of the proceedings the Texas and Pacific
'Railway Company was brought before that tribunal; and on
the 29th day of January, 1891, an order was made that certain
railroad companies,-including the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company, should wholly cease and desist from carrying any
article of import traffic shipped from any foreign port through
any port of entry of the United States, or any port of
entry in a foreign country- adjacent to the United States,
upon through bills of-lading, and destined to any place within
the United States, upon any other than the published inland
tariff covering the transportation of other freight of like kind
over their respective lines from such port of entry to such
place of destination, or at any -other than the same rates
established in said published inland tariff for the carriage of
other like kind of traffic in the elements of bulk, weight, value
and expense of carriage.
The present case was commenced by the Interstate Commerce Commission by petition filed in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York
against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company.
A decree was entered by that court, enjoining the latter
company, its board of directors, officers, agents, attorneys,
clerks, servants, employ~s and all persons claiming or holding
under them, or either, or any-of them, from carrying any article of import traffic shipped from any foreign port through
any port of entry in the United States, or any port of entry
in a foreign country adjacent to the United States, upon
through bills of lading, and destined to any place within the
United States, upon any other than the published inland
tariff covering the transportation of other freight of like kind
over its line from such port of entry -to such place of destination; or at any other than the same rates established in said
published tariff for the carriage of other like kinds of traffic
in the elements of bulk, weight, value and expense of carriage;
or from carrying imported traffic at lower rates for like service than the defendant charges for like traffic originating in
the United States; or from charging or accepting for its share
of through rates upon imported traffic a lower sum than it

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. .243
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

charges or receives for domestic traffic of like kind to the
same destination from the point at which the imported traffic
enters the country; or for such share of through rates upon
imported traffic any other than the rates established in the
defendant's published tariff for the carriage of other like kind
of traffic in the elements of bulk, weight, value,- distances and
expense of carriage.
This decree was affirmed in the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.
The record shows that the rate in cents per one hundred
pounds charged for the transportation, on through bills of
lading, of books, buttons, carpets, clothing .and hosiery, from
Liverpool and London, via New Orleans, over the Texas
and Pacific Railway and the railroads of the Southern Pacific
system, to San Francisco, is 107, while upon the same kind
of articles - carried, it may be, on the same train- the rate
charged from New Orleans, over. the same railroads,to San
Francisco, is 288. The rate in cents per one hundred pounds
charged for the transportation, on through bills of lading, of
boots and shoes, cashmeres, cigars,- confectionery, cutlery,
gloves, hats and caps, laces, linen, linen goods, saddlers' goods
and woollen goods, from Liverpool and London, via New
Orleans, over the same railroad, to San Francisco, is 107,
while upon like goods, starting from New Orleans and destined for San Francisco, over the same line - it may be, on
the same train- the. rate charged is 370. Discrimination,
in the matter of rates, is also made by the railway company
(though not to so great an extent) in favor of blacking, burlaps, candles, cement, chinaware, cordage, crockery, comfmon
drugs, earthenware, common glassware, glycerine, hardware,
leather; nails, soap, caustic soda; tallow, tin plate and wood
pulp, manufactured abroad and shipped, on through bills of
lading, from Liverpool and London, via New Orleans, to San
Francisco, and against goods of like kind carried from New
Orleans to San Francisco over the same railroads.
These rates have been established by agreement, between
the railway company whose line, with its connections, extends
from New Orleans to San Francisco, and the companies whose

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

vessels run from Liverpool to New Orleans. And the ques.
tion is presented, whether the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company can, consistently with the act of Congress, charge
a higher rate for the transportation of goods starting from
New Orleans and destined to San Francisco, than for the
transportation between the same places, of goods of the same
kind in all the elements of bulk, weight, value and expense
of carriage, brought to New Orleans from Liverpool on a
through bill of lading, and to be carried to San Francisco.
If this question be answered in the affirmative; if all the
railroad companies whose lines extend inland from the Atlantic and Pacific seaboards indulge in like practices-and if
one may do so, all may and will do so; if such discrimination
by American railways, having arrangements with foreign
companies, against goods, the product of American skill,
enterprise and labor, is consistent with the act pf Congress,
then the title of that act should have been one to regulate
commerce to the injury of American interests and for the
benefit of foreign manufacturers and dealers.
The railway company insists that the competition existing
between it and the ocean lines running between Liverpool and
San Francisco, via Cape Horn and the Pacific Ocean, and
between Liverpool and San Francisco, via the Isthmus of
Panama, compel it to charge a higher rate from New Orleans
to San Francisco for the transportation of goods originating
at New Orleans than on like goods originating at Liverpool
and destined to San Francisco, via New Orleans; otherwise, it
contends, goods that originate at Liverpool would fall into
the hands of its competitors in the business of transportation.
The Interstate Commerce Commission held that, in determining the question before it, no weight could be attached
to the circumstances arising from the conduct of ocean lines
by corporations or associations who were in no .wise' subject to the provisions of the act of Congress; and that the
provision which expressly forbids common carriers from .making or giving undue preferences or advantages in any respect
whatsoever was intended to be so far rigid in its nature that
it could not be relaxed by reason of circumstances or condi-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY 1. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

245

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

tions arising out of or connected with foreign countries or
that were caused by agencies beyond the control or supervision of the Commission. The court now holds that the Commission erred in thus interpreting the act of Congress.
To what common carriers does the Interstate Commerce
Act of 1887 apply? 24 Stat. 379, c. 104; 25 Stat. 855, c. 382.
This question is answered by the first section of that act.
By that section, the provisions of the act, are declared to
"apply to any common carrier or carriers engaged in the
transportation of passengers or property wholly by railroad,
or partly by railroad and partly by water when both are used,
under a common control, management or arrangement, for a
continuous carriage or shipment, from one State or Territory
of the United States, or the District of Columbia, to any other
State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or from any place in the United States to an adjacent
foreign country, or from any place in the United States
through a foreign country to any other place in the United
States, and also to the transportation in like manner of property shipped from any place in the United States to a foreign
country and carried from such place to a port of transshipment, or shipped from a foreign country to any place in the
United States and carried to such place from a port of entry
either in the United States or an adjacent foreigh country: Provided, however, That the provisions of this act shall not apply
to the transportation of passengers or property, or to the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of property, wholly within
one State, and not shipped to or from a foreign country from
or to any State or Territory as aforesaid." Again: "All
charges made for any service rendered or to be rendered in
the transportation of passengers or property as aforesaid, or
in connection therewith, or for the receiving, delivering, storage or handling of such property, shall be reasonable and
just; and every unjust and unreasonable charge for such service is prohibited and declared to be unlawful."
From this section it is clear that the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company is, and that the ocean lines connected with
that company are not, subject to the provisions of the act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

This interpretation is supported by the declaration made on
the floor of the Senate by the chairman of the select committee which reported the original bill. He said: "While the
provisions of the bill are made to apply mainly to the regulation of interstate commerce, in order to regulate such coinmerce fairly and effectively, it has been deemed necessary
to extend its application also to certain classes of foreign
commerce which are intimately intermingled with interstate
commerce, such as shipments between the United States and
adjacent countries by railroad, and the transportation by railroad of shipments between points in the United States and
ports of transshipment or of entry, when such shipments are
destined to or received from a foreign country on through
bills of lading. To avoid any uncertainty as to the meaning
of these provisions in regard to what may be at the same time,
in some instances, state and foreign commerce, it is expressly
provided that the bill shall not apply to the transportation
of property wholly within the State and not destined to or
receivedfrom a foreign country."
We have then an explicit declaration by Congress that the
act not only embraces common carriers of the class to which
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company belongs, but that its
provisions as to rates apply to the transportation of property
"shipped from a foreign country to any place in the United
States, and carried to such placefrom a port of entry either in
the United States or an adjacentforeign country."
What is the rule declared by Congress in respect to rates
for the transportation of property or goods of the kind just
described? It is clearly defined by the second, third and
fourth sections, which declare:
"SEC. 2. That if any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate,
rebate, drawback or other device, charge, demand, collect or
receive from any person or persons a greater or less compensation for any service rendered, or to be rendered, in the
transportation of passengers or property, subject to the provisions of this act, than it charges, demands, collects or
receives from any other person or persons for doing for him

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE C0M. 0 M.

947

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

or them a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions, such common 'carrier 'shall be
deemed guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
"SEc. 3. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier
subject to .the provisions of -this act to make ,or give any undue or unreasonable preference 6radvantage to any particular
person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or' any particular description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to
subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation or
locality, or any particular description of trafic, to any undue
or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect
whatsoever.
"SEC. 4. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier
subject to the provisions of this 'act to charge or receive any
greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation
of passengers or of like kind'of property, under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions, for -a shorter than for
a longer distance over the sam& line, in the same direction,
the shorter being included within the longer distance; but
this shall not be construed as authorizing any common carrier
within the terms of 'this act to charge and receive as great
compensation for a shorter as for a longer distance: Provided,
itowever, That upon application to the Commission appointed
under the provisions of this act, such common carrier may,
in special cases, after investigation by the Commission, be
authorized to charge less for longer than for shorter distances
for the transportation of passengers or property; and the
Commission may from time to time prescribe the extent to
which designated common carriers may-be relieved from the
operation of this section of this act."
I am unable to find in these sections any authority for
the Commission, or for a carrier subject to the provisions- of
the act of Congress, to take into consideration the rates established by ocean lines as affecting the charges that an American
carrier may make for the transportation of property over its
routes. The transportation, for insfance, by the Texas and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

Pacific Railway Company of boots and shoes from New.
Orleans to San Francisco for A, and the transportation of
like goods over the same route for B, is "a like and contemporaneous service" by the carrier for each shipper, and is
performed under precisely the same circumstances and conditions. A discrimination between A and B, in respect of
charges for a like and contemporaneous service in transporting the sane kind of property, over the same route, is an
unjust discrimination, because it necessarily operates to give
that one to whom the most liberal rates are given, an undue
or unreasonable preference or advantage over the others.
I am unwilling to impute to Congress the purpose to permit a railroad company, because of arrangements it may
make, for its benefit, with foreign companies engaged in
ocean transportation, to charge for transporting from one
point to another point in this country goods of a particular
kind manufactured in this country three or four times more
than it charges for carrying, over the same route and between
the same points, goods of the same kind manufactured abroad
and received by such railroad company at one of our ports of
entry.
The fourth section of the statute relating to long and short
distances, and which authorizes the Commission, in special
cases, to allow less to be charged for longer than for shorter
distances for the transportation of passengers or property over
the same route, does not refer to distances covered and services performed on the ocean, between this country and
foreign countries not adjacent to this country, nor to transportation between the same points in this country over the
same road. When the question is as to -rates for service by a
carrier between two given points in this country, and in reference to the same kind of property, Qongress, I think, intended that for such "like and contemporaneous service,"
performed, as they necessarily are, under the same circumstances and conditions, no preference or advantage should be
given to any particular person, company, firm, corporation or
locality. Consequently, when goods are to be carried from
one point in the United States to another, the rate to be

TEXAS & PAC. RAITWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

249

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

charged cannot properly be affected by an inquiry as to
where such goods originated or were manufactured.
Congress intended that all property, transported by a carrier
subject to the provisions of the act, should be carried without
any discrimination because of its origin. The rule intended
to be established was one of equality in charges, as between
a carrier and all shippers, in respect of like and contemporaneous service performed by the carrier over its line, between
the same points, without discrimination based upon conditions
and circumstances arising out of that carrier's relations with
other carriers or companies, especially those who cannot be
controlled by the laws of the United States.
After referring to the fact that goods originating in a foreign country are carried upon rates that are practically fixed
abroad, and are not published here, while carriers governed
by the act of Congress are required to publish their rates for
transportation in this country, the Commission, speaking by
Commissioner Bragg, well said: "Imported foreign merchandise has all the benefit and advantage of rates thus made in
the foreign ports; it also has all the benefit and advantage of
the low rates made in the ocean carriage arising from the
peculiar circumstances and conditions under which it is done;
but when it reaches a port of entry of the United States, or a
port of entry of a foreign country adjacent fo the United
States, in either event upon a -through bill of lading, destined
to a place in the United States, then its carriage from such
port of entry to its place of destination in the United States,
under the operation of the act to regulate commerce, must be
under the inland tariff from such port of entry to such place
of destination covering other like kind of traffic in the elements of bulk, weight, value and of carriage, and no unjust
preferences must be given to it in carriage or facilities of
carriage over other freight. In such case all the circumstances
and conditions that have surrounded its rates and carriage
from the foreign port to the port of entry have had their full
weight and operation, and in its carriage from a port of entry
to the place of its destination in the United States, the mere
fact that it is foreign merchandise thus brought from a foreign

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

port is not a circumstance or condition under the operation of
the act to regulate commerce, which entitles it to lower rates
or any other preference in facilities and carriage over home
merchandise or other traffic of a like kind carried by the
inland carrier from the port of entry to the place of destination in the United States for the same distance and over the
same line." I concur entirely with the Commission when it
further declared: "One paramount purpose of the act to regulate commerce, manifest in all its provisions, is to give to all
dealers and shippers the same rates for similar services rendered by the carrier in transporting similar freight over its
line. Now, it is apparent from the evidence in this case that
many American manufacturers, dealers and localities, in almost every line of manufacture and business, are the competitors of foreign manufacturers, dealers and localities for
supplying the wants of American consumers at interior places
in the United States, and that under domestic bills of lading
they seek to require from American carriers like service as
their foreign competitors in order to place their manufactured
goods, property and merchandise with interior consumers.
The act to regulate commerce secures them this right. To
deprive them of it by any course of transportation business
or device is to violate the statute. Such a deprivation would
be so obviously unjust as to shock the general sense of justice
of all the people of the country, except the few who would
receive the immediate and direct benefit of it."
It seems to me that any other interpretation of the act of
Congress puts it in the power of railroad companies which
have established, or may establish, business arrangements
with foreign companies engaged in ocean transportation, to
do the grossest injustice to American interests. I find it impossible to believe that Congress intended that freight, originating in Europe or Asia and transported by an American
railway from an American port to another part of the United
States, could be given advantages in the matter of rates, for
services performed -in this country, which are denied to like
freight originating in this country and- passing over the same
line of railroad between the same points. To say that -Con-

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM.COM. 251
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

gress so intended is to say that its purpose was to subordinate
American interests to the interests of foreign countries and
foreign corporations. Such a result will necessarily follow
from any interpretation of the act that enables a railroad
company to exact greater compensation for the transportation
from an American port of entry, of merchandise originating
in this country, than is exacted for the transportation over
the same route of exactly the same kind of merchandise
brought to that port from Europe or Asia, on a through bill
of lading, under an arrangement with an ocean transportation
company. Under such an interpretation, the rule established
by Congresi to secure the public against unjust discrimination
by carriers subject to the, provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act would be displaced by a rule practically established
in foreign countries by foreign companies, acting in combination with American railroad corporations seeking, as might
well be expected, to increase their profits, regardless of the
interests of the public or of individuals.
I am not much impressed by the anxiety which the railroad company professes to have for the interests of the consumers of foreign goods and products brought to this country
under an arrangement as to rates made by it with ocean transportation lines. We are dealing in this case only with a question of rates for the transportation of goods from New Orleans
to San Francisco over the defendant's railroad. The consumers at San Francisco, or those who may be supplied from
that city, have no concern whether the goods reach them by
way of railroad from New Orleans, or by water around Cape
Horn, or by the route across the Isthmus of Panama.
Nor is the question before the court controlled by considerations arising out of the tariff enactments of Congress. The
question is one of unjust discrimination by an American railway against shippers and owners of goods. and merchandise
originating in this country, and of favoritism to shippers and
owners of goods and merchandise originating in foreign countries. If the position of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company be sustained, then all- the, railroads of 'the country that
extend inland from either the Atlantic or the Pacific Ocean

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

will follow their example, with the inevitable result that the
goods and products of foreign countries, because alone of their
foreign origin and the low rates of ocean transportation, will
be transported inland from the points where they reach this
coun.try at rates so much lower than is accorded to American
goods and products, that the owners of foreign goods and
products may control the markets of this country to the serious detriment of vast interests that have grown up here, and
in the protection of which, against unjust discrimination, all
of ourpeople are deeply concerned.
It is said that only Boards of Trade or Commercial Exchanges have complained of the favorable rates allowed by
railroad companies for foreign freight. It seems to me that
this is an immaterial circumstance. So long as the questions
under consideration were properly raised by those Boards and
Exchanges, it was unnecessary that individual shippers, pro-ducers and dealers should intervene in the proceedings before
the Commission. But, I may ask whether the interests represented by these Boards of Trade and Commercial Exchanges
are not entitled to as much consideration as the interests of
railroad corporations? Are all the interests represented by
those who handle, manufacture and deal in American goods
and merchandise that go into the markets of this country to
be subordinated to the necessities or greed of railroad corporations? As I have already said, Congress, by enacting the
Interstate Commerce Act, did not seek to favor any special
class of persons, nor any particular kind of goods because-of
their origin. It intended that all freight of like kind, whereever originating, should be carried between the same points,
in this country, on terms of equality.
It is said that the Interstate Commerce Commission isen,titled to take into consideration the interests of the carrier.
My view is, that the act of Congress prescribes a rule which
precludes the Commission or the courts from taking into consideration any facts outside of the inquiry whether the carrier, for like and contemporaneous services, performed in this
country under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, may charge one shipper more or less than he charges

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE COM. COM.

253

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

another shipper of like goods, over the same route, and between the same points. Undoubtedly, the carrier is entitled
to reasonable compensation for the service it performs. But
the necessity that a named carrier shall secure a particular
kind of business is not a sufficient reason for permitting it to
discriminate unjustly against American shippers, by denying
to them advantages granted to foreign shippers. Congress
has not legislated upon such a theory. It has not said that
the inquiry, whether the carrier has been guilty of unjust discrimination, shall depend upon the financial necessities of the
carrier. On the contrary, its purpose was to correct the evils
that had arisen from unjust discrimination made by carriers
engaged in interstate commerce. It has not, I think, declared,
nor can I suppose it will ever distinctly declare, that an
American railway company, in order to secure for itself a,
particular business and realize a profit therefrom, may burden
interstate commerce in articles originating in this country, by
imposing higher rates for the transportation of such articles
from one point to another point in the United States, than it
charges for the transportation between the same points, under
the same circumstances and conditions, of like articles originating in Europe, and received by such company on a through
bill of lading issued abroad. Does any one suppose that, if
the Interstate Commerce bill, as originally presented, had
declared, in express terms, that an American railroad company might charge more for the transportation of American
freight, between two given places in this country, than it
charged for foreign freight, between the same points, that a
single legislator would have sanctioned it by his vote? Does
any one suppose that an American President would have approved such legislation?
Suppose the Interstate Commerce bill, as originally reported,
or when put upon its passage, had contained this clause:
"Provided, however, the carrier may charge less for transporting from an American port to any place in the United
States, freight received by it from Europe on a through bill
of lading, than it charges for American freight carried from
that port to the same place for which the foreign freight is

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

destined." iNo one would expect such a bill to pass an American Congress. If not, we should declare that Congress ever
intended to produce such a result; especially, when the act it
has passed does not absolutely require it to be so interpreted.
Let us suppose the case of two lots of freight being at New
Orleans, both destined for San Francisco over the Texas and
Pacific Railway and its connecting lines. One lot consists of
goods manufactured in this country; the other, of goods of
like kind manufactured in Europe, and which came from
Europe on a through bill of lading. Let us suppose, also, the
case of two passengers being at New Orleans-the act of
Congress applies equally to passengers and freight-both
destined for San Francisco over the same railroad and its connecting lines. One is an American; the other, a foreigner
who came from Europe upon an ocean steamer belonging to
a foreign company that had an arrangement with the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, by which a passenger, with a
through ticket from Liverpool, would be charged less for
transportation from New Orleans to San Francisco than it
charged an American going from New Orleans to San Francisco. The contention of the railroad company is, that it may
carry European freight and passengers, between two given
points in this country, at lower rates than it exacts for carirying American freight and passengers between the same points,
and yet not violate the statute, which declares it to be unjust
discrimination for any carrier, directly or indirectly, by any
device, to charge, demand, collect or receive from any person
or persons a greater or less compensation for any service rendered, or to be rendered, in the transportation of passengers
or property than it charges, demands, collects or receives from
any other person or persons for doing for him or them a like
and contemporaneous service in the -transportation of a like
kind'of traffic under substantially similar circumstances and
conditions. And that discrimination is justified upon the
ground that, otherwise, the railroad company will lose a particular traffic. Under existing legislation, such an interpretation of the act of Congress enables the great railroad corporations of this country to place American travellers, in their own

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Syllabus.

country, as well as American interests of incalculable value, at
the mercy of foreign capital and foreign combinations -a
result never cofitemplated by the legislative branch of the
government.
I cannot accept this view, and, therefore, dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.
I am authorized by MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN to say that he con-

curs in this opinion.
MR. CHIEF TUSTIcE FULLER

dissenting:

In my judgment the second and third sections of the Interstate Commerce Act are rigid rules of action, binding the
Commission as well as. the railway companies. The similar
circumstances and conditions referred to in the act are those
under which the traffic of the railways is conducted, and the
competitivq conditions which may be taken into consideration
by the Commission are the competitive conditions within the
field occupied by the carrier, and not competitive conditions
arising wholly outside of it.
I am, therefore, constrained to dissent from the opinion and
judgment of the court.

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
ERROR TO THE COUIRT OF

CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH SU-

PREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 653.

Submitted January 10, 1696.-Decded March 23, 1896.

Neither the Secretary of War, nor the Attorney Gefteral, nor any subordinate of either, is authorized to waive the exemption of the United States
from judicial process; or to submit the United States, or their property,
to the jurisdiction of the court in a suit brought against their officers.
In an action of trespass to try title, under the statutes of Texas, brought by
one claiming title in.an undivided third part of a parcel of land, and possession of the whole, against officers of the United States, occupying the

