OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ANDREWS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 532.

Submitted January 23, 1896. -Decided April 13, 1S96.

On the trial of a person indicted for a violation of the provisions of Rev.
Stat. ยง 3893, touching the mailing of obscene, lewd or lascivious books,
pamphlets, pictures, etc., it is competent for a detective officer of the
Post Office Department, as a witness, to testify that correspondence was
carried on with the accused by him through the mails for the sole purpose of obtaining evidence from him upon which to base the prosecution.
The mailing of a private sealed letter containing obscene matter in an
envelope on which nothing appears but the name and address is an offence
within that statute.
As the inspector testified that the signature was fictitious, and that the letter
had been written in an assumed name, the opening by him of the sealed
answer bearing the fictitious address was not an offence against that provision of the statute N-hich forbids a person from opening any letter or
sealed matter of the first class not addressed to himself.
When the record does not contain the instructions given by the trial court,
it is to be presumed that they covered defendant's requests, so far as
those requests stated the laws correctly.
THIS case is here upon a writ of error sued out of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
California, wherein the plaintiff in error was indicted, tried,
convicted and sentenced for violation of Rev. Stat. ยง 3893, as
amended by the act of Congress of September 26, 1888, c.
1093, ยง 2, 25 Stat. 496. The indictment contained two counts,
each of which alleged that in the year 1893, at the city of Los
Angeles, county of Los Angeles, the plaintiff in error "did
knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully deposit and cause to be
deposited in the United States post office at the said city of
Los Angeles, county and district aforesaid, for delivery a
certain obscene, lewd and lascivious letter addressed to 'Mrs.
Susan Budlong, box 661, Los Angeles, Cal.;'" and that the
said letter was then and there unmailable matter by reason
of the indecent character of its contents. The two counts

ANDREWS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

differed merely in that they described two different letters,
alleged to have been dated respectively November 1 and
November 3, 1893, and to have been respectively deposited
in the said post office November 2 and November 3, 1893.
Section 3893, Revised Statutes, as. amended by the act of
September 26, 1888, is as follows:
"SEC. 3893. Every obscene, lewd or lascivious book, pamphlet, picture, paper, letter, writing, print or other publication
of an indecent character, and every article or thing designed
or intended for the prevention of conception, or procuring of
abortion, and every article or thing intended or adapted for
any indecent or immoral use, and every written or printed
card, circular, pamphlet, book, advertisement or notice of any
kind giving information, directly or indirectly, where or how
or of whom, or by what means any of the hereinbefore mentioned matters, articles or things may be obtained or made,
whether sealed as first class matter or not, are hereby declared to be non-mailable matter, and shall not be conveyed
in the mails from any post office, nor by any letter carrier;
and any person who shall knowingly deposit, or cause to be
deposited, for mailing or delivery anything declared by this
section to be non-mailable matter, and any person who shall
knowingly take the same, or cause the same to be taken from
the .mails for the purpose of circulating or disposing of, aiding
in the circulation or disposition of the same, shall, for each
and every offence, be fined upon conviction thereof not more
than five thousand dollars, or imprisonment at hard labor not
more than five years, or both, at the discretion of the couxt; and
all offences committed under the section of which this is amendatory, prior to the approval of this act, may be prosecuted and
punished under the same in the same manner and with the same
effect as if this act had not been passed: Provided,That nothing in this act shall authorize any person to open any letter
or sealed matter of the first class not addressed to himself."
The defendant demurred to the indictment on the ground
that the facts stated therein did not constitute an offence
against the laws of the United States. The demurrer was
overruled, and the defendant then pleaded not guilty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The evidence adduced at the trial tended to prove that one
M. H. Flint, a United States post office inspector, having seen
in the Los An'geles Herald a certain advertisement bearing
the address, "Spero, -box 60, this office," mailed to that address a letter referring to the subject of the advertisement,
signed "Susan 1f. Budlong, P. 0. box 661, Los Angeles, Cal.,"
and received in answer thereto, through the post office at Los
Angeles, a letter signed "Spero," being the letter described
in the first count of the indictment; that Flint then sent
another letter, signed as above, and, having received an answer thereto signed "Spero," wrote a third time, and afterwarrds received out of the said post office a letter signed "A.
D. A. 313 N. Br'oadway," being the letter" described in the
second count of the indictment. All the letters so received
by Flint were enclosed in plain sealed envelopes, neither of
which bore any writing save the address. Evidence was also
introduced tending to connect the defendant with the mailing
of the letters.
The said letters of Flint, and the testimony concerning the
same, were introduced against the objections of the defendant,
and to the introduction thereof he duly excepted.
At the conclusion of the evidence for the government, the
defendant moved the court to instruct the jury to acquit him
on the ground that if any offence had been committed it had
been done at the request of Flint, a government officer, and
on the ground that the evidence was insufficient to connect
the defendant with. the alleged offence. The motion was
denied by the court, to which ruling the defendant excepted.
The defendant then put in testimony tending to prove his
good character, and to countervail the government's evidence
to the effect that the said letters were mailed by him.
At the close of all the testimony the defendant requested
the court to give the jury certain instructions, which request
was refused. Other instructions were given instead, which
do not appear in the record. To the court's refusal to give
the instructions proposed by the defendant, and to the giving
of other instructions, the defendant excepted.

ANDIEWS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

]Mr. J. Marion Brooks and A1r. 3. D. Brainard for plaintiff in error.
AXr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
M . JusTIcE SHitAs, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Error is attributed to the court below in permitting the
witness Flint to testify in the case, for the reason that he was
an officer of the United States, and that correspondence was
carried on, through the mails, for the sole purpose of obtaining evidence from the defendant upon which to base the
prosecution. A similar contention was disposed of by this
court in the case of Grimm v. United States, 156 U. S. 604,
where it was said: " It does not appear that it was the purpose
of the post office inspector to induce or solicit the commission
of a crime, but it was to ascertain whether the defendant was
engaged in an unlawful business. The mere facts that the
letters were written under an assumed name, and that the
writer was a government official -a
detective, he may be
called-do not of themselves constitute a defence to the
crime actually committed. The official, suspecting that the
defendant was engaged in a-business offensive to goodmiorals,
sought information directly from him, and the defendant, responding thereto, violated a law of the United States by.using
the mails to convey such information, and he cannot plead in
defence that he would not have violated the law if inquiry
had not been made of, him by the government official."
Goode v. United States, 159 U. S. 663, though under a different statute, is to the like effect.
The evidence showed that the letters in question were
private sealed letters, enclosed in envelopes upon which there
was nothing but the name and address .of the person to whomthey were sent, and it is contended that the depositing of such
letters in-the mail is not an offence within the meaning of
section 3893 of -the Revised Statutes, even as amended in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

188S. By that amendment the word "letter" was inserted in
the statute. In the case of United States v. Chase, 135 U. S.
255, which was the case of an indictment for an offence committed before the amendment, Mr. Justice Lamar, who delivered the opinion of the court, expressly refrained from deciding
" whether the term 'letter,' introduced by the amendment
of 1888, could be held to include a strictly private sealed
letter."
Owing, perhaps, to the doubt thus suggested, it was held in
several of the lower courts that the word "letter," thus introduced into the statute, must, in the light of the other words
used, be deemed t(, be some sort of a publication, and not
merely private sealed letters. United States v. Wilson, 58
Fed. Rep. 768; United States v. WVarner, 59 Fed. Rep. 355;
and United States V. Jarvis,59 Fed. Rep. 357. The contrary
view was taken in United States v. _Andrews, 58 Fed. Rep. 861
-the present case - in United States v. Nathan, 61 Fed. Rep.
936; and in United States v. Ling, 61 Fed. Rep. 1001.
However, any doubt there may have been as to the proper
meaning to be given to the word has been removed by the
case above cited, of Grimm v. United States, where mailing
a private sealed letter, in an envelope on which nothing appeared but the name and address, but containing obscene
matter, was held to be an offence within the statute.
It is likewise argued that, because of the provision of the law
that "nothing in this act shall authorize any person to open
any letter or sealed matter of the first class not addressed
to himself," 25 Stat. 496, the act of the inspector in opening
the letters addressed to "Susan H. Budlong" was itself an
offence against the law, which would vitiate the evidence
thus produced against the defendant. The inspector,- however, testified that he and Susan H. Budlong were the same
person, or, in other words, that the address was fictitious.
Complaint is made because the court failed to give defendant's requests for instructions; but the instructions actually
given by the court are not disclosed by the record, and we
may presume that such instructions covered the defendant's
requests so far as they stated the law correctly. This we are

DASHIELL v. GROSVENOR.
Statement of the Case.

the more ready to do in the present case, as no specific exceptions were taken to the action of the court in refusing or in
giving instructions. Reagan v. Aiken, 138 U. S. 109.
There were other assignments of error, but we think they
do not merit special notice.
The judgment of the court below is

ApJrmed.

DASHIELL v. GROSVENOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 569. Argued January9, 10, 1896. -Decided

April 18, 1896.

The first claim in letters patent No. 425,584, issued April 15, 1890, to Samuel Seabury for an improvement in breech-loading cannon, viz. : for
"The combination, with a breech-loading cannon and a breech-block for
the same, which is withdrawn in a rearward direction, of a breech-block
carrier hinged to the breech, and a breech-block retractor hinged to the
breech separate from said carrier to move independently of said carrier
to draw the breech-block thereinto ad push it therefrom,'but capable
of moving the said carrier while the breech-block is therein, substantially as set forth;" must, in view of the state of the art at the time of
the invention, be limited to the precise mechanism employed: and, being
thus limited, it is not infringed by the device patented to Robert B.
Dashiell by letters patent No: 468,331, dated February 9, 1892.

THIS was a bill in equity by the appellees against Dashiell
for the infringement of letters-patent No. 425,584, issued
April 15, 1890, to Samuel Seabury, a lieutenant in the United
States Navy, for an improvement in breech-loading cannon.
In his specification the patentee made the following statement
of his invention:
"This improvement relates to breech-loading cannon in
which a screw breech-block, which is withdrawn in a rearward direction, is employed, with a swing carrier or receiver
hinged to one side of the breech of the gun, and into which the
breech-block is withdrawn, and which serves as a guide for

