ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE SmiRAs deliVered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Oregon, alleging error in.the judgment of that court in affirming a judgment of the circuit court of Washington County
in that State, wherein Francis Conlin, the' defendant in error
in this court, recovered damages for personal injuries alleged
to have been caused by the negligence of the Oregon Short
Line and Northern Railway Company, plaintiff in error.
The only question presented for our consideration is, whether
there was error in denying the petition of the defendant company for removal of the cau*se into the Circuit Court Of
the United States. The record discloses a similar state of
facts and allegations to that considered in the case, just
decided, of The Oregon Short Zine and Horthern Railway
Company v. Jane Skottowe. For the reasons there given, we
find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State of Oregon, and it is accordingly

Affirmed.

ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE- CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 853. Submitted March 4, 1896. - Decided April 20,1896.

Alberty, the accused, was a negro born in slavery, who became a citizen of
the Cherokee Nation under the ninth article of the treaty of '1866. Duncan, the deceased, and alleged to have been murdered, was the illegitimate child of a Choctaw Indian, by a negro woman who was 'ot his
wife, but a slave in the Cherokee Nation. Held, that, for purposes of
jurisdiction, Alberty must be treated as a member of the Cherokee Nation,
but not an Indian, and Duncan as a colored citizen of the United States,
and that, for the purposes of this case, the court below had jurisdiction.
A man who finds another, trying to obtain access to his wife's room in the
night time, by opening a window, may not only remonstrate with him,
but may employ such force as may be nebessary to prevent his doing so;
and if the other threatens to kill him, and makes a motion as if so to do,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
and puts him in fear of his life, or of great bodily harm, he is not bound
to retreat, but may use such force as is necessary to repel the assault.
The weight which a jury is entitled to give to the flight of a prisoner, immediately after the commission of a homicide, was carefully considered
iA Hickory v. United States, 160 U. S. 408; and, without repeating what
was there said, it was especially misleading for the court in this case to
charge the jury that, from the fact of absconding they might infer the
fact of guilt, and that flight is a silent admission by the defendant that
he is unable to face the case against him.
DEFENDANT, a Cherokee negro, who was known both by his
father's name of Burns and that of his former master, Alberty,
was convicted of the murder of one Phil Duncan, at the Cherokee Nation, in the Indian Territory. The indictment alleged

the crime to have been committed May 15, 1879, but it appeared

by the evidence to have been committed in 1880.
Upon judgment of death being pronounced, defendant sued
out a writ of error from this court, assigning a want of jurisdiction in the court below and various errors in the charge to
the jury connected with the law of homicide, and the inference
to be drawn from the flight of the accused.
.r.

illiamrn .M. Cravens for plaintiff in error.

-Mr. Assistant Attorney General lVhitney for defendants in
error.
MR.

JusTmoE

BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The question of jurisdiction in this case demands a primary consideration. Although the prisoner Alberty was not a
native Indian, but a negro born in slavery, it was not disputed
that he became a citizen of the Cherokee Nation under the
ninth article of the treaty of 1866, 14 Stat. 799, 801, by which
the Cherokee Nation agreed to abolish slavery, and further
agreed "that all freedmen who have been liberated by voluntary act of their former owners or by law, as well as all free
colored persons who were in the country at the commencement of the rebellion and are now residents therein or who
may return within six months, and their descendants, shall have
all the rights of native Cherokees." While this article of the

ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

treaty gave him the rights of a native Cherokee, it did- not,
standing alone, make him ait Indiian within the meaning of
Rev. Stat. § 2146, or absolve him from responsibility to the
criminal laws of the United States, as was held in United States
v. Piogers,4 How. 567, 573, and Westmoreland v. United States,
155 U. S.545.
Duncan, the deceased, was the illegitimate child of a Choctaw
Indian, by a colored woman, who was not his wife, but a slave
in the Cherokee Nation. As his mother was a negro slave,
under the rule partus sequitur ventrem, he must be treated as
a negro by birth, and not as a Choctaw Indian. There is an
additional reason for this in the fact that he was an illegitimate child, and took the status of his mother. Williamson v.
Daniel, 12 Wheat. 568; Fowler v. .Merrill, 11 How. 375.
He came, however, to the, Chor-oki" Natif:- when- he was
about seventeen years of age, and married a freed woman, and
a citizen of that Nation. It would seem, however, from such
information as we have been able to'obtain of the Cherokee
laws, that such marriage would not confer upon him the rights
and privileges of Cherokee citizenship, beyond that of residing
and holding personal property in the Nation ; that the courts
of the Nation do not claim jurisdiction over such persons,
either in criminal or civil suits, and they are not permitted to
vote at any elections.
For the purposes of jurisdiction, then, Alberty must be
treated as a member of the Cherokee Nation, but not an Indian ; and Duncan as a colored citizen of the United States.
By Revised Statutes, § 2145, except as to _ceitairr crimes,-" the
general laws of the United States as to the punishment of
crimes committed within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States, except the District of Columbia, shall
extend to the Indian country;" and by § 2146, "the preceding
section shall not be construed to extend to crimes committed
by one Indian against the person or property of another Indian,
nor to any Indian committing any offence in' the Indian country who has been punished by the local law of the tribe; or
to any case where, by treaty stipulations, the exclusive jurisdiction over such offences is or may be secured to the Indian

OCTOBER TERM-,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

tribes respectively." Obviously this case is not within the
first class, because the crime was not committed by one Indian
against the person of another Indian; nor within the second
class, because there was no evidence that Alberty had been
punished by the local law of the tribe; and the only remaining question is whether, by treaty stipulations, the exclusive
jurisdiction over this offence has been secured to the Cherokee
tribe.
By article 13 of the Cherokee treaty of July 19, 1866, 14
Stat. 799-803, the establishment of a court of the United States
in the Cherokee territory is provided for, "with such jurisdiction and organized in such manner as may be prescribed by
law: Pr'ovided,That the judicial tribunals of the Nation shall
be allowed to retain exclusive jurisdiction in all civil and criminal cases arising within their country in which members of
the Nation, by nativity or adoption, shall be the only parties,
or where the cause of action shall arise in the Cherokee Nation,
except as otherwise provided in this treaty." It is admitted
that the present case is not within the last exception.
By the, act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, to provide a temporary
government for the Territory of Oklahoma and to enlarge the
jurisdiction of the United States court in the Indian Territory,
26 Stat. 81, it is provided, § 30, "that the judicial tribunals of
the Indian Nations shall retain exclusive jurisdiction in all
civil and criminal cases arising in the country in which members of the Nation, by nativity or by adoption, shall be the
only parties;" and by § 31, that "nothing in this act shall
be so construed as to deprive any of the courts of the civilized
Nations of exclusive jurisdiction over all cases arising wherein
members of said Nations, whether by treaty, blood or adoption, are the sole parties; nor so as to interfere with the right
and power of said civilized Nations to punish said parties for
violation of the statutes and laws enacted by their national
councils, where such laws are not contrary to the treaties and
laws of the United States."
It will be observed that while this act follows the treaty so
far as recognizing the jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation as
to all cases arising in the country, in which members of the

ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Nation, by nativity or by adoption, are the sole or only parties,
it omits that portion of the thirteenth article of the treaty,
wherein is reserved to the judicial tribunals of the Nation
exclusive jurisdiction "where the cause of action shall arise in
the Cherokee Nation," and to that extent apparently supersedes
the treaty.
The real question as respects the jurisdiction in this case
is as to the meaning of the words "sole" or only "parties. "
These words are obviously susceptible of two interpretations.
They may mean a class of actions as to which there'is but one
party; but as these actions, if they exist at all, are very rare,
it can hardly be supposed that Congress intended to legislate
with respect to them to the exclusion of the much more numerous actions to which there are two parties. They may mean
actions to which members of the Nations are the sole or only
parties, to the exclusion of white men, or persons other than
members of the Nation; and as respects civil cases at least,
this seems the more probable construction.
But the difficulty is with regard to criminal cases, to which
the defendant may be said to be the only party; and, if not,
as to who is the other party, the sovereignty in whose name
the prosecution is conducted -in this case, the United States,
or the prosecuting witness, or, in a homicide case, the person
who was killed. Some light is thrown upon this by. the
seventh article of the same treaty, wherein a special provision is made for the jurisdiction of the United States court to
be *created in the Indian Territory; and until such-court was
created therein, the United States District Court, nearest to
the Cherokee Nation, was given "exclusive original jurisdiction of all cases, civil and criminal, wherein an inhabitant of
the district hereinbefore described" (nfeaning the Canadian
district of the Cherokee Nation) "shall be a,party, and where
an inhabitant outside of said district, in the Cherokee Nation,
shall be the other party, as plaintiff or defendant in a civil
cause, or shall be defendant .or prosecutor in a criminal case.
It is true that the homicide in this case was not committed
within the Canadian district, and, therefore, that this seventh
article has no direct application, but it has an indirect bear-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing upon the thirteenth section as indicating an intention on
the part of Congress to treat the prosecutor in a criminal case
as the other party to the cause, and so long as the party injured is alive, it may be proper to speak of him as such; and
this we understand to have been the construction generally
given. While it is impossible. to speak of the deceased in a
murder case as a party, in any proper sense, to a criminal
prosecution against his assailant, it can. scarcely have been
the intention of Congress to vest jurisdiction in the Federal
courts of cases in which the accused, an Indian, was guilty
of a felonious assault upon a white man, not resulting in
death, and deny it in case of a fatal termination, upon the
ground that the accused is the only party to the cause.
In construing these statutes in their application to criminal cases, and in connection with the treaty, there are but
three alternative courses.
(1) To treat the defendant as the sole party; in which case
the Indian courts would have jurisdiction, whether the victim
of the crime were an Indian or a white man. In the Case of
Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107, which was a case of adultery, in
which the name of the prosecuting witness did not appear,
we held that as there was no adverse party, the woman being
a consenting party, the defendant was to be regarded as the
sole party to the proceeding.
(2) To treat the United States as the other party to the
cause; in which case the Federal courts would have jurisdiction of all criminal cases, except as they might be limited by
the clause of Rev. Stat. § 2146, providing that such jurisdiction
"shall not be construed to extend to crimes committed by
one Indian against the person or pfoperty of another Indian."
(3) To treat the victim of the crime, whose person or property has been invaded, as the other party; in which case the
Federal courts would have jurisdiction in all cases in irhich
the victim was a white man, or other than an Indian. Under
this construction the word "parties" would really mean parties to the crime and not simply to the prosecution of the
crime.
The last proposition harmonizes better with what seems

ALBEETY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to have been the intention-of Congress, as evinced in that
clause of Rev. Stat. § 2146 which reserves to ,the courts of
the Nation jurisdiction of "crimes committed by one Indian
against the person or property of another Indian," and at
the same time avoids the anomaly of holding a murdered
man to be a party to the prosecution of his slayer. Upon
the whole we think it affords the most reasonable solution
of the problem. For the purposes of this case, therefore, we
hold the court below had jurisdiction. ,
There were a number of exceptions taken to the' charge of
the court, only two of which it will be necessary to discuss.
2. The eighth assignmenit of error is to the following instruction:
"When he" (the defendant) "is in that condition, if he was
in that condition in this case, and was then attacked by Duncan, the deceased, in such a way as to denote an -intention
upon the part of the deceased to take -away his, the defendant's, life, or to do him some enormous bodily injury, he~could
kill Duncan - when I - provided he use all the means ifiihis

power otherwise to save his own, life from the attack of Duncan, or preventing the intending harm,. such. as retreating as
far as'he could, or disabling his adversary withit'killing him.
That is still a duty."
In the case of Beard v. United Stats, 158 t. S. 550, the
doctrine of the necessity of retreating was considered' by this
court at very considerable lengfh, and it was held, upon, a
review of the authorities upon the subject, that a man assailed
upon his own premises, without provocation, by.a person armed
with a deadly weapon, and apparently seeking his life, is not
obliged to retreat, but my stand -his groiind and defend .himself with such means as are-within - his control ; andso long as
there-is no intent on' his part to kill'zhislantagonist and no purPose of doing ahything beyond what i inecessary. to save his
own'life', is not guilty of murder or mianslaughter. if death result'to his antagonist from the blow given him under; such circumstances. In delivering the opinion it was. said; p.'559: ,.
"But we cannot agree that the accused jwas under any
greater obligation, when on his own premises, near his dwell-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing-house, to retreat or run away from his assailant, than he
would have been if attacked withiin his dwelling-house. The
accused being where he had a right to be, on his own premises,
constituting a part of his residence and home, at the time the
deceased approached him in a threatening manner, and not
having by language or by Qondiuct provoked the deceased to
assault him, the question for. the jury was whether, without
fleeing from his adversary, he had, at the -moment he struck
the deceased, reasonable grounds to believe, and in good faith
believed, that he could not save his life or protect himself from
great bodily harm except by doing what he did, namely, strike
the deceased with his gun, and thus prevent his further advance upon him."
In the case under consideration it appeared that Duncan, the
deceased, had been paying such attentions to the defendant's
wife that it had caused them to separate, the wife living at a
Mr. Lipe's, where the killing occurred, and defendant making
his home with some colored people, by the name of Graves.
Defendant himself worked during the day at Lipe's, was frequently with his wife, and upon the evening in question had
been to church with her and taken her home to Lipe's after
the service. She went into the house and defendant went
back into the lot, where the stock was, as it was a part of his
duty to look after the stock. His version of the facts was
that while he was in the lot he saw a window in the house,
which opened into his wife's room, raised, walked out into
the yard and found the deceased at the window, and said to
him: "Who is that?" To which the deceased replied, with
an oath: "You will find out who it is; " "and then made at
me at that time. That is the first time I had seen him there.
And then I knew his voice, and he made at me as if he had
something and was going to kill me, and I had this little pistol in my pocket and I run backwards toward the front yard
and told him to stand off,

.

.

.

and I called Mr. Lipe, who

got up and came to the door and asked'what was the matter ;"
to which defendant replied: "This man here was trying to
get up in your window where my wife sleeps

and

then I moved away - I started to move and this fellow says

ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to me, he says, 'I will kill you, God damn you,? and made for
me. He was between me and the house and I was next to the
gate, and I broke for the gate to try to get out of his way,
and as I broke for the gate he was coming at me, seemed like
he was going to cut me with something; I couldn't tell what
it was and I threw myself around that way (illustrating) and
fired."
It was in this connection that the court gave the charge
covered by the eighth assignment, adding thereto:
"If a man attacks us wrongfully, if he is seeking then and
there to make an attack upon us in such a way as to jeopardize life, and we can turn aside that attack without destroying his life, it is our duty to do it. It is our duty, in the first
place, to get out of the way of the attack, and that is a duty
springing from our own self interest, because if a man can
avoid a deadly result with due regard to his own safety, is it
not better for him to do it, than to rush rashly into a conflict
where he may lose his life? He is doing it in the interest of
his own life.. And then, aside from that, in the interest of
the life of the party who attacks, him, he is required to do it.
Then, under this proposition, to'give the defendant the benefit
of it, he must have been doing what he had a right to do at
the time, and while so situated he must have been attacked
by Phil Duncan, the deceased, in such a way as to indicate,
from the nature of that attack, and the way he was executing
it, a purpose upon the part of Duncan then and there by that
conduct to take his life, or to inflict upon him some great violence: and he must have been so situated, so surrounded by
danger, that he could not get out of the way of it, or he could
not turn it aside by an act of less violence than what he did
do. He must have exercised reasonable means, in other words,
to avoid the dreadful necessity of taking human life, because
the law says that he could kill, provided he use all the means
in his power otherwise to save his own life."
We think the charge of the court in this connection, is open
to the same objection that was made to the charge in the case
of Beard v. United States. The only difference suggested is
that in that case the attack was made with firearms, and in

OCTOBER TERAM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

this, case it would appear that the defendant supposed that
the deceased was about to attack him with a knife. Defendant, however, was working at hipe's, where his "Wifewas staying, and if, as he claims, he saw a man in the act of raising a
window which led to his wife's room, it was perfectly natural
'hat he should wish to investigate, and to ascertain for what
purpose the mai was there. It appears to have been so dark
at the time that defendant did not recognize deceased except
by his voice; that the deceased threatened, with an oath, to kill
him, and as. he says, "made for him" with a knife. Under
such circumstances we think that a charge to the jury that he
was bound to retreat as far as he could, or disable his adversary without killing him, was misleading. We think that a
man who finds another trying to obtain access to his wife's
room in the night time, by opening a window, may not only
remonstrate with him, but may employ such force as may be
necessary to prevent his doing so; and if the other threatens
to kill him, and makes a motion as if 'to do so, and puts him
in fear of his life, or of great bodily harm, he is not bound to
retreat, but may, use such force as is necessary to repel the
assault. Of course it is not intended to intimate that these
were the facts, but what the facts were was a question for the
jury, whio had a right to believe the defendant's version, if it
seetned probable to them. Upon the assumption that the jury
did believe him, we think the charge imposed upon the defendant a responsibility and duty which he could not justly
be called upon to bear.
3. The fourteenth assignment of error was to the following
instructions upon the subject of the flight of the accused after
-the homicide:
"You take into consideration, in other words, the facts aid
circumstances which led up to the killing, the facts and circumstances that transpired at the time of the killing, and you do
not stop there, but you take into consideration the facts and
circumstances as affecting the defendant subsequently to the
killing. For instance, you take into consideration the defendant's flight from the country - his going into another part of
the country - as evidence; and you are to pass upon the ques-

ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion as to whether or not he has sufficiently explained away
the presumption which the law says arises from flight when a
man has taken human life. It is a principle of human nature
-and
every man is conscious of it, I apprehend -that if he
an
act which he is conscious is wrong, his conduct will
does
be along a certain line. He will pursue a certain course not
in harmony with the conduct of a man who is conscious that
he has done an act which .is innocent, right and proper. The
truth is- and it is an old scriptural adage --Ithat the wicked
flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are as bold as
a lion.' Men who are conscious of right have nothing to fear.
They do not hesitate to confront a jury of their country, because that jury will protect them; it will shield them, and the
more light there is let in upon their case the better it is for
them. We are all conscious of that condition, and it is therefore a proposition of the law that, when a man flees, the fact
that he does so may be taken against him, provided he does
not explain it away upon some other theory than that of his
flight because of his guilt.
"A man accused of crime hides himself, and then absconds. From this fact of absconding we may infer the fact
of guilt. This is a presumption of fact, or an argument of a
fact from a fact."
Again upon that subject:
"flight by a defendant is alwayfs relevant evidence
when offered by the prosecution; and that it is a silent admission by the defendant that he is unwilling or unable to face
the case against him. It is in some sense, feeble or strong
as the case may be, a confession; and it comes in with the
other incidents, the coqpus delicti being proved from which
guilt may be cumulatively inferred."
" Now, that is the figure that flight cuts in a case. It is a
question in this case whether this defendant has sufficiently
explained it here to take away the effect of the presumption
arising from flight."
In this connection the evidence tended to show that a day
or two after the crime the defendant fled from the jurisdiction
of the court, went to St. Louis, and there resumed his father's

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

name instead of that of his master, which he had previously
borne. Defendant gave his reason for fleeing as follows:
"My heart was broke, and I just did not care to stay; I
thought I would just go away from the country where I
would never hear from my people any more, because my
heart was broke, and my children was all young and they had
just commenced to love me, and my heart was broke at that
time, and that was the reason I went away."
The weight which the jury is entitled to give to the flight
of a prisoner immediately after the commission of a homicide
was carefully considered by this court in the case of Hickory
v. United States, 160 U. S. 408, in which a charge, substantially in the language of. the instruction assigned as erroneous
in this case, was held to be tantamount to saying to the jury
that flight created a legal presumption of guilt so strong
and so conclusive that it was the duty of the jury to act on
it as axiomatic truth, and as such that it was error.
We do not find it necessary to repeat the argument that
was made in that case, but we think it was especially misleading for the court to charge the jury that, from the fact of
absconding, they might infer the fact of guilt, and that flight
"is a silent admission by the defendant that he is unwilling
or unable to face the case against him. It is in some sense,
feeble or strong as the case may be, a confession; and it comes
in with the other incidents, the corpus delicti being proved
from which guilt may be cumulatively inferred." While undoubtedly the flight of the accused is a circumstance proper
to be laid before the jury, as having a tendency to prove his
guilt; at the same time, as was observed in Ryan v. T]te People, 79 N. Y. 593, "there are so many reasons for such conduct consistent with innocence, that it scarcely comes up to
the standard of -evidence tending to establish guilt, but this
and similar evidence has been allowed upon the theory that
the jury will give it such weight as it deserves, depending
upon the surrounding circumstances."
While there is no objection to that part of the charge which
permits the jury to take into consideration the defendant's flight
from the country as evidence bearing upon the question of his

ALBERTY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

guilt, it is not universally true that a man, who is conscious
that he has done a wrong, "will pursue a certain course not
in harmony with the conduct of a man who is conscious of
having done an act which is innocent, .right and proper;"
since it is a matter of common knowledge that men who are
entirely innocent do sometimes fly from the scene of a crime
through' fear of being apprehended as the guilty parties, or
from an unwillingness to appear as witnesses. Nor is it true
as an accepted axiom of criminal law that "the wicked flee
when no man pursueth, but the righteous are as bold as a
lion." Innocent men sometimes hesitate to confront a jury
not necessarily because they fear that the jury will not pro:
tect them, but because they do not wish their names to appear
in connection with criminal acts, are humiliated at being
obliged to incur the popular odium of an arrest and trial,-or
because they*do not wish to be put to the annoyance or expense of defending themselves. The criticism to be made
upon this charge is, that it lays too much stress upon the fact
of flight, and allows -the jury to infer that this fact alone is
sufficient to create a presumption of guilt. It certainly would
not be contended as a universal rule that the fact that a person, who chanced to be present on the scene of a murder,
shortly thereafter left the city, would, in the absence of all
other testimony, be sufficient in itself to justify his conviction
of the murder.
We have found it impossible to reconcile these instructions
with the rulings of this court in the two cases above cited, and
are therefore compelled to
Reverse the judgment of the court below, and remand the
case with instructions to grant a new trial.

