WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Syllabus.

account the sum of one hundred dollars; and demanded judgment against defendants, jointly and severally, for $4900 and
interest. Some of the defendants did not appear, but defendants in error did, and pleaded a modified general denial, and
twelve other defences, setting up fraud in respect of the contract; non-performance; want of jurisdiction, in that one of
the defendants, B. Mahanna., was a co-citizen of Illinois with
plaintiffs; and that'Mahanna's subscription to the contract
was really a subscription by plaintiffs, made by him as their
agent. Defendants claimed that the contract was several and
not joint, and that each was bound only for the amount of his
own subscription, which in no instance exceeded eight hundred and ;fifty dollars. The case was tried by a jury, but
after the evidence was closed- the court declined to submit
it, and entered an order, November 28, 1891, that "it appearing to the court that this court has not jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of this action, it is ordered that this case be
and the same is hereby dismissed at the costs of plaintiffs."
To review this judgment the pending writ of error was sued
out October 13, 1892.
The Circuit Court made no certificate of the question of its
jurisdiction to this court, and the case comes within laynard
v. B:echt, 151 U. S.324; Uo6vin'v. Ja konille, 157 U. S. 368;
Van Wagenen v. Sewall, 160 U. S. 369; Chapell v. United
States, 160 U. S.499, 507.
Writ of error dismissed.

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No.18. Argued March 9, 10, 1896. -Decided

April 18,1896.

The levee board of Mississippi, being authorized *by a statute of the State
to borrow money and to issue their bonds therefor, to be negotiable as
promigsory notes or bills of exchange, issued and sold to the amount of
$500,000, principal bonds of $1000 each, payable "in gold coin of the
United States.of America," with semi-annual interest coupons, payable

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
"in currency of the United States." In a suit to enforce a trust and lien
upon certain lands in the State created in favor of the bondholders by an
act of the legislature of the State, the Supreme Court of the State construed the bonds as obligations payable in gold coin, and held that the
power to borrow mone conferred by the statute upon the levee board
did not authorize it to borrow gold coin or issue bonds acknowledging
the receipt thereof and agreeing to pay therefor in the Same medium,
and that the bonds were void for want of power in that respect. Held,
(1) That the inquiry as to the medium in which the bonds were payable,
and, if in gold coin, the effect thereof, involved the right to enforce
a contract according to the meaning of its terms as determined
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, interpreted by
the tribunal of last resort, and, therefore, raised questions of
Federal right which justified the issue of the writ of error, and
gave this court jurisdiction under it;
(2) That the bonds were legally solvable in the money of the United
States, whatever its description, and not in any particular kind of
that money, and that it was impossible to hold that they were void
because of want of power to issue them;
(3) That as, by their terms these bonds were payable generally in money
of the United States, the conclusion of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi, that they were otherwise payable, was erroneous.
FIELD, J., concurring.
No transaction of commerce or business, or obligation for the payment of money that is not immoral in its character and
which is not, in its manifest purpose, detrimental to the peace, good
order and general interest of society, can be declared or held to be invalid
because enforced or made payable in gold coin or currency when that.
is established or recognized by the government; and any acts by state
authority, impairing or lessening the validity or negotiability of obligations thus made payable in gold coin, are violative of the laws and Constitution of the United States.
PLAINTIFFS

filed their bill in the chancery court of Hinds

County, Mississippi, to enforce a trust and lien upon certain
lands created in their favor as holders of bonds of the levee
board of the State of Mississippi, district No. 1, by an act of
the general assembly of Mississippi, approved March 17, 1871,
under which the bonds were issued. The bill alleged that the
obligation of the bonds and the security provided for their
payment by the act of 1871, had been impaired in contravention of the Constitution of the United States by several subsequent acts of the legislature of Mississippi, which were set
forth in the bill.
Defendants demurred to the bill upon the ground, among

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

others, that the bonds were invalid because the levee board
had made -them payable in gold coin, and that there was,
therefore, no contract t6 he impaired. The demurrers were
sustained by the chancery court on .that ground solely and the
bill was thereupon dismissed, and that decree was afilrmed by
the Supreme Court of the State on the same ground. 66
Mississippi, 298.
Thereupon a writ of error was taken out from this court.
Section 1 of the act of Mississippi of March 17, 1871, c. 1,
Laws Miss. 1871, 37, created a body corporate, to be known as
the levee board of the State of Mississippi, district No. 1, to
consist of five members, to reside one each in the counties of
Tunica, Coahoma, Tallahatchie, Panola and DeSoto, to be
elected by the board of supervisors of their respective counties, with power to sue and be sued, to have a corporate seal
and perpetual succession, to make such by-laws and regulations and alter and change the same as they might deem
proper, and to do all acts and things, not inconsistent with the
act and the laws of the State, that might be proper to effect
the purposes and objects of the act.
Section 3 gave the board power' and required them "to construct, repair and maintain a levee-on or near ihe east bank
of the Mississippi River, extending from the base of the hills
on or next said bank of said river in the State of Tennessee . .
to the southern boundary of the county of Coahoma,

.

.

in order effectually to protect and reclaim the

lands in the district hereinafter designated from overflow by
waters of the Mississippi River," etc.
Section 7 declared that all the bottom lands, designating
the boundaries, in the counties of DeSoto, Tunica, Coahoma,
Tallahatchie and Pontotoc, and six townships in the county of
Sunflower, "shall be, and constitute, as aforesaid, Mississippi
levee district No.1, which it is the purpose of this act to protect and reclaim as aforesaid, by the agency of said board of
.commissioners, and the lands embraced'and included in said
levee district, shall be and are hereby declared to be and are
made chargeable and liable as hereinafter declared for all the
costs, outlays, charges and expenses to' be incurred or made

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

for the levees, works and improvements provided for and
contemplated by this act, or in maintaining the same."
By section 8, for the purpose of building and maintaining
levees and works and carrying the act into effect, a uniform
charge and assessment of two percent per ann um on the value
of every acre of the land in the district was levied, which it
-was provided should continue and be collected in each and
every year for twelve successive years from the date of the act,
and should be due and payable annually on or before the
first day of September in each year for said period, and the
value of every acre of unimproved land and of every acre
of improved and cultivated land, and every acre of land improved and fenced, but not cultivated, was fixed, except the
lands in Sunflower and Tallahatchie Counties.
Section 9 read as follows:
"That for the purposes aforesaid, and to enable them to
carry out the purposes of this act, the said board of levee
commissioners shall have power to borrow money, and to that
end may issue the bonds of said board to the amount of one
million of dollars, in such sums and denominations not less
than one hundred dollars each, as the said board may prescribe; which bonds shall be signed by the president, and
countersigned by the treasurer of said board, and be made
-payable to order or bearer, in not less than two nor more than
ten years after the first day of January, 1871, and shall bear
a rate of interest not exceeding eight per cent per annum, for
which interest coupons may be attached,.payable at such time
and place as the board may contract. Said bonds shall be
negotiable as promissory notes or bills of exchange, and may
be sold and negotiated in any market in or out of the State,
on the best terms that can be obtained for thesame; but in no
case shall any of them be negotiated or sold at a greater discount 'than ten per cent. Said board shall fix a place or
places for the payment of -the principal and interest of said
bonds and coupons, and said bonds or coupons shall be receivable after maturity, at par, in payment of any charge or assessmenit, fixed, levied or made by this act. . .
All moneys
borrowed by said board, or arising from negotiations or sale

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

*of any of said bonds, shall be promptly paid into the treasury
of said board, and shall constitute a levee fund, and be used
and applied to carry into effect the objects and purposes of
this act.

.

By section 10 it was provided that the charges and assessments levied by the act should constitute, as they were from
time to time collected, a special fund and trust, to be used by
the board, firstly, in payment of any bonds that might'have
been sold or used under the act, and of any money that might
be borrowed under its provisions; and, secondly, in payment
of any other debts or liabilities of said board; and that the
"charges and assessments by this act fixed, levied and made
as aforesaid on said lands shall not be subject to repeal, alteration or suspension during the time for which they are fixed
and levied, as aforesaid, until all the bonds, obligations and liabilities of said board shall be first paid and discharged." Provision was also made in case of non-collection for application
by the holders of any bond or obligation overdue to the
circuit or chancery court of any district included for a mandamus to compel the board to collect and pay over, or for the
appointment of commissioners to do so.
Subsequent sections provided for a tax collector of the
board and for sale on delinquency, bidding in by the board,
etc., etc.
By section 20, it was made the duty- of the board "to
invest and keep invested in public securities of the United
States until required to pay any of the bonds or liabilities of
said board, [and] all such part of the funds and moneys of said
board as may not at any time be required for present use in
paying the matured debts and liabilities of said board, or in
carrying into effect the purposes of this act."
It was further provided that, in case the charges and assessments made by the act should be adjudged and held inopera
tive, the board should have power to proceed through commissioners to have just and legal rates, charges and assessments
made on any lands in the levee district, sufficient in amount
when collected year by year to pay all such bonds, loans,
dbts and liabilities, and enable the board to carry the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

into effect; and also that the collection of state and county
taxes assessed upon any lands that might be purchased by or
be vested in the levee board should be suspended so long as
the lands were held as assets of the board.
Section 29 provided that all taxes levied and assessed under
the act be and the same were declared to be a tax in rem
against the lands embraced therein, which lands should be
subject to sale without further assessment in each and every
year, and that such sale should vest in the purchaser a good
and valid title to the lands, against the claims of every person having claims or title thereto subject to redemption as
provided.
The bill averred that the bonds and coupons held by complainants "were negotiated by said district No. 1, and in
course of trade came into the hands of these complainants by
delivery," and a list of the bonds and coupons held by each of
complainants was filed with and made part of the bill. These
bonds were in the following form, all being the same with the
exception of the dates, numbers and amounts:
$1000.
Mississippi levee district No. 1.
UNITED STATES OF AxERICA, State of Mississippi.
Eight'Per Cent Bond.
"One of a series of five hundred bonds of one thousand dollars each, numbered from one to fiva huidred consecutively,
issued by the levee board of the State of Mississippi, district No. 1, in pursuance of and by the authority gr nted in
an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi, approved
March 17, 1871, entitled 'An act to redeem and protect
from overflow from the river Mississippi certain bottom
lands herein described.'
".Know all men by these presents that the levee board of
the State of Mississippi, district No. 1, under and by authority
of the law mentioned in the caption hereof, hereby acknowledge themselves, for value received, indebted to the bearer in
the sum of one thousand dollars in gold coin of the United
States of America, which said sum the said levee board of the
"No. 309.

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

State of Mississippi, district No. 1, for themselves and their
successors, do hereby bind themselves and engage well and
truly to pay to the bearer on the first day of January, A.D.
1878, at the banking house of the National Park Bank, in the
city of New York; and the said levee board of the State of
Mississippi, district No. 1, for themselves and their successors,
do hereby engage to pay an interest thereon of eight per centum
per annum, payable semi-annually on the first days of January
and July in each and every year ensuing the date hereof
until the maturity and payment of .this bond, at the place of
payment mentioned in the coupons hereto annexed, upon the
delivery of said .coupons as they severally become due.
"In testimony whereof the president of the levee board of
the State of Mississippi, district No. 1, has signed
[sR&L.] and the treasurer of said board has countersigned
these presents, and the president has caused the seal
of the said board to be affixed hereto the first of January, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventytwo.
"(Signed) M. S. ALcoPx, P'esident.
"(Signed) A. R. HowE, Treasiurer."
Upon each bond was printed as an indorsement sections
7, 8, 9, 10, 20 and 29 of the act of 1871.
Attached to the bonds were coupons, of which the following
was the form; all being alike except in amounts, numbers and
dates of maturity:
"The levee board of the State of Mississippi, district No. 1,
will pay to the bearer on the first day of January, 1879, at
the National Park Bank of New York, twenty ($20) dollars
in currency of the United States, being the semi-annual interest on bond No. 52.
"(Signed) A. R. HowE, Treas."
Mr. -Lawrence-Yaxwell, J. and Xr. Calderon Carlislefor
plaintiffs in error. .Mr. Marcellas Green and Mr. . S. Calhoun filed briefs for the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. .Frank Johnston, Attorney General of the State of
Mississippi and -Hr.J. Ilubley Ashton for defendants in error.
Mr. William G. Yerger and -Yr. W. P. Harrisfiled briefs
for the Louisville, New Orleans and Texas Railway Company,
defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTricn FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi construed these bonds as
obligations payable in gold coin, and held that the power to
borrow money conferred on the levee board of Mississippi,
district No. 1, did not authorize that corporation to borrow
gold coin or issue bonds acknowledging the receipt thereof
and agreeing to pay therefor in the same medium, and that
the bonds were void for want of power in that particular. If
by this adjudication a right possessed by plaintiffs in error,
as holders of bonds, under the Constitution and laws of the
United States was necessarily denied, then this court has
jurisdiction to revise the judgment on writ of error. A definite and distinct issue was raised by the ground of demurrer,
on which the decision of the court proceeded, and if that issue
was an issue as to the possession of a right under the Constitution and laws of the United States, then the denial of that
right gives jurisdiction. And it appears to us that such an
issue was presented. Plaintiffs in error claimed that the
bonds were payable in money of the United States. Defendants claimed they were payable in a particular kind of such
money, and, because so payable, were invalid. The issae in
either aspect involved the determination of rights of plaintiffs
in error under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and was disposed of adversely to them.
In T'relilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687, where a note held
by plaintiff in error was payable by its terms in specie, and ie
claimed that he was entitled to have it paid in gold or silver
dollars of the United States, which the state court decided he
was not, the writ of error was maintained on the ground of
the denial of a right under the Constitution.

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

In .Marylandv. Railroad Company, 22-Wall. 105, in which
the State had made certain advances for the railroad company
in gold and sought judgment accordingly and the state court
held that it was only entitled to recovery in currency, no objection was raised to the jurisdiction of this court to review
the judgment.
In the case'at bar the inquiry as to the medium in which
the bonds were payable, and, if in gold coin, the effect thereof,
involved the right to enforce a contract according to the
meaning of its terms as determined by the Constitution and
laws of the United States, interpreted by the tribunal of last
resort, and, therefore, raised questions of Federal right which
justified the issue of the writ.
The levee board was created a body corporate and expressly
authorized to borrow money and to issue negotiable instruments therefor. It was thus endowed in order to enable it to
effectuate the objects and purposes of its creation. 'Itissued
bonds whereby it acknowledged that it was indebted in so
many dollars in gold coin and promised tor pay the specified
sums at a designated date with interest.
The general rule is that those powers which are within the
intent and purposes of the creation of a corporation, and
essential to give effect to the powers expressly granted, may
be exercised as necessarily incident thereto, and that a discretion exists in the choice of the means to accomplish the
required result, unless restricted by the terms of the grant.
The power to borrow money was expressly granted, unaccompanied by any definition of the word "money," which might
operate as a restriction on the power, and, according to the
general rule, if there were more than one kind of money, a discretion as to the particular kind would be necessarily incident
to the execution of the power granted and might be exercised
by the corporation. At the time these bonds were issued the
money of the United States consisted, under the decisions of
this court, of gold and silver coin and United States notes.
Gold coin was in every respect unlimited in its legal tender
capacity, but all were equally valid as money of the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Although the Supreme Court of Mississippi conceded that
gold coin was "money," it, insisted that when the bonds
were issued such coin was "of much greater value than the
circulating medium, consisting of United States Treasury
notes and national bank notes," as the court judicially knew;
that "all debts payable in 'dollars' generally were, as now,
solvable in legal tenders, but an obligation payable in gold
coin can be discharged only according to its terms;" that in
authorizing the issue of these bonds, "and in the use of the
term ' money I the legislature must be supposed to have meant
in the act cited that money which constituted the basis of the
general business of the country and was a'legal tender for the
payment of debts;" and that, consequently, the bonds were
void for want of power. Notwithstanding the disclaimer,
this conclusion denied the exercise of any discretion by the
corporation to borrow one kind of money of the United States
on the ground that that particular kind had ceased in fact to
be money and had become. a commodity.
Doubtless the word "money" is often used as applicable
to other media of'exchange than coin. Bank notes lawfully
issued and actually current at par in lieu of coin are treated
as money, because flowing as such through the channels of
trade and commerce without question. United States Bank
v. Bank of iGeorgia, 10 Wheat. 333; Miller v. Race, 1 Burrow, 452. And it would seem that it was in this sense that
the Supreme Court regarded the use of the word, for though
it assumed that the property of being legal tender was an
essential attribute of money, yet it included national bank
notes, which, though receivable at par in payment of government dues except duties, and payable by the government at
par except for interest on the public debt and in redemption
of the national currency, and also payable and receivable as
between national banks themselves, Rev. Stat. §§ 5182, 5196,
had not been declared legal tender "in payment of all debts,
public and private, within the United States, except for duties
on imports and interest on the public debt," as United States
Treasury notes had been, Rev. Stat. § 3588.
These bonds were contracts for the payment of dollars and

WOODRUFF

.

MISSISSIPPI.

Opinion of the Court.

not for the delivery of bullion; nor were they made expressly
payable in coin.
If the legislature had in terms authorized the corporation
to borrow currency only, and to issue bonds payable in currency only, that would have presented a different question,
but the language used embodied no such express limitation,
and there could be no implication that the power was other
than the power to borrow money of the United States. But
it is said that, as it was held in Judson v. City of Bessemer,
87 Alabama, 241, that "express and general power to issue
negotiable bonds, in the absence of legislative restriction,
carries the implied or incidental power to make them payable
generally, that is, in currency, which is constitutionally a
legal tender, or payable in the *particular coin which constitutes the legal and commercial standard by which the value
of other kinds of currency is measured," and that although
the act authorizing the city of Bessemer to issue bonds was
silent on the subject, the city had power to make them payable
in gold; and by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in Farson
v. Board of Commissioners, 30 S..W. Rep. 17, that municipal
bonds were not void, because the principal and interest was
made payable in gold coin of the United States, when the act
authorizing their issue and sale did not specify the medium in
which they were to be made payable; so the Supreme Court of
Mississippi was at liberty to hold the contrary in placing a construction on the law of that State. Conceding this to be so, the
question of jurisdiction remains unaffected, for in the former
cases the right of the holders of municipal obligations to demand under the Constitution and laws of the United States
payment thereof in money of the United States was recognized,
while in this case that right was in effect denied.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi was of opinion that the
bonds evidenced an indebtedness created in gold coin, and
that they were solvable in the same medium, and held that
the legislature intended to limit the power to borrow and to
promise to pay, to another kind of money of the United States.
But this was'to impose a limitation on the.power, not expressed,
but by implication, and that implication involved a Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

question. For the power to borrow money, simply, meant the
power to borrow whatever was money according to the Constitution of the United States and the laws passed in pursuance
thereof, and the power to issue negotiable bonds therefor
included the power to make them payable in such money.
This the law presumed, and to proceed on an implication to
the contrary was to deny to the holders of these bonds, subsequent to their purchase, a right arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
But it was only by deciding that these bonds were payable
in a particular kind of money of the United States, and that
this kind, though money in law, had ceased, as the court assumed, to be money in fact, that the state court was enabled
to hold them void for want of power, and if that premise were
incorrect, the conclusion, whether in itself right or wrong,
would not follow.
Now these bonds were not expressly payable in gold coin.
It is true that as they acknowledged an indebtedness in gold
coin, and as the coupons were payable specifically "in currency," the argument is not unreasonable that the corporation
intended the purchasers to expect payment in the money in
which the indebtedness was stated to have been contracted;
but the agreement to pay the designated sums did not specify
any particular kind of money, and the obligation was to pay
what the law recognized as money when the payment itas to
be made. The bonds were, therefore, legally solvable in the
money of the United States, whatever its description, and not
in any particular kind of that money, and it is impossible to
hold that they were void because of want of power.
In Bull v. Bank of .Kasson, 123 U. S. 105, 112, the question
was raised whether certain bank checks for the payment of
"five hundred dollars in current funds," were negotiable, and
Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"Undoubtedly it is the law that, to be negotiable, a bill, promissory note or check must be payable in money, or whatever
is current as such by the law of the country where the instrument is drawn or payable. There are numerous cases
where a designation of the payment of such instruments in

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

notes of particular banks or associations, or in paper not cur.rent as money, has been held to destroy their negotiability.
Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Pet. 293; -Miller v. Austen, 13 How.
218, 228. But within a few years, commencing with the first
issue in this country of notes declared to have the quality of
legal tender, it has been a common practice of drawers of bills
of exchange or checks, or makers of promissory notes, to
indicate whether the same are to be paid in gold or silver,
or in such notes; and the term ' current funds' has been used
to designate any of these, all being current, and declared, by
positive enactment, to be legal tender. It was intended to
cover whatever was receivable and current by law as money,
whether in the form of notes or coin. Thus construed, we
do not think the negotiability of the paper in question was
impaired by the insertion of those words."
In .Maryland v. Railroad Company, 22. Wall. 105, it was
held that, although since the legal tender acts an undertaking
to pay in gold might be implied under special circumstances
and be as obligatory as if made in express words, yet that the
implication must be found in the language of the contract,
and could not be gathered from. the mere expectations of the
parties.
In this case the language of the contract as to payment
created no such obligation, and no doubt as to its meaning
was raised by the extraneous fact that gold was not everywhere in circulation when the bonds were issued.
Without pursuing the subject further it is enough that by
their terms these bonds were payable generally in money of
the United States, and that, this being so, the conclusion of
the Supreme Court of Mississippi, that they were otherwise
payable, was erroneous. The bonds, therefore, were not void
on the ground stated, even assuming that ground to be tenable; and we think the decision as to the medium of payment
re~xaminable here because amounting to a denial of the right
of plaintiffs in error to be paid in money of the United States,
by implying a limitation contrary to the controlling presumption arising under the Federal laws and decisions. Under
those laws and decisions there was more than one description

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

of money of the United States, and hence the presumption
was that where no one kind of money was specified the bonds
were payable in any kind ; but this, and the claim based
thereon, was denied.
As the case was determined by the state Supreme Court on
the single ground to which we have referred, we shall not
discuss the effect and validity of the subsequent legislation
brought under review by the bill, or-any of the other questions suggested by counsel.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Mli. TusTicE

FiELD

concurring.

I have also some observations to make upon this litigation.
The case comes before us on error to the Supreme .Court of the
State of Mississippi. The complainants below, the plaintiffs in
error here, commenced a suit in the Chancery Court of THinds
County, in that State, to enforce a trust and a lien upon certain lands therein, as holders of bonds of the levee board of the
State, district No. 1, by an act of the legislature of March 17,
1871, under which the bonds were issued. The bill of complaint alleged that Amos Woodruff, trustee, the German Bank
of Memphis, Tennessee, and B. Richmond were 'owners and
holders of a large number of bonds issued by the levee board
of the State of Mississippi, district No. 1, and that the bonds
were issued and negotiated by the board under the act entitled "An act to redeem and protect from overflow from the
river Mississippi certain lands described, approved March 17,
1871." The language of the statute authorizing the issue of
the bonds is as follows:
"Suc. 9. _e it further enacted, That for the purposes aforeaid, and to enable them to carry out the purposes of this act,
the said board of levee commissioners shall have power to borrow money, and to that end may issue the bonds of said board
to the amount of one million of dollars, in such sums and denominations, not less than one hundred dollars each, as the
said board may prescribe; which bonds shall be signed by the

WOODR UFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

president and countersigned by the treasurer of said board,
and be made payable to order or bearer, in not less than two
nor more than ten years after the first day of January, 1871,
and shall bear a rate of interest not exceeding eight per cent
per annum, for which interest coupons may be attached, payable at such time and place as the board may contract. Said
bonds shall be negotiated as promissory notes or bills of exchange, and, may be sold and negotiated in any market in or
out of the State, on the best terms that can be obtained for
the same; but in no case shall any of them be negotiated or
sold at a greater discount than ten per cent."
By the act, as stated in the -bill, a special tax was levied
upon all the lands in said district protected by the levees to be
built by the board, and provision was made for its collection.
By section 10 of the act, as also stated in the bill, it was
provided "that the charges and assessments, fixed, levied and
made as aforesaid, by the act, should be, as .they were from
time to time collected, and they were thereby constituted a
special fund and trust, to be used by said board; first, in the
payment of any bonds that might be sold or used as before
provided under the act, and of money that might be borrowed
under its provisions; secondly, for the payment of any other
debts or liabilities of said board, and when collected the
same should be paid into the treaspury of said board for the
purposes aforesaid."
Under this statute the board of levee commissioners, as
stated in the bill, wag organized, and issued a large number
of.bonds, aggregating in.amount six hundred thousand dollars,
and payable to bearer. The bonds recited the act under which
they were issued, and -expressly stipulated that the interest
coupons attached were payable in the currency of the United
States, but the principal of the bonds was payable in gold
coin.
The bill was exhibited by complainants as. owners and
holders of a large number of bonds thus issued and negotiated.
It alleged that the act of the legislature ref6rred to imposed
a specific tax in rem on each acre of land (with few exceptions) lying in the levee district No. 1, in order to pay the
VOL. CLXIi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

bonds and coupons; that a large amount of the lands were
sold under the act for the delinquent taxes in the year 1872
and the succeeding years, until 1876, and in default of buyers,
were struck off to the treasurer of the levee board and duly
conveyed to him as such. That from 1876 to 1883 there were
no sales to the treasurer, but all lands sold as delinquent were
struck off for the state, county and district No. 1 levee taxes
to the State of Mississippi,-and conveyed to it by one deed.
That the State of Mississippi, in 1876, abolished the levee
board of district No. 1 as constituted, and made the state
auditor and treasurer ex offlio levee commissioners its successors, and vested the titles of all lands held by the levee boarad
in them to be administered by them. The bill alleged further
that all such lands were held by the State in trust for the
bondholders under the act of March 17, 1871.
The bill asked that the trustees, who administered the trust
and who had not yet accounted, should be required to discover the status of the trust estate, and how it was administered by them, and that upon'such discovery relief be granted
by enforcing the trust; that the sales and conveyances made
by the trustees in violation of the trust be declared void, and
that such'purchasers be held to an account of the trust estate
so far as it had come into their hands, and that the lands be
subjected to the tax chargeable against them under the act
of 1871, and the tax be held as a special fund to pay the bonds
held by the complainants and others.
The defendants demurred to the bill upon the ground,
among other reasons assigned, that the act of the levee board
in making the bonds payable "in gold coin" was ultra ires,
and the bonds therefor invalid.
The demurrer was sustained, and the complainants appealed.
I cannot concur in the decision of that court. In my judgment -no transaction of commerce or business, or obligation
for the payment of money that is not immoral in its character
and which is not, in its manifest purpose, detrimental to the
peace, good order and general interest of society, can be declared or held to be invalid because enforced or made payable
in gold coin or currency when that is established or recognized

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

by the government. And any acts by state authority impairing or lessening the validity or negotiability of obligations
thus made payable in gold coin are violative of the laws and
Constitution of the United States.
Upon this subject I will presume to cite some of the expressions of Justices of this court, as to the effect of such obligations, used when questions respecting the currency of the
country were under consideration in what are known, as the
legal tender cases.
In speaking of the views of the framers of the Constitution,
on the subject of money, it was said that "at that time gold
and silver moulded into forms convenient for use, and stamped
with their value by public authority, constituted, with the
exception of pieces of copper for small values, the money of
the entire civilized world. It was added that these metals
divided up and thus stamped always have constituted money
with all people having any civilization, from the earliest periods
in the history of the world down to the present time. It was
with ' four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the
merchant,' that Abraham bought the field of Machpelah,
nearly four thousand years ago. This adoption of the precious
metals as the subject of coinage, the material of money by all
peoples in all ages of the world, as further stated, had not been
the result of any vagaries of fancy, but was attributable to
the fact that 'they of all metals alone possessed the properties
which are essential to a circulating medium of uniform value."
"The circulating medium of a commercial community,"
said Mr. Webster, "must be that which is also the circulating
medium of other commercial communities, or must be capable
of being converted into that medium without loss. It must
also be able not only to pass in payments and receipts among
individuals of the same society and, nation, but to adjust and
discharge the balance of exchanges between different nations.
It must be something which has a value abroad as well as at
home, by which foreign as well as domestic debts can be satisfied. The precious metals alone answer these purposes. They
alone, therefore, are money, and whatever else is to perform
the functions of money must be their representative and capa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

ble of being turned into them at will. So long as bank paper
retains this quality it is a substitute for money. Divested
of this nothing can give it that character." 3 Webster's
Works, 41.
In accordance with the doctrine thus expressed, I am of
opinion, as stated, that no commercial or money transaction,
not immoral in its character or detrimental to the general
interests of society, can be held or declared to be invalid because it is enforced or made payable in gold coin or currency
established or recognized by the government; and, therefore,
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, declaring that the bonds of the levee board made payable in gold
coin were, for that reason, invalid, cannot be sustained, and
that its judgment to that effect should be reversed.
IR. JUSTICE PEKHAM, with whom concurred .Mit. JUSTICE
BREWER and MR.JUSTICE MTIIITE, dissenting.

I find myself unable to concur in the opinion of the court
herein as to our power to review the judgment of the state
court, and I must, therefore, dissent from the conclusion
arrived at in this case.
The legislature of Mississippi gave certain authority to the
levee commissioners to borrow money and to issue bonds
therefor. They issued bonds by virtue and solely by virtue of
that act. They so worded the bonds as to render it a matter
of controversy whether the principal was, on the face of the
bonds, payable only in gold coin or in any lawful money of
the United States. The state court held that the legislature
did not, in the statute passed by it, authorize the levee commissioners to issue bonds payable in gold coin, and that these
bonds were so payable and were, therefore, void as itnauthorized by the legislative enactment. This seems to me a matter
of local law only, and I cannot see that its decision involves
any Federal question. This court has held that parties may
contract for the payment of an obligation in gold or in any
other money or commodity, and it must then be paid in the
medium contracted for. Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. 229;

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687. This right applies to a
State or municipality as well~as to an individual.
If the legislature had in terms provided that the bonds
should only be issued payable in legal tenders, there could, as
it seems to me, be no pretence that such a provision would be
illegal'or involve a violation of any Federal right.
The corporation was the creature. of the State and had only
such functions as the State chose to confer on it. Although it
be true that the State is absolutely without power to control
the right of individuals to contract for such lawful money of
the United States as may seem to them best, certainly no such
w*ant of authority obtained with reference to the right of a
State in granting a charter to a corporation to affix such restrictions as it deemed best. As the individual could exercise
his right to contract for any lawful money of the United
States free from state control, so the State had the like freedom of action in making her own contracts. It follows that
in delegating to one of its creatures the power .to contract, the
State could limit that power to such kind of lawful money as
was considered wise.. The exercise by the State of this unquestioned authority in creating herown corporation deprived
no one of an existing right and interfered with no Federal
authority. The mere decision of the state court that the corporation had misused or exceeded its powers under its charter
was a purely state question. Had tlhe state court given force
to any subsequent law, which it was claimed impaired the
obligations of the contract, a different view would control.
But as it did not, as it solely held that the corporation had
exceeded its authority under the state law, I am at a loss to
see the slightest Federal question..
The Mississippi .court construed the bonds as obligations
payable in gold coin, and it also held that the levee commissioners were not authorized to issue bonds so payable.
Whether the meaning of the contract was arrived at from
the plain language of the bonds, or was an inference or
implication to be drawn from all the language used therein,
the decision was, in either case, nothing but a decision of a
question of contract in regard to which the state court

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

had the right to finally decide, and we are bound by that
decision.
It is said that if by this adjudication a right possessed by
plaintiffs in error as holders of bonds, under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, was necessarily denied, then this
court has jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error.
This may be admitted, but I deny that the case at bar presents
any such feature. The argument that plaintiffs in error make
is that they claimed the bonds were payable in money of the
United States, while defendants claimed they were payable in
a particular kind of money, and, because so payable; were
invalid. The grounds of demurrer to the bill of plaintiffs in
error were that the bonds were void as calling for payment
in gold coin and that the levee board had no power to issue
them in that form. The question was as to the power of the
board to issue bonds payable in gold coin, which depended
upon the statute of the State, and the question whether the
bonds were so payable whs one of construction of the language
used in the bonds. Simply to claim that money due under a
contract is payable in money of the United States, does not
make a claim under the Constitution or laws of Congress.
What kind of money the contract is payable in depends upon
its language, and that raises no Federal question.
The case of Trebilcock v. Wilson, (supra,) does not aid the
plaintiffs in error. In that case the defendant claimed a right
under the Constitution to demand and receive payment of his
note in specie according to the contract, and this was denied
him, and a decree entered cancelling the mortgage given as
collateral security for the note. This court reviewed the decision on the ground that a right claimed by the defendant
under the Constitution was decided -against him by the state
court.
In Mllaryland v.. Railroad Co., 22 Wall. 105, the question of
jurisdiction was not raised or noticed. The opinion puts the
rights of the parties entirely upon the language of the contract, and there was no claim that the meaning of the contract
was governed by any law of Congress or by any provisior of
the Constitution.

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

All the arguments as to the powers of corporations to borrow money or to give bonds, or as to the meaning of the state
statute and the extent of the power it granted by the authority to borrow money, are arguments as to the construction of
the state statute and the authority of this corporation, and
are not in any particular, as it seems to me, of a Federal
nature.
Again, it is said that the power to borrow money, simply,
means the power to borrow whatever is money according to the
Constitution of the United States and the laws passed in pursuance thereof; and the power to issue negotiable bonds therefor
includes the power to make them payable in such money. This,
it is urged, the law presumed, and to proceed on an implication
to the contrary founded upon language contained in the bonds
themselves, which it is said was indefinite, was to deny to the
holders of these bonds, subsequent to their purchase, a right
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Whatever presumption the law may make, based upon the
grant of a power to borrow money, as to the right to make
the obligation given therefor payable in lawful money generally, the presumption is of no force in the face of a contract
to pay only in some particular medium, and whether that contract is to be found expressed in so many words and in plain
and perfectly unambiguous language, or is to be inferred or
implied from all the language which is used in the contract, is
unimportant and immaterial. That it may be implied has been
held in .Marylandv. Railroad Co., 22 Wall. 105. Whether
the implication does arise from the language used is not a
Federal question, and the decision of the state court is final.
We may think the power given by the State of Mississippi
to its corporation by the language it used was of a general
nature, authorizing the corporation to make payment in any
money, yet the state court decides that the language employed gave no authority to issue, bonds payable in gold
coin'. There is no claim under an act of Congress or of the
Constitution in such case and no claim under either was in
any way denied.
We come back. to the proposition, therefore, that when par-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

ties make a contract on that subject it is for the court to
say what the -ontract means, and it seems to me that is not a
Federal question, although the court is only able to arrive at
a conclusion as to what the contract means by an examination
of its whole language, and by drawing inferences or implications therefrom as to what its true meaning is. The nature
of the question does not change according as the contract
upon which the right rests is plainly or ambiguously stated.
Nor does the right to construe the state statute depend upon
the condition that the state court 'shall construe it, as we
think, correctly. It is the same kind of a question at all
times, and that is, what do the statute and contract mean?
What they mean is a question for the state court alone.
While under the laws of Congress there are several kinds of
money, gold and silver coin and legal tender notes, yet the
decision of the state court does not deny this or refuse to give
effect to those laws. The decision is in-entire harmony with
them, and proceeds upon the assumption of their validity.
When it is said that the power to borrow money was expressly granted, unaccompanied by any definition ofthe word
"money" which might operate as a restriction on the power,
such statement is of course based upon the language used in
the.statute.
It is not necessary that the definition of the
word "money" need be given in so many words. Whether
upon the whole language of the statute (ifthere were more
than one kind of money) there was a discretion given to the
commissioners to say as to which particular kind of money
the bonds should be payable in, is a question as to what power
the commissioners were granted by that statute, and that question is to be determined by the state court, which decides as
to the meaning of the state law, and there is no question of
any right dependent upon the Federal Constitution or upon
any of the laws of Congress. The state court has denied no
right derived from either. It has simply construed a statute
of its own State. In holding that the implication to be derived from the act of the State was that the power was to
borrow money of the United States, is it not plain that this
court assumes to construe the meaning of the state statute and

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

in a manner differing from that given it by the state court?
How would it be a different question if the legislature had in
terms authorized the corporation to borrow currency only? In
either case the question would simply be a construction of the
state statute, in the one case from plain language used therein,
and in the other from a reading of the whole act and a
decision derived therefrom as to the actual meaning. of the
state law. In both cases the decision is entirely the same in
its nature, and in both it is a decision of a local question into
which there does not enter any feature of a Federal question.
The decision of this court that the bonds were on their face
solvable in money of the United States ivhat6ver its description, and were, therefore, valid, seems to me so plainly a decision as to the meaning of a contract in opposition to that
taken by the state court, where the decision of the latter
tribunal is conclusive upon us, that I cannot give assent to it.
I think the writ should be dismissed.

STEVENSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 681.

Argued March 9, 1896.-Decided April 18, 1896.

On the trial of a person indicted for murder, although the evidence may
appear to the court to be simply overwhelming to show that the killing
was ift fact murder, and not manslaughter or an act performed in self
defence, yet, so long as there is evidence rplevant to the issue of man.slaughter, its credibility and force are for the jury, and cannot.be matter
of.law for the decision of the court.
A review of the evidence at the trial of the defendant (plaintiff in error)
in the court below shows that there was error in the refusal of the court
of the request of the defendant's counsel to submit the question of manslaughter to the jury.

THiE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Fred Beall for plaintiff in error.
.Mul .e filed a brief for same.

3r.

oseph P,

