SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

167

Opinion of the Court.

SOUTHERN

PACIFIC

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 560. Argued January 15, 16, 1896.-Decided March 16, 1896.

Central Pacific Railroad Company v. California, ante 91, affirmed and
followed.

THE case is stated in the opinibn.
Air. J. Rubley Ashton, (with whom was Xir. CharZes H
Tweed on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Ar. J. P. -Langhorneand Mir. J. H. -Miller,(with whom
was r. IT F. Fitzgerald,Attorney General of the State of
California, on the brief,) for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: This is a writ of error to a judgment
of the Supreme Court of the State of California affirming the
judgment of the Superior Court of the city and county of San
Francisco, and affirming an order of the Superior Court denying a new trial, in an action brought in the name of the
people-of the State of California against the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, under section 3670 of the Political Code
of California, for the recovery of moneys alleged to. be due
as taxes to the State, and the thirteen counties of the State
in which the Southern Pacific Railroad is operated, under an
assessment made by the state Board of Equalization, for the
purpose of state and county taxation for the fiscal year 1887.
The Congressional and state legislation calls for no special
remark as contradistinguished from that in respect of the
Central Pacific company. 14 Stat. 292, act of July 27, 1866,
c. 278; 16 Stat. 573, act of March 3, 1871, c. 122; 17 Stat. 59,
act of May 2, 1872, c. 132; act of California, April 4, 1870,
Cal. Stat. 1869-'70, 883, c. 579; Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad,118 U. S.394, 399. The record is sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

stantially a duplicate, mutatis mutandis, of the record of the
case in T/he Central Pacific Railroad Company v. The People
of the State of California, and the Supreme Court of California on appeal decided this case on the authority of its decision
in that. People v. Southern Pacific Railroad,105 California,
576. We have just affirmed that judgment of the Supreme
Court of California, and this must take the same course.
Judgment affirmed.
IMR. JUSTICE WHITE concurred in the result.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissenting.

I am unable to concur with my associates in their opinion
or judgment in this case also, for the reason, as in the case of
the Central Pacific Railroad Compoany v. The People of the
State of California,that the judgment recovered against the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company is based upon a pretended valuation of that road, in which valuation an assumed
franchise granted to the company by the State of California
is included.
It is conceded that until April 4, 1870, the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company of the State exercised and enjoyed what
are termed the franchises of its corporation, that is, the rights,
powers, privileges and immunities conferred upon it by state
authority, and also various powers, duties, privileges and
immunities conferred upon it by th6 general government, and
which are termed its Federal franchises. But on that date,
the 4th of April, 1870, the legislature of California tb'rogated
the state franchises of that corporation, and substituted by
adoption in their place the Federal franchises which have
remained in force ever since.
The provisions of the act of Congress of July 27, 1866, c.
278, 14 Stat. 292, and the subsequent amendments thereto,
state with entire distinctness the rights, powers, duties, privileges and immunities of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company. I recite the most essential features:
Section one authorized the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company to construct its road, vesting it with all powers

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

169

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

necessary for that purpose, 14 Stat. 293; and section three
made. grants of land to the company "to secure the safe and
speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of war
and- public stores" over the route of its line of railway and
branches. 14 Stat. 294. This was a plain exercise of the
power "to establish post roads," and of the implied power to
construct military roads.
Section eighteen of the same act authorized the Southern
Pacific Railroad to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad, made to it similar grants of land, and made it subject to all the conditions and limitations provided in the act
for the latter road. 14 Stat. 299.
The Southern Pacific Railroad Company was thus made
the agent of the Federal government in its exercise of the
constitutional power to establish post and military roads.
If the consent of the State was necessary to the complete
substitution of the Federal franchises thus granted for any
then existing state franchises for the construction of the road,
it will be found in the act of the legislature of the State of
California of April 4, 1870, which, after referring to the
grants made and the rigthts, privileges, powers and authority
vested in and conferred upoii the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, provided-that "to enable the said company to more
fully and completely comply with and perform the requirements, provisions and conditions of the said act of Congress
and all other acts of Congress now in force or which may
hereafter be enacted, the State of California hereby assents to
said act . . . and the right,'power and privilege is hereby
granted to, conferred upon and vested in them, to construct,
maintain and operate, by steam or other power, the said railroad and telegraph line mentioned in said acts- of Congress,
hereby conjifnring to and vesting in the said company, its
successors and assigns, all the rights, privileges, frainchises,
power and authority conferred upon and granted to or vested
in said company by the said act of Congress. and any act of
Congress which may be hereafter enacted." Statutes of California, 1869-270, c. 579, p. 883.
The Federal franchises for the construction of the Southern

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

Pacific Railroad from the Pacific coast to the eastern boundary line of California as a part of a continuous military and
post road across the continent established by Congress could
have had no rival in a state franchise for the construction of
the same road; but in order that this might never be questioned, the legislature of the State of California obliterated its
own franchise when it ratified and confirmed the franchises
given by the Federal government to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company.
No assessment could, therefore, be laid upon any merely
assumed state valuation, and, consequently, no tax enforced
upon its alleged assessment. It follows that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of California, affirming the judgment of
the Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco,
should be reversed.

TELFENER v. RUSS.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 462.

Argued March 2, 3, 1896. -Decided

March 80, 1596.

Under the provisions of the act of the State of Texas of July 14, 1879,
amended March 11, 1881, and repealed January 22, 1883, in respect of the
purchase of unappropriated lands, the applicant was obliged, in order to
obtain the right to purchase, to cause the land desired to be survbyed, and
the survey, field-notes and maps to be returned within a time prescribed;
and no tract could be purchased containing more than six hundred and forty
acres. R. and T. entered into an agreement consisting of two papers but
constituting and declared on in this case as one contract, whereby R. agreed
to transfer to T. his rights to purchase acquired under applications for the
survey of 1,160,320 acres; to make all the surveys, field-notes and maps
thereof, and file them in the office of the surveyor and in the General Land
Office of the State within the time prescribed by law; and T. agreed to pay
twenty-five cents per acre for such rights, and five cents per acre for the
surveys, field-notes and maps and the filing thereof. T. failed to make any
of the payments, and R. failed to file the surveys, field-notes and maps in
the General Land Office within the stipulated time excepting those covering
15,360 acres. Held,

