PUTNAMk

v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

This completes the review of ,all the very numerous
grounds of error which have been pressed upon our consideration, and the result is that we find that they are all without merit.
The judgment is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
SAME 9.. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Nos. 578, 574. Submitted January 28, 1896. -Decded lMay 4, 1896.
An indictment against its president for defrauding a national bank, described the bank as the "National Granite State Bank," "carrying on a
national banking business at the city of Exeter." The .evidence showed
that the authorized name of the bank was, the "National Granite State
Bank of Exeter." Held, that the variance was immaterial.
Conversatibns wftli a person took place in August, 1893. In December,
1893, he testified to them before the grand jury which found. the indictment in this case. On the trial of this case.his evidence before the
grand jury was offered to refresh his memory as to those conversations. Held, that that evidence was not cotemporaneous with the conversations, and would not support a reasonable probability that the
memory of the witness, if impaired at the time of the trial, was not
equally so hen his testimony was committed to writing; 'and that the
evidence was therefore inadmissible for the purpose offered.
On the trial of a national bank president for defrauding the bank, a witness for the government was asked, on cross-examination, as to the
amount of stock held by the president.. This being objected to,. the
question was ruled out, as not proper on cross-examination, the government "not having opened up affirmatively the ownership of the stock."
Hfeld, that, as the order in which evidence shall be produced is within the
discretion of the trial court, and as the iatter sought to be elicited on.
the cross-examination for the accused was not offered by hhn at any
subsequent stage of the trial, no prejudicial error was committed by the
ruling.
When an offence against the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 5209 is begun in one

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
State and completed in another, the United States court in the latter
State has jurisdiction over the prosecution of the offender.
The proof of guilt in this case was sufficient to warrant the court in leaving to the jury to decide the question of the guilt of the accused.
The sentence on both counts having been distinct as to each, the entire
amount of punishment imposed will be undergone, although the conviction and sentence as to the second count are set aside.

Tnis case having been submitted, the court ordered the judgment below to be affirmed. Subsequently, that judgment was
vacated. The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank S. Streeter for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Solicitor CGeneral for defendant in error.
MR.

Jus'rici Wnrr" delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to obtain a reversal of a. judgment
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
New Hlampshire, entered on a verdict of a jury, finding the
defendant guilty upon the second and seventh counts of an
indictment which alleged violations of the provisions of section 5209 of the Revised Statutes.
The indictment originally consisted of ten counts. A demurrer to counts 3, 5 and 8 was sustained. Upon the trial, at
the close of the evidence for the prosecution, counts 4, 6, 9
and 10 were withdrawn from the consideration of the jur3y,
and" the case was submitted to them on counts 1, 2 and 7.
Counts 1 and 2 covered the same transaction, count I charging an embezzlement, while count 2 charged an unlawful
abstraction of the same property.
The second count charged the defendant, as president of
the " National Granite State Bank," with having, on July 26,
1893, at Exeter, New Hampshire, unlawfully abstracted and
converted to his own use certain described bonds and obligations, the property of said association.
The seventh count charged that the defendant, while president
as aforesaid, and at the place aforesaid, did, between .lanuary 1.
1893, and July 15. 1893, "unlawfully and wilfully, and without

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

,the knowledge and consent of said association, and with intent
to injure and defraud said association, abstract and convert to
his own use the moneys, funds and credits of. the property of
said association, to wit, forty thousand dollars of the moneys,
funds and credits of said association, a more particular description of which moneys, funds and credits is to the said jurors
unknown." Before the trial, a statement of the items upon
which the government intended to rely for a conviction under
the seventh count was furnished, by the district attorney, to
counsel for the accused, and the court limited the evidence
with reference to that count to matters embraced in the list.
The specification referred to fifteen sums, each of which was
stated to have been drawn by the accused upon checks signed
by him, in the name of the -bank as its president, and made
payable to the order of ihe Ambrican Loan and'Trust Company of Boston, or to the order of H. N. Smith on.the National
Bank of Redemption, a banking institution located and doing
business at Boston. The checks were delivered by the defendant to the payees thereof in Boston in return "for cash
or funds in the form of checks or drafts" handed to him in
Boston, and .the checks were paid by the Boston bank on
whom they were drawn.
A motion in arrest of judgment having been overruled, the
court, on January 31, 1895, separately sentenced the defendaht on each count to five years imprisonment in the stateprison at Concord, but ordered that the imprisonient under
the seventh count should be concurrent with that- under the
second count.
The errors. assigned are eighteen in number. In addition
a second writ of error was sued out, and on this writ errors
were assigned relating solely to the validity of the sentence
imposed. This second writ was separately docketed and numbered in this court. We are relieved from considering the
legality of this second writ, as well as the soundness of the
errors thereon assigned, as all the matters complained of
thereon were abandoned on the hearing.
Of the eighteen assignments of error, four (Nos. 7, 8, 11
and 18) are not pressed by counsel, and need not be reviewed.
VoL. CLX-44

OCTOBER TERN, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Ten assignments (N os. 1 to 6 and 13 to 16) affect both of the
counts upon which conviction was had, and relate to an asserted variance between the name of the bank alleged in the
indictment to have been defrauded and the name established
by the proof. Assignment No. 9 affects the second count
alone, and alleges error in permitting a witness for the 'prosecution, upon his direct examination, to refresh his memory in
a manner claimed to be illegal. Assignment No. 10 alleges
error in the sustaining of objections to questions as to the
amount of stock of the bank owned by the defendant during
the period when the alleged unlawful acts referred to in the
seventh count were committed, while assignments Nos. 12 and
17 attack -the jurisdiction of the court over the offence set
forth in the seventh count.
We will consider the questions which arise from these assignments in the order in which- they have just been mentioned.
-Friance asseirted to exist between the name qf the bankc
1.
charged in the indictment and the name as established by the
poroof.
. TJae bank alleged to have been defrauded was referred to
in the indictment as "a certain national banking association,
then and there known and designated as the National Granite
State Bank, which said association had been heretofore created
and organized under and by virtue of the laws of the United
States of America, and which said association was then and
there acting and carrying on a national banking business at
the city of Exeter under the laws aforesaid."
The evidence offered proved tha't the authorized name of
the bank was the National Granite State Bank of Exeter, the
omission of the words "of Exeter" being, therefore, the variance relied on. The court held that this was not material, if
the bank carried on its business and was as well known by the
one name as the other.
The text writers state the rule to be that where the name
of a third person is used in an indictment, it must be proved
as laid. (Whart. Crim. Ev. sec. 102a; 1 Bish. Crim. Proc.
sec. 488, sub. 3, and sec. 667, sub. 3.) Many authorities illustrating this rule are referred to in the brief of counsel. We

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

notice only the two cases principally relied on, to wit: McGary v. People, 45 N. Y. 153; and Sykes v. People, 132
Illinois, 32. -Both of these cases are in conflict with Commonwealth v. Jacobs, 152 Mass. 276, in which last case the rule is
laid down as declared by the trial court in the case at bar.
However, the case now before us is,
distinguishable from that
presented in MoGary v. People, and, Sykes v. People, supra,
from the fact that the variance relied on in those cases was
in an integral part of the name proper, whilst here it consists
simply in the omission of the words "of Exeter," which, whilst
a part of the name; would be commonly understood as referring only to the place of business of the cbrporation. A case
precisely in point is Rogers v. State, 90 Georgia, 463, where
a railroad company was referred to in an indictment by the
name under which, it usually transacted business, and it was
held, in a well reasoned opinion, that the omission of the words
"of Georgia" at the close of the designated name of the company was not a fatal variance.
In the -indictment at bar, the accused was charged as president of the bank, and it was alleged that the institution
carried on business at Exeter. It is impossible, therefore, to
suppose that the omission of the words "of Exeter" could
have in any way misled the defendant, or failed to convey to
his mind what bank was intended to be referred to. It is.
manifest, therefore, that the omission could not have operated to his prejudice. These views dispose of assignments
from 1 to 6.
2. Erroraverred to have been committed by the court in permitting the prosecution to re/resh the memory of a witness,
called by it, by reference to certain testimony previously given
by the witness before the grandjury.
The ruling of the court from which this error is asserted to
have resulted was made during the examination in chief of
0. M. Dorr,a witness for the prosecution. He was a bank examiner, and was being questioned as to the whereabouts of
certain bonds referred to in the second count of the indictment. The testimony of the witness was important, and the
matter as to which he was being examined had a direct bear-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing upon the guilt or innocence of the accused. The bill of
exceptions discloses what took place at the time of the ruling,
as follows:
" Q. Did he ever, at any time, tell you what he had done
with these bonds?
"A. Not that I now recollect.
Mr. Branch: I propose to ask this witness a leading question, because I am taken by surprise at his answer. I have
his testimony before the grand jury, and I wish to ask him if
he did not testify to certain things before the grand jury.
"The Court: You may do that.
"Mr. Streeter: To that I object and except.
"The Court: 'It is a matter of discretion with the court Lo
allow counsel on either side who say they are surprised to ask
such question. It is not a matter of exception.
"By Mr. Branch:
"Q. (Referring to minutes, and apparently reading for the
purpose of putting the question.) Do you now recollect that
you testified before the grand jury that when you discovered
those bonds were gone you went to Boston and learned that
Mr. Putnam had them, and that he acknowledged to you he
had those bonds on the 3d day of August? Did you not so
testify before the grand jury ?
" A. If it is a matter of record, I suppose that it is so. Mr.
Putman done considerable of the business by letters.
"Q. T am asking if you did not so testify before the grand
jury ?
"A. If it is a matter of recortl, I do not dispute the record.
"Q. Do you not recollect that fact that you asked him
what he had done with them?
" Mr. Streeter: I still object and except to this because it is
the record taken before the grand jury and should not be introduced hire; it is improper and I object to it.
"The Court: I do not thifik you ought to say it is improper
after the court has ruled that it is.
"Mr. Streeter: I beg your honor's pardon; I did not under:
stand that you had ruled on this point.
"The Court: It is a thing often done, and when counsel say

PUTNAM "v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

they are surprised by the way a witness recollects a thing-it is
within the discretion of the court to allow counsel, to direct
the attention of the witness to something which may refresh
his recollection.
"By the Court:
"Q. Do you recollect this conversation in view of your attention being now called to it?
"A. I do not recall distinctly where I had that interview,
but I think it must have been at the station at Exeter.
"Q. It is not a question of where it must have been, but
whether you recall it now.
"By Mr. Branch :
"Q. Let me refresh your recd1lection a little further. Did
you testify before the grand jury, that .you said to-him something about the bond, and he said, ' Mr. Dorr, I will state to
you I am not going away?'
"A. Yes, sir; I did.
"Mr. Streeter: I object to the reading here before this
tribunal of the records taken before the grand, jury - records
I renew the objection I took
of the grand jury room -and
when my brother first put it in, two or three .minutes ago. I
renew the objection I then took to the production of grand
jury records before this court.
"Mr. Branch: I am not.
"The Court: It is competent.
"Mr. Streeter : I except.
"Q. And did he not say, • I will get the bonds for you as
soon as I can?'
"A. Yes; I can assent to that.
"The Court: It must be understood that the putting into
the question a conversation is merely done for the purpose of
directing the witness's attention to the matter, and that it is
not in, unless the witness remembers the conversation and
states it here.
'Mr. Streeter: If your honor will pardon me, my exception
to its being read *is in the record, and I do not want, to be
deprived of that.
"The Court: That is all right."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Many objections are pressed upon our attention which are
alleged properly to arise from the exceptions which were
taken during the proceedings just quoted, but which we deem
either unfounded or not reserved by the exception as taken.
It is settled that a trial court can, in its discretion, permit,
upon direct examination, a leading question to be asked, when
the counsel conducting the examination is surprised by the
statements of the witness. St. Clair v. United States, 154:
UJ. S. 134, 150. It is also clear that where a memorandum
or writing is presented to a witness for the purpose of refreshing his memory, it must either have been made by the witness or under his direction, or he must be connected with it in
such a way as to make it competent for the purpose for which
it is proposed to use it. But here the objection below did not
address itself to the fact that the minutes of the testimony
taken before the grand jury had not been properly authenticated or that they had not been reduced to writing in the
presence of the witness or read over or examined by him at
the -time. The exception taken, therefore, reserves none of
these questions. We shall hence, in considering the matter,
assume that in these particulars the use of the testimony taken
before the grand jury to refresh memory was not objectionable.
It is elementary that the memory of a witness may be refreshed by calling his attention to a proper writing or memorandum. The rule is thus stated by Greenleaf (1 Greenl.
Ev. § 436):
"Though a witness can testify only to such facts as are
within his own knowledge and recollection, yet he is permitted
to refresh and assist his memory, by the use of a written
instrument, memorandum or entry in -a book, and may be compelled to do so if the. writing is presented in court. It does
not seem to be necessary that the writing should have been
made by the witness himself, nor that it should be an original
writing, provided, after inspecting it, he can speak to the facts
from his own recollection. So, also, where the witness recollects that he saw the paper while the facts were fresh in his
memory, and remembers that he then knew that the particu-

PUTNAM z. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

lars therein mentioned were correctly stated. And it is not
necessary that the writing thus used to refresh the memory
should itself be admissible in evidence: for if inadmissible in
itself as for want of a stamp, it may be still referred to by the
witness."
The very essence, however, of the right to thus refresh the
memory of the witness is, that. the matter used for that purpose be contemporaneous with the occurrences as to which
the witness is called upon to .testify. Indeed, the rule whicl
allows a witness to refresh his -memory by writings or memoranda is founded solely on the reason that the law presupposes
that the matters, used for the purpose, were reduced to writing so shortly after the occurrence, when the facts were fresh
in the mind of the witness, that he can with safety be allowed
to recur to them in order to remove any weakening of memory
on his part, which may. have supervened from lapse of time.
In Jfawwell v. Wilkinson, 113 U. S. 656, 658, speaking
through Mr. Justice Gray, the court said:
"Memoranda are not competent evidence by reason of
having been made in the regular eourse of business, unless
contemporaneous with the transaction to which they relate.
Nicholls v. Webb, 8 Wheat. 326, 337; Ins. Co. v. Weide, 9
Wall. 677, and 14 Wall. 375; -Cliqfee v. Tnited States, 18
Wall. 516.
"It is well settled that memoranda are inadmissible to refresh the memory of a witness unless reduced to .yriting at or
shortly after the time of the transaction, ard while it must
have been fresh in his memory. The memorandum must have
been 'presently committed to writing,' Lord Holt in Sand-well
v. Sandwell, Comb. 445; S. C. Holt, 295; 'while the occurrences mentioned in it were recent, and fresh .in his recollection,' Lord Ellenborough in Burroughv. -lartin, 2 Camp. 112;
' written contemporaneously with the transaction,' Chief Justice Tindal in Steinkceller v. Newton, 9 Car. & P. 313; or
'contemporaneously or nearly so with the facts deposed to,'
Chief Justice Wilde. (afterwards Lord Chancellor Truro) in
Wkitfteld v. Aland,,2 Car. &. K. 1015. See, also, Burton v.
Plummer, 2 Ad. & El. 341 ; AS.& 4 Nev.*& Man. 315; Wood

OCTBE11

TERM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

v.

I1 Car. 0& %h.
645 ;

x-orri.v,,
v.Chtypiw, 97T

ass. 72,

7T; Spring Garden I.. Co. v. Evctns, 15 Maryland, 54."
In appreciating what length of time after the occurrence
may be considered as " contemporaneous," as "shortly after
the time of the transaction," or I"while fresh in his recollection," courts have differed somewhat. depending of course
upon the facts of each particular case.
rn Mood v. Cooper, 1 Car: & K. 615, 646, a witness was
allowed to look at his examination before commissioners in
bankruptcy, signed by him, given within a fortnight of the
time of the happening of certain occurrences, and when the
facts were fresh in his memory. So in State v. Colivell, 3 R. 1.
132, a witness was allowed to refer to a memorandum made
a day or two after a previous trial. when an interval of about
eight days had elapsed from the time when the occurrences
trauspired concerning which the witness gave testimony. In
RUlngs/ea v. Stft,, 85 Alabama, 323. it was held proper to
allow a witness to refresh his recollection by resort to the
minutes of statements made to a grand jury within a week
after the occurrence about which he. was being interrogated.
In ,'rilg
Garden JidualAx. ('o. v. Eran. 15 Maryland, 54,
it was held that a witness. who, five months after the occurrence of certain facts, and at the request of a party interested,
made a statement in writino and swore to it, could not be allowed to testify to his belief in its correctness.
In the case at bar the indictment was found at the Decemuber termi. 18. of the District Court, and the testim6ny used
to refresh tie niemnory of the witness was given at that time
before the gran(l jury. The conversations to which the testimony of the witness. given before the grand jury, related
transpired on the third of the previous August. The effort,
therefore, was to refresh the memory of the witness as to an
interview, which had taken place in August, 1893. by referring
to his testimony riven in December, 1893; in other words, by
the use of testimony given by the witness more than four
months after the occurrence. We think it clear that testimony given after this lapse of time was not contemporaneous,
and that it would not support :mreasonable probability that

PU T NAE v. UNITED -STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the memory of the witness, if impaired at the time of the
trial, was not equally so when -his testimony on the prior
occasion was committed to writing.
In conflict with the well settled rule to which we have just
referred, there are some adjudications of the courts- of last

resort of several States, noted in the margin of this opinion,'
holding that there exists an exception to the general rule
which restricts the right, to refresh mernory to contemporaneous memoranda or writing. This exception is said to arise
when a party is surprised by the unexpectedly adverse testimony of his own witness, in which case he may, for the purpose of refreshing the memory of the witness, be permitted to
ask him as to any prior statements, whether oral or written,
Without reference to their contemporaneousness. 'The error
of this conclusion, as we shall hereafter demonstrate originally arose from a misconception of the doctrine laid down in
1l-ight v. Beekett or Melh.-is/t v. Collier, i.nfra, and has be~n
continued by merely following this first departure from correct
principles. And this confusion of thought and misunderstand..
ing of those cases seems to have operated upon the mind of
the trial court, for it said "it is a thing often done, and when
counsel say they are surprised by the way a witness recollects
a thing, it is within the discretion of the court to allow coansel to direct the attention of the witness to something which
may refresh his recollection." But the right of .counsel to
refresh the memory of a witness in no way depends on the
surprise which may have been created by the testimony of
the witness. The right to refresh the memory of a witness,
by proper mnatter, exists independently of surprise. Where a.
legal instrument for refreshing the memory exists, it may be
.a.vailed of by the withess himself or may be permitted to be
referred to by the court without reference to the course of
I Campbell v. Strte. 23 Alabama. 44: Hemingway ,. (arth, 51 Alabama,
530: Bullard v. Pearsall. 53 l. Y. 230; Htrley v. tat(, 46 Ohio St. 320;
People v. Kelly. 113 N. Y. 647. 651: Hildreth v. .lldrich, 15-R. I. 163; &ae
v. Sorter, 52 Kansas,'531: thimble v. Shoemaker. 70 Iowa, 223; Hall v.
Chicago &c. Railroad, 84 Iowa, 31li;, Georgi '. Triplett, (N. Dak.) 63 N. W:
Rep. $91.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the examining counsel. Surprise on the part of the examiner
of a witness by the latter's unexpected adverse testimony, on
direct examination, was ainong the elements by which it was
determined that the right existed to ask a witness as to contradictory statements previously made by him, not for the
purpose of refreshing his memory, but with the object of
neutralizing or overthrowing his testimony, and this course
was only allowed where the right to neutralize or impeach
the testimony of one's own witness existed. Indeed, this.
doctrine of surprise was a part of the controversy as to
whether one could be allowed to neutralize or contradict thetestimony of his own witness under given conditions which
was long agitated; and which culminated in some of the
States of the Union and in England in statutory provision on
the subject.
A detailed analysis of the cases to which we have above
referred will make clear the fact that they rest not upon
sound reason, but solely upon the supposed exception to
which we have adverted.
In Wright v. Beckett, 1 Moo. & Rob. 414, it was held by
Lord Denman, (Bolland, B., dissenting,) upon a review of
previous cases, that where a witness gives evidence destructive of the case which he was called to prove, the party calling him may be permitted, in order to neutralize his testimony,
to interrogate the witness as to whether he had not at a previous time given an account of the transaction entirely different from that sworn to by him at the trial, and that the
party may also call other witnesses to establish the fact of the
making of such prior inconsistent statements.
In Melhuish v. Collier, 15 Q. B. 878, a witness fot the
plaintiff, on the trial, having omitted in her testimony to
speak-of an act of violence committed on the plaintiff by the
defendant, was questioned by the plaintiff's counsel, as in
cross-examination, and asked whether she had not seen the
defendant take the plaintiff by the hair; she denied this, and
was then asked whether on an examination before magistrates
she had not said to the plaintiff's attorney that she saw it.
The witness answered that if she had said so, it was all lies.

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

She was then asked whether she had not made to the same
attorney a further specified statement, and on objection being
made the court "ruled that the question might be put, not tQ
discredit, but to remind the witness."
In the course of the argument, at the Queen's Bench, of the
motion for a new trial, counsel for defendant urged that it
was error to have permitted the question to be put, but Patterson, J., called his attention to the fact that it had only been
allowed for the purpose of "reminding" the witness. The
counsel evidently understood that the word "remind" was
synonymous with a mere caution to the witness, for he said

(p. 886):
",A question merely to remind should have had the character of those general admonitions which are sometimes given
to a witness to recollect himself and to consider that he is
speaking on oath, and which the judge does not take down, or
notice to the jury. It ought not, at farthest, to have gone
beyond the simple inquiry whether the party had not been
examined before. It should, at any rate, have been so shaped
that the witness might have admitted the former statement
alluded to without discrediting herself."
So, also, the opposing counsel urged that the objection was
premature, saying (p. 882): "If counsel had gone on to ask
her whether the former statements were not the true ones, it
would have been the proper time to object; but the objection
would have differed from that now taken."
Patterson, J., found difficulty in coming to a conclusion.
(p. 888.)
Ooleridge, J., observed (p. 889):
"I agree in the distinction which has been taken between
putting a question to the witness as to the former statements,
and contradicting his answer. It has been ingeniously suggested
by Mr. Smith that, if the question be admissible, it must be
so put as to recall the fact to the witness's memory, without
tending to impeach his credit if the account he then gives be
'different from the first: and I. can conceive a case in which
that might happen. The witness may be flurried on his first
examination and afterwards vary his statement when his

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

attention is recalled to circumstances; but it is said that here
the object of the question was distinctly to contradict the
witness. It is difficult to draw a line, and I am not disposed
to draw it too closely. I think that, in the present case, the
question did not go farther than inquiry may properly be
carried."
Erle, J., said (p. 890):
"A plaintiff's witness says, in effect, that the plaintiff has
no cause of action. Then he is asked whether he has not,
formerly, made a different statement. I think thit question is
proper, and not inconsistent with the rule that a party knowing
a witness to be infamous ought not to produce him, and must
not be allowed to take the chance of his answers and then
bring evidence to contradict him. We do not interfere with
that rule. There are treacherous witnesses who will hold out
that they can prove fkcts on one side in a cause, and then, for
a bribe or from some other motive, make statements in support of the opposite interest. In such cases, the law undoubt-.
edly ought to )ermit the party calling the witness to question
him as to the former statement, and ascertain, if possible, what
induces him to change it."
The judges, moreover, intimated a doubt as to the correctness of Lord Denman's opinion in lV5-ight v. Beckett, in
so far as it recognized the right of a party, when surprised
by the testimony of his own witness, to call other witnesses,
to proye his contradictory statements, but followed Wfright
v. Beckett to the extent that it held that one might, when
surprised by the testimony of his Witness, ask him as to inconsistent statements, in order to neutralize his testimony,
employing, however, the word "remind," in the stead of
neutralize. The word " remind," used in .Melhui.sh v. Collier,
in its broadest sense. would, certainly, be susceptible of the
interpretation of refreshing memory, and if it were to receive that construction the case would undoubtedly be Authority for the proposition that one taken by surprise, by
the testimony of his own witness, could refresh the memory
of the witness by calling his attention to contradictory.
statements previously made by him without reference to

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Coi'rt.

whether such statements were or were not contemporaneous,
or whether oral or written. But the context of the opinions
demonstrates that the case has no such significance: The
learned judges were considering not the right of one to
refresh the memory of his witnesses, but whether he could
neutralize the testimony of his own witness; that is,
whether a party had the right to do so as to a witness by
him introduced though the incidental, effect might be to
impeach his credit. The reasoning of the opinion shows
that theuse of the word "remind" was intended* rather as
a qualification on the right to neutralize, in case of surprise,
which was recognized in lVrig t v. Becket, and, therefore,
it was not the purpose of the ruling in the ,.felhuish,case to
overthrow the elementary rule of evidence which restricts
refreshing the memory of a witness to contemporaneous
memorand& or writings. And support for the view that the
reminding of the witness spoken of in the Melhtihs case
was not considered as synonymous with the right to refresh
recollection, is found in the fact that the judge, before whom
that case was first tried, subsequently, in 1853, in the case
of Regina v. WtVillains, 6 Cox C. C. 343, held that where a
witness for the |l)osecution gave a different answer on his
examination in chief from that which was expected, his
deposition before the coroner or justice, as the case might
be, might be put in his hands for the purpose of "refreshing
his memnoy," and then a question from the deposition might
be put to him in leading form. The court further said
that if the witness persisted in -giving the .same answer
after his memory had been so refreshed, the question might
be repeated to him from the deposition in leading form, but
when the witness, answered that question the counsel could
not proceed any further.
A few years after Jleih.ish v. 6ollier was decided, in 1854,
Parliament adopted the Common Law Procedure Act, which,
among other things, provided as follows:
"A party producing a witness shall not be allowed to
impeach his credit by general evidence of bad character,
but he may, in case the witness shall in the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

judge prove adverse, contradict him by other evidence, or, by
leave of the judge, prove that he has made at other times
a statement inconsistent with his present testimony; but before such last mentioned proof can be given, the circumstances
of the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the particular occasion, must be mentioned to the witness, and he must
be asked whether .or not he has made such statement." 1T
and 18 Vict. c. 125, § 22.
Clearly the purpose of this statute was to give one a right
under certain circumstances to neutralize or discredit the testimony of his- own witness, and in 4o way to change the rule
as to refreshing a witness's memory by contemporaneous writings or memoranda. This statute was, substantially, a legislative recognition of the correctness of the rule laid down iii
TVright v. Beckett, and the modern English cases have treated
the act as applying to the power to contradict and neutralize
the testimony of one's own witness when he proves adverse
or hostile, and as controlling the examination of the witness
himself concerning prior inconsistent statements, as well as the
proof thereof by other witnesses. Faulknerv. B'rine, 1 Fost.
& Finl. 254; Dear v. Kfnight, 1 Fost. & Finl. 433.
This view of the act is also the one taken by Taylor in his
treatise on Evidence. He refers to the Common Law Procedure Act of 1854, as having settled "the question how far a
party is at liberty to discredit his own witness," a question
which he says "for years was agitated in Westminster Hall."
2 Taylor Ev. § 124:6. Statutes similar to the English act have
been passed in various States of the Union, some before and
others subsequent thereto. 1 Greenl. Ev. note b to § 444.
The case of Campbell v. State, 23 Alabama, 44, held that a
trial court had not committed error in permitting the State's
attorney to inquire of a witness for the prosecution whether
he tad not, on the day preceding, made statements conflicting
with what. he had said on the trial, the avowed object of the
question being to refresh the witness's memory. The ruling
was rested on the authority of Wright v. Becekett, supra, and
on the opinions of Greenleaf and Phillips. But the learned
court overlooked the fact that IFriyht v. Beckett expressly

PUTNAM

o. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

confined the right to put the question, in order to neutralize
the testimony of the witness when the party introducing him
was taken by surprise, and that neither in the treatise of
Greenleaf nor that of Phillips is this right to examine a witness for the purpose of neutralizing his testimony confounded
or confused with the distinct and different faculty of refreshing the memory of the witness by .contemporaneous writings
or memoranda. Her ingway v. Garth, 51 Alabama, 530, was
placed simply upon the authority of the previous case.
In Bullard v. Pearsall,53 N. Y. 230, upon the trial in the
lower court, a witness was called for the purpose of proving
that a certain conversation took place between the witness
and the defendant previous.to the 17th of June, 1868, but to
the surprise of the plaintiff the witness testified that the conversation took place on the 24th of July. The date was material. The plaintiff was permitted to ask the witness whether
he had not, on a prior examinationj sworn that the conversation took place in June, and this action of the trial judge was
held to be proper. The Court of Appeals, speaking through.
Rapallo, J., said (p. 231):
"We are of opinion that such questions may be asked of
the witness for the purpose of probing his recollection, recalling to his mind the statements he has previously made, and
drawing out an explanation of his apparent inconsistency.
This course of examination may result in satisfying the witness that he has fallen into error, and that his original statements were correct, and it is calculated to elicit the truth. It
is also proper for the.purpose of showing the circumstances
which induced the party to call him. Though the answers
of the witness may involve him in contradictions calculated
to impair his credibility, that is not a sufficient reason for
excluding the inquiry."
As authority supporting this language the learned judge
said (p. 232):
"The principal cases in this State in which the- subject is referred to are: People v. Safford, 5 Denio, 118; Thompson v.
Blanchard,4 Comst. 311; San'chez v. People, 22 N. Y. 147:
and in- England it is very thoroughly discussed in Melhuish

OCTOBER TERM. 1895
Opinion of the Court.

v. colli;, I QB. 7S. It has since been there regulated by
act of Parliament. passed in 1854. The English and Ameri(-:in authorities are referred to in I Green. Ev. sections 442,
444. 444a and notes."
The fact that Jelhiui;, \-. Collier does not sustain the proposition which it is thus cited to support we have already establislied, and even a casual examination of the New York
cases referred to demonstrates that they not only do not uphold the views expressed, but, on the contrary. are adverse
to them. The only remaining reference is to sections 442,
.444 and 444a of Greenleaf on Evidence. One of these
sections (444) which we have already quoted, bears no relatin to the subject. The other, 442, does not refer to refreshing recollection, but treats of the question whether one may
contradict his own witness. The third section referred to,
444a. is not a part of the treatise of Greenleaf. The learned
judge of course referred to the twelfth, or Redfield's, edition
of Greenleaf's work, published in 1866. where the .omments
of the editor are included in the text, in brackets, and by
way of supplmental sections. In this edition there i%such
a section, 444a:
"I'leauthor seems in the preceding section to have stated
the doctrine of the right of a party to contradict his own
witness who unexpectedly testifies against him, somewhat
more strongly than is held by the English courts; and the
rule of the American courts is even more restricted than that
of the English courts in that respect. The question is extensively discussed in the case of Mellhaqh** v. Collie,,, 15 Q. B.
878, both by counsel and by the different members of the
court, and the conclusion arrived at is. that you may crossexamine your own witness if he testify contrary to what you
had a right to expect, as to what he had stated in regard to
the matter on former occasions, either in court or otherwise.
and thus refresh the memory of the witness and give him
full opportunity to set the matter right if he will, and at all
events to set yourself right before the jury. But you cannot
do this for the mere purpose of discrediting the witness, nor
can you be allowed to prove the contradictory statements

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the witness upon other occasions, but must be restricted
to proving the fact otherwise by other evidence. And the
same rule prevails in the courts of admiralty. The Locldibo,
14 Jur. 792; 1 Eng. L. & Eq. 645.]"
This language, however, as we have seen, is not the opinion of Greenleaf, but the comment of his editor Redfield, and
was doubtless influenced by the same mistaken view of what
was really decided in Melhuish v. Collier, to which we have
already adverted.
Brevity prevents a detailed revie*v of the other cases on this
subject previously mentioned in the margin hereof. Suffice it
to say that an examination discloses that they all rest upon
the mistaken idea which we have pointed out. Indeed, if
the -principles upon which these cases necessarily rest are
pushed to their logical conclusion, they not only under the
guise of an exception overthrow the general rule as to refreshing memory, but also subvert the elementary principles of
judicial evidence. The fact that these consequences are the
legitimate and necessary outcome of the cases we have
reviewed, depends not on mere abstract reasoning, but is
demonstrated by the case of People v. K-elly, 113 N. Y. 647,
651 (1889). In that case, upon the sole authority of Bullard
v. Pearsall, it was held that where inconsistenf or adverse
statements had not been given. by a witness for the St.ate,
but, from mere forgetfulness or.a wish to befriend the accused, the witness had omitted to testify to certain details,
error had not been committed by the court in allowing the
prosecuting attorney, for the purpose of refreshing the recollection of the witness, to inquire of him whether he had not
testified to the omitted facts before fhe committing magistrate and grand jury, and, :upon his admission that he had
done so, to ask if the- statements theretofore made were not
true, and that the affirmative reply of the witness was competent evideiice to submit to thie jury. Not only the error but
the grave consequences to result from such, a doctrine were
aptly pointed but by Chief Justice Shaw in Commonwealth v.
Phelps, 11-Gray, 73, where an attempt was -made to refresh
the memory of a .witness by reference to testimony before
VOL. cxi--45

OCTOBER TERMAf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

a grand jilry not contemporaneously given. The Chief Justice said:
"It is not a regular mode of assisting the recollection of a
witness to recur to his recollection of his testimony before
the grand jury. If it was not true then, it is not true now;
if it was true then, it is true now, and can be testified to as a
fact. Of what importance is the fact that he had a memorandum to aid him in testifying before the grand jury? To
ask what he testified to before the grand jury has no tendency to refresh his memory. The fact of his having testified to it then is not testimony now. It is an attempt to
substitute former for present testimony."
Equally lucid and cogent are the expressions of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in T elott v. Lewis, 102
Penn. St. 326, where, in holding that the memory of a
witness could not be refreshed by reading to him notes of
testimony given by him in a former trial of the same cause,
the court said (p. 333): If the fact that "a witness failed
to recollect what he had previously sworn to were enough
to admit the notes of a former trial, we might as well
abandon original testimony altogether, and supply it with
previous notes and depositions." "It would certainly be an
excellent way to avoid the contradiction of a doubtful witness, for he could always be thus led to the exact words of
his former evidence. As we are not yet prepared for an
advance of this kind, we must accept the ruling of the court
below as correct."
In leaving this branch of the case it is well to say that
Iiekory v. United States, 151 U. S.303, referred to by the
Supreme Court of North Dakota in George v. T'iplett, 63
N. W. Rep. 891, as sustaining the exception to the general
rule there announced, does not warrant the assumption.
Hickory v. United States concerned merely the question of
the right of a party, after proper foundation had been laid,
to contradict his own witness, and in no way involved the
right to refresh the memory without reference to the contemporaneousness of the statements, or whether they were
oral or written.

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Our conclusion, therefore, is that the exception to the
action of the court in allowing the use made of the minutes
of the grand jury was well taken, and that there was
prejudicial error in this particular. Its existence, however,
relates .to and affects only the conviction under the second
count of the indictment.
3. Defendant's ownership of stock in the bank.
The -tenth assignment alleged error in sustaining an objection to a question propounded by counsel for the defendant
upon the cross-examination of a witness for the prosecutibn.
The witness (Charles E. Byington) had testified, on direct examination, that the defendant had turned over to the bank bonds
of the par value of thirty-five thousand dollars, and that the
defendant had a paramount interest in the companies which
had issued such bonds. On cross-examination, the witness
stated that the accused held; on his own account, a large
amount of the stock of the companies referred to, was buying
and selling, and had oi hand more or less of said securities.
The counsel for the accused then asked the following
question :
"Q. What percentage of the stock.of the National Granite
State Bank of Exeter did :Mr. Putnam own during the first
six months of 1893? "
On objection being made by the-government, counsel stated
that his purpose was to show the relations of the accused to
the bank and his ownership of the stock, and that the proposed evidence was pertinent as bearing upon the intent of
the 'defendant with reference to the purchasing of securities
for-th6 bank, and in dealing with the bank's funds; and that
it made. a difference whether he. owned all of the stock or
did not own any of it. The court .ruled that the government had not "opened ' up afirmatively the ownership of the
stock," and that the pro"posed evidence was not proper crossexamination.
As the order in which evidence shall be produced is within
the discretion of the- trial court, and as the matter sought to
be elicited on the crossexamination for the acused Was not
offered by him at any subsequent stage of the trial, it is maui-

OCTOBER TERTI,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

fest that no prejudicial error was committed by the ruling
complained of.
4. Jurisdictionof the court over the seventh count.

The twelfth and sexventeenth assignments of error result
from an exception taken to the refusal of the court to grant
defendant's request, made at the close of the testimony, for a
peremptory instruction in his favor, as to the seventh 'count.
This request was based on the assumption that alr the acts
relied on, to convict, under that count, and which were enumerated in the bill of particulars, took place in Massachusetts,
and hence were beyond the jurisdiction of the court. A like
question also arises from an exception taken to the charge of
the court on the same subject. We will consider first the
exception taken to the charge of the court, since if it erroneously applied the law to the facts it must lead to reversal,
although the court may have rightly refused the peremptory
instruction.
As heretofore stated, this count charged the unlawful abstraction and conversion to his own use by the defendant at
Exeter, New Hampshire, of "monies, fqnds and credits of the
property of said association," (the National Granite State Bank,
etc.,) "a more particular description of which monies, funds
and credits is to the said jurors unknown;" and that the
district attorney furnished to the counsel for the defendant a
bill of particulars covering fifteen checks.
In considering these assignments it is at the outset clear
that, although the commission of the offence charged may
have been begun in -Massachusetts, if it was completed in
New Hampshire the court had jurisdiction, under Rev. Stat.
§ 731, which provides: "That when any offence against the
United States is begun in one judicial district and completed
in another, it should be deemed to have been committed in
either, and may be dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined
and punished in either district in the same manner as if it had
been actually and Wholly committed therein."
We summarize the facts, which are stated at length in the
bill of exceptions, as follows: The National Granite State
Bank of Exeter kept an account with the National Bank of

PUTNA-M v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Redemption of Boston, which was a reserve agent. From time
to time deposits were made by the bank of Exeter with the
Boston bank, and were placed to the credit of this account,
and checks were drawn by the bank of Exeter on the Boston
bank, and when paid by the latter were debited to the account.
The checks mentioned in the bill of particulars were all drawn
by the accused, as president of the National Granite State
Bank of Exeter, on the Boston bank. Two of these checks
were drawn respectively on January 17 and 23, and were
for $5000 each. These checks were both drawn and dated
in Boston; were made payable to the American Loan and
Trust Company there, which company gave to the accused,
as consideration for them, its drafts on Winslow, Lanier & Co.,
of New York, which drafts were paid to the accused or his
assigns, and the proceeds in no way enured to the benefit of the
Exeter bank. The American Loan and Trust Company, the
payee of the checks, collected them in Boston, and the sum of
the checks thus paid out by the Boston bank was by it debited
to the account of the Exeter bank. The other checks referred
to in the bill of particulars were also drawn by the accused,
as president of the Exeter bank, on the Boston bank, between
the 1st day of April and the 6th day of May, 1893, and they
were delivered in Boston to the payees thereof for a valuable
-consideration, which also in no way enured to the Exeter
'bank, and were paid, and the amount was also debited to the
account of the Exeter bank. At the time. these checks were
drawn, and, when they were presented to and paid by the
Boston bank and debited by it, there was a credit to the account of the bank of Exeter adequate to meet' the checks, so
that the effect of debiting them was not to overdraw the
account of the Exeter bank. The bill of exceptions moreover
recites that:
"]4vidence was admitted, subject to defendant's exception,
tending to show that at a meeting of the directors of the
bank at Exeter, held about one year prior, to the alleged -unlawful drawing of checks by the defendant at Boston, a vote
had been passed 'bythe board of, directors that no one but
the cashier should thereafter have authority.to draw checks

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

against the account with the reserve agent; that the defendant was present at that meeting and acted as clerk of the
board.
"Such a vote was never recorded in the directors' recorid,
and the reserve agent was never notified of it."
There was also testimony tending to show that the Boston
and Exeter banks twice a month adjusted their running account by means of statement9. which are called in the record
"reconciliation sheets." When these reconciliation sheets
came to the Exeter bank in February they were accompanied . with vouchers, among which were the two cancelled
checks for $5000, each drawn in January, and which had
been paid and debited, as above stated. The evidence also
tended to show that the bank at Exeter owed to the American Loan and Trust Company a note or.notes amounting 'to
$10,000. When the cashier of the Exeter bank discovered
the debit of the two January checks on the reconciliation
sheets and observed these checks among the vouchers returned by the Boston bank, he asked the president (the accused) for what purpose he had drawn the checks, and the
president answered they had been drawn in order to pay the
note or notes of the Exeter -bank held by the American Loan
and Trust Company. Thereupon the cashier entered on the
books of the bank at Exeter the payment of the note or notes
held by the American Loan and Trust Company, and settled
the reconciliation sheets with the Boston bank, and accordingly credited the account of the Boston bank with the sum
of the two January checks. There was also testimony tending to show that neither the cashier or directors (except the
accused) knew anything of the checks drawn in January until
the receipt of the February reconciliation sheets, and that
they also knew nothing of the April and May checks until the
reconciliation sheets for May, with their accompanying vouchers, were received. The evidence also tended to show that
when the payment of these last checks by the Boston bank
was discovered, the defendant was asked for an explanation.
He first refused to give information, then evaded doing. so,
until about the 24-th of May, when he stated to the directors

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Exeter bank that the checks had been used in order
"to put money into the Leavenworth Electric Railway Ooihpany and the Hydraulic Company."
On the face of the foregping facts it is evident that the
alleged criminal acts arising from the two January checks
were begun in- Massachusetts. The question is, were such
acts there completed or did the final fact, which was essential to effectually absorb the credit of the Exeter bank with
the Boston bank, take place in New Hampshire? The relation between. the banks was that of debtor and creditor. The
checks having been. drawn, collected and debited in Boston,
constituted a concluded transaction, if there was authority to
draw them. On the contrary, if there was no authority, the
mere fact that they were debited to the account of the
Exeter bank did not absorb the credit of that bank, as only
a lawful and authorized check could have justified the debit.
Of course, no ratifloation was essential to cause the checks to
successfully obtain the money of the Boston bank, for such
obtaining was consummated and concluded by the fact of
paying out the same on. the checks. But we are here concerned not with whether the checks obtained the money of
the Boston bank, but with whether such checks absorbed the
credit of the Exeter bank, which fact was distinct and separate from the question 6f payment, and depended on whether
the debit made in consequence of the payment of the checks
lawfully absorbed the credit of the Exeter bank. If, then,
the checks were unauthorized and the illegal debit which was
made as the result of their payment was ratified and made
binding in New Hampshire by the Exeter bank, it is clear
that the act which consummated the taking of the credit of
the Exeter bank was completed in New Hampshire, and was
therefore within the jurisdiction of the court. Such was the
view taken by the court in its charge to the jury, as follows:
"Mr. Branch, representing the government, says the whole
transaction in Boston, so far as the drawing of the checks
and the receiving of the money was concerned, was fraudulent.
IHe argues that the bank at a meeting had adopted a resolution, providing that the president should not draw checks,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and that, therefore, the president had no authority, and the
president knew he had no authority, to draw checks. This
becomes material if you find it was so, because if he had the
authority to draw checks and did withdraw the funds,
although he may have done it for the purpose of misappropriating and abstracting the money, if he had authority to
draw those checks, it would become a past and completed
act in Massachusetts as you will see ; but, if he did not have
authority, if he was acting outside of his authority, and acting fraudulently, while the drawing of the checks was effectual in withdrawing the funds from the Bank of Redemption
in Boston, it would not withdraw and abstract the credit of
the bank in Exeter, existing in its behalf in the Bank of
Redemption in Boston, because notwithstanding his drawing
the checks, if he had no authority to draw them, the Exeter
bank would still be in position to enforce its rights and
receive the benefits of its credit which had been improperly
and unlawfully interfered with by some unauthorized act in
Boston, and while The money had gone and been misapplied
the credit of the Exeter bank would be the samne substantially and might be enforced. . .
So, in order to give
jurisdiction here and enable you to pass upon this question,
you must find that the offence was partly committed in
Massachusetts, which it is conceded was so, if there was any
offence, and partly here, that is, in order to give this court
jurisdiction, in order to make this offence completed partly
in Massachusetts and partly here, you must find that he
conceived the plan, not only of abstracting the moneys by
means of the checks, but of making the transaction complete
and effectual by withdrawing the credit existing in behalf
of the Exeter bankt So if he came into New Hampshire,
and through artful deception and fraudulent misrepresentation, with the intent of making the abstraction begun in
Massachusetts complete, induced the officers of the bank o
surrender that credit, then he is guilty under this charge
which alleges that- he wilfully and unlawfully abstracted
moneys, funds and credits of the Exeter bank."
Having determined the correctness of this instruction, it

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

remains only- to ascertain whether the proof sustained the
court in leaving to the jury the ascertainment of the facts
contemplated in the charge, that is to say, whether the court
rightly refused the peremptory request, made by the defendant, to direct a verdict in his favor. There can be no doubt
that the president of h national bank, irtute oflcii, has not
necessarily the power to draw checks against the account
kept' With'another bank by the bank of which he is president.
Indeed, the statutes'expressly provide that the powers of the
president of a national bank may be defined by the board of
directors. Rev. Stat. § 5136. True it is, that by a course of
dealing with a particular person, the power of an officer to
perform a particular act may be implied when such power is
not inconsistent with law. , ferchants' Bank v. State Bank,
10 Wall. 604. Now, here-there was an entire absence of all
proof as to a course of busiress implying authority on behalf
of the president to draw checks in the name of the bank.
In view of the fact that the power to draw the check, did not
inhere in the functions of the president, and in consequence of
the absence of proof as to a course of business implying the
power, as also in consideration of the fact that the January
checks were not drawn at the banking establishment, but
in another city, we think the proof was adequate to justify
the court in refusing to take the case from the jury, and in
leaving it to them to determine whether there was such
infirmity in the checks as made a subsequent ratification,
obtained in New Hampshire by the fraudulent representation
of the defendant, one of the efficient causes for the absorption
of the credit resulting from the debit of the checks. Apart
from this view, which was covered by the charge of the court,
there were other considerations which rendered it equally improper to take the ease from the jury. It cannot be denied
that if when the January checks were called to the attention
of the bank at Exeter, the authority of the president to draw
them had been repudiated, and if such, denial had been com.municated to the Boston bank the ability of the president of
the Exeter bank to have obtained payment of the subsequent
checks would not have existed. As the failure of the Exeter

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

bank to repudiate the January checks, and in so doing give
notice to the jBoston bank, may have been consequent upon
the fraudulent misrepresentation as to the purpose for which
the January checks were drawn, it was competent for the
jury to consider the relation which this fact bore to the drawing of the subsequent checks. In other words, the condition
of evidence was such that the misrepresentation made in New
Hampshire as to the reason for the drawing of the January
checks, in connection with all the other evidence, was competent to go to the jury as tending to show not only the completion in New Hampshire of the wrongful obtaining of the
credit, commenced by the drawing and debiting, in Boston,
of the January checks, but also the initiation in New Hampshire of the wrongful obtaining of the credit completed subsequently in Massachusetts by the drawing of the April and
Mfay checks; if the jury thought from all the evidence that
when the misstatements were made as to the January checks
the purpose was to further defraud by drawing the subsequent checks.
The foregoing considerations dispose of all the questions
presented, and the conclusion which results from them is,
that there is error in the conviction as to the second count,
and none as to that under the seventh count. The sentence
imposed in consequence -of the verdict of guilty on both
couiits was distinct and separate as to each count, and was
made only concurrent. It follows, therefore, that if the
verdict and sentence, as to the second count, be set aside,
nevertheless the entire amount of punishment imposed will
be undergone. Under these circumstances, it is doubtful
wVhether the error committed, as to the second count, should
be treated as prejudicial, since the only effect of reversing
and ordering a new trial, as to this count, will be to leave
the full term of the existing sentence in force and to submit
the accused to another trial on the second count, from which
trial, if convicted, an additional sentence may result. Considering this situation, we deem that
ie ends q/ justice will best be subserved by aifirming the
judgment and sentence under the seventh count, and by

715

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Brewer, Brown,

JJ.

reversing the judgment as to the second count, and remanding the case to the court below for such proceedings
with reference to that count as may be in conformity to
law, and it is so ordered.
The CHIEF JUSTCE dissenting: MR. JUSTICE .BREWER, MR.
JUSTICE BRowN and myself think the conviction on the second
count ought to stand. In our opinion the discretion of the
Circuit Court was properly exercised in allowing leading
questions to be put to the witness Dorr, and they amounted
to nothing more than enabling him to overcome temporary
forgetfulness by reference to what he had said on a prior
examination.

