GIBSON v. XTSSrSSIPPI.
Syllabus.

ness was heavier and property of larger value? . We think
not. And yet we should be obliged to hold otherwise, if we
approved the suggestion that the territorial act of March 21,
1895, was local or special, simply because, under its operation,
county treasurers, district attorneys, county recorders, assessors and probate judges will receive larger salaries in some
counties than like officers will receive in other counties.
In support of the appellant's contention numerous adjudged
cases have been cited. We have examined them, but do not
find that they are in conflict with the conclusions reached by
us in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
Affirmed.

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF' THE STATE OF. MISSISSIPPI.
No. 711. Argued and submitted December 18, 1895. -Decded April 15, 1896.
The principle reaffirmed that while a State, consistently with the purposes
for which the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, may confine the selection of jurors to males, to freeholders, to citizens, to persons within
certain ages, or to persons having educational qualifications, and while a
mixed jury in a particular case is not, within the meaning of the Constitution, always or absolutely necessary to the enjoyment of the equal
protection of the laws, and therefore an accused, being of the colored
race, cannot claim as-natter of right that his race shall be represented
on the jury; yet a denial to citlzens of t0i-Aricanfrace; benase-ovf thei
color, of the right or privilege accorded to white citizens of participating as jurors in the administration 6f justice would be a discrimination
against the former inconsistent with the amendment and within the
power of Congress, by appropriate legislation, to prevent.
Section 641 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the removal of civil suits
or criminal prosecutions from the state courts into the Circuit Courts of
the United States, does not embrace a case in which a right is denied by
judicial action during a trial, or in the sentence, or in the mode of executing the sentence. For such denials arising from judicial action after
a trial commenced, the remedy lies in the revisory power of the higher.
courts of the State, and ultimately in the power of review which this

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.
court may exercise ovet their judgments whenever rights, privileges or
immunities claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States
are withheld or violated. The denial or inability to enforce in the judicial tribunals of the States rights 'secured by any law providing for the
equal civil rights of citizens of the United States, to which section 641
refers, and on account of which a criminal prosecution may be removed
from a state .court, is primarily, if not exclusively, a denial of such
rights or an inability to enforce them resulting from the constitution or
laws of the State, rather than a denial first made manifest at or during
the trial of the case.
The fact that citizens of the African race had been excluded, because of
their race, from service on previous grand juries as vell as from the
grand jury which returned the particular indictment in the case on trial,
will not authorize a removal of the prosecution under section 641 of the
Revised Statutes, but is competent evidence only on a motion to quash
the indictment.
It is not every denial by a state enactment of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States that is embraced by section 641 of
the Revised Statutes. The right of removal given by that section exists
only ift the special cases mentioned in it.
The -requirement of the Mississippi constitution of 1890 that no person
should be a grand or petit juror unless he was a qualified elector and
able to read and write did not prevent the legislature from providing, as
was done in the Code of 1892, that persons selected for jury service
should possess good intelligence, sound judgment and fair character.
Such regulations are always within the power of a legislature to establish unless forbidden by the constitution. They tend to secure the
proper administration of justice and are in the interest, equally, of the
public and of persons accused of crime.
The Mississippi Code of 1892, in force when the indictment was found, did
not affect in any degree the substantial rights of those who had committed crime prior to its going into effect. It did not make criminal and
punishable any act that was innocent when committed, nor aggravate
any crime previously committed, nor inflict a greater punishment than
the law annexed to such crime at the time of its commission, nor alter
the legal rules of evidence in order to convict the offender.
The inhibition upon the passage of ex post facto laws does not give a criminal a right to be tried, in all respects, by the law in force when the crime
charged was committed. The mode of trial is always under legislative
control, subject only to the condition that the legislattire may not, under
the guise of establishing modes of procedure and prescribing remedies,
violate the accepted principles that protect an accused person against
ex post facto enactments.
The conduct of a criminal trial in a state court cannot be reviewed by this
court unless the trial is had under some statute repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, or was so conducted as to deprive the accused of some right or immunity secured to him by that instrument.

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.
Mere error in administering the criminal law of a State or in the conduct
of a criminal trial - no Federal right being invaded or denied - Is beyond the'revisory power of this court under the statutes regulating its
jurisdiction. Indeed, it would not be competent for Congress to confer
such power upon this or any other court of the United States.
The Constitution of the United States, in its present form, forbids, so far
as civil and political rights are concerned, discrimination by the General
Government, or by the States, against any citizen because of his race.
All citizens are equal before the law. The guarantees of life, liberty and
property are for all persons, within the jurisdiction of the United States,
or of any State, without discrimination against any because of their race.
Those guarantees, when their violation is properly presented in the regular course of proceedings, must be enforced in the courts, both of the
Nation and of the State, without reference to considerations based upon
race. In the administration of criminal justice no rule can be applied
to one class which is not applicable to all other classes.

'TE plaintiff in error was indicted in .the Circuit Court of
Washington county, Mississippi, for the crime of having, in
that county and on the 12th day of December, 1892, killed and
murdeied one Stinson.
When the case was called for trial the accused presented a
petition for its removal to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the western division of the Southern District of
Mississippi. The petition was verified by the oath of the.
accused to the effect that the -facts set forth in it were true
and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief, and was
as follows:
"This petition respectfully shows unto this court that John
Gibson, a citizen of said State and of the United -States of
America, is a negro of the African descent' and color black.
That under the constitution of the State of Mississippi, which
was adopted in the constitutional convention in November,
1890, it prescribes that the qualification for- persons to serve
as jurors in said State shall be that the ability of said citizens,
qualified electors of the county and State, male, being citizens
thereof, not. having [been] convicted of specified crimes, shall
be able to read and write; but the legislature shall provide by
law for procuring a list of persons so qualified to draw therefrom grand and petit jurors for each term of -the Circuit
Court. Constitution of Mississippi, Sec. 264. Section 2858

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of the Code of Mississippi for 1892, adopted the 1st day of
April, 1892, and in force at the time of the finding of the bill
of indictment filed herein against relator, provides that at the
first meeting of each year, or as soon as practicable thereafter,
the board of supervisors shall make a list of persons to serve
as jurors in the Circuit Court for the next two terms to be held
more than thirty days afterwards, and as a guide in making
the list they shall use the registration book of voters, and shall
select and list the names of qualified persons of good intelligence, sound judgment and fair character, and shall take them,
as nearly as it can conveniently from the several districts in
proportion to the number of the qualified persons in each,
excluding all who have served on the regular panel within
two years, if there be not a deficiency of jurors. Relator
states that under section 283 of'the new constitution of Mississippi the indictment returned against him should have been
by a jury of the grand inquest of the said county, under the
laws of the code of said State, adopted in 1880, because the
crime for which this indictment was returned is alleged to
have been committed January, 1892, before the statute of 1892
took effect.
"Relator states that under the laws of said State, provided by
the Code of 1880 thereof, the only qualifications required were
as shown by sec. 1661 of said code, to wit, 'All male citizens
of the United States and not being under the age of twenty-one
years nor over the age of sixty years, and not having been
convicted of any infamous crime, shall be qualified to serve as
jurors within the county of their residence.' Section 1664
of Code of 1880 also provides'that the board of super-visors of
each county shall, at least twenty days before every term of
the Circuit Court, selecttwenty persons competent to serve as
jurors in said county, to be thken, as nearly as conveniently
may be, in equal numbers from each supervisor's district of
the county, who shall serve as grand jurors for the next ensuing term of said court.
"Relator states that at the time the said grand jury of said
county was elected, empanelled and charged by this court at
the December term, 1892, a great Federal [right] of his was

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

abridged, viz., the civil right guaranteed to him under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, particularly, to wit, no State shall deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the protection of the laws"Relator states that, on the 9th day of January, 1892, Robert
Stinson, a white man, was killed at Refuge plantation in the
said county, and that he was accused of the homicide; that
prosecution against him had been commenced before the adoption of the Code of 1892 ; that by reason of the great prejudice
against him by the officers charged with the selection of the
said jury of grand inquest for the said December term of the
said Circuit Court, which officers so charged are all members
of the white race, and the relator herein being a member of
the black race -. black in color. Although at the time -f
selecting the grand jurors for the said December term, 1892,
there were in the five supervisor districts of the said county
of Washington 7000 colored citizens competent for jury service of the county of Washington, State of Mississippi, and
1500 whites qualified to serve as jurors in said county, there
had not been for a number of years any colored man ever
summoned on the grand jury of said county court; and that
the colored citizens were purposely, on account of their color,
excluded from jury service by the, officers of the law charged
with the selection of said jurors. Relator states that -by reason of the great, pi'ejudice against him in this matter that the
said officers of the law charged with the selection of the said
grand jurors for the December term, 1892, on account of his
color, being that of a negro, black, and the deceased being
that of a white man of the white race, in selecting persons to
serve as grand jurors at said term, all colored men were purposely on account of their color excluded by said officers; and
that the said grand jury did then and there, being all white
men purposely selected on account of their color, present the
hill of indictment against relator for the murder of Robert
Stinson aforesaid, on account of his color, and pray summons
for witnesses to prove same' Relator avers that by reason of
the great prejudice against him on account of his color, he
could not secure a fair and impartial trial by an impartial

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

petit jury of the county of Washington, State aforesaid, and
prays an opportunity to subpoena witnesses to prove the same,
and, therefore, after hearing same, doth pray the removal of
his case from this court to the United States Circuit Court
for the western division of the Southern District of Mississippi,
and that record hereof be properly certified to said court by
an order from this court."
The petition for removal was denied, and the defendant
,excepted to the action of the court.
Thereupon the accused demanded that a special venire be
summoned to try his case. The regular jury box for the
court having been produced for the purpose of drawing therefrom the special venire, the defendant moved "to quash said
jury box," upon -the ground that it was illegal and had but
few names therein. That motion was sustained, and a writ
of special veniefacias was directed to be issued for summoning fifty good and lawful men and qualified jurors to appear
on a named day to serve as jurors in the cause. The sheriff
was directed to serve on the defendant or his counsel a copy
of the writ of venire facias, together with his return thereon,
showing the names of the persons so summoned, and also a
copy of the indictment. This order was executed, and the requisite number of jurors having appeared, on a subsequent day of
the court the defendant moved to quash the special venireThe motion was overruled, the defendant taking an exception.
The accused then announced himself ready for trial. A jury
was selected, the defendant pleaded not guilty, and the trial
resulted in a verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State states that this
was the third trial of the defendant for the crime charged,
each trial resulting in a verdict of guilty.
A new trial was asked upon various grounds, one of which
was that the court erred in overruling the defendant's petition
for the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court of the
United States for trial; another, that it erred in not sustaining the motion to quash the special venire of fifty "good and
lawful" men to serve as special juro's. These points were
insisted upon in the Supreme Court of Mississippi. But that

GIBSON

v. MISSISSIPPI.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

court held that there was no error in overruling the motion
to remove the case into the Federal Circuit Court. It also
refused to disturb the verdict and judgment.
.)&h. Emanuel -M. Hewltt, (with whom was -Mr. Cornelius
J. Jones on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
The question in this case is, whether the plaintiff in error
was indicted, tried and convicted in the state courts regularly,
and in due course of law, as prescribed by the laws of the State
of Mississippi and the Constitution and -laws of the United
States.
It is well settled in the law and practice of this court that
in dealing with such a question, the record alone is to be
looked to, in ascertaining the true issue. Before. we refer to
the record it is proper to inform the court that the claim
which plaintiff in error sets up in asserting his right to the
relief, by this proceedingis, that he, a citizen, and a person of
color. was within the jurisdiction of the State of Mississippi, by
that State denied the equal protection of the laws thereof ; that
he was by the agents and officers of said State purposely discriminated against on account of his race, a negro, and his color.
The Fourteenth Amendment reserves to the plaintiff in
error the right to have been first duly and regularly indicted
by a grand jury of Washington county duly elected, summoned, sworn and charged according to the laws of the State,
without partiality to the race or color of said jurors and without prejudice to the accused on account of the offence charged
or his race and color. It must be admitted that wherever these
rights are asserted a constitutional right is asserted. At the
time of its adoption, the colored race had been recently emancipated from a condition of servitude, and made citizens of the
States. It was apprehended that in some of the States of the
Union, feelings of antipathy between the races would cause
the dominant race by unfriendly legislation to abridge the
rights of the other, and deny to them equal privileges and
protection of the laws.. To guard the previously subjected
race from the effect of discrimination these provisions 'are

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

made a part o.' the fundamental law of the land, and their
rights were placed under the protection of the Federal government. It was designed to assure the colored race the enjoyment of all of 1he civil rights that under the law are enjoyed
by'white persons, and to give that race the protection of the
Federal government in that enjoyment, when it should be
denied by the States. &actghter House cases, 16 Wall. 67.
Considering this authority we contend that no other construction can be placed upon suoh actions of the said jury
officers of Washington county aforesaid as are complained
of in the petition for removal, especially after having been
brought to the judicial notice of the trial court, and by that
court approved, than, that the discrimination complained of
was the action of the State of Mississippi.
The accused filed his petition for the removal of his trial.
from the circuit court of Washington county, State of Mississippi, to the United States Circuit Court for the western
divisiba of the Southern District of Mississippi. It was charged
in that petition that the accused was purposely discriminated
against on account of his race and color, by the exclusion from
the grand jury which presented the indictment therein filed
against him, of all members of his race, on account of their race
and color. This exclusion complained of was charged to the
officers of the said county who were charged under the laws
with the duty of selecting, liting, summoning, empanelling and
charging the said grand jury, and that the petit jury which was
summoned to try the accused, was a jury of white men, selected
and procured with the same gross irregularities as was the
grand jury herein complained of, and for the same purposes.
The accused duly swore to that petition upon knowledge
and belief. The trial court heard the petition, and, -without
any resistance on part of the State, denied the same and .the
accused was forced to trial.
Now then, the regular steps by way of appeal to the state
Supreme Court having been taken, and judgment of affirinance
having been rendered by that court, the record stands in this
court for ultimate review.
The laws of the State of Mississippi regarding the selecting,

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

listing and forming the grand jury of the county aforesaid,
cannot and are not complained of as th6 law; but the white
race of the county of Washington entertaining such great
prejudice against the negro race, and especially the accused,
which prejudice was charged in the petition for removal, and
the said officers of the law being all members of the white
race, did, in their proceedings in the discharge -of their duty in
the said selection of jurors, wilfully, and purposely turn fr om
the well directed paths prescribed by the legislature of the
State of Mississippi. Had they adhered to the letter of the
state law the registration roll of' the voters of the county
should have been used by the Board of Supervisors of the
county in listing the names of persons to serve as grand
jurors for'said December term of sail circuit court.
The only qualifications required for juryservice of any 6ne
under the law are likewise required of persons to be qualified
voters in said county and State. Then, assuming that the
Board of Supervisors did regularly select and list the names
of the jurors for that term of the court at which the indictment was presented, and certified the same according to law,
in face of the fact that on the registration roll of voters at
that time there were seven thousand negroes of the county
duly qualified for jury service and enrolled upon the registration roll of voters of the., county, and only fifteen hundred
white persons of the county so qualified, and the number of
names required by law having therefrom -been regularly
drawn, delivered to the circuit clerk of said county by the
clerk of the said Board of Supervisors, and by the circuit clerk
aforesaid each name was copied on a separate slip of paper
and regularly deposited in the jury box of the county, - we
appeal to the reason of this court to know, if .under these conditions any result could have been attained other than a fair
and equitable listing of jurors for said term of court.
With these steps reguilarly taken by the proper authorities,
follo.wed up with the further requirements of the law, the
names of the jurors listed, certified and delivered to the circuit clerk of the county, who copies the names on separate
slips of paper and deposits the whole list of names delivered

OCTOBER TERM, 1895
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and deposited as aforesaid, the law duly observed, there is no
doubt in the minds of this court that some of those names
drawn would have been those of negroes. Once in the "jury
box" those names, in the course of the regular drawing of said
jurors for the said term of fifty names for the first week, thirty
names for the second week, thirty names for the third week,
thirty names for the fourth week, thirty names for the fifth
week and thirty names for the sixth week, making a total of
two hundred names to have been drawn for that term of the
circuit court at which the indictment was returned, could it be
probable or reasonable to suppose that all the names so drawn,
to the number of two hundred, would have by chance been all
names of white men? The accused charged, in the presence
of the jury officers of the county, that because of the great
prejudice prevailing against him among the white race, with
which race the said jury officers were identified, which officers under the law were charged with the duty of forming
the grand jury for said December term, they did purposely
disregard the state law, and thereby did, with the intent so to
do, select as such jurors for said December term an entire white
jury, to the entire exclusion of all negroes of the county aforesaid, though legally qualified for such jury service: and that
such exclusion by said officers, of the negroes, was purposely
made on account of their race and color.
We submit to the court, that the charges so made by the
accused were grave, and merited some apprehension on the
part of those charged, and prompt investigation on the part
of the trial court.
The argument may be advanced,. that, as the exclusion
complained of is shown, upon the face of the petition for
removal, to have been the unauthorized acts of individuals
acting in disregard of the laws and hence not binding on
the State, the State -isnot responsible for the acts of persons in official positions, who act contrary to the rule prescribed by the constitution or laws thereof; and that, as the
laws of the State are not complained of by the accused, no
remedy lies: but such a position is in discord with the principles underlying the Fourteenth Amendment, especially in

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the State where the negroes, duly qualified in one of its
counties for jury service in the circuit courts of such county,
number seven thbusand, to the number of fifteen hundred
whites so qualified; and where the race prejudice prevails
as it does in Washington county, Mississippi. Such a State
through its people in its organic law, or Legislature, may
enact the finest kind of laws, and spread them upon its constitution or statutes, merely to avoid Federal interference; and
yet permit its officers (who are of the white race, the dominant race) to try white persons touching their life, liberty
and property, strictly in accordance with the laws of the
State, and try negroes touching their same interests contrary
to the laws; thus accomplishing in an indirect manner the
very deprivation which the people of the United States sought
to prohibit by'the enactment of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We are to look to the spirit of the law of the amendment,
and thus it will be seen that there is no sound principle supporting the doctrine, so advanced by the defendant in error.
It is well settled by the decisions of this court that when
rights are granted to the Federal government by the people
of the country, Federal jurisdiction thereof becomes positive;
and the rights so reserved, stand out supreme, and forbid
the slightest infraction on the part-of any state authorities,
whether by letter of the laws or by executive or judicial
officers acting in their official capacities.. No State can violate these superior rules, with or without the consent of the
person in whose case such reservation is shown upon the face
of the proceedings to exist.
In all trials there are certain duties to be performed by the
court; and a certain degree of diligence must be exercised
by the accused. The court is supposed to sit in judgment
upon all matters of lUw arising during the progress of the
trial. We do not insist that the court could have had judicial knowledge of any irregularity on the part of the officers
of Washington county, touching the rights of the accused in
the indictment in question, in the performance of their duties
in that regard as 'complained of, until brought to its judicial
notice. We respect the presumption of due regularity always

OCTOBER TERMiVI, 1895.
Argument f6r Plaintiff in Error.

attending the acts of officers when apparently regular upon
the face of the proceedings, although the court might have
known.that there were seven thousand qualified jurors of the
negro race in the'county at the time of drawing said grand
jury and only fifteen hundred whites so qualified under the
law, at the time the list of two hundred names was by the
said jury officers drawn to accommodate the said December
term of the said circuit court.; and that from the number
summoned to appear at the first week of said term from
which number the grand jury in question was drawn, sworn
and charged, no negro was seen upon said jury. In all this
there is nothing to apprise the court judicially of any irregularity in the conduct of the said officers in the discharge of
their official duties, resulting in any discrimination against
the accused; although the court did have judicial knowledge
of the presentment on the indictment returned by the grand
jury aforesaid, which the court judicially knew to have been
apparently regularly empanelled for that term. Up to this
stage of the proceedings the trial court, as a court, was not a
party to any such discrimination as charged. It was the
duty of the court to proceed regularly on with the trial;
but at the January term, 1895, when the accused was about
to be put upon his trial under the said indictment, he attacked
the regularity and validity of the said indictment; and while
the Federal Constitution has prescribed no relief for one
deprived of that equal protection of the laws of the State
to the enjoyment of which the accused is by the Federal
Constitution guaranteed, yet the remedy for such injury is
provided for by Congress, which has prescribed that such a
denial in a state court entitles the accused to the removal
of his trial from the state court, where such a right is denied,
to the Federal court.
The plaintiff in error filed his petition for removal and thus
duly informed the court of such denial and discrimination,
by presenting a series of clear and distinct charges against
the jury officers of the county and officers of the court in the
presence and hearing of the parties charged, which we have
hereinbefore particularized, and thereupon prayed the process

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the eourt to compel the said officers to appear at the bar
of the trial coutt, to be there examined under oath, touching
the charges so made by him.
Judging from the language of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, in this case, even though the charges so made were
seriously presented to the trial court, in all the legal formality
and solemnity possible, that court of original jurisdiction owed
the accused no consideration, because of the fact that after
the petition for removal was disposed of, no motion was made
to quash the indictment; but we will submit, that the motion
to quash the indictment would not in any way have emphasized the rights due the accused, as shown by the petition.
The principles underlying this proposition are finally settled
by this court in _Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370. "While a
colored citizen, party to a trial involving his life, liberty or.
property, cannot claim, as matter of right, that his race shall
have a representation on the jury, and while a mixed jury in
a particular case is not within the meaning of the Constitution or always necessary to the equal protection of the laws;
it is a right to which he is entitled, that in the selection of
jurors to .pass upon his life, liberty or property, there shall
be no exclusion of his race or discrimination against them
because of their color." See also Strander v. West Virginia,
100 U. S. 303; Prigg v. Pennsylvanid, 16 Pee 539; United
States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214.
The accused lost no right; merely because he did not move
the trial court to quash the indictment. It was the, duty of
the court to have granted the petition for the removal, or
of its own motion upon the facts charged and proven in the
petition to have quashed the indictment, which latter action
would have immediately divested all Federal jurisdiction and
fully restored the jurisdiction of the state court. The question as to whether the petition for removal disclosed a case
of denial of the constitutional right guaranteed him under the
Fourteenth Amendment thereof is for this honorable court to
answer by its judgment, if the acts of the officers of said
county as charged in said petition constitute a denial on the
part of the State in the manner prohibited by the said amendVOL. cL=x-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ment. This honorable court so declared in Bush v. ,-entucky,
107 U. S. 110, 119, wherein Mr. Justice Harlan delivering the
opinion of this court among other things said: "Again, it
was declared that a denial upon the part of the officers of the
State, charged with the duties in that regard of the right of a
colored man, ' to a selection of grand and petit jurors without
discriminaion against his race because of their color, would
be a violation of the Constitution and laws of the United
States, which the trial court was bound to redress. As said
by us in Virgini&v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 'the court will correct the wrong, will quash the indictment or the panel, or, if
not, the error will be corrected in a Superior Court, and ultimately in this court upon review.'"
The Federal Constitution is a code of granted organic powers,
and these powers so granted are intended by the grantors
for the perpetual preservation of the superior State, which is
inseparable and indissoluble. This court has proper jurisdiction over matters respecting such granied powers, and the relief sought by the petition for removal in this cause is among
the rights enumerated in the Constitution of the United States.
Having laid down the law involving a construction of the
Federal Constituition, wherein such discrimination as charged
in the petition for removal was declared to be a violation to
the Fourteenth Amendment, that judgment, coming as it

did from the highest court in the nation with full jurisdiction over the subject reviewed thereby, becomes of equal
binding force on the actions of all inferior courts in the
Nation, as if the words in which such jdtdgment was written were expressed upon the face of the Federal Constitution, or in the Federal statutes. Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291.
When the trial court of Mississippi failed to grant the petition for removal, as prayed for in said petition, or to quash
the indictment of its own motion; and the Supreme Court
of the State declined to grant the proper relief, the State
of Mississippi wilfully and intentionally violated the Constitution and laws of the United States, in discriminating
against the plaintiff in error on the account of his race and
color, and further by denying to him that equal protection

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

of its laws to which he was entitled under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, for which it must account at the
bar of this court.
As to whether Mississippi as a State is responsible for the
act of the jury officers, as charged' in the petition for removal,
or whether the officers so charged are individually responsible,
we contend that the doctrine upon that point is clearly laid
down in the language of this court in Ex yarte Virginia, 100
U. S. 339, by Mr. Justice Strong.
"The State acts by its legislative, its executivb or its judicial
authorities. It can act in no other way. The constitutional
provision, therefore, must mean that no agency of the State
-or of the officers or agents by whom its powers are exerted,
shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. Whoever, by virtue of public position
under a state government, deprives another of property, life
or liberty without due process of law, or denies-or takes away
the equal protection of 'the laws, violates, the constitutional
inhibition; and as he acts in the name of and for the State,
and is clothed with the State's power, his act is that of the
State. This must be-so, or the constitutional prohibition has
no meaning." See also INeal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370.
Mr. Frank Johnston, attorney general of the State of Mississippi, submitted on his brief.
Mn. JusTICE HARL&N, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The first question presented for our consideration relates to
the application of the accused for the removal of the prosecution from the state court into the Circuit Court of the United
States.,
By section 611 of the Revised Statutes it is provided:
"When any civil suit or criminal prosecution is commenced in
any state court, for any cause whatsoever, against any person
who is denied or cannot enforce in the judicial tribunals of
the State, or in the part of the State, where such suit or prosecution is pending, any right secured to him by any law pr&

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

viding for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United
States,

.

.

such suit or prosecution may, upon the peti-

tion of such defendant, filed in said state court at any time
before the trial or final hearing of the cause, stating the facts
and verified by oath, be removed, for trial, into the next Circuit Court to be held in the district where it is pending.
Upon the filing of such petition all further proceedings in the
state court shall cease," etc.
In Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 385, 386, reference was
made to the previous cases of 8trauder v. WVest Virginia,
Virginia v. JRives and Ex parteVirginia, 100 U. S. 303, 313,

339, and to sections 641 and 1977 of the Revised Statutes;
also to the act of March 1, 1875, c. 114, 18 Stat. 335, which,
among other things, declared that "no citizen, possessing all
other qualifications which are or may be prescribed by law,
shall be disqualified from service as grand or petit juror in
any court of the United States, or. of any State, on account of
race, color or previous condition of servitude." The cases cited
were held to have decided that the statutory enactments referred to were constitutional exertions of the power of Congress to enact appropriate legislation for the enforcement of
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, which was
designed, primarily, to secure to the colored race, thereby
invested with the rights, privileges and responsibilities of
citizenship, the enjoyment of all the civil rights that, under
the law, are enjoyed by white persons; that while a State,
consistently with the purposes for which the amendment was
adopted, may confine the selection of jurors to males, to freeholders, to citizens, to persons within certain ages, or to persons having educational qualifications, and while a mixed jury
in a particular case is not, within the meaning of the Constitution, always or absolutely necessary to the enjoyment of
the equal protection of the laws, and therefore an accused,
being of the colored race, cannot claim as matter of right that
his race shall be represented on the jury, yet a denial to citizens of the African race, because of their color, of the right
or privilege accorded to white citizens of -participating as
jurors in the administration of justice would be a discrimina-

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

tion against the former inconsistent with the amendment and
within the power of Congress, by appropriate legislation, to
prevent; that to compel a colored man to submit to a trial
before a jury drawn from a :panel from which were excluded,
because of their color, men of his race, however well qualified
by education and character to discharge the functions of jurors, was a denial of the equal protection of the laws; and that
such exclusion of the black race from juries because of their
color was not less forbidden by law than would be the exclusion from juries, in States where the blacks have the majority,
oi the white race because of their color.
But those cases were held to have also decided' that the
Fourteenth Amendment was broader than the provisioiis of
section 641 of the Revised Statutes; that since that section
authorized the removal of a criminal prosecution before trial,
it did not embrace a case in which a right is denied by
judicial action during a trial, or in the sentence, or in the
mode of executing the sentence; that for such denials arising
from judicial action after a trial commenced, the remedy lay
in.
the revisory power of the higher courts of the State, and
ultimately in the power of review, which this court may
exercise over their judgments whenever rights, privileges or
immunities claimed under the Constitution or laws of the
United States are withheld or violated; and that the denial
or inability to enforce in the judicial tribunals of the States
rights secured by any law providing for the equal civil rights of
.citizens of the United States, to which section 641 refers, and
on account of which a criminal prosecution may. be removed
from a state court, is primarily, if not exclusively, a denial of
such rights or an inability to enforce them resulting from the
constitution -or laws of the State, rather than a denial first
made manifest at or during the trial of the case.
We therefore held in .Neal v. Delaware that Congress had
not authorized a removal of the prosecution from the state
court where jury commissioners or other subordinate officers
had, without authority derived from the constitution and laws.
of the State, excluded colored citizens from juries because
of their race.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In view of this decision, it is clear that the accused in the
present case was not entitled to have the case removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States unless he was denied
by the constitution or laws of Mississippi some of the fundamental rights of life or liberty that were guaranteed to
other citizens resident in that State. The equal protection
of the laws is a right now secured to every person without
regard to race, color or previous condition of servitude; and
the denial of such protection by any State is forbidden by
the supreme law of the land. These principles are earnestly
invoked by counsel for the accused. But they do not support
the application for the removal of this case from the state
court in which the indictment was found, for the reason that
neither the constitution of Mississippi nor the statutes of
that State prescribe any rule for, or mode of procedure in,
the trial of criminal cases which is not equally applicable to
all citizens of the United States and to all persons within the
jurisdiction of the State without regard to race, color or previous condition of servitude. Nor would we be justified in
saying that the constitution and laws of the State had, at the
time this prosecution was instituted, been so interpreted by
the Supreme Court of Mississippi as to show, in advance of a
trial, that persons of the race to which the defendant belongs
could not enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State the
rights belonging to them in common with their fellow-citizens
of the white race. If such had been the case, it might well
be held that the denial of the equal protection of the laws
arose primarily from the constitution and laws of the State.
But when the constitution and laws of a State, as interpreted
by its highest judicial tribunal, do not stand in the way of
the enforcement of rights s.ecured equally to all citizens of the
United States, the possibility that during the trial of a particular case the state court may not respect and enforce the
right to the equal protection of the laws constitutes no
ground, under the statute, for removing the Proseoution.into
the Circuit Court of the United States in advance of a trial.
We may repeat here what was said in .Nealv. Delaware,
namely, that in thus construing the statute "we do iot with-

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

hold from a party claiming that he is denied, or cannot enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State, his constitutional
equality of civil rights, all opportunity of appealing to the
courts of the United States for the redress of his wrongs.
For, if not entitled, under the statute, to the removal of the
suit or prosecution, .hemay, when denied, in the subsequent
proceedings of the state, court, or in the execution of its judgment, any right, privilege or immunity given or secured to
him by the Constitution or laws of the United States, bring
the case here for, review."
So, in Bush v. R'entacky, 107 U. S. 110, 116, which was an
indictment for murder, returned before but tried after the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky held unconstitutional a statute
of that Commonwealth excluding from grand or petit juries
citizens of African descent because of their race and color, and
had declared that thereaftef every officer charged with the
duty of selecting or summoning jurors must so act without
regard to race or. color, this court said: "That decision was
binding as well upon the inferior courts of Kentucky as upon
all -its officers connected with the administration of justice.
After that decision, so long as it was unmodified, it could not
have been properly said in advance of a trial that the defendant in a criminal prosecution was denied or could not enforce
in the judicial tribunals of Kentucky the rights secured to him
by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of
the United States, or of all persons within their jurisdiction.
The last indictment wzas consequently not removable into the
Federal court for trial under section 641 at any time after the
decision in CornmonwealtA v. Johnion [78 Kentucky, 509] had
been pronounced. This point was distinctly ruled in Neal v.
Delaware, and is substantially covered by the decision in
'irginia; v. Rives [100 U. S. 313]. If any right, privilege
or immunity of the accused, secured or guaranteed by the
Constitution or laws of the United States, had been denied by
a refusal of the state court to set aside either that indictment
or the panel of petit jurors, or by any erroneous ruling in the
progress of the trial, his remedy would have been through the
revisory power of the highest court of the State, and ulti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mately through that of this court."

See also In re Wood,

140 U. S. 278, 284.
In his petition for the removal of the prosecution into the
Circuit Court of the United States the defendant also states
that, notwithstanding at the time of se.lecting the grand
jurors for the said December term 1892 there were in the five
supervisors' districts of the county df Washington 7000 colored citizens competent for jury service and 1500 whites qualified to serve as jurors, there had not been for a number of
years any colored man summoned on the grand jury in that
county; and that colored citizens were purposely, on account
of their color, excluded from jury service by the officers of
the law charged with the selection of jurors. It is clear, in
view of what has already been said, that these facts, even if
they had been proved and. accepted, do not show that the
rights of the, accused -were denied by the constitution and laws
of the State, and therefore did not authorize the removal of
the prosecution from the state court. If it were competent,
in a prosecution of a citizen of African descent, to prove that
the officers charged with the duty of selecting grand jurors
had, in previous years and in other cases, excluded citizens of
that race, because of their race, from service on grand juries
- upon which question we need not express an opinion- it
is clear that such evidence would be for the consideration of
the trial court upon a motion by the accused to quash the
indictment, such motion being based upon the ground that the
indictment against him had been returned by a grand jury'
from which were purposely excluded, because of their color,
all citizens of the race to which he belonged. United States
v. Gale, 109 U. S.65, 69. But there was no motion to quash
the indictment. The application was to remove the prosecution
from the state court, and a removal, as we have seen, could
not be ordered upon the ground simply that citizens of African
descent had been improperly excluded, because of their race,
and without the sanction of the constitution and laws of the
State, from service on previous grand juries, or from service
on the particular grand jury that returned the indictment
against the accused.

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not overlook in this connection the fact that the
petition for the removal of the cause into the Federal court
alleged that the accused, by reason of the great prejudice
against him on account of his color, could not secure a fair and
impartial trial in the county, and that he prayed an opportunity to subpcena witnesses to prove that fact. Such evidence,
if it had been introduced, and however cogent, could not,
as already shown, have entitled the accused to the 'emoval
sought; *forthe alleged existence of race prejudice interfering
with a fair trial was not to be attributed to the constitution
and' laws of the State. it was incumbent upon the state c6urt
to see to it that the accused had a fair and impartial trial, and
to set aside any verdict of guilty based on prejudice of race.
The petition for removal also proceeds upon the ground that
the indictment was returned by a grand jury organized under
the Code of Mississippi which *went into operation in 1892
after the date of the alleged murder, when, it is contended, it
should have been organized in the mode required by the Mississippi Code of 1880, in force at the time the offence in question was committed.
The organization of- the grand jury under a statute of the
State, (even if that statute was not applicable to offences committed before its passage,) rather than under a statute that
was applicable, constitutes no ground for the removal of the
prosecution into the Federal court,. unless the statute whose
provisions were followed either expressly or by its necessary
operation denied to the accused some "right secured to him
by any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of
the United States." It is not every aenial by a state -enactment of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the
United States that is embraced by section 641 of the Revised
Statutes. The right of removal given by that section exists
only in the special cases mentioned in it. Whether a particular
statute, which does not discriminate against a class of citizens in
respect of their civil rights, is applicable to a pending criminal
prosecution in a state court, is a question, in the first instance,
for the determination of that court, and its right and duty to
finally determine such a question cannot be interfered with

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

by removing the prosecution from the state court, except in
those cases which, by express enactment of Congress, may be
removed for trial into the courts of the United States. If
that question involves rights secured by the Constitution and
laws of the United States, the power of ultimate review is in
this court whenever such rights are denied by the judgment of
the highest court of the State in which the decision could be
had. As the judges of the state courts take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States as well as the laws
enacted in pursuance thereof, and as that Constitution and
those laws are of supreme authority, anything in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding,
:'
upon the state courts, equally with the courts, of the Union,
rests the obligation to guard, enforce and protect every right
granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States
and the laws made in pursuance thereof, whenever those
rights are involved in any suit or proceeding before them;"
and "if they fail therein, and withhold or deny rights, privileges or immunities secured byr the Constitution and laws of
the United States, the party aggrieved may bring the case from
the highest court of the State in which the question could be
decided to this court for final and conclusive determination."
Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 637.
But it is said that the statute under which the grand jury
was organized was expostfacto when applied to the case of the
present defendant, and for that reason the judgment should
be reversed. This question does not depend upon section 641
of the Revised Statutes, but upon the clause of the Constitution forbidding a State to pass an expostfacto law. It is not
clear that the record so presents this point as to entitle us to
consider it under the statutes investing this court with jurisdiction to reexamine the .inal judgments of the highest courts
of the several States. But, as human life is involved, as the
defendant pleaded not guilty, and as the State, by its attorney
general, has discussed the question upon its merits without
disputing the authority of this court to. pass upon it, we will
assume, and we think it may be properly assumed, that the
plea of not guilty, in connection with the petition for removal,

GIBSON v. - ISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficiently presents the question, and shows 'that the state
court denied to the, accused what he specially set up and
claimed to be a right secured to him by the Constitution of,the
United States.
By the constitution of Mississippi of 1890 which was in force
at the time of the commission of the alleged offence, it was
provided: " No person shall be a grand or petit juror unless a
qualified elector and able to read and write; but the want of
- any such qualification in any juror shall not vitiate any indictment or verdict. The legislature shall provide by law for
procuring a list of persons so qualif-ed, and the drawing therefrom of grand and petit jurors for each term of the Circuit
Court." Sec. 264. And by the same instrument it was also
provided: "All crimes and misdemeanors and penal actions
shall be tried, prosecuted and punished as though no-change
had taken place, until otherwise provided by law." Sec. 283.
By the Mississippi Code of 1880, in force when the alleged
murder was committed, it was provided that "all male citizens
of the United States and not being under the age of twentyone years, nor over the age of sixty years, and not having
been convicted of lany infamous crime, shall be qualified to
serve as jurors within the county of their residence," Sec. 1661 ;
and by section 1664 of the same code it was provided that
"the board of supervisors of each county shall, at least twenty
days before .the term of every Circuit Court, select twenty
persons competent to serve as jurors in said county, to be
taken, as nearly as coneniently may be, in equal numbers
from each supervisor's district of the county, who shall serve
as grand jurors for the next ensuing term of said court."
The Annotated Code of 1892 went into effect on the first
day of November, 1892, all prior statutes being thereby repealed. Sections 2358, 2361, 2365 of that code provide: Sec.
2358. "The board of supervisors, at the first meeting in each
year, or at a subsequent meeting if not done at the first, shall
select and make a list of persons to serve as jurors in the Circuit Court for the next two terms to be held more th:.n thirty
days afterwards, and, as a guide in making the list, they shall
use the registration books of voters; and it shall select and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

list the names of qualified persons of good intelligence, sound
judgment and fair character, and shall take them, as nearly
as it conveniently can, from the severai election districts, in
proportion to the number of the qtialified persons in each, excluding all who have served on the regular panel within two
years, if there be not a deficiency of jurors." Sec. 2361. "The
names of the persons on the jury list shall be written on separate slips of paper by the clerk of the Circuit Court, and put
in a box kept for that purpose, marked 'Jury box,' which shall
be securely locked and kept closed and sealed, except when
opened to draw the jurors." See. 2365. "At each regular
term of the Circuit Court, and at a special term if necessary,
the judge shall draw, in open court, from the jury box the slips
containing the names of fifty jurors to serve as grand and petit
jurors for the first week and thirty to serve as petit jurors
for each subsequent week of the next succeeding term of the
court; and he shall make and carefully preserve separate lists
of the names, and shall not disclose the name of any juror
drawn. The slips containing the names so drawn shall be
placed by the judge in envelopes, a separate one for each
week, and he shall securely seal and deliver them to the clerk
of the court, so marked as to indicate which contains the names
of the jurors for the first and each subsequent week. If in
drawing it appears that any juror drawn has died, removed
or ceased to be qualified or liable to serve as a juror, the judge
shall cause the slip containing the name to be destroyed, the
name to be stricken from the jury list, and he shall draw another name to complete the required number."
The contention of the accused is that the constitution of
the State (See. 283) required that the indictment against him
should have been by a jury of the grand inquest organized as
directed in the Code of 1880, because that code was in force
at the date of the murder charged to have been committed;
and that the law upon that subject in the Code of 1892 would
be expostfacto if applied to his case.
We perceive in these constitutional and statutory provisions
nothing upon which to rest the suggestion that the accused
was tried under a law that was ex ost facto in its application

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

to his case. At the time the homicide was committed no
person was competent to be a grand or petit juror unless he
was a qualified elector and able to read and write. This requirement was attended by an injunction that the legislature
should provide by law for procuring a list of persons so qualified, and for drawing therefrom of grand and petit jurors for
each term of the Circuit Court. Miss. Const. See. 264. And,
as we have seen, it was further provided that all crimes and
misdemeanors and penal actions should be tried, prosecuted and
punished as though no change had taken place until otherwise
provided by law. Miss. Const. Sec. 283. It is clear that the
provision in the constitution of 1890 prescribing the qualifications of grand and petit jurors became the law of the State
immediately upon the adoption of the constitution, and that
legislation was not necessary to give it effect; and that the
provisions of the Code of 1880 for the conduct of trials were
superseded by those on the same subject in the Code of 1892.
It is equally clear that the provisions of the Code of 1892
regulating the selection of grand and petit jurors were not
ex.postfacto as to the case of Gibson, although they were not
in force when the alleged homicide was committed. The
requirement of the constitution of 1890 that no person
should be a grand or petit juror unless he was a qualified
elector and able to read and write did not prevent the legislature from providing, as was done in the Code of 1892, that
persons selected for jury service should possess good. intelligence, sound judgment and fair character. -Such regulations
are always within the power of a legislatu:e to establish
unless forbidden by the constitution. They tend to secure
the proper administration of justice and are in -the interest,
equally, of the public and of persons accused of crime. We
do not perceive that the Code of 1892, in force when the
indictment was found, affected in any degree the substantial
rights of those who had committed crime prior to its going
into effect. It did not make criminal and punishable any
act that was innocent when committed, nor aggravate any
crime previously committed, nor inflict a greater punishment
than the law annexed to such crime at the time of its com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mission, nor alter the legal rules of evidence in order to convict the offender. These are the general tests for determining
whether a statute is applicable to offences committed prior
to its passage. Oalder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 390; Cummings
v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277; Exc parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333;
L5'ing v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221, 228; Duncan v. Mkissouri,
152 U. S. 377, 382. The provisions in question related simply
to procedure. They only prescribed remedies to be pursued
in the administration of the law, making no change that
could materially affect the rights of one accused of crime
theretofore committed. The inhibition upon the passage of
ex post facto laws does not give a criminal a right to be tried,
in all respects, by the law in force when the crime charged
was committed. The mode of trial is always under legislative control, subject only to the condition that the legislature
may not, under the guise of establishing modes of procedure
and prescribing remedies, violate the accepted principles that
protect an accused person against ex post facto enactments.
In 1-opt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 589, a statute that permitted
the crime charged to be established by witnesses who by the
law at the time the offence was committed were incompetent
to testify in any case whatever was adj-dged not to be ex post
facto within the meaning of the Constitution, the court observing that such a statute did not increase the punishment
nor change the ingredients of the offence nor the ultimate
facts necessary to establish guilt, but related "to modes of
procedure only, in which no one can be said to have a vested
right, and which the State, upon grounds of public policy,
may regulate at' pleasure." Hence it has been held that a
general statute giving the government more challenges than
it had at the time of the commission of a particular offence
was constitutional. Walston v. Commonwealth, 16 B. Mon.
15, 39.
It is also assigned for error: 1. That the court ordered the
sheriff "to summon fifty men from the good and lawful body
of Washington county," etc., -when he should have been
ordered to summon "persons qualified as jurors," or "said
fifty men, jurors as required by law." 2. That the order

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

directed the sheriff to "summon said fifty men to serve as special jurors in the case of State v. John Gibson, when the order
should have directed the sheriff to summon fifty men or persons as jurors, and to serve as jurors in the case of the State v.
John Gibson as special jurors." Without stopping to consider
whether the particular order complained of was in accordance
with correct practice, it is only necessary to say that the objection presented by the assignment-of error raises no question
of a Federal nature. The conduct of a criminal trial in a state
court cannot be reviewed by this court unless the trial is had
under some statute repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, or was so conducted as to deprive the accused of some
right or immunity secured to him by that instrument. Mere
error in administering the. criminal law of a State or in the
conduct of a criminal trial -no
Federal right being invaded
or denied - is beyond the revisory power of this court under
the statutes regulating its jurisdiction. See Andrews v. Swartz,
156 U. S. 272, 276; Bergemann v. Backer, 157 U. S. 655,
659. Indeed, it would not be competent for Congress to confer such power upon this or any other court of the United
States.
We may observe that the former decisions of this court,
upon which the counsel for the accused relied with much confidence, do not go to the extent claimed by them. Underlying all of those decisions is the principle that the Constitution
of the United States, in its present form, forbids, so far as
civil and political rights are concerned, discrimination by the
General Government, or by the States, against any citizen
because of his race. All citizens are equal before the law.
The guarantees of life, liberty and property are for all persons,
within the jurisdiction of the United States, or of any State,
without discrimination against any because of their race.
Those guarantees, when their violation is properly presented
in the regular course of proceedings, must be enforced in the
courts, both of the Nation and of the State, without reference
to considerations based upon race. In the administration of
criminal justice no rule can be applied to one class which is
not applicable to all other classes. The safety of the race the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

larger part of which was recently in slavery, lies in a rigid adherence to those principles. Their safety - indeed, the peace
of the country and the liberties of all- would be imperilled,
if the judicial tribunals of the land permitted any departure
from those principles based upon discrimination against a
particular class because of their race. We recognize the possession of all these rights by the defendant; but upon a careful
consideration of all the points of which we can take cognizance, and which have been so forcibly presented by his counsel, who are of his race, and giving him the full benefit of the
salutary principles heretofore announced by this court in the
cases cited in his behalf, we cannot find from the record before
us that his rights secured by the supreme law of the land were
violated by the trial court or disregarded by the highest court
of Mississippi. We cannot say that any error of law of which
this court may take cognizance was committed by the courts
of the State, nor, as matter of law, that the conviction of the
accused of the crime of murder was due to prejudice of race.
The judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

CHARLEY SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 710. Argued and submitted December 13, 16, 1895. -Decided

April 18, 1896.

An affidavit to a petition for removal filed under section 641 of the Revised
Statutes, to the effect that the facts therein stated are true to the best

of the knowledge and belief of the accused, is not evidence in support
of a motion to quash the indictment, unless the prosecutor agrees that

it may be so used,' or unless by the order of the trial court it is treated
as evidence.
A motion to quash an indictment against a person of African descent upon
the ground that it was found by a grand jury from which were excluded
because of their race persons of the race to which the accused belongs

can be sustained only by evidence independently of the facts stated in
the motion to quash.

