[cINTIRE v. MoINTIRE.
Syllabus.

failed to maintain their action for the wood cut by themselves.
They do. not occupy any more advantageous position in
regard to the wood purchased by them from those who had
with their knowledge cut it from the lands of the* United
States. Plaintiffs had the same rights only as the personsfrom whom they purchased, and could maintain no action
which they could not maintain. Woodenr Ware Co. v. United
States, 106 U. S. 432, 435.
The persons from whom the plaintiffs purchased cut the
timber under the same circumstances as the plaintiffs cut that
which they claim, and such persons had the same rights that
the plaintiffs had, and no more.
The court should have charged the jury as requested, both
in regard to the rights of the plaintiffs at the time of the fire
in and to the wood cut by them, and also as to their rights in
and to the wood purchased by them from others.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is
R eversed, and the cause -emanded with instructions to grant
a new trial.

cINTIRE v. McINTIRE.
ERROR TO TIE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRIOT. OF COLUMBIA.

No. 142. Argued March 13, 1896. -Decided

April 13,1896.

On the trial of this case in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
that court, after examination of the facts, held that: "(1) Where a will
relates only to personalty, and is in the handwriting of the testator and
signed by him, no other formality is required to render it valid" in the
District; and that "1(2) Immaterial alterations in a will, though made
after the testator's death by one of the beneficiaries under it, will not invalidate it" in the courts of the District, "when not fraudulently made."
This court, after passi'ng upon the facts in detail, arrives at substantially
the same conclusions touching theln as did the Supreme Court of the District, and affirms its judgmient.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

THE facts and the case are stated in the opinion of the
court.
-Mr. IFilliamn G. ohnson and Mr. Calderon Carlisle for
plaintiff in error. Mr. Jeremiah 31. Wilson was on their
brief.
Ji'.

EInoch Totten for defendants in error.

Mn.

JUSTICE WiTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question for our determination is whether the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, at a general term thereof,
erred in affirming the action of a special term of the court,
sitting as a Circuit Court, in peremptorily instructing a jury to
find certain issues in a will contest favorably to the defendants. The contest in question was begun by Charles MKcIntire
in the probate branch of the court, for the purpose of annulling the probate of a certain alleged last will and testament
of -his elder brother, David 'Mclntire. The original contestant
having-died intestate pending the action, he was succeeded, as
a party plaintiff, by his son, his duly qualified administrator,
who was also, in his individual capacity, a legatee under the
probated will.
Issues were framed in the probate branch and certified to
the Circuit Court to be determined by a jury. The opinion
of the general term is reported in 19 Dist. Col. 482.
The following facts were established, and are necessary to
be stated for a proper understanding of the case:
David McIntire resided in Washington from above 1866
until his death, at the age of seventy-two years, on April 1,
1884. lie never married, and left an estate consisting of personal property exceeding fifty thousand dollars in value, and
the following collateral kindred: Charles McIntire, a younger
cl-M~ntire, Jr.; Edwin A. McInbrother, and his son Charles
Test, Emma T. McIntire
tire, Martha McIntire, Elizabeth ALv.
and Adaline McIntire, children of a predeceased elder brother
Edwin T. McIntire; and also the following grandnieces and

McINTIRE v. XcINTIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

grandnephews: Annie Laura McIntire, wife of William, T.
Galliher, Emma V., William E. and Henry N. McIntire,
children of Henry McIntire, a deceased son of the testator's
elder brother Edwin T. McIntire. For several years immediately prior to his death David McIntire lived at the home
of William T. Galliher, husband of his grandniece Annie
Laura.
Four or five hours after the death of David McIntire an
examination was made by his nephew, Edwin A. McIntire,
and by Mr. Galliher and his wife, and her sister Emma. V.
McIntire, of a chest which had belonged to decedent, and in
a tin case therein were found two separate writings, which
were read and examined by each one present. On April 8,
1884, these documents, pasted together, were proved, in the
probate 'branch of the Supreme Court of the District, as the
last will and testament of Mr. McIntire, by the joint affidavit
of the four persons above named, who, as above stated, first inspected the writings after the death of the testator. The demuments were admitted to probate on April 12, 1884, and letters
of administration issued to E. A. McIntire. As probated, the
writing read as follows:
"January 7th, 1880.
"This my last will and Testament. I David McIntire, Tin
Plate Worker, of this city.(of) Do will Bequeath or Devise to
my Nephews and Nieces That is to say, From July the first
1st eighteen hundred and fifty-four (1854) To the opening'of,
or reading of this Paper, One thousand three hundred and
fifty dollars and sixty-four cents (1350.64) is- to be calculated
at Six 6 per cent interest That amount whatever it may be is
to be. given to each of my Brother Edwin's children. The remainder if any,is to be equally divided Betyveen my Brothers
Edwin and Charles children.
"DAVID MOINTIRE. (Seal.)"
(Endorsed on back:.)
"The Judges of the Courts,, lay it down as a #rule in law,
that,, what a person leaves in his, handwriting, with his name
attached, is his, Will, and it is the law. The law, requires no
voL cLxn-25

OCTOBER TERMK, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

particular formality in action, or words to constitute a valid

will or request.

DAVID MCIN'IRE."

"January 1, 1880.
"At my death, or after i wish my body to be taken to
Philadelphia, and deposited in the 'Macphelah Cemetery'
VTault with the cover unscrued and remain in that condition
until friends or relatives are satisfied, and then deposited in
the lot with the other graves. And providing 'Macphelah
Cemetery' should be sold and a disposition of those made in
the family lot, by the family, then the instruction as stated
above is to follow that disposition.
"1DAVID MCOINTYRE or TIRE."

"To provide for the demise when it should come, to the great
proprietor of all. My clothing is to go to those that they fit.
If there is more than one, a rough estimate is to be made
and divided so recipients may have a -word and be satisfied
nephews first, - I do not leave them as a legacy they must
take them as their own. To avoid trouble, i. e. not of any
account whatever, To those that i appoint to settle see that
D. McINT."
those things are carried out.
"You must act understandingly there will be no money in
bank.
"If the articles are worth having. To give satisfaction to
all interested. Provided the surroundings should be disturbed.
That is the names i have written down with the articles attached to them. It is my intention that they take them as

their own.

DAVID

IVCINTIRE."

"To Lizzy M'Intire Test as she is raising more boys. Hence
my Chest with all my clothing or wearing apparel, coat vest,
pants, shirts, drawers, socks etc. The large double shawl the
vegtable studs goes with the shirts. The sewing apparatus.
The 5 glass stopper vials.
"To Emma V. the writing desk with all the writing apparatus pens ink, paper, envelopes, pencils. The cotton mufler,
red silk handkerchief and gold studs.

fcITIRE v. XcINTIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

"To Chas. JIvntire Jr. The telescope-gun and one pocket
knife, Webster's Dictionary and Pocket-Book.
"The linen Pocket handkerchief to Normy
"The sachel & strap, Martha, addyline, Emma."
It will subserve clearness of statement to mention here that
the sum specifically given, by the writing dated January 7, 1880,
to the children of testator's brother Edwin equalled an indebtedness owing to the testator by his younger brother
Charles.
In February, 1885, a suit was filed on the equity side of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, on behalf of
Charles McIntire, Jr., and Mrs. Galliher and her sisters and
brothers, all claiming as legatees under the probated will,
seeking the appointment of a receiver to take possession of
the estate in question until the appointment of a new administrator, it being alleged that Edwin A. McIntire had been guilty
of fraudulent and deceptive practices, that his bond was insufficient, and that the estate was not safe in his hands. An
amicable settlement of this suit was had.
Shortly after the adjustment of this suit, on June 5, 1885,
these contest. proceedings, heretofore referred to as begun by
Charles McIntire, were instituted in the probate branch.
The amended petition of Charles McIntire contained the
following allegation with reference to the alleged invalidity
of the will in question:
"Petitioner further says, upon information and belief, that
the said paper-writing, bearing date January 7, 1880, was
not executed by the said David McIntire, or, if so executed,
that he was not at that time of sound mind nor conscious of
the contents of the same, nor that he executed the same
freely and voluntarily, nor that the same is his final and complete last will; and he is advised apd believes that the said
paper-writings purporting to be the last will and testament
of the said David McIntire have been fraudulently altered by
the said Edwin A. McIntire with the intent and effect thereby
to cheat and defraud the next of kin of said decedent."
Answers were filed o i behalf of Edwin A. McIntire, his

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sisters, and their mother, (as assignee of her daughter Adaline,
who died in July, 1885,) and the issues certified to the circuit
court branch to be determined by a jury were as follows:
"1. Was the paper-writing, as now probated and now bearing date January 7, 1880, purporting to be the last will and
testament of said David McIntire, deceased, executed by said
David McIntire in due form as required by law?
"2. Was the said David McIntire at the time of the alleged
execution of the said paper-writing, as now probated and now
bearing date January 7, 1880, of sound and disposing mind
and capable of makifig a valid deed or contract?
"3. Were the contents of the said. paper-writing, as now
probated and now bearing date January 7, 1880, read to or
by the said David McIntire or otherwise made known to him
at or before the execution thereof ? "
"4. Was the said paper-writing, as now probated and
now bearing date January 7, 1880, executed by the said
David M clntire under the undue influence or by the fraud
of any person or persons?
" 5. Is the said paper-writing, as now probated and now
bearing date January 7, 1880, the complete and final last will
and testament of the said David Mclntire?
"6. EHas the said paper-writing, purporting to be the last
will and testament of the said David McIntire, deceased,
probated on the 8th day of April, 1884, or any part thereof,
been fraudulently altered since the death of the said David
McIntire, and before the probate thereof, by any person or
persons to the prejudice of any of the next of kin or heirs-atlaw of said David McIntire?
"7. Has the said instrument purporting to be the last will
and testament of said David McIntire, deceased, been in
any respect altered since the death of said David McIntire,
and, if any such alterations have been made, what were the
said alterations and how were they made? Were such alterations made by any party interested under said will or with
the privity of any party interested under said will?
"8. Has the said instrument purporting to be the last
will and testament of said David McIntire, deceased, or any
part thereof been revoked?"

fcITNTIRE v. McINTIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

Two trials of these issues were had. On the first the
findings of the jury were set aside. On the second trial
(June, 1889) the court instructed the jury to find all the
issues favorably to the defendants, which was done, and the
general term overruled a motion for a new trial.
With this preliminary statement, we come to the consideration of the question whether the trial court rightly instructed
the jury to return a verdict in favor of the defendants. In
the proceedings before the jury no attempt was made to
establish that the testator had ever been of unsound mind, or
that the execution of the testamentary writings in question
were the re'sult of the exercise upon him of any undue influence: hence the second and fourth issues were properly determined. So, also, the evidence all tended to show that the
writings in question were the same docaments which were
found in the tin case belonging to the deceased, and that the
contents were in his handwriting, except in so far as the
questions of alteration or suppression are concerned, which we
shall hereafter consider.
To the extent, therefore, of these facts' the instructions
given by the trial court were also undoubtedly correct.
The real controversy is, whether there was proof supporting the claim that material alterations had been made in the
will after the death of the testator and before its probate, and
also whether there was proof sustaining the charge that a
material part thereof had been suppressed. The conflicting
contentions of the parties on this subject are as follows: The
contestant asserts that evidence was introduced tending to
show that the will proper, when it was first taken by Edwin
A. McIntire into his possession, was dated January 1, 1880,
whereas as probated it reads January 7,1880; that the date
of the second paper or codicil had been altered from January
1, 1884, so as to read January, 1,. 1880; that the words "of
the city of" in the will proper had been altered by Edwin A.
'McIntire, or by his procurement, so as to read "of this city;"
that the second writing or codicil which disposed of the wearing apparel; was originally a full, double sheet of legal cap
paper, but that one of the folds; that is, one fourth of a half

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Couit.

sheet, which had upon it matter written by the testator, had
been torn off after it had been taken into E. A. McIntire's
possession and before the writing was probated; that the
proof showed that this was done with the connivance of the
defendants. The defendants, on the other hand, assert that
the clear preponderance of proof established that the will as
probated was in the condition in which it was found after the
death of the testator. Both parties, besides the direct evidence by them offered, introduced much indirect testimony to
sustain their respective positions. Thus the contestant sought
to corroborate his theory that the will had been materially
altered by testimony going to show that subsequent to January 1, 1880, the testator had become unfriendly to the contestees who are named in the alleged writing, and had
presumably altered the will which he had previously written
in their favor. On the other hand, the defendants assert that
their contention is fortified by evidence tending to show that
prior and subsequent to the 1st of January, 1880, the testator
was greatly incensed at his brother Charles because of the
existence of a long outstanding indebtedness due him by
Charles, which has been heretofore referred to, and therefore
had reason not to make a will in his favor. In addition, the
contestant, in order to sustain the alleged proof of material
alterations and suppression, offered much evidence, which was
excluded, which, it was claimed, if it had been admitted,
would have tended to show that Edwin A. McIntire, with the
approval of the other defendants, made false representations
to the probate judge in procuring the grant of letters of
administration and in fixing the amount of the bond to be by
him given in that capacity; that deceptive practices were
resorted to to prevent the testator's brother Charles, who
resided in Pennsylvania, from seeking to qualify as administrator, 6nd that untruthful and fraudulent statements were
also made by E. A. McIntire to the legatee, Charles McIntire,
Jr., to his attorneys and to others as to the amount of the
estate and its assets, and also- that E. A. IMcIntire concealed
the possession of a large amount of assets and made a false
inventory. It is manifest that the correctness of the ruling

McINTIRE v. IcINTIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the lower court in instructing a verdict, as well as the question whether prejudicial error resulted from the action of the
court in excluding the testimony as to Mclntire's misconduct
in relation to the inventory and his misrepresentations and
fraudulent action as to other matters, (apart from the alleged
alterations or suppression of the will,) must depend primarily
on whether the direct testimony as to alterations and suppression left it uncertain whether such alterations or suppression were of a vital character. If there was not only no adequate proof to have supported a verdict resting on the fact
that there had been material alterations and suppression, but,
on the contrary, if there was a clear preponderance of proof
the other way, it is obvious that it becomes immaterial for the
purpose of ascertaining the validity of the will to determine
whether or not, in other respects, MoIntire was guilty of
fraud and wrongdoing.
In examining the testimony for the purpose of ascertaining
whether there is any proof of material alteration and suppression, the question to be determined is, whether there wasry
any proof of such alteration or suppression as would have'sustained an affirmative answer by the jury to the eighth issue.
The mere fact that the proof may have established that after
the death of the testator alterations were niade which did not
materially change the will, and which were not of such a
nature as to justify the presumption that the testator had
revoked the will, in whole or in part, would not have author-ized a verdict, the result of which would have been to set
aside th6 probate of the will.
We come now to determine whether there was evidence
that there had been such material alterations or suppression
as would have supported a verdict setting aside the will. The
only witnesses testifying on this subject on behalf of the contestant -were Mr. and Mrs. Galliher and Emma V. McIntire.
Before examining the testimony of these three witnesses it must
be borne in mind, as already stated, that they all three read
the contents of the documents in question after the death of
David McIntire, when they were first taken from the receptacle in which they were found. These witnesses were pecul-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

iarly interested in the provisions of the writings, as they naturally anticipated that the deceased would give, at least, a
portion of his estate to the children of his dead nephew, with
whom he had been for many years in direct contact under the
same roof. Seven days following this careful reading and
inspection of the papers, they stated under oath, in an affidavit, intended to be the basis for the admission of the writings
to probate, that "these papers were discovered in a tin case
in a chest late the property of the decedent; that they are
now and have been for years past 1yell acquainted with the
handwriting of the deceased, and they believe the entire writing and signatures are in his handwriting." After the will
had been admitted to probate and the administrator appointed,
in February, 1885, in the petition filed in the equity suit, supported by the affidavits of these witnesses, they treated the
writings in question as a valid will of David McIntire, and
asserted rights under it. The testimony given by these witnesses as to the alterations in the will is as follows:
Mrs. Galliher testified that she read over the papers when
they were found, and that the one dated January 1, 1880,
originally bore the date January 1, 1884, while the one now
dated January 7, 1880, originally read January 1, 1880, and
the latter paper had on it the words "of the city of," instead
of the words, as now, "of this city;" that the document was
written on a new, full length sheet of paper, one eighth of
which is now missing, and "looked as if it had been just written,
folded and put in the chest." The two papers were disjoined.
The next she saw of the papers, after Edwin A. McIntire retained possession of them, was in the probate court, on April 8,
1884, when she deposed to their genuineness. She said she
then noticed the change in the date, and the alteration of the
words "of the city of," and called the attention of her uncle
(E. A. MlcIntire) thereto, who replied that he thought it better
to have them both one date, and that he altered the will to
read "of this city," "because otherwise he would have to
take it to Philadelphia to probate it, and he could not give
bond there." Mrs. Galliher further testified that she did not
think she noticed at that time that a part of the will had been

fcINTIRE v. MoINTIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

torn off. She was asked the question, "At the time of signing this affidavit did you know that those papers had been
altered and mutilated?" and answered, "Yes, sir; but, as I
said, Mr. McIntire told me that that made no difference. I
had perfect confidence in him; he was a lawyer, and I knew
nothing about it; he was my uncle, and I thought I could
trust him."
The witness also testified that she remembered particularly
that upon the paper originally dated 1884 there was contained
a bequest of the testator's glasses to those who would take
them or have them. She was asked, "Did you know whether
there was any other writing on the papers?" and answered,
"That I don't remember."
On cross-examination, in answer to the question how she
came to-make the examination of the papers which resulted
in discovering that a portion of one paper had been torn off,
the witness answered that it was indirectly caused'by receiving an intimation from her uncle Edwin A. M cIntire that her
brothers, sister and herself would not be beneficiaries under
the will, and that on such second examination she discovered
that there had been slight alterations in two letters "of"
that she had not noticed on the day the will was probated,
and she also then noticed that a fold of the second paper was
torn off, because sh missed the provision about the glasses.
The witness claimed that the bequest of the glasses was impressed upon her memory.because of the oddity of the expression concerning them. She also testified that she had the
paper sufficiently in her mind to miss anything that was
taken out of it, that had been impressed upon her memory.
She was -then asked, "Now, would you say to the jury that
there was no other writing on that fold that you.say was
torn off ?" and answered, "That I do not remember; I can't
say that there was or was not." The witness also testified
that she was prejudiced against her aunts and their brother
on account of an alleged conspiracy on their part to hurt her
husband's good name; that the contestant came to see her
about the will in February or March, 1885, at a time when
she was dissatisfied, because she was not a beneficiary under

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

it. She further testified that she thought the will as probated was all right, and should stand as the last will of David
McIntire, until she discovered that she was not to be benefited by it.
Mr. Galliher testified that he read and examined the papers
found in the tin case; that he thought the paper now dated
January 7,1880, was the same paper except as to the alterations already referred to; that the paper now dated January 1, 1880, was originally dated January 1, 1881, and that
he made a copy of it on April 1, 1884:, and that he made a
memorandum of the items on the other, which memorandum, however, was not exhibited. He said that at the time
he signed the affidavit for probate of the writings he probably
read the affidavit which he signed, but did not notice the
alterations, and first learned of them from his wife upon
leaving the court-room. He did not then return to examine
the will, but some time after went back and looked at the
papers and then discovered the changes of date and the
alterations of the word "the" to "this" and the erasure of
the word "of," but did not think he then noticed that a part
of one sheet was gone. Subsequently, on his attention being
called to the absence of the provision in reference to the
glasses, he again examined the papers, and thought it was
then he discovered that a portion had been torn off. He was
asked, "Did you know of any other writing on those papers
besides the expression about the glasses, to which you have
referred, that is not there now?" and answered, "1I do not,
sir." On cross-examination, the witness testified that he had
a distinct and clear recollection that the codicil was a complete sheet at the time it was taken from the chest, and that
it was probably within a month after the probate of the will
that he had discovered that it had been mutilated. He could
not, however, assign any reason why, after being informed
by his wife of the alterations on leaving the court-house immediately after the probate of the will, he did not at once
return, and if the fact was as claimed call the attention of the
court to the matter. The witness further testified that for a
good while after the probate he thought his wife was a legatee

McMLRTIE v. MoIIMTIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

under the will. He made the second examination of the will
at the court-houge before the intimation from Mr. McIntire
that his'wife would have no interest under the will, "so as to

know of my [his] own knowledge that these corrections had
been made."

When asked how he happened to discover that

a part of one paper was torn off, he answered, "Because it
was a whole sheet at"the time I turned it over to E. A. McIn-

tire, and this bequest was on there in regard to the glasses;
that portion of the sheet had disappeared and that bequest
was not on there." Despite the discovery of the alleged alterations and mutilations referred to, the witness said he did not
go to see Mr. McIntire or demand from him an explanation,

and did not call the attention of anybody to the subject until
some six or eight months afterwards, when he spoke of it in
the office of certain attorneys, on being interrogated in regard
to the alterations. Prior to that, after hearing from Mr. McIntire that his wife would not share in the estate, witness con-

sulted an intimate friend, a lawyer, but the witness said he
did not think he told him that the will had been mutilated
and altered.
Emma V. McIntire testified that on her inspection
of the
writings when they were taken from the chest on April 1,
1884, there was no paper dated January 7,1880, but that the
paper now bearing such date was one of the papers found,
except as to the date; also that the words "of the city of"
in said paper had been altered to read "of this city." This
witness also testified that she thought the second paper, now
dated January 1, 1880, was one of the papers found in the
chest, except that the date was January 1, 1881, when she
first saw it, and that a remark to the effect that the paper was
written the January previous to the death of testator was
made at the time the papers were examined on April 1, 1884.
She also testified that she thought the second paper was
"originally a complete sheet; just the length of the other
one." She remembered having heard the paper read, and
that there was some remark in it about glasses. She further
testified that both papers were read aloud, and that then each
one took them and read them severally, and that they all

OCTOBER TERM, .1895.
Opinion of the Court.

supposed that she and her sister and brothers were entitled to
the share in their Uncle David's estate which would have
come to their father had he lived. The witness also swore
that she did not discover the alterations when she verified
the affidavit in the probate court, wherein she averred the
authenticity of the documients, though she read the papers
carefully at the time she made the affidavit, which latter
statement, however, was subsequently qualified on cross-examination by the statement that perhaps she had not read them
as carefully as she ought to have done. She further stated that
she did not notice the alterations until her sister called her attention to them.
The foregoing condensed summary is substantially all the
testimony given by Mr. and Mrs. Galliher and Emma V.
McIntire, bearing upon the question of the alleged material
alterations and suppression of the documents constituting the
probated will. As already stated, these witnesses were the
only ones who testified on this subject on behalf of contestant,
and upon their testimony the case necessarily depends. If we
leave entirely out of view the evidence of the defendants to
the effect that the papers constituting the will as pfobated
were precisely in the condition they were when taken from
the tin case, we do not think a jury could have properly inferred from this testimony that in the alleged missing portion
of the will there existed provisions so in conflict or inconsistent with the probated will as to have operated to materially
alter or revoke it. That the actual alterations to which the
witnesses testify in no way materially modified or abriogated
the will, is too clear for discussion. The whole case, hence,
depends upon the assertion that there was sufficient evidence
to have authorized the jury to find that there was a material
mutilation or suppression. But none of the three witnesses
testified -granting their testimony as to the mutilation to
have been true -that the part torn off contained anything
but the reference to the glasses of the testator. ,It' is urged,
however, that whilst they recollected that the torn 'off part
had in it the memoranda as to the glasses, they did not
remember whether it embraced anything else, and, therefore,

XIINTIRE v. McINTIRE.
Opinion of the Cburt.

non constat, that it might not have contained other things,
and thus would have justified the jury in drawing the presumption of a fraudulent suppression of provisions which, if
known, might have revoked or modified the will. But this
contention entirely obscures the difference between the failure
of a witness to recollect a fact, which from th6 nature and
extent of his knowledge he must necessarily have recalled if
it existed, hence giving rise to the implication that, where it
is not remembered it did not exist, and the contrary case,
where from the position and means of knowledge of a witness
his failure to remember justifies no such deduction.
The
failure of these witnesses to remember comes clearly under
the first of these categories. They were willing and friendly
witnesses for the contestant, manifestly desirous of stating
everything favorable to his claims. They examined the will
immediately after the death ; they then not only heard it
read aloud, but also read it themselves; they then thought
that they were interested in it as legatees. If any provision
had existed revoking the will, or materially changing its provisions, such fact would in the very nature of things have been
impressed upon their minds above and beyond everything else.
When, therefore, after swearing to the validity and completeness of the will for the purpose of probate, after asserting
rights under it in the equity suit filed against the administrator, they subsequently declared that they did not recollect
whether there had been any material alteration or suppression.
their want of memory necessarily negatives the presumption
which might otherwise result from their testimony, if their
sources of information and relation to the will had not been
of the kind just mentioned. This is particularly the case as
to the testimony of Mr. Galliher. He not only examined and
read the will after the death, not only testified as to its completeness when it was probated, but actually made a complete
copy of the will proper, and a memorandum of the items on
the other paper or codicil at the time when it was examined
and before it was turned over to E. A. McIntire to be probated. The context of his -testimony indicates that, before
he testified at the trial, lie refreshed his memory by reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to the contemporaneous copy and memoranda. It follows,
therefore, when in answer to the point blank question, "Did
you know of any othef writing on those papers besides the
expression about the glasses to which you have referred that
is not there now?" he said, "I do not know, sir," that he
negatived the possibility of there having been such material
alterations, because his means of knowledge were such that he
must necessarily have known of the fact had it existed. Indeed,
we can see no reason to doubt that if the issue presented had
been probate vel non that the testimony introduced by the
contestant here would have justified the admission of the documents to probate, that is, after eliminating the immaterial
alterations which the testimony of the contestant asserts to
have been made. This being true, it follows that the testimony which would have been adequate to probate the will
cannot, at the same time; be sufficient to destroy the probate
and annul the will.
The case of Jones v. .urphy, 8 Watts & Serg. 275, relied
upon by the plaintiff in error, is not in point. In that case the
existence of a second will was proved, which the evidence
tended to show had been destroyed by interested. parties, but
there was an absence of direct evidence of the contents of the
missing paper. Evidence was introduced, however, justifying
the inference that the testator might have designed an alteration of the provisions of the earlier will in favor of a daughter,
from whom he was estranged when the first will was executed,
but who subsequently became reconciled to her father. The
court held that where a fraudulent suppression was proved and
in addition, other circumstances, such as a motive for a material change in a former will, the jury, in the absence of evidence
as to the contents of the later testamentary writing, might
presume that it contained a clause revoking the prior will.
Here, however, we have two documents, the will proper, evidently deliberately and carefully written, and another instrument having the effect of a codicil, both being sedulously
preserved by the testator. It is an asserted change or suppression in the latter instrument which, it" is contended, would have
justiied the jury in finding the will to have been revoked,

PALMER v. BARRETT.
Statement of the Case.

although the testimony affirmatively established that even if
the suppression asserted existed, it contained no provision revoking the will. The necessary effect of the action of the trial
judge in directing findings favorable to the contestees was to
hold that the contestant was not entitled to relief. In this
conclusion we concur; although the negative answers given to
the fifth and seventh questions are not literally'accurate, in the
light of the evidence as to the immaterial alterations offered
on behalf of the contestants. The judgment is, therefore,
Afirmed.

PALMER v. BARRETT"
ERROR TO THE CITY COURT OF BROOKLYN,
No. 194. Submitted Mlarch S1, 1896. -Decided

NEW YORK.

April 18, 1896.

In view of the reservation of jurisdiction made by the State of New York
in the act of June' 17, 1853, c. 355, ceding to the United States jurisdiction over certain lands adjacent to the navy yard and hospital in Brooklyn, the exclusive authority of the United States over the land .covered
by the lease, the ouster from possession under which is the subject of
controversy In this action, was suspended while the lease remained in
force.

Tis was a writ of error to the city.court of Brooklyn, an
inferior court of the State of New York. The action was
brought to recover damages for an alleged unlawful ouster
of the plaintiff from the possession of two market stands in
the Wallabout market in the city of Brooklyn, and to recover
damages for the conversion of certain described personal property which was a part of said stands. Defendant Palmer
answered by a general denial, while the defendant Droste, in
addition to specific denials, alleged in substance that he lawfully acquired the premises in controversy by a lease from
Palmer, his co-defendant, and a lessee of the city of Brooklyn.
It appeared from the proof that the stands in question were
erected upon ground, part of lands acquired by the govern-

