GRAVER v. FAUROT.
Statement of the Case.

GRAVER v. FAUROT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. ,79. Submitted February 4, 1896.-Decided April 18, 1896.
A Circuit Court of Appeals has no power under the Judiciary Act of 1891
to certify the whole case to this court; but can only certify distinct
points or propositions of law, unmixed with questions of fact or of
mixed law and fact.
The question propounded in this case amounts to no more than an inquiry whether, in the opinion of this court, there Is an irreconcilable
eonflict between two of its previous judgments, and a request, if that is
held to be so, that an end be put to that conflict; and this is not a question or a proposition of law in a particular case, on which this court Is
required to give instructions.

THIS case coming on to be heard on appeal from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois., in the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, that court ordered .that a statement of facts
and a question be certified to this court for its opinion and
ihstruction.
It appears from the statement of facts that William Graver
filed a bill in the Superior Court of the county of Cook in the
State of Illinois to impeach for fraud a decree in equity rendered by that court, July 6, 1889, in a certain suit therein
depending, wherein William Graver was complainant and
Benjamin C. Faurot and A. 0. Bailey were defendants,- by
which decree complainant's bill was dismissed for want of
equity; and that the suit was duly and properly removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
The bill thus filed was set forth in hae verba, together with
a demurrer thereto; the decree of the Circuit Court sustaining
the demurrer and dismissing the bill; and the opinion rendered by the Circuit Court on entering that decree.
The certificate then proceeded thus: I-In view of the deci-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sons of the Supreme Court of the United States in the cases
of The UnitedStates v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S.61, and Marshall
v. Holmes, 141 U. S.589, this court is in doubt touching the
case in hand, and desires advice and instruction upon the following question: Whether (assuming the bill of complaint to
be in other respects sufficient) the alleged false swearing and
perjury in the respective answers of defendants in the original
suit in the Superior Court. of the county of Cook, State of
Illinois, are, in the law, available in this suit as ground for a
decree setting aside and declaring void !he decree so rendered
in the Superior Court of the county of Cook?"
.A&. Reobert Rae and .Mr. ilen-y S. .Monroe for appellant.
M'. -FrankL. Wean and .Mr. Frank 0. Lowden for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JusTixE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court..
It appears from the opinion of the Circuit Court, sent up as
part of the certificate and reported in 64 Fed. Rep. 241, that
that court was impressed with the conviction that the complainant had been defrauded, but that the court could see no
way to accord relief under the decision in United States v.
Throckmorton, 98 U. S.61, although the result might be different.if the decision in Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589, were
followed. In other words, the Circuit Court indicated that it
could have proceeded without difficulty on the principles expounded in either case if the other were out of the way.
Finding it impossible to reconcile these cases, or to make a
definitive choice between them, because United States v.
Throokmorton was cited without disapproval in Marshall v.
Tolme, the Circuit Court sustained the demurrerpro forma,
and the case was -transferred to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
But when this had been accomplished the Court of Appeals
apparently found itself in a similar quandary, and this resulted
in the certificate under consideration.
Doubtless the determination of contested questions in cases
properly brought before us involves the resolution of doubts,

GRAVER v. FAUROT.
Opinion of the Court.

if any are entertained, in respect of the scope of particular
decisions, but we cannot approve of the mode adopted in this
case of ascertaining the precise bearing of former judgments.
In civil cases the intention of Congress as to the certification
provided for in sections five and six of the act of March 3,
189.1, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, is to be arrived at in the light of the
rules prevailing prior to that date in relation to certificates of
division of opinion under sections 650, 652 and 693 of the Revised Statutes. .7iaynard v. H7echt, 151 U. S. 324. It was
well settled as to them that each question had to be a distinct
point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so that it could be
definitely answered without regard to other issues of law in the
case; that each question must be a question of law only and not
of fact, or of mixed law and fact, and hence could not involve or
imply a conclusion or judgment on the weight or effect of testimony or facts adduced in the cause ; -and could not embrace the
whole case, even where its decision turned -upon matter of law
only, and even though it were split up in the form of questions.
Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S.426, 432; Fire Ins. Association v.
Wickharn, 128 U. S. 426.
By the sixth section of the Judiciary Act, the Circuit Court
of Appeals is not permitted to certify the whole case to us,
though we may require that to be done when questions are
certified, or may bring up by certiorari any case in which the
decision of that court would otherwise be final. But here
the entire record is transmitted as part of the certificate, and
the answer to the question propounded contemhplates an examination of the whole case. It is true that the Court of Appeals
asks us to assume the bill of complaint to be "in other respects
sufficient," that.is, sufficient to entitle complainant to relief, if
the fraud alleged were available. But if we should find that
the bill was insufficient when tested by principles accepted in
both the cases referred to, ve should be indisposed to return
an answer not required for the disposition of the case. In
any view we should be compelled, in answering, to analyze the
facts charged, in order to determine whether in legal effect
they raise the question involved in Marshall v. Holmes or that
involved in United States v. Throckmorton, assuming that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

legal effect of the facts in those two cases was not the same;
or, if it were, to determine whether the facts set up here fall
within the same category, and direct which decision should
govern.
This practically requires us to pass upon the whole case as
it stands, and to decide whether the demurrer was properly
sustained or not.
'But the whole case is not before us for decision, and the
certificate discloses that the doubt of the courts below is based
on the assumption that this court has applied well-settled general principles of law differently in two different ,cases upon
the same state of facts. While some hesitation in decision
may temporarily result until it is finally determined whether
that assumption is .justified, and, if justified, the anomaly is
corrected, we think such determination ought not to be attempted save where the point must be disposed of on a record
after final decree.
In the absence of poNver to deal with the whole case, the
question amounts to no more than an inquiry as to whether in
our opinion there is an irreconcilable conflict between two of
our previous judgments, and a request, if we hold that to be
so, that we put an end to that conflict. We do not regard
these as questions or propositions of law in a particular case
on which we are required to give instruction.
Certificate dismissed.

