GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. PURDY.

329

Statement of the Case.

irresistible from the fact that the note and open account were
reduced to judgmentafter the bill was filed, since this judgment
was not made the basis of the bill, and the finding in the decree
is restricted to the amount of the first judgment of $1000.
The appeal must, therefore, be
.Dismissed.

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.

PURDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No.105. Argued December 6,9,1895.- Decided Apiril 18, 1896.
Upon a bill in equity by subscribers for shares in a corporation to compel
it to issue shares to them, and to set aside as fraudulent a contract by
which it had agreed to transfer all its shares to another person, a decree
was entered, setting aside that contract, and ordering shares to be issued
to the plaintiffs, and a new board of directors to be chosen. Upon a bill
by other stockholders, afterwards filed by leave of court in the same
cause, and entitled a supplemental bill, alleging fraud and mismanagement of the new officers and insolvency of the company, and praying
for the appointment of a receiver, the court, without notice to the plaintiffs in the original bill, appointed a receiver, and made an order for a
call or assessment upon all stockholders of the company. Held, that
this order, although conclusive evidence of the necessity of the assessment as against all stockholders, did not prevent a plaintiff in the original bill, when sued by the receiver, in the name of the corporation, for
an assessment, from pleading the statute of limitations to his liability
upon his subscription.
In an action brought In a state court, -by a corporation against a subscriber
for shares, to recover an assessment thereon under an order of assessment made by a court of another State upon all the stockholders, in a
proceeding of which he had no notice, a judgment of the highest court
of the State for the defendant, upon the grqund that, by its construction of a general statute of limitations of the State, the cause of action
accrued against him at the date of his contract of subscription, and not
at the date of the order of assessment, involves no Federal question,
and is not reviewable by this court on writ of error.

THIS was an action brought August 30, 1888, in the district
court of Des Moines county iftthe State of Iowa, by the

OCTOBER TERNIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Great Western Telegraph Company, a corporation of Illinois,
by its receiver, Elias iR. Bowen, against Hiram Purdy, a
citizen of Iowa, to recover the sum of $437.50, with interest
from July 10, 1886, alleged to be due from him to the company under his subscription to its stock; and under a decree
of the circuit court of Cook County in the State of Illinois of
that date, which ordered an assessment upon the stockholders
of the company, and which was alleged to hat-e been made in
a suit to which he was a party, and to be binding upon him.
Trial by jury was waived, and the case tried by the court.
The material facts appeared by the record to have been as
follows:
The company was incorpoiated under the laws of the State
of Illinois in 1867. On February 16, 1869, Purdy subscribed
for fifty shares of the par value of $25 each, by signing and
delivering tO the company's agent at Burlington, in the State
of Iowa, the following writing:
"Capital, $3,000,000; shares, $25; assessments not to exceed
$10 on a share.
"Subscription List for the Capital Stock of the Great Western
Telegraph Company.
"We, the subscribers hereunto, for value received, severally,
but not jointly, agree to take the number of shares in the
capital stock of the Great Western Telegraph Company
placed opposite our respective names, and pay for the same
in instalments, to wit, five per cent on amount paid in, and
the balance as the directors from time to time may order; in
consid ration thereof the Great Western Telegraph Company
agree that when forty per cent of the par value of the shares
shall have been paid under such orders, and the instalment
receipts therefor surrendered to the company, the number of

shares severally subscribed by the undersigned shall be issued
to them as full paid stock by the said company.
"T. C. Snow is appointed agent to solicit stock and receive
only the first instalment of five per cent (fifty cents on a
share) at the time of subscription.
"J. Sxow, Secretary.",

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. PURDY.

331

Statement of the Case.

Upon this subscription Purdy paid $275, before November,
1869.
On. November 19, 1869, Jeremiah. Terwilliger and others,
including Purdy, subscribers to stock in the company, and
who had paid money on their subscriptions, filed a bill in
equity in, the circuit court of Cook county, Illinois, against
the company, its president and secretary, and Selah Reeve, to
compel the issue of certificates of stock to the plaintiffs and
other subscribers, and to set aside as fraudulent a contract
between the company and Reeve, by which Reeve agreed to
build its telegraph lines, and the company agreed to transfer
to him its entire capital stock. On November 16, 1872, a
decree was entered in that suit, setting aside the contract
between Reeve and the company; ordering an accounting
between them; ordering -the company to issue to the subscribers certificates for as many shares as they were efttitled
to by the money paid; directing the president and secretary to
call a meeting of the company to choose a new board of directors; reserving leave to the plaintiffs at any time to apply
for such further order or decree as should be necessary to carry
out this decree or' be necessary in the cause ; and ordering the
individual defendants to pay the costs of the suit.
On January 7, 1873, those costs were paid; and on January
29, 1873, a meeting of the company was held and a new board
of directors chosen, and a certificate for twenty-seven and a
half shares was issued to Purdy.
The following proceedings were afterwards had in that
cause: On September 19, 1874, other stockholders, by leave
of the court, intervened, and filed a "supplemental bill"
against the company and its officers, alleging mismanagement and fraud on the part of the new officers, and the insolvency of the company, and praying for the appointment of a
receiver. On October 7, 1874, upon the motion of the plaintiffs in the supplemental bill, and after notice to and with the
consent of all the parties to that bill, the court appointed
,Oliver H. Horton receiver of the property of the company.
Bowen was afterwards appointed receiver in place of -Horton; and upon his petition, and upon the report of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

master appointed to inquire into the amount of the debts and
assets of the company, and the percentage of the par value of
the shares necessary to be paid by the stockhblders to satisfy
those debts, the court, on July 10, 1886, adjudged that the
company was insolvent, and had no means for paying its
debts, except the sums remaining unpaid upon subscriptions
for stock, and that there were more than two thousand stockholders widely scattered through twelve States and Territories,
and it was impracticable to make all of them parties to the
suit; and entered an order and decree "that a call or assessment be, and the same is hereby, made upon the stock and
stockholders of the said company, (excepting those who have
paid in full,) their legal heirs, representatives and assigns, of
thirty-five per centum of the par value of the shares of said
stock subscribed for or held by them, being eight dollars and
seventy-five cents on each and every share thereof; and that
the stockholders of said company and each and every one of
them (excepting those who have paid twenty-five, dollars on
each and every share subscribed for or held by them) and
their heirs, legal representatives and assigns be, and 'they
hereby are, severally ordered and required to pay to the receiver of said company, the said Elias R. Bowen, the several
amounts by this decree called for and assessed and required to
be paid, namely, eight dollars and seventy-five cents on each
and every share subscribed for or held by them respectively,
and that the same be paid upon the demand of said receiver
or his agent;" and "that said receiver shall at once proceed to
collect the said sums so ordered to be paid by this decree, and
shall make all necessary demands for such payments, shall
employ such assistance and counsel, take such action, and
institute such suits and proceedings, in the name of the said
company, and in such jurisdictions as he shall be advised or
deem expedient and proper, and for the purpose of enforcing
the payment of the sums hereby ordered paid."
On August 29, 1888, the receiver accordingly demanded of
Purdy the payment of the sum of $8.75 upon each share of
his stock, amounting to $437.50 ; and on the next day brought
this action.

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH" CO. v. PURDY.

333

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The inferior court of Iowa, in which this action was
The plaintiff
brought, gave judgment for the defendant.
appealed to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which affirmed the
judgment, upon the ground that the action was barred by the
statute of limitations. 83 Iowa, 430.
The plaintiff sued out this writ of error; and assigned for
error that the Supreme Court of Iowa did not give full faith
and credit to the decree of assessment of the court of Illinois,
as required by art. 4, sect. 1, of the Constitution, and section
709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
.Mr. Thomas J. Sutherland,(with whom was Mr. William
P. Black on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
I. The question of full faith and credit was fairly set out,
and involved in the pleadings and, decision of the Supreme
Court, as well as in the district court of Iowa. Chicago
Life Ins. Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S.
180; Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 How. 516; Miturdock v. Memphis,
20 Wall. 590; Bolling v. Lersner, 91 U. S. 595; Crowell v.
Randell, 10 Pet. 368; Texas & Pacfic Railway v. Southern
Pacific Co., 137 U. S. 48; K-aukauna Co. v. Green .Bay d
Canal Co., 142 U. S: 251.
II. The Federal question was erroneously decided, and the
decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa rests upon no ground
broad enough to sustain its judgment independent of its decision of the Federal question.
There is but really one point in the whole opinion. The
Iowa court gave judgment against the plaintiff, and applied
the statute of limitations of Iowa, of ten years, as a bar to the
plaintiff's action, because the board of directors-the defendant's own agents - had not made a valid call or commenced
an action against the defendant, for ten years before this
action was begun. This is the sole ground of the decision,
and the court could only have arrived at such a decision by
holding that the decree of assessment of the Illinois court
coupled with the demand of the receiver for payment, made

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in pursuance of the decree, could not, and did not, create
a cause of action. It was clearly only colorable, and no proper
ground on which to defeat the plaintiff and ignore the Federal question, or decide it adversely to the claim of the plaintiff.
The decree of the Illinois court which had jurisdiction of
the subject-matter and of the parties, was, and is, conclusive
upon the merits of the controversies, determined by that judgment between the parties and their privies, in every court in
the United States, and can not be collaterally questioned.
Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Maxwell v. Stewart, 22
Wall. 77; Anderson v. Anderson, 8 Ohio, 108; Mason v.
.fessenger, 17 Iowa, 261; Smith v. Smith, 22 Iowa, 516;
Burlington &J Missouri Railway v. Hall, 37 Iowa, 620.
_Mr. S. L. .Glasgowfor defendant in error.
M . JustricE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

By art. 4, sect. 1, of the Constitution of the United States,
"Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every other State.
And Congress may, by general laws, prescribe the manner in
which such acts, records and proceedings shall be proved and
the effect thereof." In the exercise of the power so conferred,
Congress, besides providing the manner in which the records
and judicial proceedings of the courts of any State shall be
authenticated, has enacted that "the said records and 'judicial
proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith and credit
given to them in every court within the United States, that they
have by law or usage in the courts of the State from which
they were taken." Act of May 26, 1790, c. 11; 1 Stat. 122;
Rev. Stat. ยง 905.
The plaintiff relied on the order of assessment, made by a
court of the State of Illinois, as a judgment of that court,
entitled to the effect of being conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's right to maintain this action against the defendant. The
Supreme Court of the State of Iowa denied it that effect.

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. PURDY.

335

Opinion of the Court.

The question whether that court thereby declined to give full
faith and credit to a judicial proceeding of a court of another
State, as required by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, was necessarily involved in the decision.
This court therefore has jurisdiction of the case, but must
judge for itself of the true nature and effect of the order relied on. Armstrong v. Treasurer of Athens County, 16 Pet.
281, 285 ; Texas &. PaciAc Railway v. ,Southern PaciA Co.,
137 U. S.48; Grover f, Baker Co. v. Radcliffe, 137 U. S.287;
Carpenter V. Strange, 141 U. S.87; Huntington v. Attrill, 146'
U. S.657, 666, 683-686, ard cases cited.
By the original contract between the parties, made in the
State of Iowa on February 16, 1869, Purdy, the present defendant,-agreed to take fifty shares, of the par value of $25,
in the plaintiff company, and to pay five per cent (which he
did) and "the balance as the directors from time to time may
order;" and the company agreed to issue the shares to him
as soon as forty per cent had been paidOn November 19, 1869, Purdy and other subscribers for
shares filed in a court of the State of Illinois a bill in equity
to compel the company to issue shares to them, and to set
aside as fraudulent a contract by which the company had
agreed to transfer all its capital stock to one Reeve; and upon
that bill, on November 16, 1872, obtained a decree, setting
aside that contract, and ordering shares to be issued to ihe
subscribers as prayed for, and a new board of directors to be
chosen. By that decree, all the objects of the quit were accomplished, so far as Purdy was concerned; and he does not
appear to have had any notice of, or part in, any further proceedings. That bill did not ask for the appointment of a
receiver, or for any order of assessment upon stockholders.
The subsequent proceeding, begun September 19, 1874,
alleging mismanagement and fraud of the new officers andthe insolvency of the company, was by other stockholders,
and although entitled a "supplemental bill," and permitted
by the court to be filed in the former cause, was a distinct
proceeding, in which Purdy had and took no interest. The
orders of the court upon this proceeding, appointing on October

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

7,1874, a receiver, and on July 10, 1886, making a "call or
assessment' upon the stockholders of the company, were
entered without any notice to him, or consent on his part.
He was not personally a party to this proceeding, nor named
therein. The receiver was appointed almost two years, and
the assessment ordered more than thirteen years, after Purdy
bad ceased to have any connection with the litigation.
There can be no doubt that, as heretofore declared by this
court, "after a decree disposing of the issues and in accordance with the prayer of a bill has been made, it is not
competent for one of the parties, without a service of new
process, or appearance, to institute further proceedings on new
issues and for new objects, although connected with the subject-matter of the original litigation, by merely giving the
new proceedings the title of the original cause. If his bill
begins a new litigation, the parties against whom he seeks
relief are entitled to notice thereof, and without it they will
not be bound." Smith v. Nroolfolk, 115 U. S. 143,148.
The question therefore is of. the effect, as against Purdy, of
the order for an assessment, made by the Illinois court in a proceeding to which the corporation was a party, but to Which
he personally was not.
The order of that court was in effect, as it was in terms,
simply a "call or assessment" upon all stockholders who had
not paid for their shares in full. It was such as the directors
might have made before the appointment of a receiver; and
in making it the court, having by that appointment assumed
the charge of the assets and affairs of the corporation, took
the place and exercised the office of the directors. Scovill v.
"hayer,105 U. S. 143, 155 ; Hlawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319,
329; Lamb v. Lamb, 6 Bissell, 420, 424; Glenn v. Saxton, 68
California, 353; Great Western Tel. Go. v. Gray, 122 Illinois,
630, 636, 640; Great Western Tel. Go. v. -Loewenthal, 154
Illinois, 261.
The order of assessment, whether made by the directors as
provided in the contract of subscription, or by the court as
the successor in this respect of the directors, was doubtless,
unless directly attacked and set aside by appropriate judicial

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. PURDY.

337

Opinion ef the Court.

proceedings, conclusive evidence of the necessity for making
such an assessment, and to that extent bound every stockholder, without personal notice to him. Uawkins v. Glenn,
131 U. S. 319; Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S. 533; Glenn v.
.Marbury,145 U. S: 499,
Bdt the order was not, and did not purport to be, a judgment
agaihst any one. It did not undertake to determine the question whether any particular stockholder was or was not liable in any amount. It did not merge the cause of action of
the company against any stockholder on his contract of subscription, nor deprive him of the right, when sued for an
assessment, to rely on any defence which he might have to
an action upon that contract.
In this action, therefore, brought by the receiver, in the
name of the company,-as authorized by the order of assessment, to recover the sum supposed to be due from the defendant, he had the right to plead al release, or payment, or the
statute of limitations, or any other defence, going to show
that he was not liable upon his contract of subscription.
In each of the three cases last cited above, the defence of
the statute of limitations was entertained and passed upon.
Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S.332; Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S.
54'T; Glenn v. Marbury, 145 U. S. 506.
The whole effect of the order of assessment being to fix the
amount which any stockholder liable under his contract of
subscription should pay, and to authorize the receiver to bring
suits against stockholders for the same, but not to determine
whether the present defendant, or any other particular stock
holder was liable for anything, the Iowa court, by sustaining
the defence of the statute of limitations, did not deny to the
judicial proceeding of Illinois the full faith and credit to which
I1
it was entitled.
The statute of .limitations of the State of Iowa provides that
"the following actions may be brought within the times herein
limited respectively after their causes accrue, and not after.
wards, except when otherwise specially declared."
"4. Those founded on unwritten contracts, those brought
for injuries to property, or for relief on the ground of fraud
VOL. CLxII-2

OCTOBER TERMi, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in cases heretofore solely cognizable in a court of chancery,
and all other actions not otherwise provided for in this respect,
within five years.
"5. Those, founded on written contracts, on judgments of
any courts, except those courts provided for in the next subdivision, and those brought for the recovery of real property,
within ten years.
"6. Those founded on a judgment of a court of record
whether of this or of any other of the United States, or of
the Federal courts of the United States, within twenty years."
Iowa Code of 1873, ยง 2529.
This action was not brought on a judgment, for there had
been no judgment. But it was brought on the defendant's
written contract.of subscription, and was therefore, by the
terms of the Iowa statute, barred in ten years after the cause
of action accrued. The action was brought more than ten
years after the contract, but within ten years after the order
of assessment.
In many jurisdictions, the cause of action, within the meaning of a statute of limitations, would be held to have accrued
at the time of the order for an assessment, and not before. It
has been so held by the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois,
where this company was incorporated and the order of assessment made, as well as by this court in cases coining up from
Circuit Courts of the United States and unaffected by decisions of the highest court of the State in which those courts
were held. Great Western Tel. Co. v. Gray; Hawkins v.
Glenn; Glenn v. Liggett; and Glenn v. .Marbury,above cited.
But the Supreme Court of Iowa in the present case held
that, as it rested with the directors of the corporation to make
that order, the delay in making it could not suspend the operation of the statute of limitations; and that the case was
within the rule, established by a series of decisions of that
court, that when a plaintiff could at any time, by making a
demand, or giving a notice, acquire a right to recover against
the defendant, the statute of limitations began to run when
he might have done so. Great Western Tel. Co. v. .Purdy, 83
Iowa, 430, 433, and cases cited.

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. BURNHAM.

339

Syllabus.

The limitation of actions is governed by the lexfori, and is
controlled by the legislation of the State in which the action
is brought, as construed by the highest court of that State,
even if the legislative act or the judicial construction differs
from that prevailing in other jurisdictions. .McElmoyle v.
Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. -647;
.Afeteaf v. Watertown?, 153 U. S. 671; Balkam v. WVoodstock
Iron Co., 154 U. S. 177.
Neither the statutes nor the decisions of the State of Iowa
upon this subject .have made any discrimination against the
citizens, the contracts or the judgments of other States, or
against any right asserted under the Constitution or laws of
the United States. The case is thus distinguished froil Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, cited at the bar.
The question at what time the cause of action accrued in
this case, within the meaning of the statute of limitations of
Iowa, was not a Federal question, but a local question, upon
which the judgment of the highest court of the State cannot
be reviewed by this court.

Judgment affirmec.

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
BURNHAM.
SRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF MILWATKEE COUNTY,

STATE OF

WISCONSIN.No. 159. Argued and submitted March 19, 20, 1896.-Decided April 13, 1896

When the highest court of a State, upon a first appeal, decides a Federal
question against the appellant, and remands the case for further proceedings according to law, and upon further hearing the inferior court of
the State renders final judgment against him, he cannot have that judgment reviewed by this court by writ of error, without first appealing
from it to the highest court of the State; although that court declines
upon a second appeal to reconsider any question of law decided upon
the first appeal.

