OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
Nos. 894, 413. Argued January 30, 31, 1896. -Decided

March 30, 1896.

When a state railroad company whose road lies within the limits of the
state, enters into the carriage of foreign freight by agreeing to receive
the goods by virtue of foreign"through bills of lading, and to participate
in through rates and charges, it thereby becomes part of a continuous
line, not made by a consolidation with the foreign companies, but by an
arrangement for the continuous carriage or shipment from one State
to another; and thus becomes amenable to the Federal act in respect to
such interstate commerce; and, having thus subjected itself to the control of the Interstate Commerce Commission, it cannot limit that control
in respect to foreign traffic to certain points on its road to the exclusion
of other points.
When goods shipped under a through bill of lading, or in any other way indicating a common control, management or arrangement, from a point in
one State to a point in another State are received in transit by a state
common carrier, such Varrier, if a railroad company, must be deemed to
have subjected its road to an arrangement for a continuous carriage or
shipment within the meaning of the act to regulate commerce.
The Interstate Commerce Commission is not empowered either expressly,
or by implication, to fix rates in advance; but, subject to the prohibitions that their charges shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that
they shall not unjustly discriminate, so as to give undue preference or
disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the act to
regulate commerce leaves common carriers as they were at the common
law, free to make special contracts looking to the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust and apportion their rates so as to
meet the necessities of commerce, and generally to manage their important interests uimon the same principles which are regarded as sound,
and adopted in other trades and pursuits.

CI., N. 0. & TEX. PAC. RAILWAY v. INT. COM. C03.

185

Statement of the Case.

ON October 18, 18S9, the James and Mayer Buggy Company, a corporation of the State of Ohio, and doing business
at Cincinnati, filed a complaint before the Interstate Commerce Commission against the Cincinnati, New Orleans and
Texas Pacific Railway Company, the Western and Atlantic
Railroad Company and the Georgia Railroad Company,
alleging that said defendants were common carriers "under a
common control, management or arrangement for continuous
carriage or shipment," and charged the same rate for transporting vehicles shipped by the complainants from Cincinnati,
whether shipped to Atlanta, Georgia, a distance of about 474
miles, or to Augusta, Georgia, a distance of 645 miles, and
charged 30 cents per hundred pounds more on such vehicles
shipped to Social Circle, Georgia, than when shipped to either
Atlanta or Augusta.
The Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway
extends from Cincinnati to Chattanooga,, Tennessee; the road
of the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company begins at
Chattanooga and extends to Atlanta; and that of-the Georgia
bekins at Atlanta and ends at Augusta. These respondents
filed answers, from whichi and from the allegations. of the complaint, it appeared that the complainants shipped their goods,
at first class rates, by through bills of lading, from Cineinnati
to Atlanta, to Social Circle,. and to Augusta;, that through
rates, of $1.07 per hundred pounds, were charged to both Atlanta and to Augusta, of which the Cincinnati, New Orleans
and Texas Pacific Railway Company received 55T cents; the
Western and Atlantic, 22& cents; and the Georgia Railroad
Company, 2 8 A cents. Social Circle is a local station on the
Georgia Railroad, 52 miles east of Atlanta, and 119 miles
west, of Augusta. When goods were shipped to Social Circle
the complainants had to pay $1.37 per hundred pounds, of
which '5& cents went to the Cincinnati, New Orleans and
Texas Pacific company, 31
to the Western and Atlantic
and 30 cents to the Georgia-the said amount of 30 cents
per hundred pounds being the local charge made by the
Georgia company on similar freight -carried by it from Atlanta to Social Circle.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The complainants contended that as the rate to Augusta
was $1.07 per hundred pounds, that charge was excessive
when made against similar freight carried to Atlanta, which
is 171 miles nearer to the point of shipment. They also contended that the charge of $1.37 to Social Circle was excessive
and undue, as the defendants carried similar freight for $1.07
to Augusta, a greater distance of 119 miles.
The respondents claimed that they were justified in charging the same rate to Augusta as to Atlanta, because the former was a competitive point; and as to the rates to Social
Circle, they claimed that the goods were not carried to that
point under a common control, management or arrangement
for continuous carriage or shipment, but that the 'additional
30 cents per hundred pounds was the local charge for similar
service by the Georgia company, and that, therefore, the case
of goods carried to Social Circle was not within the provisions of the act to regulate commerce.
The controversy before the Commission resulted in an order,
requiring the defendants to cease and desist from making any
greater charge in the aggregate on buggies, carriages and other
freight of the first class, carried in less than carloads from
COtcinnati to Social Circle, than they charged on such freight
from Cincinnati to Augusta, and to cease and desist from making any charge for the transportation of such freight from
Cincinnati to Atlanta in excess of $1 per hundred pounds.
This order was dated June 29, 1891, and was to operate from
July 20, 1891.
The defendants having refused to obey this order and failed
to alter or modify their charges, the Interstate Commerce
Commission filed a bill or petition in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Georgia, seeking
to enforce the said order.
To this bill the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
and the Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia
filed a joint and several answer, in which they alleged that
the said companies jointly operated the railroad from Atlanta
to Augusta as assignees of one William Wadley, to whom
that road had been previously leased by "the Georgia Rail-

CUT., N. 0. & TEX. PAC. RAILWAY v. INT. COM. COM.

187

Statement of the Case.

road and Banking Company," a corporation of the State of
Georgia, and that they so operated said railroad under the
adopted name of the "Georgia Railroad Company," but that
there was no such, corporation as the "Georgia Railroad Company." This answer further denied the allegation of the petition of the Commission in so far as they charged that rates
charged by them were undue or excessive, or in disregard of
the provisions of the act to regulate commerce.
An answer was filed by the Cincinnati, New Orleans and
Texas .Pacific Railway Company, traversing the allegations
of the bill, so far as it alleged the charging of undue or unreasonable rates to Atlanta or to Social Circle. The Western
and Atlanta Railroad Company set up in its. answer that it
had no existence as a corporation at the time of the proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, and had no
connection with the matters therein complained of, and therefore prayed that, 4s against it, the petition of the Commission
should be dismissed. (This position was subsequently abandoned.)
I
Under the issues thus formed a considerable amount of
testimony was taken; the cause came on to :be .heard, was
argued by counsel, and'thereupon, on. June 5, 1893, the. court,
holding that the matters of equity alleged in thd bill were
fully denied in the answers, rand were not sustained by the,
proof, decreed that the bill be dismissed.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and was there
so proceeded in that on May 27, 1894, the decree of the Circuit
Court was reversed, 13 U. S. App. 730, and the cause was
remanded to that court witl instructions to enter a decree in
favor of the Interstate Commerce Commissiofti and against the
defendants, commanding the latter to cease and desist from,
making any greater charge in the aggregate on buggies, carriages and on other freight of the first class carried in less
than carloads, from Cincinnati to Social Circle than they
,charged on such freight from Cincinnati to Augusta.
Appeals were. taken from this decree and errors assigned
respectively by the defendants and by the Commission.

OCTOBER TER-Mv,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. I. J. Hlammond and fr. George F. Edrmunds for the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mfr. Edward Baxter for the railway companies.

Air.

Edward Colston, Mr.George Iloadly, Jr., AMr. J. B. Cumming
and Mr.George Hilyer were on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The investigation before the Interstate Commerce Commission resulted in, an order in the following terms:
"It is ordered -and adjudged that the defendants, the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company,
the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company and the Georgia
Railroad Company, do, upon and after the 20th day of July,
1891, wholly cease and desist from charging or receiving any
greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation
in less than carloads of buggies, carriages and other articles
classified by them as freight of the first class, for the shorter
distance over the line formed by their several railroads from
Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio, to Social Circle, in the State
of Georgia, than they charge or receive for the transportation
of said articles in less than carloads for the longer distance
over the same line from Cincinnati aforesaid to Augusta, in
the State of Georgia; and that the said defendants, the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company, do
also, from and after the 20th day of July, 1891, wholly cease
and desist from charging or receiving any greater aggregate
compensation for the transportation of buggies, carriages and
other first class articles in less than carloads, from Cincinnati
aforesaid to Atlanta, in the State of Georgia, than one dollar
per hundred pounds."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, omitting unimportant details, was as follows:
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed . . . that this
cause be remanded 'to the Circuit Court, with instructions toenter a decree in favor of the complainant, the Interstate

CI., N. 0. & TEX. PAC. RAILWAY v. INT. COX. COM.

189

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Commission, and against the defendants, the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company,
the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company and the Georgia
Railroad Company, commanding and restraining the said
defendants, their officers, servants and attorneys, to cease and
desist from making any greater. charge in the aggregate on
buggies, carriages and on all other freight of the first class
carried in less than carloads from Cincinnati to Social Circle
than they charge on such freight from Cincinnati to Augusta;
that they so desist and refrain within five days after the entry
of the decree, and in case they or any of them shall fail to
obey said order, condemning the said defendants and each of
them to pay one hundred dollars a day for every day thereafter they shall so fail; and denying the relief prayed for in
relation to charges on like freight from Cincinnati to Atlanta."
It will be observed that, in its said decree, the Circuit Court
of Appeals adopted that portion of the order of the Commission which commanded the defendants to make no greater
charge on freight carried to Social .Circle than on like freight
carried to Augusta, and disapproved and annulled that portion
which commanded the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas
Pacific Railway Company and the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company to desist from charging for the transportation
of freight of like character from Cincinnati to Atlanta more
than one dollar per hundred pounds.
The railroad companies, in their appeal, complain of the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in so far as it affirmed
that portion of the order of the Commission which affected
the rates charged to Social Circle. The Commission in its
appeal complains of the decree in that it denies the relief
prayed for in relation to charges on freight' from Cincinnati
to Atlanta.
The first question that we have to consider is whether the
defendants, in transporting property from Cincinnati to Social
Circle, are engaged in such transportation "under a common
control, management or arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment" within the meaning of that language, as
used in the act to regulate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not understand the defendants to contend that the
arrangement whereby they carry commodities from Cincinnati to Atlanta and to Augusta at through rates which differ
in the aggregate from the aggregate of the local rates between
the same points, and which through rates are apportioned
between them in such a way that each receives a less sum
than their respective local rates, does not bring them within
the provisions of the statute. What they do claim is that, as
the charge to Social Circle, being $1.37 per hundred pounds,
is made up of a joint rate between Cincinnati and Atlanta,
amounting to $1.07 per hundred pounds, and 30 cents between Atlanta and Social Circle, and as the $1.07 for carrying the goods to Atlanta is divided between the Cincinnati,
New Orleans and Texas Pacific and the Western and Atlantic, 7 5 1 cents to the former and 31-. cents to the latter, and
the remaining 30 cents, being the amount of the regular local
rate, goes to the Georgia company, such a method of carrying freight from Cincinnati to Social Circle and of apportioning the money earned, is not a transportation of property
between those points "under a common control, management
or arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment."
Put in another way, the argument is that, as the Georgia
Railroad Company is a corporation of the State of Georgia,
and as its road lies wholly within that State, and as it exacts
and receives its regular local rate fo' the transportation to
Social Circle, such company is not, as to freight so carried,
within the scope of the act of Congress.
It is, no doubt, true that, under the very terms of the act,
its provisions do not apply to the transportation of passengers
or property, or to the receiving, delivering, storage or handling
of property, wholly within one State, not shipped to or from
a foreign country from or to any State or Territory.
In the answer filed by the so-called "Georgia Railroad
Company" in the proceedings before the Commission there
was the following allegation: "This respondent says that
while no arrangement exists for a through bill of lading from
Cincinnati to Social Circle, as a matter of fact the shipment
from Cincinnati to Social Circle by the petitioner was made

CIN., N. 0. & TEX. PAC. RAILWAY v. INT. COM. CO .

191

Opinion of the Court.

on a through bill of lading, the rate of which was fixed by
adding this respondent's local rate, from Atlanta to Social
Circle, to the through rate from Cincinnati to Atlanta."
The answer of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company and Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia,
which companies, as operating the Georgia railroads, were
sued by the name of the "Georgia Railroad Company," in the
Circuit Court of the United States, contained 'the following
statement:
"So far as these respondents are concerned they will state
that on July 3,1891, E. R. Dorsey, general freight agent of
said Georgia Railroad Company, issued a circular to its connections earnestly requesting them that thereafter, in issuing
bills of lading to local stations on the Georgia railroad, no
rates be inserted east of Atlanta, except to Athens, Gainesville, Washington, Milledgeville, Augusta or points beyond.
Neither before nor since the date of said circular have these
respondents, operating said Georgia railroad, been in any way
parties to such through -rates, if any, as may have been quoted,
from Cincinnati or other western points to any of the strictly
local stations on said Georgia railroad. The stations excepted
in said circular are not strictly local stations. Both before
and since the.date of said circular respondents have received
at Atlanta eastbound freight destined to strictly local stations
on the Georgia railroad and have charged full local rates to
such stations -said rates being such as they were authorized
to charge by the Georgia railroad commission. Said rates are
reasonably low and are charged to all'persons alike without
discrimination."
Upon this part of the case the conclusion of the Circuit
Court was that the traffic from Cincinnati to Social Circle, in
issue as to the Georgia Railroad Company, was local, and .that
that company was not, on the facts presented, made a party
to a joint or common arrangement. such as make the traffic to
Social Circle subject to the control of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
We are unable to accept this conclusion. It may be true
that the "Georgia Railroad Company," as. a corporation of the

OCTOBER TERf,11 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

State of Georgia, and whose entire road is within that State,
may not be legally compelled to submit itself to the provisions
of the act of Congress, even when carrying, between points
in Georgia, freight that has been brought from another State.
It may be that if, in the present case, the goods of the James
and Mayer Buggy Company had reached Atlanta, and there
and then, for the first time, and independently of any existing
arrangement with the railroad companies that had transported
them thither, the Georgia Railroad Company was asked to
transport them, whether to Augusta or to Social Cirdle, that
company could undertake such transportation free from the
control of any supervision except that of the State of Georgia.
But when the Georgia Railroad Company enters into the carriage of foreign freight, by agreeing to receive the goods by
virtue of forei--n through bills of lading, and to participate
in through rates and charges, it thereby becomes part of a
continuous line, not made by a consolidation with the foreign
companies, but made by an arrangement for the continuous
carriage or shipment from one State to another, and thus
becomes amenable to the Federal act, in respect to such
interstate commerce. We do not perceive that the Georgia
Railroad Company escaped from the supervision of the Commission, by requesting the foreign companies not to name or
fix any rates for that part of the transportation which took
place in the State of Georgia when the goods were shipped to
local points on its road. It still left its arrangement to stand
with respect to its terminus at Augusta and to other designated points. Having elected to enter into the carriage of
interstate freights and thus subjected itself to the control of
the Commission, it would not be competent for the company
to limit that control, in respect to foreign traffic, to certain
points on its road and exclude other points.
The Circuit Court sought to fortify its position in this
regard by citing the opinion of Mr. Justice Brewer in the
case of J/iicago & Yorthwestern Railroad v. Oborne, 10 U. S.
App. 430, when that case was before the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. It is quite true that
the opinion was expressed that railroad companies, incorpo-

CIN., N. 0. & TEX. PAC.RAILWAY v. INT. COM.C0M.

193

Opinion of the Court.

rated by and doing business wholly within one State, cannot
be compelled to agree to a common control, management or
arrangement with connecting companies, and thus be deprived
of its rights and powers as to rates on its own road. It was
also said that it did not follow that, even if such a state corporation did agree to form a continuous line for carrying foreign freight at a through rate, it was thereby prevented from
charging its ordinary local rates for domestic traffic originating within the State.
Thus understood, there is nothing -in that case which we
need disagree with in disapproving the Circuit Court's view in
the present case. All we wish to be understood to hold is, that
when goods shipped under a through bill of lading, from a
point in one State to a point in another, are received in transif
by a state common carrier, under a conventional division of
the charges, such carrier must be deemed to have subjected
its road to an arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment within the meaning of the act to regulate commerce.
When we speak of a through bill of lading we are referring to
the usual method in use by connecting companies, and must
not be understood to imply that a common control, management or arrangement might not be otherwise manifested.
Subject, then, as we hold the Georgia Railroad Company is,
under the facts found, to the provisions of the act to regulate
commerce, in respect to its interstate freight, it follows, as we
think, that it was within the jurisdiction of the Commission
to consider whether the said company, in charging a higher
rate for a shorter than for a longer distance over the same
line, in the same direction, the shorter being included within
the longer distance, was or was not transporting property, in
transit between States,, under "substhntially similar circumstances and conditions."
We do not say that, under no circumstances and conditions,
would it be lawful, when engaged in the transportation of
foreign freight, for a carrier to charge more~for a shorter than
a longer distance on its own line, but it is -for the tribunal
appointed to enforce the provisions of the statute, whether
the Commission or the court, to consider whether the existVOL. cLxI-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing circumstances and conditions were or were not substantially similar.
It has been forcibly argued that, in the present case, the
Commission did not give due weight to the facts that tended
to show that the circumstances and conditions were so dissimilar as to justify the rates charged. But the question was
one of fact, peculiarly within the province of the Commission,
whose conclusions have been accepted and approved by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and we find nothing in the record
to make it our duty to draw a different conclusion.
We understand the record as disclosing that the Commission, in view of $he circumstances and conditions in which the
defendants were operating, did not disturb the rates agreed
upon whereby the same charge was made to Augusta as to
Atlanta, a less distant point. Some observations made by the
Commission in its report on the nature of the circumstances and
conditions which would justify a greater charge for the shorter
distance, gave occasion for an interesting discussion by the respective counsel. But it is not necessary for us, in the present
case, to express any opinion on a subject so full of difficulty.
These views lead to an affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, in so far as the appeal of the defendant
companies is concerned; and we are brought to a consideration of the appeal by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
That appeal presents the question whether the Circuit Court
of Appeals erred in its holding in respect to the action of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in fixing a maximum rate
of charges for the transportation of freight of the first class in
less than carloads from Cincinnati to Atlanta.
This question may be regarded as twofold, and is so presented in the assignment of error filed on behalf of the Commission, namely: Did the court err in not holding that, in
point of law, the Interstate Commerce Commission had power
to fix a maximum rate, and, if such power existed, did the
court err in not holding that the evidence justified the rate
fixed by the Commission and not decreeing accordingly?
It is stated by the Commission, in its report, that "the only
testimony offered or heard as to the reasonableness of the rate

CIN., N. 0. & TEX. PAC. RAILWAY v. INT. COIM. COM.

195

Opinion of the Court.

to Atlanta in question was that of the vice president of the
-Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Company, whose
deposition was taken at the instance of the company." - And
in acting upon the subject, the Commission say:
"This statement or estimate of the rate from Cincinnati to
Atlanta, ($1.01 per hundred pounds in less than carloads,)
we believe is fully as high as it may reasonably be, if not
higher than it should be, but without more thorough investigation than it is now practicable to make we do not feel
justified in determining upon a more moderate rate than $1
per hundred pounds of first class freight in less than carloads.
The rate on this freight from Cincinnati to Birmingham, Alabama, is 89 cents as compared with $1.07 to Atlanta, the
distances being substantially the same. There is apparently
nothing in the nature and, character of the service to justify
such difference, or in fact to warrant any substantial variance
in the Atlanta and Birmingham rate from Cincinnati."
But when the Commission filed its petition in the Circuit
Court of the United States, seeking to enforce compliance
with the rate of one dollar per hundred pounds, as fixed by
the Commission, the railroad companies, in their answers,
alleged that, " the rate charged to Atlanta, namely $1.07 per
hundred pounds, was fixed by active competition between
various transportation lines, and was reasonably low."
Under this issue evidence was taken, and we learn, from
the opinion of the Circuit Court, that, as to -the rate to Birmingham, there was evidence before the court which evidently
Was not before the Commission, namely, that the rate froih Cincinnati to Birmingham, which 'seems previously to have been
$1.08, was forced down to 89 cents by the building of the Kansas City, Memphis and Birmingham Railroad, which new road
caused the establishment of a rate of 75 cents from Memphis
to Birmingham, and by reason of water route to the Northwest such competition was brought about that the pvesent rate
of 89 cents from Cincinnati to Birmingham was the result.
Without stating the reasoning of the Circuit Court, which
will be found in the report of the case in 61 Fed. Rep. 981, the
conclusion reached was that the evidence offered in that court

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

was sufficient to overcome any prima facie case that may
have been made by the findings of the Commission, and that
the rate complained of was not unreasonable.
As already stated, the Circuit Court of Appeals adopted
the views of the Circuit Court, in respect to the reasonableness of the rate charged on first class freight carried on defendants' line from Cincinnati to Atlanta; and as both courts
found the existing rates to haye been reasonable, we do not
feel disposed to review their finding on that matter of fact.
We think this a proper occasion to express disapproval of
such a method of procedure on the part of the railroad companies as should lead them to withhold the larger part of
their evidence from the Commission, and first adduce it in the
Circuit Court. The Commission is an administrative board,
and the courts are only to be resorted to when the Commission prefers to enforce the provisions of the statute by a
direct proceeding in the court, or when the orders of the
Commission have been disregarded. The theory of the act
evidently is, as shown by the provision that the findings of the
Commission shall be regarded as prima facie evidence, that
the facts of the case are to be disclosed before the Commission.
We do not mean, of course, that either party, in a trial in the
court, is to be restricted to the evidence that was before the
Commission, but that the purposes of the act call for a full
inquiry by the Commission into all the circumstances and conditions pertinent to the questions involved.
Whether Congress intended to confer upon the Interstate
Commerce Commission the power to itself fix rates, was
mooted in the courts below, and is discussed in the briefs of
counsel.
We do not find any provision of the act that expressly, or
by necessary implication, confers such a power.
It is argued on behalf of the Commission that the power to
pass upon the reasonableness of existing rates implies a right
to prescribe rates. This is not necessarily so. The reasonableness of the rate, in a given case, depends on the facts, and the
function of the Commission is to consider these facts and give
them their proper weight. If the Commission, instead of

TEXAS & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE CO1V. COM.

197

Syllabus.

withholding judgment in such a matter until an issue shall be
made and the facts found, itself fixes a rate, that rate is prejudged by the Commission to be reasonable.
We prefer to adopt the view expressed by the late Justice
Jackson, when Circuit Judge, in the case of the Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.,
43 Fed. Rep. 37, and whose judgment was affirmed by this
court, 145 U. S. 263:
"Subject to the two leading prohibitions that their charges
shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that they shall not
unjustly discriminate, so as to give undue preference or disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the act
to regulate commerce leaves common carriers as they were at
the common law, free to make special contracts looking to
the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust
and apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities of commerce, and generally to manage their important interests
upon the same principles which are regarded as sound, and
adopted in other trades and pursuits."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
ffirmed.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 821.

Argued January 29, 30, 1896. -Decided

March 30, 1896.

The Interstate Commerce Commission is a body corporate, with legal capacity to be a party plaintiff or defendant in the Federal courts.
The Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York had jurisdiction
of the acts complained of in this suit.
The Southern Pacific Company, although a proper, was not a necessary
party to this suit.
In enacting the interstate commerce acts Congress had in view, and intended to make provision for commerce between States and Territories,
commerce going to and coming from foreign countries, and the whole

