HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 766.

Submitted March 9, 1696.-Decided

April 18, 1896.

The act of March 21, 1895, classifying the counties of the Territory df Arizona, and fixing the compensation. of the officers therein (Laws 1895, p.
68), purports on its face to be an act of that Territory, to have been approved on the 21st of March, 1895; and the original is filed with, and is
in the custody of the Secretary of the Territory; is signed by the Governor as approved by him; is signed by the President of the Tefritorial
Legislative Council as duly passed by that body; and is signed by the
Speaker of the Territorial House of.Representatives as duly passed by

that body. Hfeld, that, havirig been thus officially attested, and approved,
and committed to the custody of the Secretary of the Territory as an act
passed by the territorial legislature, that act is to be taken as having
been enacted in the mode required by law, and to be unimpeachable by
recitals or omissions of recitals in the journals of legislative proceedings
which are not required by the fundamental law of the Territory to be
so kept as to show everything done in both branches of the legislaturs
while engaged in the consideration of bills presented for their action.
Meld v. Clark, 143 U. S.649, considered, affirmed, and applied to this case as
it.
decisive of
That act is not a local or special act, within the meaning of the act of Congress of July 30, 1886, c. 818, 24 Stat. 170.

THIs was a contest as to the right to exercise the functions
of the office of county recorder of Cochise county, Territory
of Arizona.
The defendant in- error filed in the district court of the
First Judicial District of that Territory, holden in Cochise
icounty, a petition alleging that, at a general election held in
Arizona on the 6th day of NVovember, 1894, he was duly
elected to the office of county recorder of Cochise county,
and thereafter, having first duly qualified, entered upon the
discharge of his duties as such officer; that that county, at the
time of such election, was what is denominated as a first class
county of the Territory; that at a regular meeting of the
board of supervisors of the county he was duly elected and
appointed to the office of clerk of that board, and, having

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

qualified, entered upon the duties of the office; that thereafter,
on or about March 21, 1895, the Legislative Assembly of Ari.
zona, for the purpose of classifying the counties of the Territory and fixing the compensation of county officers, passed
an act entitled "An act classifying the counties of the Territory, and fixing the compensation of the officers therein,"
which was approved March 21, 1895, by the Governor of the
Territory, and went into effect thirty days after its passage,
namely,-on the 21st day of April, 1895; and that, according
to the provisions of the act, Cochise county became and is a
county of the third class, and its recorder clerk ex officio of
the board of supervisors.
The plaintiff averred in his petition that as recorder he was,
and had been since April 21,1895, ex officio clerk of the board of
supervisors, and as such entitled to the possession of the books,
papers, records, seals and documents pertaining to that office,
but the same were in the hands of the defendant Hlarwood, who,
upon demand duly made, refused to deliver them to the plaintiff.
The prayer of the petition was that a writ of mandamus be
issued, commanding the defendant to forthwith deliver all of
said books, papers, records, seal and other documents to the
plaintiff as recorder of Cochise county and ex officio clerk of
said board of supervisors; that plaintiff be adjudged to be
such recorder and clerk; and that the defendant be enjoined
and restrained from exercising or performing any of the duties
of that office.
The petition having been supported by the plaintiff's affidavit, an alternative mandamus was directed to be issued commanding the defendant to deliver to the plaintiff all the books,
papers, etc., pertaining to the office of clerk of the board of
supervisors of Cochise county, or to show cause, by a day
named, why the writ should not be made final and peremptory
in the premises.
The defendant Harwood averred that the act referred to in
the plaintiff's petition, and referred to. in the record as House
bill No.9, was not a law; that the same did not pass the Legislative Assembly as alleged; that that act, "as the same passed
both houses of said Legislative Assembly," contained a clause

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

that it should not take effect and be in force before January 1,
1897; that that clause -or section was stricken out, omitted
and taken from the act after the same had passed both houses
of the assembly, but is a part of the act; that there was also
a clause that "all acts or parts of acts in conflict with this act
are hereby repealed," and that that clause was also omitted
and stricken out in the same way; and that "the said alleged
act was not duly passed by the Legislative Assembly or by
either house thereof, and that the same is not a laWv."
By consent of the parties the case was tried by the court
upon a stipulation as to the facts, and without a jury.
It was agreed by the parties that the act of March 21, 1895,
as it appears in the printed laws of Arizona for 1895, (p. 68,) is
filed with and is in the custody of the Secretary of the Territory, and is signed as it appears in those laws to be signed,
namely, by the Governor, the Speaker of the House, and the.
President of the Council.
The affidavits of A. J. Doran and J.H. Carpenter, and also
the affidavits of Charles D. Reppy and Charles F. Hoff, with
the exhibits attached thereto, were read in evidence, and were
treated as containing a true statement of the journals and
proceedings of both houses, and of the facts stated in them,
subject to the objection by the plaintiff that the enrolled bill,
signed by the Governor and lodged with the Secretary of the
Territory, could not be attacked by any evidence.
The witness Doran stated that he was President of the
Council of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory; that
the session terminated March 21; that it was his custom as
President to sign bills when presented to him by the chairman
of the enrolling and engrossing committee of either house;
that it had been the practice to so sign bills when presented,
whether the Council was in session or not, though ordinarily
it would be done when the Council was in session; that if
signed when the Council was in session there was no formality
gone through with; that the attention of the Council was not
called to the fact that the President was about to sign the bill,
-norwas its business interrupted for the purpose of signing the
bill, nor was a member who was speaking interrupted; and

OCTOBER TERI,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

that it was simply handed up to the President and he would
sign his name and hand it back.
The witness Carpenter, who, was Speaker of the House
of Representatives of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, testified : "That the session terminated on March 21.
It was the universal custom for him as such Speaker to sign
bills when presented to affiant by the chairman of the enrolling and engrossing committee- of either house; that affiant
so signed them without reading them or without comparing them in any manner; and that as a matter of fact he
did not compare any one bill signed by him before he signed
it. It was his custom, and it has been the practice, to sign
bills when presented, whether the house was in session or
not.. If signed when the house was in session, there was no
formality gone through with. The attention of the house
was not called to the fact that the Speaker was about to sign
a bill, nor was the business of the house interrupted for the
purpose of signing bills, nor was a member who was speaking
interrupted. The facts are that a bill was simply handed up
to the Speaker and he would simply sign his name and hand
it back." He also stated that he was "certain that house bill
No. 9, when it passed the house, contained a clause that it
should go into effect January, 1, 1897."
Hoff and Reppy were chief clerks, respectively, of the
Council and Houre of Representatives of the territorial Legislative Assembly, by which the said act of March 21, 1895,
purported to have been passed. Referring to the original
bill and to the numerous indorsements, or minutes thereon
made by them respectively, each witness stated that the bill,
as it passed the body of which he was an officer, and, therefore, as it passed both houses, contained the clause, "This act
shall take effect and be in force from and after January
1, 1897; " consequently, according to their evidence, the
omission of that clause from the bill occurred after it passed
both houses, and whilI it was in the hands of the committee
on enrolment.
Upon these facts the court found the issues for the plaintiff,
and its judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court of the
Territory.

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

The statutes of the United States, as well as the statutes of
the Territory of Arizona,' which- bear more or less upon the
present controversy, are, for convenience, given in the margin. 1
1STATUTES

OF UNITED STATES.

.?evised Statutes.
SEc. 1841. The executive power of each Territory shall be vested in a
governor, who shall hold his office for, four years, and until his successor
is appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed by the President ...
SEc. 1842. Every bill which has passed the legislative assembly of any
Territoryshall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the governor. If
he approve, he shall sign it, but if not, he shall return it, with his objections, to that house in which it originated, and that house 'shall enter the
objections at large on its journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If, after
such reconsideration, two thirds of that house agree to pass the bill, it
shall be sent, together with the objections, to the other house, by which it
shall be likewise reconsidered; and, if approved by two thirds of that
house, it shall become a lavw. But in all such cases the votes of both houses
shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the persons voting
for or against the bill shall be entered on the journal of each house. If any
bill is not returned by the governor within three days, Sundays excluded,
except in Washington and Wyoming, where the term is five days, Sundays
excluded, after it has been presented- to him, the same shall be a law, in like
manner as if he had signed it, unless the legislative assembly, by adjournment sine die, prevent its return, in which case it shall not be a law: Provided, That so much of this section as provides for making any bill passed
by the legislative assembly of a Territory a law, without the approval of
the governor, shall not apply to the Territories of Utah and Arizona.
SEc. 1843. There shall be appointed a secretary for each Territory, who
shall reside within the Territory for which he is appointed, and shall hold
his office for four years, and until his successor is appointed and qualified,
unless sooner removed by the President.
. .
SEC. 1844. The secretary shall record and preserve all the laws and proceedings of the legislative assembly and all the acts and proceedings of the
governor in the executive department; he shall transmit one copy of the
laws and journals of the legislative -assembly, within thirty days after the
end of each session thereof, to the President, and two copies of the laws,
within like time, to the President of the Senate and to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, for the use of Congress. He shall transmit one
copy of the executive proceedings and official correspondence semi-annually, on the first day of January and July in each year, to the President.
He shall prepare the acts passed by the legislative assembly for publication,
and furnish a copy thereof to the public printer of the Territory within
ten days after the passage of each act.
SEC. 1846. The legislative power in each Territory shall be vested in the.

OCTOBER TERI, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

A&. William H. Barnes for appellant.
In Gardner v. Collector, 6 Wall. 499, 508, 511, Miller, J., said
governor and a legislative assembly. The legislative assembly shall consist
of a council and house of representatives...
SEC. 1851. The legislative power of every Territory shall extend to all
rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the Constitution and
. .
laws of the United States.
SEC. 1861. The subordinate officers of each branch of every legislative
assembly shall consist of one chief clerk, who shall receive a compensation
of eight dollars per day, and of one assistant clerk, one enrolling clerk, one
engrossing clerk,'one sergeant-at-arms, one doorkeeper, one messenger,
and one watchman, who shall each receive a compensation of five dollars
per day during the sessions, and no charge for a greater number of officers
and attendants, or any larger per diem, shall be allowed or paid -by the
United States to any Territory.
Act of July 19; 1876, c. 212.
By an act of'Congress, approved July 19, 1876, c. 212, 19 Stat. 91, entitled
"An act relating to the approval of bills in the Territory of Arizona,"
(Supp. R. S. 112, c. 212,) it was provided:
" Be it enacted, etc., That every bill which shall have passed the legislative council and house of' representatives of the Territory of Arizona
shall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the governor of the Territory ; if he approve it, he shall sign it, but if he do not approve it, he shall
return it, with his objections, to the house in which it originated, who shall
enter the objections at large upon their journal, and proceed to reconsider it.
If after such reconsideration, two thirds of that house shall pass the bill,
it shall be sent, together with the objections, to the other house, by which It
shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that house it
shall become a law, the governor's objection to the contrary notwithstanding ; but in such case, the votes of both houses shall be determined
by yeas and nays, and be entered upon the journal of each house respectively. And if the governor shall not return any bill presented to him for
approval, after its passage by both houses of the legislative assembly within
ten days (Sundays excepted) after such presentation, the same shall become
a law, in like manner as if the governor had approved'it: Provided,however,
That the assembly shall not have adjourned sine die during the ten days
prescribed as above, in which case it shall not become a law : And Jrovided
further, That acts so becoming laws as aforesaid shall have the same force
and effect and no other, as other laws passed by the legislature of said
Territory."
STATUTES OF ARIZONA.

Revised Statutes, 1887.'
SEC. 2940. All official acts of the governor, his approval of the laws excepted, shall be authenticated by the great seal of the Territory, which shall

HARWOOD v. WENTWORUTH.
Argument for Appellant.

of the public statute in question, in that case: "It is one of
which the court takes judicial notice without proof." "We
are of opinion, therefore, on principle as well as authority,
be kept by the secretary thereof. SEC. 2878. The legislative assembly shall
-consist of : 1. Twenty-four members of the house of representatives ; 2.
Twelve members of the council. SEc. 2889. The chief'clerks of each house
must attend each day, call the roll, read the journals and bills and superintend any matters required of them. SEc. 2890. The enrolling and engrossing clerk of each house must enroll and engross such bills or resolutions,
as may be required of him by the house to which he is attached. SEC. 2895.
Each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings and publish the same,
except such parts as may require secrecy. The yeas and nays of the members of either house, on any question, shall be entered on the journal at the
request of one fifth of the members elected. Any member of either house
may dissent from and protest against any act, proceeding or resolution
which lie may-deem injurious t.o any person or the public, and have the
reason of his dissent entered on the journal. SEc. 2899. Every bill and
joint resolution, except of adjournment, passed by the legislature, shall be
presented to the governor before' it becomes a law. If he approve, he shall
.sign it; but if not, he shall return it with his objections, to the house in
which it originated, which shall enter the objections at large upon their
journal. SEC. 2901. Every bill and joint resolution shall be -read three
times in each house before the final passage thereof. No bill or joint resolution shall become a law, without the concurrence of a majority C.fall the
members present, and constituting a quorum of each house. On the final
passage of allbills, and all joint resolutions having the effect of law, the
vote shall be by ayes and nays, and entered on the journal. SEC. 2921. Eve.ry
bill must, as soon as delivered to the governor, be endorsed as follows ;
"This bill was received by the governor this- day of -,
eighteen ."
The indorsement must be signed by the private secretary of the governor.
Snc. 2928. The original acts of the legislature shall be deposited with and
kept by the secretary of the Territory. SEc. 2929. All acts of the legislature and joint resolutions having the effect of law, shall take effect and be
in force -on the thirtieth day after being approved by the governor, and deposited in the office of the secretary of the Territory, unless otherwise
ordered by the legislature. SEC. 2947. The secretary of the Territory has
such powers and shall perform such duties as are prescribed by the laws of
the United States, and in addition thereto it is the duty of the secretary of
the Territory :- 1. To attend at every session of the legislature for the
purposc of receiving bills and resolutions thereof, and to perform such
other duties as may be devolved upon him by resolution of the two houses,
or either of them.- . . . 9. To deliver to the printer, at the earliest day
practicable after the final adjournment of each session of the legislature,
copies of all laws, resolutions, (with marginal- notes,) and journals, kept,
passed or adopted at such session; to superintend the printing thereof, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

that whenever a question arises in a court of law of the existence of a statute, or of the time when a statute took effect, or
of the precise terms of a statute, the judges who are called
upon to decide it, have a right to resort to any source of information which in its nature is capable of conveying to the
judicial mind a clear and satisfactory answer to such question;
always seeking first for that which in its nature is most appropriate, unless the positive law has enacted a different rule."
This case is cited with approval in Purdy v. People, 4 Hill,
384; DeBow v. People, 1 Denio, 9; Spangler v. Jacoby, 14
Illinois, 297; Young v. Thompson, 14: Illinois, 380; iSpeer v.
Plank Road Co., 22 Penn. St. 376; In the matter of TFelman,
20 Vermont, 653-; Supervisors v. Heenan, 2 Minnesota, 330;
Fowler v. Peirce, 2 California, 165.
have proof shedts of the same compared with the originals and corrected.
10. To cause to be published annually such laws, reports and documents,
in addition to those required by the laws of the United States, as the legislature may direct. "SEc.2948. He shall secure and safely keep in his office
all original acts and joint resolutions of the legislature, and cause the same
to be substantially bound in suitable and convenient volumes. SEc. 2949.
He is charged with the custody of :- 1. All acts and resolutions passed by
the legislature. 2. The journals of the legislature. 3. All books, records,
deeds, parchments, maps and papers kept or deposited in his office pursuant to law. Smc. 2950. He shall immediately after the publication of the
statutes distribute volumes thereof as follows : 1. To the President of the
United States one copy. 2. To the President of the United States Senate
one. 3. To the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United
States, one copy. 4. To each Department of the Government at Washington, D.C., and of the government of tl~is Territory, one copy. 5. To the
Library of Congress, one copy. 6. One copy each to the governor, members of the legislature by which such laws were enacted, the delegate in
Congress, the Secretary of the Territory, each judge of a court of record in
the Territory, the attorney general, territorial treasurer, territorial auditor,
clerk of the Supreme and District Courts, 'county treasurers, recorders,
sheriffs, district attorneys and boards of supervisors, court or public libraries, the Attorney General of the United States and the governor of each of
the States and Territories of the United States for the 'use of such State
or Territory. SEc. 2951. He shall distribute the journals of the legislature in the manner provided by the law of the United States, and also one
copy each to the persons mentioned in subdivisioil six of the preceding
section. SEC. 2952. He shall deposit in the territorial library forty copies
of the statutes and twenty copies of the journals.

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Argument for Appellant.

It was approved in Zaeyre v. United States, 17 Wall. 191;
South Ottawa v. Perkins,94 U. S. 260; Walnut v. Wade, 103
U. S. 683; Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667; Jones v. United
States, 137 U. S. 202; In. re Duncan, 139 U. S. 449.
These are all the cases down to Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649. The opinion, in that case, on p. 672, lays great stress
on the fact that the signing by the speaker of the house and
President of the Senate was in open session, and so an official
attestation by the two houses of the bill as one that has
passed Congress.
Whatever weight, and the court seems to lay great weight
upon it, is to be given to the signatures of the presiding
officers in the presence of the houses in open session, that
weight is destroyed by the fact which appears in this case,
that it is not the practice in Arizona and never has been, and
was not true as to this bill, and no inference of approval hy
the house can be drawn by the fact of signature here. The
case in argument goes far to close the door.
We urge that that case is against the weight of authority
and contrary to the former decisions of this court. It does
not overrule Galdner v. Collector, or the former cases, and it
particularly cites that case with approval.
If the case stood alone it would be authority for the startling doctrine that no matter how, whether by fraud or mistake, a law so authenticated is law, though it never passed.
The question again came before the court in Lyons v. Woods.
153 U. S. 649. The validity of a law of New Mexico was
involved. The legality of the organization of the council
was the question, and while the court quotes Field v. Clark,
approvingly, it says: "Perhaps, however, it would be proper
to extend our examination somewhat further. The question whether a seeming act of the legislature has become a
law in accordance with the fundamental law is a judicial one
to be tested by the courts and judges, and not a question of
fact to be tried by a jury:" citing Ottawa v. Perkins, Post
v. Supervisors, Gardnerv. Collector, and quotes the language
of the last case. It thereby reaffirms it and cites In re Duncan and Jones v. United States. The court then in a long opin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

ion goes into the whole case, the journals and intrinsic facts,
and holds to the validity of the law.
But the court expressly declines to decide under what circumstances they would be compelled to decide that an enactment was by an illegal body. -Such a question may arise.
It cites with approval Clough v. Curtis, 134 U. S. 361. It
seems that this last decision intentionally leaves the question
an open one, to be settled by the facts of each case.
The Supreme Court of the United States is therefore on
both sides of the question. The weight and number of the
cases in this court uphold the view we contend for, and
the court has never discarded it.
We insist that Lyons v. Woods clearly indicates that the
court.went too far in Field v. Clark. The court clearly intimates that cases may arise when a law must be declared
void, even though authenticated.
If there ever can be such a case, the case at bar is that
case. None stronger can be-found, and we have no. doubt
in the light of the cases in this court that this law will be
declared void upon the authorities of the Supreme Court of
the United States alone. Wheni we throw in the almost
overwhelming weight of the authority from the other courts,
we confidently say this is not a law. People v. Dunn, 80
California, 211.
T4Iis is not a question as to whether this law was read
three times in each house, as required by statute, nor as to
whether the law received a concurrence of a majority of a
quorum; nor whether on final passage the votes were by
ayes and nays, entered on the journal.
No such question as that is presented. Those are facts
which the journals will disclose, and it is with reference to
constitutional questions of that kind that the question arises
as to which is to have the greater weight, the signed bill with
the secretary or the journals of the houses as a question of
evidence. It is at this point that the authorities differ. Some
say the former is conclusive; others say not so, but that the
court will look into the journals and proceedings to see
whether the constitution has been obeyed. The question

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

here goes farther than that. The facts show that this bill
was never before either house at all; was never passed by
either house; but after a bill had passed both houses, an entirely different bill was made up by some clerk of a committee, and hafided to the governor to 'ign. The bill handed to
the governor is not an enrolled copy of the bill which passed
the house, and hence the bill never passed at all. Here is the
question presented, and here is the issue. I do not claim
for the agreed case anything more than bringing to the
actual knowledge and attention of the court facts of which
the court takes judicial knowledge. If the authenticated
bill is conclusive the court will look no further. If not,
then here are the facts under the eyes of the court to be
examined and determined.
Mr. A. Wentworth, defendant in error, for himself.
MRi. JUsTICE HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The sta.tutt which purports to be an act of the legislature
of the Territory of Arizona, entitled "An act classifying the
counties of the Territory and fixing the compensation of officers therein," and to have been approved by the Governor on
the 21st day of March, 1895, not only appears in the published
laws of the Territory, but is filed with and -in the custody of
the secretary of the Territory, and is signed, the parties agree,
by the Governor, the President of the territorial Legislative
Council, and the Speaker of the territorial House of Representatives.
Is it competent to show, by evidence derived from the
journals of the Council and House of Representatives, as kept
by their respective chief clerks, from the indorsements or
minutes made by those clerks on the original bill while it was
in the possession of the two branches of the legislature, and
from the recollection of the officers of each body, that this
act, thus in the custody of the territorial Secretary, and
authenticated by the signatures of the Governor, President of
the Council, and Speaker of the House of Representatives,

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

contained, at the time of its final passage, provisions that were
omitted from it without authority of the council or the house,
before it was presented to the Governor for his approval?
Upon the authority of Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 671,
et seg., this question must be answered in the negative. That
case, in its essential features, does not differ from the one
now before the court. It was claimed in that case that a
certain provision or section was in the act of Congress of
October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, as it passed, but was
omitted without authority from the bill or act authenticated
by the signatures of the presiding officers of the two houses
of Congress and approved by the President. What was said
in that case is directly applicable in principle to the present
,case. After observing that the Constitution expressly required
certain matters to be entered on the journal, and, waiving any expression of opinion as to the validity of a legislative enactment passed in disregard of that requirement, the
court said: "But it is clear that, in respect to the particular
mode in which, or with what fulness, shall be kept the proceedings of either house relating to matters not expressly
required to be entered on the journals; whether bills, orders,
resolutions, reports and amendments shall be entered at large
on the journal, or only referred to and designated by their
titles or by numbers; these and like matters were left to the
discretion of the respective houses of Congress. Nor does any
clause of that instrument, either expressly or by necessary
implication, prescribe the mode in which the fact of the original passage of a bill by the House of Representatives ind the
Senate shall be authenticated, or preclude Congress -from
adopting any mode to that end which its wisdom suggests.
Although the Constitution does not expressly require bills
that have passed Congress to be attested by the signature of
the presiding officers of the two houses, usage, the orderly
conduct of legislative proceedings and the rules under which
the two bodies have acted since the organization of the gov-ernment, require that mode of authentication." Again: "The
signing by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
by the President of the Senate, in open session, of an enrolled

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

,

bill, is an official attestation by the two houses of such bill as
one that has passed Congress. It is a declaration by the two
houses, through their.presiding officers, to the President, that
a bill, thus attested, has received, in due form, the sanction
of the legislative branch of the government, and that it is
delivered to him in obedience to the constitutional requirement that all bills which pass Congress shall be presented to
him. And when a bill, thus attested, receives his approval
and is deposited in the public archives, its authentication as a
bill that has passed Congress should be deemed complete and
unimpeachable. As the President has no authority to approve
a bill not passed by Congress, an enrolled act in the custody
of the Secretary of State and having the official attestations
of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, of the President of the Senate and of the President of the United States*
carries, on its face, a solemn assurance by the legislative and
executive departments of the government, charged, respectively, with the duty of enacting and executing the laws, that
it was passed by Congress. The respect due to coequal and
independent departments requires the judicial department to
act upon that assurance and to accept, as having passed Congress, all bills authenticated in the manner stated, leaving the
courts to determine, when the question properly arises, whether
the act, so authenticated, is in conformity with the- Constitution."
It is said that, although an enrolled act properly authenticated is sufficient, nothing to the contrary appearing on its
face, to show that it was passed by the territorial Legislature,
it cannot possibly be - that public policy forbids - that. the
judiciary should be required to accept as a statute of the Territory that which may be shown not to have been passed in the
form in which it was when authenticated by the signatures of
the presiding officers of the territorial Legislature, and of the
Governor. This,-it is contended, makes it possible for these
officers to impose upon the people, as a law, something that
never, in fact, received legislative sancion. Considering a
similar contention in Field v. Clark,the court said: "But this
possibility is too remote to be seriously considered in the pres-

OCTOBER TERI,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

ent inquiry. It suggests a deliberate conspiracy to which the
presiding oIfles, the committees -on enrolled bills and the
clerks of the two houses must necessarily be parties, all acting
with a common purpose to defeat an expression of the popular
will in the mode prescribed by the Constitution. Judicial action based upon such a suggestion is forbidden by the respect
due to a coirdinate branch of the government. The evils that.
may result from the recognition of the principle that an enrolled act, in the custody of the Secretary of State, attested by
the signatures of the presiding officers of the two houses of
Congress, and the approval of the President, is conclusive evidence that it was passed by Congress, according to the forms
of the Constitution, would be far less than those that would
certainly result from a rule making the validity of Congressional enactments depend upon the manner in which the journals of the respective houses are kept by the. subordinate
officers charged with the duty of keeping them." These observations are entirely applicable to the present case.
But it may be added that, if the principle announced in
Field v. Clark involves any element of danger to the public,.
it is competent for Congress to meet that danger by declaring under what circumstances, or by what kind of evidence, an
enrolled act of Congress or of a territorial Legislature, authenticated as required by law, and in the hands of the officer or
department to whose custody it is committed by statute, may
be shown not to be in the form in which it was when passed
by Congress or by the territorial Legislature.
It is difficult to imagine a case that would more clearly demonstrate the soundness of the rule recognized in Field v.
Clark than the case now under examination. The President
of the Council and the Speaker of the House of Representatives
state that it was not "the custom," when an enrolled bill was
presented for signature, to call the attention of their respective
bodies to the fact that such bill was about to be signed; that
the bill was simply handed up, when it would be signed and
handed back, without formality and without interrupting legislative proceedings. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, in addition, stated that he was certain that the original

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

bill when it passed that body contained a clause that it should
go into effect on the 1st day of January, 1897. But what
made him so certain of, or how he was able to recall, that fact,
is not stated.
Equally unsatisfactory, as proof of what occurred in the
territorial Legislature, are the indorsements mtde by the chief
clerks of the council and the house upon the original bill.
The indorsements made by the chief clerk of the house are
as follows: "Introduced by Mr. Fish January 28, 1895 ;.read
1st time; rules suspended; read 2d time by title'; '100 copies
ordered printed and referred to committee on judiciary. Reported printed, 2, 5, '95. - Reported by comiittee amended
and recommended that it do pass as amended. Referred to
committee of whole with report of committee and its amendments. 2,7, '95. - Considered in commhittee of whole, amended,
and reported back with recommendation that it do pass as
amended. 2, 15, '95. - Amendments adopted and 106 copies
ordered printed. 2, 21, '95.- Reported printed and ordered
engrossed and to have third reading. 2, 28, '95.- Rep'd engrossed, read 3d time, placed on final passage, and passed ayes, 17; noes, 6; absent, Brown, sick." Th iidbrsementg
made by the chief clerk of the Council were these: "Rec'd
from house; read first time; rule suspended;- read 2d time by
title; referred to com. on ways and means, 2, 28, '95. - Rep't
back that it be referred to a com. of the whole ; rep'd adopted
and made sp'c'l order for Tuesday, March the 12th, at 2 P.M., 3,
7, '95. Made sp'c'l order for 4 P.M. this day, 3, 16, '95. Consider~d in com. of whole; rep't back; progress, 3, 18, '95.
Considered in committee of the whole; amendment, no. 1 and
no. 2 offered and adopted. Ordered to have third reading, 3,
19, '95. Read third time placed upon its final passage -ind
passed council. Taken to house, 3, 20, '95." Again: "3, 20,
"95- house. Rec'd by message; amended in council; amendments concurred by house; ordered enrolled. 3, 21, '95.Rep't enr'd and in hands of governor." These indorsements,
in themselves, throw no light upon the inquiry as to whether
the particular clause, alleged to have been omitted, was, in
fact, stricken out by the direction of the Council and House.
VOL. Cmx-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

They show, it is true, that amendments of the original bill
were made, but not what were the nature of those amendments. If it be said that certain amendments are attached to
.the original bill, and are attested by one of the clerks, the
answer is, that other amendments may-have been mnde that
were not thus preserved. It was not required that each amendment should be entered at large on the journal.
If there be danger, under .the principles announced in Field
v. Glark, that the Governor and the presiding officers of the
two houses of a territorial Legislature may impose upon the
people an act that was never passed in the form in which it is
preserved by the Secretary of the Territory, and as it appears
in the published statutes, how much greater is the danger. of
permitting the validity of a legislative enactment to be questioned by evidence furnished by the general indorsements
made by clerks upon bills previous to their final passage and
enrolment - indorsements usually so expressed as not to be
intelligible to any one except those who made them, and the
scope and effect of which cannot in many cases be understood
unless supplemented by the recollection of clerks as to what
occurred in the hurry and confusion often attendant upon
legislative proceedings.
We see no reason to modify the principles announced in
Field v. Clark, and, therefore, hold that, having been officially attested by the presiding officers of the territorial
Council and House of Representatives, having been approved
by the Governor, and having been committed to the custody
of the Secretary of the Territory, as an act passed by the
territorial Legislature, the act of March 21, 1895, is to be
taken to have been enacted in the mode required by law, and
to be unimpeachable by the recitals, or omission of recitals, in
the journals of legislative proceedings which are not required
by the fundamental law of the Territory to be so kept as to
show everything done in both branches of the legislature
while engaged in the consideration of bills presented for
their action.
It remains to consider whether that act is repugnant to the
act of Congress of July 30, 1886, c. 818, 24 Stat. 170, entitled

HARWOOD v. WENTWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

"An act to prohibit the passage of local or special laws in
the Territories of the United States to limit territorial indebtedness, and for other purposes."
That act declares that the legislatures of the Territories of
the United States shall not pass local or special laws in any
of the foll6wing, among other, enumerated cases: "Regulating county and township affairs;" "for the assessment and
collection of taxes for territorial, county, township or road
purposes;" "creating, increasing or decreasing fees, percentage or allowances of public officers during the term for which
said officers are elected."
The territorial act, alleged to be repugnant to the act of
Congress, is declared to be "for the purpose of fixing the
compensation of county officers" of the Territory, and to that
end all the counties of the Territory are classified according
to the equalized assessed valuation of property in each
county. County treasurers, district attorneys, county recorders, assessors and probate judges are to receive salaries
of specified amounts, as the counties of which they are officers are in one or the other of the six .classes established.
In other words, the salaries of officers in each class are specified, the largest salary that each can receive being that named
for a- county of the first class -having an equalized assessed
valuation of property of three million dollars or.more,. and
the smallest that each can receive being that named for
counties of the sixth class, having an equalized assessed valuation of property of less than one million dollars. Laws
of Arizona 1895, p. 68.
We are of the opinion that the territorial-act is not a local
or special law within the meaning of the act of Congress. It
is true that the practical effect of ihe former is to establish
higher salaries for the particular officers- named, in some
counties, than for the same class of officers in other counties.
But that does not make it a local or special law. The act
is general in its operation; it applies to all counties in the
Territory; it prescribes a rule for the stated compensation
of certain public officers; no officer of the classes named
is exempted from its operation ; and there is such a relation

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

between the salaries fixed for each class of counties, and the
equalized assessed valuation of property in them, respectively,
as to show that the act is not local and special in any just
sense, but is general in its application to the whole Territory
and designed to establish a system for compensating county
officers that is not intrinsically unjust, nor capable of being
applied for purposes merely local or special. It is not always
easy to fix a basis for the salaries of county officers, so as to
compensate them fairly for their services, and yet be just
to taxpayers. Certainly those named in the territorial act
of 1895 ought not to receive as much compensation for services in a county having a few people, and in which a small
amount of taxes is cllectible, as in a populous county, in
which a large amount of taxes is collectible. The services
performed by such officers in the latter class of counties
would necessarily be greater than those required in the
former. The assessed valuation of property in a county
furnishes a teasonable test of the character of the services.
required at the hands of county officers; at any rate, the
adoption of such a test does not show that the act was designed to defeat the objects of Congress, nor that it is local
or special legislation. If the territorial act is embraced by
the act of Congress, and if the Territory by legislation of that
kind cannot fix the salaries of county officers, and thereby
displace the system of fees, percentages and allowances, it
would follow that many county officers would receive compensation out of all proportion- to the labor performed and
the responsibility incurred by them. It seems to us that the
act in question cannot be characterized as local or special any
more than an act which did not create, increase or diminish
fees, percentages or allowances of public officers during the
term for which they were electdd or appointed, but which,
prospectively, fixed their compensation upon the basis of a
named per cent of all the public moneys that passed through
their hands. Could an act of the latter kind be regarded as
local or special because, under its operation, officers in some
counties would receive less than like officers would receive in
other counties whose population was larger, and where busi-

GIBSON v. XTSSrSSIPPI.
Syllabus.

ness was heavier and property of larger value? . We think
not. And yet we should be obliged to hold otherwise, if we
approved the suggestion that the territorial act of March 21,
1895, was local or special, simply because, under its operation,
county treasurers, district attorneys, county recorders, assessors and probate judges will receive larger salaries in some
counties than like officers will receive in other counties.
In support of the appellant's contention numerous adjudged
cases have been cited. We have examined them, but do not
find that they are in conflict with the conclusions reached by
us in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
Affirmed.

GIBSON v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF' THE STATE OF. MISSISSIPPI.
No. 711. Argued and submitted December 18, 1895. -Decded April 15, 1896.
The principle reaffirmed that while a State, consistently with the purposes
for which the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, may confine the selection of jurors to males, to freeholders, to citizens, to persons within
certain ages, or to persons having educational qualifications, and while a
mixed jury in a particular case is not, within the meaning of the Constitution, always or absolutely necessary to the enjoyment of the equal
protection of the laws, and therefore an accused, being of the colored
race, cannot claim as-natter of right that his race shall be represented
on the jury; yet a denial to citlzens of t0i-Aricanfrace; benase-ovf thei
color, of the right or privilege accorded to white citizens of participating as jurors in the administration 6f justice would be a discrimination
against the former inconsistent with the amendment and within the
power of Congress, by appropriate legislation, to prevent.
Section 641 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the removal of civil suits
or criminal prosecutions from the state courts into the Circuit Courts of
the United States, does not embrace a case in which a right is denied by
judicial action during a trial, or in the sentence, or in the mode of executing the sentence. For such denials arising from judicial action after
a trial commenced, the remedy lies in the revisory power of the higher.
courts of the State, and ultimately in the power of review which this

