OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. JULIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT
No. 925.

OF CLAIMS.

Submitted March 16, 1S96. -Decided

April 13, 1896.

The jurat attached to a deposition taken before a commissioner of a Circuit
Court of the United States is not a certificate to the deposition in the
ordinary sense of the term, but a certificate of the fact that the witness
appeared before the commissioner, and was sworn to the truth of what
he had stated; and the commissioner is entitled to a separate fee therefor.

THIS was a petition for fees, as commissioner of the Circuit
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee.
The claim included a large number of items, but the only
point in controversy before this court is, whether petitioner
was entitled to fifteen cents for each jurat or certificate, appended to depositions taken by him as such commissioner.
The total number of jurats so appended was 238, and the total
charge therefor was $35.70.
The Court of Claims allowed this item, and the government appealed.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge for appellants.
_Mr. George A. King for appellee.
Mr. JUSTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the construction of that paragraph of
:Rev. Stat., ยง 847, which allows to commissioners "for issuing any warrant or writ, and for any other service, the same
compensation as is allowed to clerks for like services;" and
the paragraphs of ยง 828, which allow to clerks "for taking
and certifying depositions to file, twenty cents for each folio
of one hundred words;" and "for making any record, certificate, return or report, for each folio, fifteen cents."
In the case of United States v. Ewing, 140 U. S. 142, 146,
4f 4, and in United States v. Barber, 140 U. S. 164, 165, IF 1,
we held a commissioner to be entitled to twenty cents per

UNITED STATES v. JULIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

folio for drawing complaints in crimiial cases, as for "taking
and certifying depositions to file," where the local practice
required a magistrate to reduce the examination of the complaining witnesses to writihg. In the latter case. (p. 166) we
also held that the petitioner should be allowed a fee of ten
cents for each oath administered in connection with these coinplaints, and fifteen cents for each jurat, as for a certificate; and
also, (p. 168,
7,) that the charge per folio for depositions
taken on examinations of prisoners was allowable, upon the
same principle upon which we allowed it for preparing complaints. It follows from this that the commissioner is also entitled to fifteen cents per folio for the jurat to each deposition.
The certificate referred to in the words "taking and certifying depositions to file," is that required by sections 863,
864, 865, 866 and 873, to be appended to depositions taken
de bene esse in civil cases depending in the District or Circuit
Court, which includes the circumstances with reference to the
witness authorizing his deposition to be taken; the official character of the person taking it; the proof of reasonable notice
to the opposite party; the fact that the witness was cautioned
and sworn to testify to the whole truth, and other similar requirements. It was probably more particularly with reference
to this class of depositions that the fee "for taking and certifying depositions" was inserted. The certificate referred to
is always appended to depositions or a series of depositions
taken de ben& esse, is often of considerable length, and is required by repeated rulings of this and the Circuit Courts.
Bell v. Morrison, 1 Pet. 351 ; Cook v. Burnley, 11 Wall. 659;
Harris v. Wall, 7 How. 693; Whi ford v. Clark County, 119
U. S. 522; Tooker v. Thomvson, 3 McLean, 92; Voce v. Lawpence, 4 McLean, 203.
The jurat is not a certificate to a deposition in the ordinary
sense of the term, but a certificate of the fact that the witness
appeared before the commissioner, nd was sworn to the truth
of what he had stated. We think the design of the statute
was to allow a separate fee therefor.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
Aflirmed.

