OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERIROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 801.

Argued March 5, 6, 1896. - Decided May 4, 1896.

Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S. 432, affirmed on the following points:
(1) That the offence of aiding or abetting an officer of a national bank
in committing one or more of the offences set forth in Rev. Stat.
ยง 5209, may be committed by persons who are not officers oragents of the bank, and, consequently, it is not necessary to aver
in an indictment against such an aider or abettor that he was an
officer of the bank, or occupied any specific relation to it when
committing the offence;
(2) That the plain and unmistakable statement of the indictment in that
case and this, as a whole, is that the acts charged against Haughey
were done by him as president of the bank, and that the aiding
and abetting was also done by assisting him in the official capacity
in which alone it is charged that he misapplied the funds.
Instructions requested may be properly refused when fully covered by the
general charge of the court.
When the charges as a whole, correctly conveys to the jury the rule by
which they are to determine, from all the evidence, the question of intent, there is no error in refusing the request of the defendant to single
out the absence of one of the several possible motives for the commission of the offence, and instruc the jnry as to the weight to be given to
this particular fact, independent of the other proof in the case.
The refusal to give, when requested, a correct legal proposition does not
constitute error, unless ttere be evidence rendering the legal theory applicable to the case.
When it is imposs,ble to determine whether there was evidence tending to
show a state of facts adequate to make a refused instruction pertinent, and
there is nothing else in tie bill of exceptions to whih the stated principle could apply, there is no error in refusing it.
Several other exceptions are examined and held to be without merit.
A bank president, not acting in good faith, has no right to permit overdrafts when he does not believe, and has no reasonable ground to believe,
that the moneys can be repaid; and if coupled with such wrongful act,
the proof establishes that he intended by the transaction to injure and
defraud the bank, the wrongful act becomes a crime.
When the principal offender in the commission of the offence made criminal
by Rev. Stat. ยง 5209 and the aider and abettor were both actuated by the

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.'
Opinion of the Court.
criminal intent specifled in the statute, it is immaterial that the principal offender should be further charged in the indictment with having had
other intents.

THE various counts of the indictment in this case charged

Francis A. Coffin, the plaintiff in error, Percival B. Coffin, and
Albert S. Reed with having (in violation of section 5209 of
the Revised Statutes) aided and abetted one Haughey, as
president of the Indianapolis National Bank, in crimi-dal misapplications of the moneys, funds and credits of that bank,
and with having aided and abetted the making or .causing to
be made by Haughey of a false entry on the books of the
bank. A piior conviction of the plaintiff in. error and Percival B. Coffin, upon the indictment in question, was here reviewed and the verdict and sentence were reversed. 156
U. S. 432. On the second trial only seventeen out of the
fifty counts contained in the indictment were submitted to
the jury, and a verdict was returned finding the plaintiff in
error guilty on seven counts, that is, Nos. 4, .9, 11, 12, 13, 14
and 39, and the defendant Percival B. Coffin not guilty.
After the overruling of a motion for a new trial and in arrest
of judgment, plaintiff in error was sentenced on each of the
seven counts to imprisonment in the penitentiary for eight
years. The imprisonment under each count was ordered to
be concurrent and not cumulative. This writ 'of error was
thereupon sued out.
. r. W. H.II. .Miller and -Mr. Ferdinand Winter, (with
whom was John B. Elam on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. Jusrmio WmTE., after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Fifty-two requests for instructions were submitted on behalf
of the defendants to the trial court. The assignments of error
are sixty-two in number. The uselessness of this multitude
of assignments is demonstrated by the fact that but nineteen
out of the sixty-two were relied upon at bar. These nineteen
are grouped in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error under

OCTOBER TERM. 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

twelve headings. We shall confine our examination to the
consideration of the matters embraced under these headinos.
ZD

and in the order in which they are discussed by counsel.
I. Point 1 alleges that the court erred in refusing to give
instructions requested, numbered 47 and 48.
No. 47 reads as follows:
"47. In the indictment in this case it is charged that Theodore P. Haughey, president of the Indianapolis National Bank.
with intent to injure and defraud the bank, wilfully misapplied the funds of the bank, and also that, with intent to
defraud the bank and to deceive an agent appointed or to
be appointed to examine its affairs, he made or caused to be
made false entries upon the books of the bank. The defendants Francis A. Coffin and Percival B. Coffin are charged
with having, with like intent, aided and abetted said Iaughey
in said wronoful acts. In order to sustain this charge of aiding
and abettino ag'ainst the defendants the evidence must show
beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendants acted in the
matter with a like intent as that attending the action of
Mr. Haughey - that is, it must be shown that the Coffins,
charged as aiders and abettors, stood in a similar relation to
the alleged crime as Mr. Iaughey; that they approached it
from the same direction and touched it at the same point. If,
as matter of fact, in any of the transactions charged as criminal in this indictment, Mr. Haughey acted with one intent and
the defendants acted with a different and unlike intent, then,
as to that transaction, they are not guilty as charged in this
indictment."
No. 48 is similar to No. 47, except that the words "stood
in a similar relation to the alleged crime," contained in the
third sentence of No. 47, are omitted in No. 48.
We held in our former opinion, 156-U. S. 446, that the language of the statute fully demonstrated the unsoundness of the
contention then advanced, that no offence was stated in the
indictment against the aiders and abettors, because in none of
the counts was it asserted that they were officers of the bank
or occupied any specific official relation to it.
The ruling then made establishes the error of the foregoing

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Coult.

requests to charge, and hence, practically, disposes of the
questions arising under this heading. However, as counsel
now contend that their former position was misunderstood
and was not adequately met by the reasoning previously
adopted; we add the following considerations: The contention
now advanced admits that one not an officer of the bank may
be, under some circumntances, an aider or abettor in violation
of section 5209, Revised Statutes, but urges that in order to
be such aider or abettor the person so charged, when not an
officer of the bank, must stand in such relation to the recreant
bank officer, or have such interest with him in other enterprises, "as that they may work together for the hurt of the
bank for a common purpose." In other words, the argument
substantially asserts that an essential element of the offence
of aiding and abetting is the existence of a common purpose
between the officer and the aider and abettor to promote or
subserve the joint interest of the wrongdoers in enterprises
in which they are mutually interested. -But the statute nowhere requires that there should be a "common purpose" on
the part of the principal and the aider and abettor to subserve
their joint interests by the misapplication committed. It only
requires that there should be a misapplication of the moneys
of the bank with a joint intent to "injure or defraud the association ol, any other company, body politic or corporate, or
any individual person, or to deceive any officer of the association or any agent appointed to examine the affairs of such
association." It is clear that the statute has been violated if
the one charged with aiding and abetting is shown to have
actually aided and abetted the, officer of the bank in misapplying its funds, no matter whom the accused may have ultimately
intended to benefit by his misconduct, provided, of course,
there existed the intenit to defraud enumerated in the act of
Congress. In accord with this view the court properly instructed the jury that there must have existed in the minds
of both Haughey and the defendants the wrongful intent
stated in the law. The intent contemplated by counsel in
the requested instrviction was evidently the other and different
one heretofore referred to, namely, the, beneficial purpose to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

be subserved or common interest to be promoted by the performance of the wrongful act. But, as we have said, it is not
essential that the intent should, in this particular, have been
coincident, provided there existed the intent which the law
ordains.
The proposition upon which reliance is mainly placed is
that the person charged as an aider and abettor "must stand
in the same relation to the crime as the principal, approach
it in the same direction, touch it at the same point." This
language is taken from the opinion in State v. Teahan, 50 Connecticut, 92. In that case it was held that one who bought
intoxicating liquors from another, the sale being illegal, was
not an aider and abettor of the offence of unlawful selling
within the meaning of f general statute, which provided that
' every person who shall assist, aid, counsel, cause, hire or
command another to commit any offence, may be prosecuted
and punished as if he were a principal offender." The court
said:
"CThe 'abetting' intended by it is a positive act in aid of
the commission ot the offence- a force, physical or moral,
joined with that of the perpetrator in producing it. This is
clear from the context, where aiding is classed with 'assistThe abettor,
in-,' 'causing,' 'hiring' and 'commanding.'
within the meaning of the statute, must stand in the same
relation to the crime as the criminal, approach it from the
same direction, touch it at the same point. This is not the
case with the purchaser of liquor. His approach to the crime
is from the other side. He touches it at wholly another
point. It is somewhat like the case of a man who provokes
or challenges a man to fight with him. If the other knocks
him down, he has induced, but in no proper sense abetted,
this act of violence. He has not contributed any force to its
production. He touches the offence wholly on the other side.
The purchaser of liquor, by his offer to buy, induces the s6ller
of the liquor to make the sale; but he cannot be said to
' assist' him in it. The whole force, moral or physical, that
went to the production of the crime as such was the seller's."
Separated from the context in which the. sentence was used

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by 'the"Connecticut court, it becomes meaningless and confusing. The ditection fiom which the parties must approach
the transaction, that is, the intent to defraud, is accurately
specified in the statute under consideration. The meaning
which counsel affix to the sentence which they excerpt from
.tate v. Teahan, sup'a, is illustrated by their assertion that
it appears from the bill' of exceptions that Haughey, the president, had no interest in the cabinet compiany for whose benefit the indictment alleges the misapplications and false entries
were made, nor any interest in or relation to the defendants,
and that neither the plaintiff in error nor any. other person
connected with or interested in the cabinet company, or any
of-the other companies, had any interest in the bank or with
Haughey of any kind whatsoever. Conceding this to be so,
the accused was none the less guilty of a violation of the statute if he aided and abetted in the misapplication of the funds
of the bank with the intent specified in the law. The contention that if Haughey, the president, intended to benefit
the bank by the transactions complained- of, he therefore
could not have had a commoi purpose, with the person
receiving the money, to defraud the bank, amounts simply
to the assertion that if the proof showed that there was no
intent on the part of Haughey to defraud the bank, it was
the duty of the jury to acquit. However, the real premise,
upon -which the whole argument rests, is that if the accused'
was guilty at all, he was guilty as a principal and not as an
aider and abettor. But it is not necessary to give much time
to the consideration of this claim, in view of the clear intent
of Congress as expressed in the statute under review. It is
evident that no matter how active the colperation of third
persons may have been in the wrongful act of a bank officer
or agent, such third person is, required to be charged as an
aider and abettor in the offence and prosecuted as such. The
primary object of the statute was to protect the bank from
the acts of its own servants: As between officers and agents
of the bank and third persons cooperating to defraud the
bank, the, statute, contemplates that a bank officer shall be
treated as a principal offender. In every criminal offence

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiuion of the Court.

there must, of course, be a principal, and it follows that
without the coricurring act of an officer or agent of a bank)
third persons cannot commit a violation of the provisions of
section 5209. If, therefore, a violation of the statute in question is committed by an officer and an outsider the one must
be prosecuted as the principal and the other as the aider and
abettor.
II. Under point 2, error is alleged to the refusal of the
court to give the following requested instruction:
"6. The fourth count of the indictment charges that Theodore P. Haughey, as president of the Indianapolis -National
Bank, did, on the 20th day of May, 1893, unlawfully, wilfully
and feloniously misapply certain moneys of said bank in said
count specifically named, to wit, the sum of $3272.29. The
count does not charge that the defendants aided or abetted
said Iaughey in imisapplying the same moneys which he is
charged to have misapplied. Under these circumstances this
count charges no crime against the defendants, and on this
count yod should not convict the defendants."
The proposition embodied in this request rests on the assumption that the aiding and abetting clause in the fourth
count of the indictment does not refer to the identical misapplication which that count charges to, have been committed
by the president. In other words, that there is a. want of
identity between the offence which the accused is charged to
have aided and abetted and the offence there averred to have
been committed by the president. The count charges the
president with having on the 20th of :May, 1893, misapplied
a specific and enumerated sum by then and there " paying and
causing said sum to be paid out of the moneys, funds and
credits of said association upon certain divers checks drawn
upon said association by the Indianapolis Cabinet Company,
which checks were then and there cashed and paid out of the
moneys, funds and oredits of said association, wvhich said sum
aforesaid and no part thereof was said Indianapolis company
entitled to withdraw from said bank because said company
had no funds in said association to its credit." The aiding and
abetting clause charges that the accused(l did -on the 20th of

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

May, 1893, aid and abet said Theodore P. Iaughey, as aforesaid, to wrongfully, unlawfully, fe'oniously and wilfully misapply the moneys, funds and credits of said association, to
wit," specifying a sum identical in amount with that referred
to in the previous part of the indictment. The contention is
that the word "said '"preceding and the words "as aforesaid"
following the name of laughey, president, do not refer to the
sum previously charged to have been misapplied, and, therefore, there is a want of relation between the averred misapplication and the alleged aiding and abetting. When this case
was previously before us substantially the same general complaint was made against all the counts of the indictment, the
contention then being that the words "said" and "as aforesaid" did not aver that those who aided and abetted knew
that iHaughey was the president of the bank, and, hence,
the counts were bad. We said (p. 449): "Without entering
into any nice question of grammar, or undertaking to discuss
whether the word 'said' before Iaughey's name, and the
words 'as aforesaid' which follow it, are adverbial, we think
the plain and unmistakable statement of the indictment as a
whole is, that the acts charged against Haughey were done by
him as president of the bank, and that the aiding and abetting was alsQ knowingly done by assisting him in the official
capacity in which alone it is charged that he misapplied the
funds." This reasoning -is conclusive of .the point now made.
u
The words " said"
and "as aforesaid" which we then considered as sufficiently referring to the capacity in which the
act was averred to have been committed in the first part of
the indictment, also adequately connected the acts charged.
against the aider and abettor with the offence stated against
the principal offender.
III. This point complains of the refusal to give the following instructions:
"19. Evidence has been introduced upon the trial with
reference to drafts drawn by the Indianapolis Cabinet Company on the Tufts Cabinet Company and accepted in the
name of the latter company, and it is claimed on behalf of
the government, that there never was any such organization

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of- the Court.

as said Tufts Cabinet Company, but that the same was wholly
fictitious. This evidence has been permitted to be introduced
before you for the purpose of throwing light upon the intent
of the defendants and of Theodore P. Haughey in connection
with the charge of wrong-doing by thein in the various counts
of the indictment. This evidence can only be considered by
you for this purpose, as there is no charge in any count of the
indictment based upon this particular transaction, and the
light it may throw upon the intent of the defendants or
either of them or of said Haughey must depend upon all the
circumstances shown to have attended the transaction."
"43. As you have been already told, the government in
this case is prosecuting the defendants for particular transactions charged to have been unlawful and criminal, as specifically set forth in certain specific counts of the ifidictment.
Evidence has been introduced by the government of other
transactions between the Indianapolis Cabinet Company and
the Indianapolis National Bank and various other parties.
This evidence has been allowed to go before you solely upon
the question of intent and should be considered by you only
in so far as it may tend to illustrate the intent of Mr.
Haughey or of the defendants. Except for that purpose you
have nothing to do with other transactions than those
specifically charged and prosecuted under this indictment.
Except as illustrating such intent, the question of the lawfulness or unlawfulness of such other transactions is one with
which you have nothing to do."
We think the instructions here requested were properly
refused because fully covered by the general charge of the
court. Northern Pacific Railroad v. Urlin, 158 U. S. 271,
277; Grand Trunk Railway v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408, 433;
ailroad v. Winter, 143 U. S. 60, 74; Ayers v. Watson,
Erie
r
137 U. S. 584, 601, 603.
Repeatedly in the instructions given, the jury were .told
that they could not find the defendants guilty, unless they
were satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that Haughey and
the defendants had committed the specific criminal acts
alleged in the counts of the indictment which were sub-

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

mitted to them with the intent therein charged. Thus the
court, in the opening, of its charge, said.: "You have
nothing to do with the other counts of the indictment,
which are withdrawn from your consideration." Again,
in another portion of the charge: "The particular acts
of misapplication described in the several specific counts of
the indictment on trial before you must be established by
the proofs as therein respectively charged." And yet further: "You are, not authorized to find the defendants
guilty of any other charge of aiding and abetting, in the
wilful misapplication of the moneys, funds and credits of
said bank, except those specifically charged in the first
twelve counts of the indictment now on trial before you, and
also on the specific charges elected by the Government, as
above stated, under the thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth and
sixteenth counts of the indictment." Having thus repeatedly called the attention of the jury to the fact that they
were confined in the determination of the guilt of the accused to the specific matters submitted to them, the court,'
on the subject of intention, also correctly instructed them
that for this purpose and for this purpose alone they might
consider the proof introduced as to other misapplications
than those charged in the counts which were before them.
For instance, the court observed: " In determining whether
they had the criminal intent to deceive Qr defraud is charged,
or whether they acted in good faith, you should take into consideration the situation of the parties, the course. of business
between them as well as between the cabinet company and
the bank, and all the facts and circumstances in proof before
you." We think there can be. no doubt that the charge of
the court as given, therefore, left no question in the minds
of the jury that they could only find the defendants guilty
upon the particular matters specified in the coinnts submitted
to them, and that they could not find them guilty of a different misapplication from that charged, whether or not there
was proof establishing such other misapplications.
IV.- The fourth point alleges, as error, the refusal of the
court to give the following requested instruction:
VOl. cLXui-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"15. The intent on the part of Mr. Ilaughey in the allegedl
misapplications of the moneys of the bank to injure or defraud
the bank is an essential ingredient of the offence charged
against the defendants. In determining the question, therefore, of Mr. Haughey's intent, you should take into consideration the relation he bore to this bank. both as an officer
and shareholder, and whether the evidence shows any motive
on his part for defrauding or injuring the bank, and it is for
you to say, in the light of all the evidence, whether Mr.
Haughey, in letting tile cabinet company have such moneys,
did so with such intent. If the evidence does not satisfy you
beyond a reasonable doubt of such intent, then the government's case is not made out. In determining this question
you may consider whether A-1r. Hlaughey was in any way
benefited, or hoped to be benefited, by the loans or advances
to the cabinet company; and, if 'ou find from the evidence
that there was no such benefit or hope thereof on the part of
Mr. Haughey, such fact may. be c6nsidered by you in determining whether there was any such intent as is charged, and,
if the making of such loans and advances was under such circumstances -shown by the evidence as would injure or tend
to injure Mlr. Ilaughey, that fact may be considered in like
manner and for the same purpose."
The complaint is made that nowhere in the charges given
did the court expressly inform the jury that they might consider, in determining the question of criminal intent, whether
the evidence disclosed that the motive of personal gain induced Haugihey to commit the offence charged. But the
instruction requested, in the particular mentioned, was not
upon the law of the case, but upon the inferences to be drawn
from the evidence, a matter peculiarly within the province of
the jury. The court did charge that the jury might look at
all the proofs in the case in determining the question of guilty
intent, and while it also instructed that it \w-Ls not necessary

for the commission of this offence that the officer of the bank
who makes a wilful misapplication should derive any personal
benefit or advantage from the transaction, the court added
that: "When the moneys, funds or credits of the bank aro

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

unlawfully taken from its possession and knowingly and
wilfully misapplied,' by converting them to the use of any
person or company other than the bank, with the intention to
injure and defraud, the offence described in the statute has
been committed." So, also, the court elsewhere in its instructions to the jury said: " If loans and discounts are made by the
president of a national bank in bad faith for the fraudulent purpose of giving gain or advantage to some other person or company, and not in the honest exercise of official discretion, the
officer making them passes the line dividing honesty and dishonesty, and his action is criminal if (lone with intent to injUre
and defraud the banking association, and it so results."
The accused could not properly single out the absence of
one of several possible motives for the commission of an
offence, isolate it in an instruction from all the other facts
of the case, and demand that the court instruct the jury as to
the weight to be given this particular fact, independent of all
the other proof in the case. The charge as a whole having
correctly conveyed to the jury the rule by Which they were
to determine from all the evidence the question of intent, Ie
think there was no error to the prejudice of the defendant in
refusing the request which he asked.
V. This point alleges error in the refusal of the court
to give two instructions requested by plaintiff in error, one to
the effect that fhe allowance of mere. overdrafts was not
of itself sufficient to show any criminal intent on the part of
HRaughey, and the other, that. notwithstanding that the
statute forbids loans to any one person in excess of ten per
cent of the capital stock, such loan, although unlawful, was
not for that reason alone criminal. The first instruction
referred to is, in substance, given in various parts of the
charge 6f the court. Thus the court instructed the jury:
"On the counts for Wilful misapplication the questions for
you to determine are: Did Theodore P. IHaughey, as president
of the Indianapolis N'ational Bank, knowingly and unlawfully
and with intent to injure and defraud said bank in manner and
in form as charged, wilfully misapply the moneys, funds or
credits of said bank by cashing, discounting and paying for

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the use and benefit of the said Indianapolis Cabinet Company,
knowing it to be insolvent, out of the moneys, funds and
credits of the bank without authority from its board of
directors, any notes, drafts or bills of exchange drawn by and
upon insolvent persons, firms and companies, knowing them
to be insolvent, and knowing such notes, drafts or bills of
exchange to be valueless, in manner and form as charged in
either count of the indictments If he did, he has committed
the offence of wilful misapplication as charged in the count or
counts of the indictment now on trial relating to that subject
which you find to have been so proved."
The court also said :
"If Haughey and the defendants withdrew moneys from
the bank for the use of the cabinet comlp.n.y by means of
checks drawn by it ol said bank when it had no funds or
moneys on deposit against which to draw, if they acted in
good faith, honestly believing that the cabinet company would
be able to repay the same when required, they would not be
guilty of the intent to defraud the bank as charged; but, on
the other hand, if they acted in bad faith and did not believe
and had no reasonable ground to believe that the cabinet company could repay such overdrafts when required to do so, then
they had no lawful right to make such overdrafts or allow
them to be made."
We think the second requested instruction was also fully
covered in the charge actually given.
VI. The refusal to give the following instruction was
assigned as error:
"18. The counts of the indictment relating to misapplication
charge a misapplication of the moneys of the bank. These
charges of misapplication are not sustained by merely showing
that the bank gave. t6 the cabinet company credit to which it
was not entitled, unless it is also shown that as a result of such
credit the cabinet company was enabled to and did withdraw
from the bank moneys of some kind, resulting in loss to the
bank. Thus evidence of the giving by the cabinet company,
and the receiving by the bank, of renewal paper upon which
nothing was withdrawn from the bank, would not sustain

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the charge of criminal misapplication of the credits of the
bank."
There is no doubt of the soundness of the abstract principle
which this request embodied. If the money of a bank be
misapplied by paying it out on worthless paper, it is obvious
that a subsequent renewal of such paper upon which nothing
was actually obtained could not have misapplied the money
of the bank. Whilst this is true in the abstract, the refusal
to give, when requested, a correct legal proposition does not
constitute error, unless there be evidence rendering the legal
theory applicable to the case. Str"yker v. Goodnow, 123 U. S.
527, and authorities there cited.
The bill of exceptions contains the following statement relative to the ninth count, to which it is asserted the instruction
asked related:
Be it further remembered that there was evidence tending
to show that the transactions mentioned in the ninth count of
the indictment consisted solely of the taking up by the Indianapolis Cabinet Company of two drafts theretofore drawn by
it upon customers and discounted by said bank, and which
had not been paid or accepted by the drawees, the aggregate
amount of said drafts being $3467.23, by a new draft drawn
by said Indianapolis Cabinet Company on one of the drawees
in the drafts taken up for the sum of $3467.23, and that there
was evidence tending to show that the drawee in said last
mentioned draft was, at the time the same was drawn and
accepted by said bank, solvent and indebted to the cabinet
company in an amount greater than the amount of said draft,
for which said company had a'right to draw.
"There was evidence tending to show that the drawee in
said draft above mentioned was, at the time the same was
drawn and placed in said bank, insolvent, and said draft was
never forwarded for acceptance or collection, but was held by
the direction of Theodore P. Haughey in said, bank, and that
said defendant knew that the drawee of said draft always
refused to accept or honor drafts, and that he made all his
settlements either in cash or by note, and 'that the indebted.ness mentioned in said draft was afterwards settled by tho

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

note of said drawee, but was not turned over to said bank,
but was delivered by said defendant to other creditors. There
was evidence tending to sho% that the notes which were
claimed to have been given for said indebtedness were not
executed until after the failure of the bank, and that the disposition to other creditors was made by Albert S. Reed."
From this statement it is impossible to determine whether
there was any evidence tending to show a state of facts adequate to make the instruction which was refused pertinent, and
there is no other matter in the bill of exceptions to which the
legal principle stated could apply. rt is true that counsel say
that by the bill of exceptions it " appears that other transactions were based upon the renewals of paper imerolv without
in any way depleting the funds of the bank." But the portion of the bill of exceptions which is referred to as supporting this statement relates solely to the evidence offered
on tihe count alleging a false entry, and, therefore, in no way
involves the other counts of the indictment which charged
misapplication. We, therefore, find that error.was not committed by the refusal in question.
VI[. The refusal to give the following instruction was
assigned as error:"40. In order to warrant a conviction of the defendants as
aiders and abettors of Mr. Haughey in the making of false
entries, as charged in this indictment, it is not enoug'h to show
that the entries were false and that Mr. Haughey made them
with the criminal intent charged, but it must also be shown
by the evidence, beYond a reasonable doubt, that the defendants had knowledge of the making of such entries, and that
they did acts aiding and abetting Mr. Haughey in making
the same with like criminal intent. Proof of the fact that the
defendants presented dhe paper covered-by the false entry
and received credit fo" it is not sufficient to warrant their conviction for aiding and abetting the making of the -false entry
on the books, unless some knowledge of or connection with the
making of such false entry is brought home to them."
This instruction is fully covered in the following portion of
the charge of the court, the giving of which is also alleged to
have been error:

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"If you are satisfied that Theodore 1P. I faughey did knowingly and purposely make or cause to be made the false entries
as charged, you cannot find the defendants guilty as aiders
and abettors unless you are satisfied that they with like intent unlawfully and knowingly did or said something showing
their consent to and participation in the unlawful and criminal
acts of said Haughey, and contributing to their execution."
The instruction is not open to the objection that the expression "unlawful and criminal acts," used in the last sentence, might have been understood by the jury as relating to
unlawful and criminal acts of Haughey generally.
The court instructed the jury that an entry made knowingly
and purposely in the b6oks of the bank, with the intent to deceive or defraud, as charged, which represented as an actual
transaction one which did not exist, or an entry knowingly
and purposely made with the intent to deceive and defraud,
which was false in a material part, constituted a false entry
within the statute. It appeared that the entry, under the thirtyninth count, related to six pieces of paper which were brought
to the bank on -ay 29, 1893, aggregating the face value of
$44,000, and the court instructed the jury as to there notes
that "if the paper was never accepted or discounted by the
bank, but was simply left with the bank as a mere memorandum and not as a deposit, and for the fraudulent purpose of
enabling fictitious entries to be made on the hooks of the bank
with the intent to deceive and defraud, such entry on the
books of the bank would constitute a false entry." In the
light of these instructions, the expression "unlawful and criminal acts" could only have been interpreted by the jury as
having reference to the acts of Ilaughey attendant upon and
connected with the making of the entry, such as the taking
by him of the paper to be used as the supposed basis of the
false credit.
VIII. This covers three assignments of error, (Nos. 59, 60,
61i) which assert error in the giving of the following instructions:
"It is further shown by the evidence that large sums of
money were obtained from the bank by the Indianapolis Oabi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Cofirt.

net Company by means of notes, drafts and bills of exchange
which were wholly or partially valueless.
"It is also proven that various sums of money were obtained
from the bank by means of checks drawn upon it by the
Indianapolis Cabinet Company, which were presented to and
cashed by the bank out of its moneys and funds when said
cabinet company had no moneys, funds or credits on deposit
with said bank with which to pay said checks.
"It is also shown that the cabinet company and the various
corporations affiliated with it organized by the defendants
were during the whole period of time covered by the indictment insolvent."
It is claimed that these instructions assumed facts to have
been proven which were in dispute, and also indirectly stated
to the jury, as settled, propositions which were disputed and
were those most earnestly contested in the case.
These criticised excerpts of the charge are contained in the
latter portion thereof, and were part of a brief resume of the
salient evidence in the case. To guard against the danger
that the jury might consider that there was a purpose to
remove the facts from their consideration or control their
judgment thereon, the court repeatedly instructed that the
determination of the facts was, by law, in them vested.
Thus, immediately following the criticised portion of the
charge, the court said: " Carefully weigh all the evidence in
the case and from it, under the rules of law which I have given
you, determine the guilt or innocence of the defendants. With
you and not with the. court rests the responsibility of *finding
and determining the facts. The views of the court on questions of fact are not controlling upon you."
Again, in the opening paragraph of the charge, it was said:
"You are the sole judges of the facts and of what is proved,
and any statements of fact made by the court are not controlling upon you. Such statements are intended to invite your
attention to the matters of fact which the court deems important, and not for the purpose of controlling your judgment."
In the earlier portions of the charge it was especially left to
the jury, whei 'considering whether or not an offence had been

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.

681,

Opinion of the Court.

committed, to determine whether the money had been obtained by the cabinet company on worthless paper, or by
payments made by the bank on checks of the company when
it was insolvent and its account with the bank was overdrawn. The jury were also instructed at length with reference to the charge contained in the indictment, that divers
persons, firms and corporations were insolvent. We give an
extract from the charge on this subject:
"If you are satisfied that the Indianapolis Cabinet Company, or any other person, firm or corporation, alleged to
have been insolvent, at the time charged, had not sufficient
property or assets to pay its debts in full when wound up,
then such person, firm or corporation was insolvent in manner and form as charged in the indictment."
Keeping in mind the repeated cautions given by the court
to the jury, it is impossible to perceive how the language of
the court in the matter excepted to could have been understood by the jury as binding them to accept, as controlling,
the statements of the court regarding the facts.
IX. The giving of the following instruction was assigned
as error No. 55:
"In order to make the defendants liable as aiders and
abettors, as charged in the indictment, it is necessary that
they should be proved to have done or said something
showing their consent to or participation in the unlawful
and criminal acts of Theodore P. Iiaughey, and contributing
to their execution as charged in the indictment."
It is complained that the instruction was erroneous, because it assumes that Haughey had committed a criminal
offence, and that the defendants were liable as aiders and
abettors, if it was shown that they either consented to or
participated in the unlaw[ul and criminal acts of the
president.
But prior to this portion of the charge the court directly
instructed the jury that the guilt of Haughey was necessary
to be established by the government. Following the instruction above quoted, the court also said:
"The burden of proving Haughey and the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

guilty as charged rests upon the government, and this
burden does not shift from it.
Ilaughey and the defendants are presmned to be innocent until their guilt in manner and form, as charged in
some count of the indictment, is proved beyond a reasonable
doubt. To justify you in returning a verdict of guilty.
the evidence should be of such a character as to overcome
this presumption of innocence and to satisfy each one of you
of the guilt of Haughey and the defendants as charged to
the exclusion of every reasonable doubt."
It is not possible that the jury could have supposed that
the court intended, from the portion of the charge claimed
to be erroneous, that the acts of Flaughey were "to be
accepted and treated by them as criminal acts."
So, also, the jury could not have been misled, by the use
of the disjunctive "or." into supposing that the court instructed them that mere consent of the defendants to the
unlawful and criminal acts of Haughey would be sufficient
to sustain a verdict of guilty. The consent or participation
was required to be such as "contributed to the execution of"
the unlawful and criminal acts of Iaughey charged in the indictment. From the entire context it is clear that the court
required the jury to find participation as well as consent. For
instance, the court in its charge said to the jury :
"If you are satisfied that Theodore P. flaughey did knowingly and purposely make or cause to be made the false entries
as charged you cannot find the defendants guilty as aiders and
abettors unless you are satisfied that they with like intent unlawfully and knovingly did or said something showing their
consent to and participation in the unlawful and criminal acts
of said Haughey and contributing to their execution."
X. This alleges error in the following portion of the
charge of the court:
"If- Haughey and the defendants withdrew moneys from
the bank for the use of the cabinet company by means of
checks drawn by it on said bank when it had no funds or
moneys on deposit against which to draw, if they acted
in good faith, honestly believing that the cabinet company

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion (f the.Court.

would be able to repay the same when required, they would
not be guilty of the intent to defraud the bank as charged;
but, on the other hand, if they acted in bad faith, and did
not believe, and had no reasonable ground to believe, that
the cabinet comi)any could repay such overdrafts when required to do so, then they had no lawful right to make such
overdrafts or allow them to be made."'
But this instruction should be read in connection with the
paragraph following, which is as follows:
"Every person is preshmed to intend the natural and ordinary consequences of his own acts. Hence, if the natural
and ordinary consequences of the acts of Iaughey and the
defendants, as shown by the proofs, were to injure and defraud the bank as charged, you would be authorized to find
that such was their intent, if such intent is in harmony
with the other proofs in the case."
It cannot be disputed that a bank president not acting in
good faith has no right to permit overdrafts when he does not
believe and has no reasonable ground to believe that the moneys
can be repaid. And if, coupled with such wrongful aot, the
proof establishes that he intended by the transaction to injure
and defraud the bank, the wrongful act becomes a crime.
Xl. This embraces assignments of error Nos.-49 and 50,
which allege error in the giving of the following instructions :
"If, however, the entry truly represents an actual booadfide
transaction, then it would not constitute a false entry.
"But if the paper was never accepted or discounted by him
for the bank, but'was simply left with the bank as a mere
memorandum and not as a deposit and for the fraudulent
purpose of. enabling fictitious entries to be made on the books
of the bank with the intent to deceive or defraud as charged,
such entry on the books of the bank would constitute a false
entry."
These sentences were contained in the following -paragraph
of the charge of the court:
"An entry knowingly and purposely made on the books
of the bank, with intent to deceive or defraud, as charged,
which represents as an actual transaction, one which does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and did not exist, or an entry knowingly and purposely made,
with intent to deceive and defraud, as charged, which in a
material part falsely and untruly represents an actual and
existing transaction, would constitute a false entry within
the meaning of the statute. If, however, the entry truly
represents an actual bonaX
ide transaction, then it would not
constitute a false entry."
The objection to this portion of the charge is that it
assumes that an entry is false unless it represents a transaction entered into in good faith and without fraud. It is
contended that this instruction is within the condemnation
of this court as expressed in its former opinion, 156 U. S.
463, where it was said:
"The exception reserved to the charge actually given by
the court (on the subject of false entries) was well taken,
because therein the questions of misapplication and of false
entries are interblended in such a way that it is difficult to
understand exactly what was intended. We think the language used must have tended to confuse the jury and leave
upon their minds the impression that if the transaction represented by the entry actually occurred, but amounted to a
misapplication, then its entry exactly as it occurred constituted 'a false entry;' in other words, that an entry would
be false, though it faithfully described an actual occurrence,
unless the transaction which it represented involved full and
fair value for the bank. Tht thought thus conveyed implied
that the truthful entry of a fraudulent transaction constitutes
a false entry within the meaning of the statute. We think it
is clear that the making of a false entry is a concrete offence
which is not committed where the transaction entered actually took place, and is entered exactly as it occurred."
The objection is not meritorious. The trial court carefully
distinguished between an entry based upon an actual discount
of paper and credit predicated thereon, and a credit not representing an actual deposit or discount. The expression bona
fide was used in the sense of "real," and but emphasized the
word "actual."
Nor is there force in the suggestion that
the instruction "must have tended to confuse the jury and

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

leave.upon their minds an impression that if the transaction
represented by the entry actually occurred, but amounted to
a misapplication, then its entry, exactly as it occurred, constituted a false entry."
It is claimed that under the proof these instructions were
wholly irrelevant. Reliance is placed upon a statement in the
bill of exceptions "that the evidence showed that all the paper
upon which the credit mentioned in said thirty-ninth count
was based was retained in said bank as a part of its assets
until the same matured, when it was renewed by other paper
of the same kind, and again renewed from time to time as it
matured, until said bank failed, at which time said paper, so
renewed, was in possession of said bank as a part of its assets
and passed as such into the possession of the receiver, by
whom it was held as a part of the indebtedness of the cabinet
company to said bank, secured by the mortgage executed (to
Haughey as trustee for said bank) by said cabinet company to
secure the indebtedness of said cabinet company to said bank."
But this is entirely consistent with the claim that the original paper "was simply left with the bank as a mere memorandum, and not as a deposit," etc. The fact that other notes
were substituted for this paper does not necessarily import
that -the original transaction was. an actual one if the notes
were originally given to the bank as a mere pretext to enable
the false entry to be made, and the subsequent renewals were
equally unreal and made for a like purpose. The receiver
was empowered, finding them in the hands of the bank, to
retain them as a part of its assets. Prior to the statement in
the bill of exceptions, which we have quoted, the following
recital appears: "It was claimed on behalf of the government, and evidence was by it introduced tending to show, that
the paper was not bona fide paper, representing the value for
which the same was credited or any substantial value, and
that said paper was not actually discounted by said bank or
actually received as a genuine deposit, but was only received
as a memorandum deposit to serve for the time being only,
for the purpose of giving the Indianapolis Cabinet Company
an apparent credit.upon the books of the bank which in fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

it did not have, and that said entries represented no actual
transactions whatever." We think this extract clearly indicates that the charge as given was relevant to the issue.
XII. This heading alleges error in overruling the motion
in arrest of judgment. We do not deem it necessary to consider it at length. It is predicated on the assertion that six of
the seven counts upon which conviction was had were bad,
because it alleged that the bank had been "heretofore" created
and organized under the laws of the United States. If we
assume that the word should have been " theretofore" in order
to make it certain that prior to the finding of the indictment
the association had been incorporated, and if we further assume that the allegation as to the incorporation of the bank
was material, the averment was only an imperfect statement
of that which .the law implies to be true after verdict. Wharton Crim. Plead. Ev. ยง 760. Under this heading it is moreover contended that the thirty-ninth count was defective, because the principal offender was charged with having made
the false entries with the intent to injure and defraud the
bank, and also with the intent to deceive any agent appointed
and any agent or agents who might thereafter be appointed
by the Comptroller of. the Currency to examine the affairs of
the association, whilst the aiders and abettors were charged
only with haling had an intent to deceive the agent appointed
by the Comptroller. The answer is self-evident. It was wholly
immaterial that the principal offender should have had several
intents, provided the principal and the aider and abettor were
both actuated by the criminal intent specified in the *statute.
The, alleged additional intent on the part of the principal
offender might well have been treated as surplusage; besides,
it appears from the recital in the bill of exceptions that there
was evidence tending to show that the purpose of Haughey
in causing the false entry to be made was to deceive any officer who might be sent by the Comptroller of the Currency to
make an examination of the bank, and that the paper upon
which the entry was made, as stated in the count, was furnished by the defendant Coffin at the request of Haughey
with a like intent.

PUTNAMk

v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

This completes the review of ,all the very numerous
grounds of error which have been pressed upon our consideration, and the result is that we find that they are all without merit.
The judgment is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

PUTNAM v. UNITED STATES.
SAME 9.. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Nos. 578, 574. Submitted January 28, 1896. -Decded lMay 4, 1896.
An indictment against its president for defrauding a national bank, described the bank as the "National Granite State Bank," "carrying on a
national banking business at the city of Exeter." The .evidence showed
that the authorized name of the bank was, the "National Granite State
Bank of Exeter." Held, that the variance was immaterial.
Conversatibns wftli a person took place in August, 1893. In December,
1893, he testified to them before the grand jury which found. the indictment in this case. On the trial of this case.his evidence before the
grand jury was offered to refresh his memory as to those conversations. Held, that that evidence was not cotemporaneous with the conversations, and would not support a reasonable probability that the
memory of the witness, if impaired at the time of the trial, was not
equally so hen his testimony was committed to writing; 'and that the
evidence was therefore inadmissible for the purpose offered.
On the trial of a national bank president for defrauding the bank, a witness for the government was asked, on cross-examination, as to the
amount of stock held by the president.. This being objected to,. the
question was ruled out, as not proper on cross-examination, the government "not having opened up affirmatively the ownership of the stock."
Hfeld, that, as the order in which evidence shall be produced is within the
discretion of the trial court, and as the iatter sought to be elicited on.
the cross-examination for the accused was not offered by hhn at any
subsequent stage of the trial, no prejudicial error was committed by the
ruling.
When an offence against the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 5209 is begun in one

