OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

maintained. Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Gillis v. Stinehfield, 159 U. S. 658.
Writ of error
dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MRi. JUSTICE BREWER did not
hear the argument and took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

DAVIS v. GEISSLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 185.

Argued March 27, 189G.-Decided April 18, 1896.

The Circuit Court having made no certificate to this court of the question
of its jurisdiction, the writ of error is dismissed on the authority of
.aynard v. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324, and other cases cited.
-MOTION to

dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.r. E A. .Aeofata for the motion.
on his brief.
r. D. P. Stubbs opposing.
his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

.Mr. W. C. Oliver was

,Mr.TI. F. Rightmire was on

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action brought by plaintiffs in error, citizens
of the State of Illinois, against more than thirty defendants, alleged to be citizens of the State of Kansas, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas.
The petition averred the execution by defendants of a certain
contract annexed for the payment to plaintiffs'of five thousand
dollars for the construction, erection and putting in operation
of a creamery at or near Oakley, Kansas, the contract being
signed by defendants in the form of subscriptions to stock;
performance by plaintiffs; and that they had received on

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
Syllabus.

account the sum of one hundred dollars; and demanded judgment against defendants, jointly and severally, for $4900 and
interest. Some of the defendants did not appear, but defendants in error did, and pleaded a modified general denial, and
twelve other defences, setting up fraud in respect of the contract; non-performance; want of jurisdiction, in that one of
the defendants, B. Mahanna., was a co-citizen of Illinois with
plaintiffs; and that'Mahanna's subscription to the contract
was really a subscription by plaintiffs, made by him as their
agent. Defendants claimed that the contract was several and
not joint, and that each was bound only for the amount of his
own subscription, which in no instance exceeded eight hundred and ;fifty dollars. The case was tried by a jury, but
after the evidence was closed- the court declined to submit
it, and entered an order, November 28, 1891, that "it appearing to the court that this court has not jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of this action, it is ordered that this case be
and the same is hereby dismissed at the costs of plaintiffs."
To review this judgment the pending writ of error was sued
out October 13, 1892.
The Circuit Court made no certificate of the question of its
jurisdiction to this court, and the case comes within laynard
v. B:echt, 151 U. S.324; Uo6vin'v. Ja konille, 157 U. S. 368;
Van Wagenen v. Sewall, 160 U. S. 369; Chapell v. United
States, 160 U. S.499, 507.
Writ of error dismissed.

WOODRUFF v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No.18. Argued March 9, 10, 1896. -Decided

April 18,1896.

The levee board of Mississippi, being authorized *by a statute of the State
to borrow money and to issue their bonds therefor, to be negotiable as
promigsory notes or bills of exchange, issued and sold to the amount of
$500,000, principal bonds of $1000 each, payable "in gold coin of the
United States.of America," with semi-annual interest coupons, payable

