OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

sioners,above cited, the final judgment of the inferior court of
the State may have been the necessary regult of the previous
decision by the Supreme Court of the questions presented for
its determination ; but it was none the less, on that account, a.
judgment of the inferior court. As such, it was, when rendered, open to review by the Supreme Court upon a new
appeal; and, for that reason, was not the final judgment of
the highest court of the State in which a decision in the suit
could be had.
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. PETERSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 153. Argued and submitted March 18, 1896. -Decded April 18, 1896.

H. was foreman of an extra gang of laborers for plaintiff in error on its
road, and as such had charge of and superintended the gang in putting
in ties and assisting in keeping in repair three sections of the road. He
had power to hire and discharge the hands, (13 in number,) in the gang,
and had exclusive charge of their direction and management in all
matters connected with their employment. The defendant in error was
one of that gang, hired by H., and subject, as a laborer, while on duty
with the gang, to his authority. While on such duty the defendant in
error suffered serious injury through the alleged negligence of H., acting
as foreman in the course of his employment, and sued the railroad company to recover damages for those injuries. 1reld, that H. was not such
a superintendent of a separate department, nor in control of such a distinct branch of the work of the company, as would be necessary to render
it liable to a co-employ6 for his neglect; but that he was a fellow-workman,
in fact as well as in law, whose negligence entailed no such liability on
the company as was sought to be enforced in this action.
The duties of a railroad company, as master, towards Its employ6s, as servants, defined; and it is held that if the master, instead of personally
performing these obligations, engages another to do them for him, he
is liable for the neglect of that other, which, in such case, is not the
neglect of a fellow-servant, but of the master.
The previous cases in this court on this subject examined, and found to deter-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PETERSON.

347

Statement of the Case.
mine the following points, as to the liability of a railroad company for
injuries to an employ6 alleged to have been caused by the negligence of
another employ6, while the injured person was in the performance of his
ordinary duties:
(1) That the mere superiority of the negligent employ6 in position and
in the power to give orders to subordinates is not a ground for
such liability;
(2) That in order to form an exception to the general law of non liability,
the person whose neglect caused the injury must be one who was
clothed with the control and management of a distinct department,
and not of a mere separate piece of work in one of the branches
of service in a department;
(3) That when the business of the master Is of such great and diversified
extent that it naturally and necessarily separates itself into departments of service, the persons placed by the master in charge of
these separate branches and departments, and given control therein,
may be considered, with reference to employds under them, viceprincipals and representatives of the master ai fully as if the
entire business of the master were placed by him under one superintendent.
There is no proof of a separate contract of hiring, by which the railroad
company assumed obligations towards the defendant in error in excess of
those ordinarily assumed by a company towards those employed by it as
laborers.

Tris action was commenced by the plaintiff below (defendant in error) in the United States Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota, Fourth Division, to recover damages
against the defendant alleged to have been 'sustained on
account of its negligence. The plaintiff was in the service
of the corporation when the injury was sustained.
The defendant denied any negligence, and set up that
whatever injury plaintiff below sustained was caused by his
own neglect and carelessness.
The case came to trial and evidence tending to show the
following facts was given: The plaintiff was a day laborer,
and he and several others in July, 1890, were at a place called
Old Superior, a station on the line of the defendant's road.
They had been working on the road at that point, but work
becoming scarce they had applied to one Mongavin, who was
a roadmaster of the defendant and at that time stationed at
Old Superior, for employment. Mongavin told them he had
no more work for them there, but he would send them up to

OCTOBER TER-K, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Poplar, and they could go to work there if they wanted to;
that they could go up there and go on an extra gang that
Holverson was running. He furnished them with passes to
Poplar, and the men went up and were placed at work by
Holverson on his extra gang. The work which was to be
done was repairing the road and roadbed, putting in new ties
where necessary, and work of that general nature.
After the plaintiff and his companions were employed by
Holverson on the extra gang it then amounted in numbers to
13 men, with Holverson as foreman. The extra gang had
duties precisely of the same kind as those pertaining to the
regular section gang, which was employed on each section of
the road to keep the same in repair. The road was divided
into sections of about six miles in length, and the purpose of
the extra gang was to help out the other gangs when the
work on their sections became too much for the regular gang
to do. Each section had a section foreman or boss under
whom the section gang worked. The extra gang over which
Holverson had charge, and into which plaintiff and his associates entered, instead of confining its assistance to one section,
worked, where necessary, over a distance of three sections.
Holverson had power to employ men and also to discharge
them. The tools used by the men in repairing the road were
furnished by the company. They were sent to Holverson,
who gave them to the men as they required them. The men
were stationed at Poplar, and were taken each morning on
hand ears to the place where they were to work during the
day, and when the work was finished were brought back.
The members of the gang themselves worked the hand cars,
Holverson generally occupying a place on the front hand car
and taking care of the brakes, and applying them when
thought necessary. iHe always went with the gang, superintended their work, even if taking no part in the actual manual
labor, and came home with them at the end of the day's
labor.
About a month after plaintiff had been working in this
extra gang, and on the 19th of August; 1890, while returning
on the hand car with the rest of the gang from the day's work,

N0RTHER.N PAcIrIO RAILROAD v. PETERSO1.

349

Statement of the Case.

the accident out of which this suit arises occurred, Holverson
occupied his accustomed place on the front hand car at.the
brakes. The plaintiff and several of his associates were on the
same car. The second car was occupied by the remainder of
the gang. While proceeding around a curve on the track,
Holverson thought he saw some object in front of him, and
he applied his brakes, as was said, very suddenly, in consequence of which the car was abruptly stopped. He gave no
warning of his intention, and the rear car was following so
closely that it had no chance to stop before running into the
car ahead, the result of which was that the first car was thrown
from the track, throwing plaintiff off the car, and injuring his
leg by having the rear car eun over it.
It was alleged that the brakes on the roar car were defective, and that on that account the rear car could. not be
stopped as readily as it would otherwise have been. This
issue was not insisted upon, and was not in fact submitted to
the jury. There was also evidence that the hand cars were
being run at the 'unusual rate of speed of from 12 to 15 miles
an hour. Other evidence was given in regard to the nature
of the wound and the alleged neglect of Holverson, and the
injuries sustained by plaintiff below.
The court, among other things, chargied the jury as follows:
"The plaintiff claims his injuries resulted from the negligent act of Holverson, who was the defendant's foreman of an
'extra gang of laborers,' of whom the plaintiff was one, working on the-defendant's road.
"The defendant claims they resulted from the negligence
of the plaintiff's fellow-servants, and also claims that Holverson was a fellow-servant of plaintiff. Whether hewas so or not
depends on the relation he sustained to. the defendant company, and the court instructs you that if you find from the
evidence that Holverson was a 'foreman on extra gang' for
the defendant company, and that as such foreman he had the
charge and superintendency of putting in ties and lining and
keeping in repair three sections of the .defendant's road; that
he hired the gang of hands, about thirteen in number, to do
this work for the company, and had the, exclusive charge-and

OCTOBER TERT, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

direction and management of said gang of hands in all matters
connected with their employment, and was invested with
authority to hire and discharge the hands to do said work at
his discretion, and that plaintiff was one of the gang of hands
so hired by Holverson, and that the plaintiff was subject to
the authority of Holverson in all matters relating to his duties
as a laborer, then the plaintiff and Holverson were not fellow-servantp in the sense that will preclude the plaintiff from
recovering from the railroad company damages for any injury
he may have sustained through the negligence of Holverson,
acting in the course of his employment as such foreman.
"If you find Holverson was not a fellow-servant of the
plaintiff, but representing the company, then, as was well observed by counsel for defendant, the question under the evidence in the case for your determination is, was the injury
the result of the negligent act of Holverson, the defendant's
agent, who was riding ofl and had charge of the front hand
car, or was it the negligence of the hands who were on and
operating the hind car? If the negligence of the men on the
hind car occasioned the accident the defendant is not liable;
but if the accident resulted from the negligbnt act of Holverson the defendant is liable.
"You have heard the evidence relating to the functions
and duty of Holverson and the hands at work under him, and
upon a full and fair consideration of all that evidence, you will
determine whose negligent act occasioned this accident."
Counsel for the defendant below asked the court to charge
the jury on the question of defective brakes, but after some
conversation between counsel and the court, the court stated:
"You do not want a charge further than the issues in the
case. There is nothing about the brake in the case; it all
reduces itself to this: If you find under my charge that Holverson was not a fellow-servant of the plaintiff, then the question is, through whose negligent act did this injury occur?
Was it the act of Holverson, the foreman, who was on the
front car, or was it the negligent act of plaintiff's fellowservants on the hind car? If it was the act of Holverson,
then the plaintiff is entitled to the agreed amount; if it was the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PETERSON.

351

Opinion of the Court.

act of the men on the bind car, then plaintiff cannot recover,
and your verdict must be for the defendant."
Exceptions were duly taken to the refusal to charge as
requested by counsel for the defendant below and to the
charge as above given.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff. Upon
writ of error the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit affirmed the judgment, 4 U. S. App. 574,
and the defendant below sued out this writ of error.
Mr. William J. Curtis and Mr. C. i. Bunn, for plaintiff
in error, submitted on their briefs.
Mr. Hlenry

. Gjertsen for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE PEKHAfm,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The sole question for our determination is, whether Holverson occupied the position of fellow-servant with the plaintiff
below. If he did, then this judgment is wrong and must be
reversed.
By the verdict of the jury, under the charge of the court,
we must take the fact to be that Holverson was foreman of
the extra gang for the defendant company, and that he had
charge of and superintended the gang in the putting in of the
ties and assisting in keeping in repair the portion of the road
included within the three sections; that he had power to hire
(and discharge) the hands in his gang, then amounting to 13
in number, and had exclusive charge of the direction and
management of the gang in all matters connected with their
employment; that the plaintiff below was one of the gang of
hands so hired by Holverson and was subject to the authority
of Holverson in all matters relating to his duties as laborer.
Upon these facts the courts below have held that the plaintiff
and Holverson were not fellow-servants in such a sense as to
preclude plaintiff recovering from the railroad company damages for the injuries he sustained through the negligence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Holverson, acting in the course of his employment as such
foreman.
In the course of the review of the judgment by the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals, that court held that the distinction applicable to the determination of the question of a
co-employ6 was not "whether the person has charge of an
important department of the master's service, but whether
his duties are exclusively those of supervision, direction and
control over a work undertaken by the master, and over subordinate employ6s engaged in such work, whose duty it is to
obey, and whether he has been vested by the common master
with such power of supervision and management." Continuing, the court said that "the other view that has been taken
is that whether a person is a vice-principal is to be determined
solely by the magnitude or importance of the work that may
have been committed to his charge, and that view is open to
the objection that it furnishes no practical or cevtain test by
which to determine in a given case whether an employ6 has
been vested with such departmental control, or has been 'so
lifted up in the grade and extent of his duties' as to constitute him the personal representative of the master. That this
would frequently be a difficult- and embarrassing question to
decide, and that courts would differ widely in their views, if
the doctrine of departmental control were adopted, is well
illustrated by the case of Borgman v. Omahac & St. Louis
Railway, 41 Fed. Rep. 667, 669. We are of the opinion,
therefore, that the nature and character of the respective
duties devolved upon and performed by persons in the same
common employment, should in each instance determine
whether they are or are not fellow-servants, and that such
relation should not 5e deemed to exist between two employds
where the function of one is to exercise supervision and control over some work undertaken by the master which requires
supervision, and over subordinate .servants engaged in that
work, and where the other is not vested by the master with
any such power of direction or management." 4 U. S. App.
574, 578. The court thereupon affirmed the judgment.
It seems quite plain that Holverson was not the chief or

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PETERSON.

353

Opinion of the Court.

superintendent of a separate and distinct department or branch
of the business of the company, as such term is used in those
cases where a liability is placed upon the company for the negligence of such an officer. We also think that the ground
of liability laid down by the courts below is untenable.
The general rule is, that those entering into the service of
a common master become thereby engaged in a common service and are fellow-servants, and, pnrima facie, the common
master is not liable for the negligence of one of his servants
which has resulted, in an injury to a fellow-servant. There
are, however, some duties which a master owes, as such, to a
servant entering his employment. He owes the duty to provide such servant with a reasonably safe place to work in,
having reference to the character of the employment in which
the servant is engaged. He also-owes the duty of providing
reasonably safe tools, appliances and machinery for the accomplishment of the work necessary to be done. ie must
exercise proper' diligence in the employment of reasonably
safe and competent men to perform their respective duties,
and it has been held in many States that the master owes the
further duty of adopting and promulgating safe and proper
rules for the conduct of his business, including the government
of the machinery and the running of trains on a railroad track.
If the master be neglectful in any of these matters it is a neglect of a duty which he personally owes to his employ~s, and if
the employo suffer damage on account thereof, the master is
liable. If, instead of personally performing these obligations,
the master engages another to do them for him, he is liable for
the neglect of that other, which, in su6h case, is not the neg-.
lect of a fellow-servant, no matter what his position as to 6ther
matters, but is the neglect of the master to do those things
which it is the duty of the master to perform as such.
In addition to the liability of the master for his neglect to
perform these duties, there has been laid upon him by some
courts a further liability for the negligence of one' of his servants in charge of a separate department or branch of business
whereby another of his employ6s has been injured, even though
the neglect was not of that character which the master owed in
VOL. cLxn-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

his capacity as master to the servant who was injured. In such
case it has been held that the neglect of the superior officer or
agent of the master was the neglect of the master, and was not
that of the co-employ6, and hence that the servant, who was a
subordinate in the department of the officer, could recover
against the common master for the injuries sustained by him
under such circumstances. It has been already said that Ilolverson sustained no such relation to the company in this case as
°would uphold a liability for his acts based upon the ground that
he was a superintendent of a separate and distinct branch or department of the master's business. Itis proper, therefore, to inquire what is meant to be included by the use of such a phrase.
A leading case on this subject in this court is that of
Chicago, -Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Ross, .112 U. S.
377. In that case a railroad corporation was held responsible
to a locomotive engineer in the employment of the company
for damages received in a collision which was caused by the
negligence of the conductor of the train drawn by the engine
upon which plaintiff was engineer. This court held the action
was maintainable, on the ground that the conductor upon the
occasion in question was an agent of the corporation, clothed
with the control and management of a distinct department,
in which his duty was entirely that of direction and superintendence; that he had the entire control and management of
the train, and that he occupied a very different position from
the brakemen, porters and other subordinates employed on it;
that he was in fact and should be treated as a personal representative of the corporation for whose negligence the corporation was responsible to subordinate servants. The engineer
was permitted to recover on that theory. These facts give
some indication of the meaning of the phrase.
In the above case the instruction given by the court at the
trial, to which exception was taken, was in these words: "It
isvery clear, I think, that if the company sees fit to place one
of its employ~s under the control and direction of another,
that then the two are not fellow-servants, engaged in the
same common employment within the meaning of the rule of
law of which I am speaking." That instruction thus broadly

NORT

ERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PETERSON.

355

Opinion of the Court.

given was not, however, approved by this court in the Boss
case. Such ground of liability, mere superiority in position
and the power to give orders to subordinates, was denied.
What was approved in that case, and the foundation upon
which the approval was given, is very clearly stated by
Mr. Justice Brewer in the c6urse of the opinion delivered in
the case of Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S.
368, at 380 and the following pages. In the Baugh case it is
also made plain that the master's responsibility for the negligence of a servant is not founded tipon the fact that the servant guilty of the neglect had control over and a superior
position to that occupied by the servant who was injured by
his negligence. The rule is that in order to form an exception to the general law of non-liability the person whose neglect caused the injury must be "one who was clothed with
the control. and management of a distinct department, and
-nota mere separatepiece of work in one of the branches of ser-vice in a department." This distinction is a plain one, and
not subject to any great embarrassment in determining the
fact in any particular case.
When the business of the master or employer is of such
great and diversified extent that it naturally and necessarily
separates itself into departments of service, the individuals
placed by the master in charge of these separate branches and
departments of service, and given entire and absolute control
therein, may properly be considered, with respect to employ6s
under them, vice-principals and representatives of the master
as fully and as completely as if the entire business of the master were placed by him under one superintendent. Thus Mr.
Justice Brewer in the Baugh case illustrates the meaning of
the phrase "different branches or dep artments of service," by
suggesting that "between the law department of a railway
corporation and the operating department there is a natural
and distinct separation, one which makes the two departments
like two independent kinds of business, in which the one employer and master is engaged. So oftentimes there is in the
affairs of such corporation what may be called a-manufacturing or repair department, and another strictly operating de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

partment; these two departments are, in their relations to each
other, as distinct and separate as though the work of each was
carried on by a separate corporation. And from this natural
separation flows the rule that he who is placed in charge of such
separate branch of the service, who alone superintends and has
the control of it, is as to it in the place of the master."
The subject is further elaborated in the case of Htoward v.
Denver & Rio Grande Railroad, 26 Fed. Rep. 837, in an
opinion by Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit Judge of the
Eighth Circuit. The other view is stated very distinctly in
the cases of Borgmarn v. Omaha & St. Louis Railroad Co., 41
Fed. Rep. 667, and Moods v. Lindvall, 48 Fed. Rep. 62. This
last case is much stronger for the plaintiff than the one at
bar. The foreman in this case bore no resemblance in
the importance and scope of his authority to that possessed
by Murdock in the Woods case (sapra). These cases which
have been cited serve to illustrate what was in the minds of
the courts when the various distinctions as to departments and
separate branches of service were suggested. In the Baugh
case, the engineer and fireman of a locomotive engine, running
alone on the railroad and without any train attached, were held
to be fellow-servants of the company so as to preclude the fireman from recovering from the company for injuries caused
by the negligence of the engineer.
The meaning of the expression "departmental control" was
again and very lately discussed in Northern Pacific Railroad
v. Ilambly, 154 U. S. 349, where it was held, as stated in the
headnote, that a common day laborer in the employ of a railroad company, who, while working for the company under
the orders and direction of a section boss or foreman on a
culvert on the line of the company'§ road, receives an injury
through the neglect. of a conductor and an engineer in moving
a particular passenger train upon the company's road, is a fellow-servant of such engineer and of such conductor in such
a sense as exempts the railroad company from liability for
the injury so inflicted.
The subject is again treated in Central Railroad v. ffeegan,
160 TT. S. 259, decided at this term, where the men engaged

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PETERSON.

357

Opinion of the Court.

in the service of the railroad company were employed in uncoupling from the rear of trains cars which were to be sent
elsewhere and in attaching other cars in their place, and they
were held to be fellow-servants, although the force, consisting of five men, was under the orders of a "boss" who directed
the men which cars to uncouple and what cars to couple, and
the neglect was alleged to have been the neglect of the "boss"
by which the injury resulted to one of the men. This court
held that they were fellow-servants, and the mere fact that
one was under the'orders of the other constituted no distinction, and that the general rule of non-liability applied.
These last cases exclude by their facts and reasoning
the
case of a section foreman from the position of a superintendent of a separate and distinct department. They also prove
that mere superiority of position is no ground for liability.
This boss of a small gang bf ten or fifteen wen, engaged
in making repairs upon the road wherever they might be
necessary, over a distance of three sections, aiding and assisting the regular gang of workmen upon each section as occasion demanded, was not such a superintendent of a separate
department, nor was he in control of such a distinct branch
of the work of the master as would be necessary to render
the master liable to a co-employ6 for his neglect. He was in
fact, as well as in law, a fellow-workman; he went with the
gang to the place of work in the morriing, stayed there with
them during the day, superintended their work, giving directions in regard to it, and returned home with them in the
evening, acting as a part of the crew of the hand car upon
which 'they rode. The mere fact, if it be a fact, that he did
not actually handle a shovel or a pick, is an unimportant
matter. Where more than one man is. engaged in doing any
particular work, it becomes almost a necessity that one should
be boss and the other subordinate, but both are neverthe!ess
fellow-workmen.
If in approaching the line of separation between a fellowworkman and a superintendent of a particular and- separate
department 'there may be embarrassment in determining the
question, this case presents no such difficulty. It is clearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

one of fellow-servants. The neglect for which the plaintiff
has recovered in this case was the neglect of Holverson in
not taking proper care at the time when he applied the brake
to the front car. It was not a neglect of that character which
would make the master responsible therefor, because it was
not a neglect of a duty which the master owes as master to
his servant when he enters his employment.
It is urged, however, in this case that this judgment may
be sustained upon another and distinct proposition. The
counsel for the defendant in error says that it is alleged in
the amended complaint, "that as a part of the contract of
hiring, the defendant engaged to carry the plaintiff to and
from his work upon the defendant's road as occasion should
require, in a safe and proper manner." He then argues that
the defendant having as a part of its contract of hiring
assumed the obligation to carry safely, it was bound to exercise the same degree of care in its discharge as in any positive
duty recognized or imposed by law, and that, therefore, the
negligence of Holverson in the performance of his duty,
whether it be from the relation of master and servant or one
specially assumed under the contract of hiring, was a neglect
of the master.
Although this allegation is contained in the complaint, it
is denied in the answer, and there is no proof of any contract
on the part of the defendant below to carry the plaintiff
safely, further than is to be inferred from the fact that the
company furnished hand cars which were worked by the gang
and upon which they rode to and from the place of labor.
If, under these circumstances, the servant be injured through
the neglect of a fellow-servant, such as appears in this case,
the master is not liable.
The charge of the court to the jury in the matter complained of was erroneous, and the judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to grant a
new trial.
The

CHIEF JusTICE

HARLAN

dissented.

and MR. JusTIcE

FIELD

and MR.

JUSTICE

