CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

91

Syllabus.

called G'reer County - constitutes no part of the territory
properly included within or rigAtfully belonging to Texas
at the time of the admission of thit State into the Union,
and is not within the limits nor under the jurisdictionof
that State, but is subject to the eeclusive jurisdiction of the
United States of America. Each party will pay its own
costs.

M1R. JUSTICE PECKHAM, not having been a member of the
court when this case was argued, took no part in tht decision.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 559. Argued January 15, 16, 1896. -Decided

March 16, 1896.

The Central Pacific Railroad Company, being required by the laws of California to make returns of its property to the Board of Equalization for
purposes of taxation, made a verified statement in which, among other
things, it was said: "The value of the franchise and .entire roadway,
roadbed, and rails within this State is $12,273,785." The Board of
Equalization determined that the actual value of the franchises, roadway, 'roadbed, rails, and rolling stock of the company within the State
at that time was $18,000,000. The company not having paid the taxes
assessed on this valuation, this action was brought by the State to
recover them. Held,
'(1) That the presumption was that the franchise included by the company in its return -was a franchise which was. not exem pt under
the laws of the United States, and that the board had acted upon,
property within its jurisdiction;
(2) That if the Board of Equalization had included what it hrid no authority to assess, the company might seek the remedies given
under the law, to correct the assessment so far as such property
was concerned, or recover back the tax thereon, or, if those remedies were not held exclusive, might defend against the attempt
to enforce it;
(3) Where the property mentioned in the description could-be assessed,
and the assessment followed the return, the company ought to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
held estopped from saying that the description was ambiguous,
and this notwithstanding the fact that the statement was made on
printed blanks, prepared by the board.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the State that the findings of the
trial court on the question of whether the franchises taxed covered
franchises derived from the United States was conclusive, and is binding on this court.
The fact that a court, after giving its decision upon an issue, gives its
opinion upon the manner in which it would have decided the issue under
other circumstances, does not constitute an error to be reviewed in this
court.
The Central Pacific company is a corporation of California, recognized as
such by the acts of Congress granting it aid and conferring upon it
Federal franchises, and it was not the object of those acts to sever its
allegiance to the State or transfer the powers and privileges derived
from it; nor did those consequences result-from the acceptance of the
grant by the corporation.
The property of a corporation of the United States may be taxed by a
State, but not through its franchise.
Although a corporation may be an agent of the United States a State may
tax its property, subject to the limitation pointed out in Railroad Co. v.
Peniston, 18 Wall. 5.
It is immaterial in this case whether the railroad company operates its road
under the frailchise derived from the United States, or under that derived
from the State.
When it is considered that the Central Pacific company returned its franchise for assessment, declined to resort to the remedy afforded by the
state laws for the correction of the assessment as made if dissatisfied
therewith, or to pay its tax and bring suit to recover back the whole or
any part of the tax which it claimed to be illegal, its position is not one
entitled to favorable consideration; but, without regard to that, the
court holds, for reasons given, that the state courts rightly decided
that the coipany had no valid defence to the causes of action proceeded on.

THIs was an action brought in the name of the People of the
State of California against the Central Pacific Railroad Company in the Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco, under section 3670 of the Political Code of that State,
to recover a certain sum of money alleged to be due the State
and various other sums of money alleged to be due eighteen
counties of the State, for taxes for the fiscal year 1887 upon
the assessment of the state Board of Equalization, judgment
being demanded for the several sums- of state and county
taxes delinquent and unpaid as stated in the complaint, wvith

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

93

Statement of the Case.

five per cent thereon added for delinquency and non-payment,
and interest from the time of such delinquency; and also for
costs of suit and attorneys' fees, as allowed by law.
The provisions of the state constitution on the subject of
revenue are found in article XIII; and sections 1, 4, and 10
of that article and sections 3664, 3665, 3666, 3667, 3668, 3669,
3670, and 3671 of the Political Code of California are given in
the margin. 1
1

Srcriox 1. All property in the State, not exempt under the laws of the
United States, shall he taxed in proportion to its value, to be ascertained as
provided by law. The word " property," as used in this article and section,
is hereby declared to include moneys, credits, bonds, stocks, dues, franchises,
and all other matters and things, real, personal, and mixed, capable of private ownership: Provided, That growing crops, property used exclusively
for public schools, and such as may belong to the United States, this State,
or to any county or municipal corporation -within this State, shall be exempt from taxation. The legislature may provide, except in the case of
credits secured by mortgage or trust deed, for a reduction from credits or
debts due to bonafide residents of this State.
SECTION 4. A mortgage, deed of trust, contract, or other obligation by
which a debt is secured, shall, for the purposes of assessment and taxation, be deemed and treated as an interest in the property affected thereby.
Except as to raili'oad and other quasi public corporations, in case of debts
so secured, the value of the property affected by such mortgage, deed of
trust, contract, or obligation, less the value of such security, shall be
assessed and taxed to the owner of the property, and the value of such
security shall be assessed and taxed to the owner thereof, in the county,
city, or district in which the property affected thereby is situate. The taxes
so levied shall be a lien upon the property and security, and may be paid by
either party to such security; -if paid by the owner of the security, the
tax so levied upon the property affected thereby shall become a part of the
debt so secured; if the owner of the property shall pay the tax so levied on
such security, it shall constitute a payment thereon, and to the extent of
such payment a full discharge thereof: -Provided,That if any suah security
or indebtedness shall be paid by any such debtor or debtors, after assessment and before the tax levy, the amount of such levy may likewise be
retained by such debtor or debtors, and shall be computed according to the
tax levy for the preceding year.
SEcTiox 10. All property, except as hereinafter in this section provided,
shall be assessed in the county, city, city and county, town, township, or
district in which it is situated, in the manner prescribed by law. The franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, and rolling stock of all railroads operated in
more than one county ifi this State shall be assessed by the state Board of
Equalization, at their actual value, and the same shall be-apportioned to the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The complaint contained nineteen counts on nineteen alleged
causes of action, and each count averred that the defendant
was, at all times therein mentioned, a corporation organized
counties, cities and counties, cities, towns, townships, and districts in wbich
such railroads are located, in proportion to the number of miles of railway
laid in such counties, cities and counties, cities, towns, townships, and
districts.
Provisions of Political Code.
SECTION 3664. The president, secretary, or managing agent, or such
other officer as the state Board of Equalization may designate of any corporation, and each person, or association of persons, owning or operating
any railroad in more than one county in this State, shall, on or before the
first Monday in April of each year, furnish the said board a statement,
signed and sworn to by one of such officers, or by the person or one of the
persons forming such association, showing in detail for the year ending on
the first Monday in March in each year 1. The whole number of miles of railway in the State, and where the line
is partly out of the State, the whole number of miles without the State and
the whole number within the State, owned or operated by such corporation,
person, or association :
2. The value of the roadway, roadbed, and rails of the whoie railway,
and the value of the same within the State:
3. The width of the right of way:
4. The number of each kind of all rolling stock used by such corporation, person, or association in operating the entire railway, including the
part without the State:
5. Number, kind, and value of rolling stock owned and operated in the
State:
6. Number, kind, and value of rolling stock'used in the State, but owned
by the party making the returns:
7. Number, kind, and value of rolling stock owned, but used out of the
State either upon divisions of road operated by the party making the
returns, or by and upon other railways.
Also showing in detail for the year preceding the first of January1. The-gross earnings of the entire road:
2. The gross earnings of thq road in the State, and where the railway is
let to other operators, how much was derived by the lessor as rental:
3. The cost of operating the entire (road), exclusive of sinking fund,
expenses of land department, and money paid to the United States:
4. Net income for such year and amount of dividend declared:
5. Capital stock authorized:
6. Capital stock paid in:
7. Funded debt:
8. Number of shares authorized:
9. Number of shares of stock issued:

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

95

Statement of the Case.

and existing under the laws of the State of California, and
engaged in operating a. railroad in more than one county of'
that State; and that on August 13, 1887, the state Board of
10. Any other facts the state Board of Equalization may require:
11. A description of the road, giving the point of entrance into and the
point of exit from each county, with a statement of the number of miles in
each county. When a description of the road shall once have been given
no other annual description thereafter is necessary, unless the road shall
have been changed. Whenever the road, or any portion of the road, is
advertised to be sold, or is sold for taxes, either state or county, no other
description is necessary than that given by, and the same is conclusive
-upon, the corporation, person, or association giving the description. No
assessment is invalid on account of a misdescription of the railway or the
right of way for the same.
If such statement is not furnished as above provided, the assessment
made by the state Board of Equalization upon the property of the corporation, person, or association failing t6 furnish the statement is conclusive
and final.
SECTJOw 3665. The state Board of Equalization must meet at the state
capitol on the first Monday in August, and continue in open session from
day to day, Sundays excepted, until the third Monday in August. At such
meeting the board must assess the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, and
rolling stock of all railroads operated in more than one county. Assessment must be made to the corporation, person, or association of persons
owning the same, and must be made upon the entire railway within the State,
and must include the right of way, bridges, culverts, wharves, and moles
upon which the track is laid, and all steamers which are en~gaged in transporting passengers, freights, ard passenger and freight cars across waters
which divide the road. The depots, stations, shops, and buildings erected
upon the space covered by the right of way, are assessed by-the assessors
of the county wherein they are situate. Within ten days after the third
Monday of August, the board must apportion the total assessment of the
franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, and rolling stock of each railvay to
the *counties, or cities and counties in which such railway is located, in
proportion to the number of miles of railway laid in such counties, and
cities and counties. The board must also, -within said time, transmit by
mail to the county auditor of each county, or city and county, to which
such apportionment shall have been made,. a statement showing the length
of the main track of such railway within the county, or. city and county,
with a description of the whole of the said track within the county, or city
and. county, including the right of way, by metes and bounds, or other
description sufficient for identification, the assessed value per mile of the
same as fixed by a pro rata distribution per mile of the assessed value of
the whole franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, and rolling stock of such
railway within the State, and the amount apportioned to the county, or city

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of tle Case.

Equalization, for the purposes of state and county taxation
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1888, assessed to defendant,
then the owner and operator thereof in more than one county
and county. The auditor must enter the statement on the assessment roll
or book of the county, or city and county, and where the county is divided
into assessorial townships or districts, then on the roll or book of any
township or district he may select, and enter the amount of the assessment
apportioned to the county, or city and county, in the column of the assessment book or roll as aforesaid, which shows the total value of all property
for taxation, either of the county, city and county, or such township or
district. On the first Monday in October, tile board of supervisors must
make, and cause to be entered in the proper record book, an order stating
and declaring the length of main track of the railway assessed by the
state Board of Equalization within the county; the assessed value per mile
of such railway, the number of miles of track, and the assessed value of
such railway lying in each city, town, township, school and road district,
or lesser taxing district in the county, or city and county, through which
such railway runs, as fixed by the state Board of Equalization, which
shall constitute the assessment value of said property for taxable purposes
'in such city, town, township, school, road, or other district; and the clerk
of the board of supervisors must transmit a copy of each order or equalization to the city council, or trustees, or other legislative body of incorporated cities or towns, the trustees of each school district, and the
authorized authorities of other taxation districts through which such railway runs. All such railway property shall be taxable upon said assessment,
at the same rates, by the same officers, and for the same purposes, as the
property of individuals within such city, town, township, school, road, and
lesser taxation districts, respectively. If the owner of a railway assessed
by the state Board of Equalization is dissatisfied with the assessment made
by the board, such owner may, at the meeting of the board, under the provision of section thirty-six hundred and ninety-two of the Political Code,
between the third Monday in August and the third 11onday in September, apply to the board to have the same corrected in any particular, and
the board may correct and increase or lower the assessment made by it,
so as to equalize tile same with the assessment of other property in the
State. If tie board shall increase or lower any assessment previously
made by it, it must make a statement to the county auditor of the county
affected by tile change in the assessment, of the change made, and the
auditor must note such change upon the assessment book or roll of the
county as directed by tile board. [In effect March 9, 1883.]
SECTION 3666. The state Board of Equalization must prepare each year a
book, to be called "Record of Assessment of Railways," in which must be
entered each assessment made by the board, either in writing, or by both
writing and printing. Each assessment so entered must be signed by the
dhairnman and clerk. The.record of the apportionment of tile assessments

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

97

Statement of the Case.

in said State, the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of defendant's railroad, then situated and being
within said State, at the sum of eighteen millions of dollars.
made by the board to the counties, and cities and counties, must be made
in a separate book, to be called "Record of Apportionment of Railway
Assessments." In such last described book must be entered the names of
the railways assessed by the board, the names of the corporation to which,
or the name of the person or association to whom, each railway was assessed, the whole number of miles of the railway in the State, the number
of miles thereof in each county, or city and county, the total assessment of
the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, and rolling stock for purposes of
State taxation, and the amount of the apportionment of such total assessment to each' county, and city and county, for county, and city and county
taxation. Before the third Monday of October of each year the clerk of
the state Board of Equalization must prepare and transmit to the comptroller of the State, duplicates of the "Record of Assessment of Railways,"
and !"Record of Apportionment of Railway Assessments," each certified
by the chairman and clerk of the board, and to be known respectively
as "Duplicate Record of Assessment of Railways," and "Duplicate Record of Apportionment of Railway Assessments."
In the last named
duplicate two columns must be added, in one of which the comptroller
must enter the state taxes due the State upon the whole assessment by
each corporation, person, or association, and in the other the county,
or city and county taxes, due upon the assessment apportioned to each
county, or city and county, by each corporation, person, or- association.
The two duplicates constitute the warrant for the comptroller to collect
the state and county, and city and county, taxes levied upon such property assessed by the board, and the amount of the apportionment of the
assessment to each county, and city and county, respectively. [In effect
March 9, 1883.]
SECTIox 3667. When the board of supervisors of each county, and city
and county, to which the state Board of Equalization has apportioned the
assessment of railways shall have fixed the rate of county, or city and
county, taxation, the clerk of the board of supervisors must forthwith by
mail, postage paid, transmit to the comptroller a statement of the rate of
taxation levied by the board of supervisors for. county, or city and county,
taxation. If the clerk fails to transmit such: statement, the, comptroller
must obtain the information as to such rate of taxation from other sources.
On or before the fourth Monday of October the comptroller must compute
and enter in separate money columns in the "Duplicate Record of Apportionment of Railway Assessments" the respective sums, in dollars and
cents, rejecting fractions of a cent, to be paid by the corporation, person,
or association liable therefor as the state tax upon the total amount of the
assessment, and the county, or city and county, tax upon the apportionment
of the assessment to each county, and city and county, or the property
VOL. CLxu-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The first count then averred that within ten days after the
third Monday in August, 1887, the state Board of Equalization apportioned the total assessment of the franchise, roadassessed to such corporation, person, or association named in said duplicate
record. (Ineffect March 9, 1883.]
SFCTIO-N 3668. Within ten days after the fourth Monday in October, the
comptroller must publish a notice for two weeks in one daily newspaper of
general circulation at the state capital, and in two daily newpapers of general circulation published in the city of San Francisco, specifying:
1. That he has received from the state Board of Equalization the "Duplicate Record'of Assessments of Railways" and the " Duplicate Record of
Apportionment of Railway Assessments;"
2. That the taxes are now payable and will be delinquent on the last Monday in December next, at six o'clock P.r., and that unless paid to the state
treasurer at the capitol prior thereto, five per cent will be added to the
amount thereof. On the last Monday in December of .each year, at six
o'clock P.m1., all of unpaid taxes are delinquent, and thereafter there must
be collected by the state treasurer or other proper officer an addition of
five per centum, which sum when collected must be set aside by the treasurer, as a fund with which to pay the contingent expenses of actions
against any delinquents, the said expenses to be audited by the board of
examiners. When any taxes are paid to the state treasurer by order of the
comptroller, upon assessments made and apportioned by the state Board
of Equalization, the comptroller must forthwith notify the auditor and
treasurer respectively of each county, and city and county, that such taxes
have been paid, and of the amount thereof to which each county and city
and county interested' is entitled. The State's portion of the taxes must be
distributed by the treasurer to each fund entitled thereto, and the portion
belonging to the counties, and cities and counties, must be placed in a fund,
to be called "Railway Tax Fund," to the credit of each county, and city
and county entitled thereto. When any taxes are placed in the "Railway
Tax Fund " to the credit of a county, or city and county, the comptroller,
at the next settlement with the comptroller by the treasurer of such county,
or city and county, must draw and deliver to such treasurer, his warrant
upon the state treasurer for the amount in the fund to the credit of such
county, or city and county. .[In effect March 9, 1883.]
SECTION 3669. Each corporation, person, or association assessed by the
state Board of Equalization must pay to the state treasurer, upon the order
of the comptroller, as other moneys are required to be paid into the treasury, the state and county, and city and county, taxes each year levied upon
the property so assessed to it or him by said board. Any corporation, person, or association, dissatisfied with the assessment made by the board,
upon the payment of the taxes due upon the assessment complained of, and
the five per cent added, if to be added, on or before the first Monday in
February, and the filing of notice with the comptroller of an intention to

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

99

Statement of the Case.

way, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of defendant to the
counties in the State in which the railway was located, in
proportion to the number of miles of railway laid in such
begin an action, may, not later than the first Monday of February, bring an
action against the state treasurer for the recovery of the amount of taxes
and percentage so paid to the treasurer, or any part thereof, and in the
complaint may allege any fact tending to show the illegality of the tax, or
of the assessment upon which the taxes are levied, in whole or in part. A
copy of the complaint and of the summons must be served -upon the treasurer within ten days after the complaint has been filed, and the treasurer
has thirty days within which to demur or answer. At the time the treasurer
demurs .oranswers he may demand that the action be tried in the Superior
Court of the county of Sacramento. The attorney general must defend the
action. The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure relating to pleadings, proofs, trials, and appeals are applicable to the proceddings herein
provided for. If the final judgment be against the treasurer, upon presentation of a certified copy of such judgment to the comptroller, he shall
draw his warrant upon the state treasurer, who must pay to the plaintiff
the amount of the taxes so declared to have been illegally collected, and
the cost of such action, audited by the board of examiners, must be paid
out of any money in the general fund of the treasury, which is hereby
appropriated, and the comptroller may demand and receive from the county,
or city and county, interestdd the proportion of such costs, or may deduct
such proportion from any money then or to become due to said county, or
city and county. Such action must be begun on or before the first Monday
in February of the year succeeding.the year in which the taxes were levied,
and a failure to begin such action is deemed a waiver of the rights of action.
(In effect March 9, 1883.]
SECTION 3670. After the first Monday of February of each year, the
comptroller must begin an action -inthe proper court, in the name of the
people of the State of California, to collect the delinquent taxes upon
the property assessed by the state Board of Equalization; such suit must be
for the taxes due the State, and all the counties, and cities and counties,
upon property assessed by the Board of Equalization, and appearing delinquent upon the "Duplicate Record of Apportionment of Railway Assessments."
The demands for state and county, and city and county taxes, may be
united in one action. In such action a complaint in the following form is
sufficient:
[Title of Court.]
TmrE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
VS.
(NAMG THE DEFENDANT).

Plaintiff avers that on. the
day of
, in the year (naming the
year), the state Board of Equalization assessed the franchise, roadway,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

counties; and the amounts of the total assessment so apportioned by the board to those counties, and the number of
miles of defendant's railway laid in said counties, were specifically set forth.
roadbed, rails, and rolling stock of the defendant at the sum of (naming it)
dollars. That the board apportioned the said assessment as follows: To
the county of (naming it) the sum of (naming it) dollars (and so on naming each county).
That the defendant is indebted to plaintiff for state and county taxes for
, in the following sums: For state taxes, in the
the year eighteen
sum of (naming it) dollars; for county taxes of the county of (naming it),
in the sum of (naming it) dollars, etc., with five per cent added for nonpayment of taxes. Plaintiff demands payment for said several sums and
prays that an attachment may issue in form as prescribed in section 540 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
(Signed by the comptroller or his attorney.)
On the filing of such complaint, the clerk must issue the writ of attachment prayed 4or, and such proceedings shall be had as under writs of attachment issued in civil actions; no bond nor affidavit previous to the issuing
of the attachment is required. If in such action the plaintiff recover judgment, there shall be included in the judgment as counsel fees, and in case
of judgment of taxes after suit brought but before judgment, the defendant
must pay as counsel fees, such sum as the court may determine to be reasonable and just. Payment of the taxes or the amount of the judgment in
the case must be made to the state treasurer. In such actions the duplicate
recordof assessments of railways and the duplicate record of apportionment of railway assessments, or a copy of them, certified by the comptroller,
showing unpaid taxes against any corporation, person, or association for
property assessed by the state Board of Equalization, is prima facie evidence of the assessment, the property assessed, the delinquency, the
amount of the taxes due and unpaid to the State and counties, or cities
and counties therein named, and that the corporation, person, or association is indebted to the people of the State of California, in the amount
of taxes, state and county, and city and county, therein appearing unpaid,
and that all the forms of law in relation to the assessment and levy of such
taxes have been complied with. [In effect March 9, 1883.]
SEcTION 3671. The assessment made by the county assessor, and that of
the state Board of Equalization, as apportioned by the board of supervisors to each city, town, township, school, road, or other district in their
respective counties, or cities and counties, shall be the only basis of taxation for the county, or any subdivision thereof, except incorporated cities
and towns, and may also be taken as such basis in incorporated cities and
towns when the proper authorities may so elect. All taxes upon townships,
road, school, or other local districts shall be collected in the same manner
as cou.nty taxes. [In effect March 9, 1883.]

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

101

Statement of the Case.

The count then proceeded as follows:
"V. That within ten days After the third Monday in
August, 1887, said state Board of Equalization did transmit
to each of the county auditors of said counties a statement
showing the length of the main track of defendant's railway
within the counties of said auditors respectively, with a description of the whole of defendant's railway track within the
counties of said auditors respectively, including the right of
way sufficient for identification, the assessed value per mile of
the same, as fixed by said pro 'ata distribution per mile of the
said assessed value of the Whole franchise, roadway, roadbed,
rails and rolling stock of defendant's railway in said State,
and the amount apportioned to the counties of said auditors
respectively.
"VI. That thereafter, and prior to the first Monday in
October, 1887, the county auditor of each of said counties did
enter said statement so transmitted to him upon- the assessment roll of his county, and did enter upon said assessment
roll of his county the said amount of said assessment apportioned by said state Board of Equalization to his county
in the column of the assessment roll -of his county which
showed the total value of all property of his county for
taxation.
"VII. That thereafter, and on the first Monday of October, 1887, the board of supervisors of each of said counties
did levy the state tax of said State of California according
to the rate theretofore fixed for such state tax for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1888, by said state Board of'Equalization, upon the taxable property in its county, including the
property of defendant assessed and apportioned' to its county
as-aforesaid, and the takes so levied in all of said counties for
the purposes of state taxation upon said property of defendant assessed. and apportioned to said counties as aforesaid was
the sum of $109,440.
"VIII. That upon the seventeenth day of September, 1887,
said state-Board of Equalization did fix the rate of state taxation for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1888, at the rate of
$0.608 on each one hundred dollars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

"IX. That defendant has never at any time paid said state
tax, amounting to said sum of $109,440, nor any part thereof.
That said state tax became and was delinquent on the last
Monday in December; 1887, at six o'clock P.m., and upon and
at the time of and by reason of such delinquency five per cent
of said state tax, to wit, the sum of $5472, was, by the comptroller of said State, added to said state tax, and no part of
said $54:72, so added for delinquency has ever been paid by
defendant.
. "X. That prior to the third Monday of October, 1887, the
said state Board of EqualizatiQn did prepare and transmit to
the comptroller of said State a duplicate record of assessment
of railways, and a duplicate record of apportionment of railway assessments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1888, both
certified by the chairman and clerk of said state Board of
Equalization, and which said duplicate records included the
said assessment of defendant's said property, and the said
apportionment of the assessment of defendant's property to
the said counties.
"Before the fourth Monday of October, 1887, said comptroller did compute at the rates of taxation fixed and levied
as aforesaid, and enter in separate money columns in the said
duplicate record of apportionment of railway assessments, the
respective sums, in dollars and cents, to be paid by the defendant as the state tax upon the total amount of said assessment,
and as the county tax upon the apportionment of said assessment to each county, and city and county, of the property
assessed to defendant named in said duplicate record. That
within ten days after the fourth Monday in October, 1887,
said comptroller did publish for two weeks in one daily newspaper of general circulation published at the state capital of
said State, and in ,two daily newspapers of general circulation
published in the city and county of San Francisco in said
State, a notice that he had received from said state Board of
Equalization said duplicate record of assessments of railways,
and said duplicate record of apportionment of railway assessments, and that the said taxes were then due and payable and
would become delinquent on the last Monday in December,

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

103

Statement of the Case.

1887, at 6 o'clock r.m., and that unless paid to the state treasurer at the capital prior thereto, five per cent would be added
to the amount thereof.
"That a reasonable compensation for legal services by
Langhorne & Miller, attorneys for plaintiff, in the institution and prosecution of this cause of action, is a sum equal to
ten per cent of the tax in this- cause of action alleged to be
delinquent."
Then followed eighteen counts for the county taxes in the
several counties, all averring in detail compliance with the
law in relation thereto.
Defendant demurred to the complaint, the demurrer was
overruled, and defendant answered, setting up various defences,
one of which was that the franchise assessed to defendant by
the state Board of Equalization was derived by defendant
from the government of the United States through certain
acts of Congress, and that the same were used by defendant
as one of the instrumentalities of the Federal government,
and, hence, was not taxable by the State; that the assessment
of this franchise was so blended with the whole assessment as
not to be separable therefrom; and that the whole assessment was therefore void.
The plaintiff put in evidence the "Duplicate Record of
Assessments of Railways by the state Board of Equalization
for 1887," and the "Duplicate Record of Apportionment of
Railway Assessments for 1887," filed in the office of the comptroller of the State of California on the 11th of October, 1887.
These were admitted subject to defendant's objection. The
duplicate record of the assessments of railways stated that
"the state Board of Equalization being in session on this, the
thirteenth day of August, 1887, all the members being present, and having under consideration the assessment of the
franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, within the State, for
the year 1887, and it appearing to this board that, said company, on the first Monday in March, in the year 1887, at 12
o'clock, meridian, of. that day, owned, and still owns, 719.50
miles of railroad within this State, which at said time and day

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in March was, and atill is, operated in more than one county;
being the entire railway of said company within this State,
and which, with the right of way for the same, is described
as follows:" [Here follows description of line of roadway,
roadbed, rails and right of way.] "And it appearing that
the actual value of the franchise,' roadway, roadbed, rails and
rolling stock of sa:id company, within this State, at the said
date and time in March, was, and still is, the sum of eighteen
millions of dollars: Therefore, it is hereby ordered that the
said franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock, for
the year 1887, be and the same are hereby assessed to the said
Central Pacific Railroad Company at the sum of eighteen
million dollars."
The duplicate record of apportionment of railway assessments, under date of August 22, 1887, stated: "The state
Board of Equalization met this day. All the members present. The board this day apportioned the total assessment of
the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of
each railroad assessed by it on the 13th day of August, 1887,
for the year 1887, to the counties and the city and county
of San Frahcisco in proportion to the number of miles of rail:
way laid in each county, and in the city and county of San
Francisco, which apportionment is set out in the following
table. The apportionment is based upon the proportion the
number of miles in each county of a railway bears to the total
number of miles of such railway laid in the State."
The annexed table gave the name of the corporation to
which each railway was assessed and the name of each railway assessed, in this instance as the "Central Pacific Railroad
Company;" the names of the counties and city and county, to
which the assessment was apportioned; the total number of
miles of road in the State; the number of miles in each county
and city and county; the value per mile; the total assessment
of the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of
each railway assessed; the amount apportioned to each county,
and city and county, for purposes of county and city and
county taxation; rate of taxation for each county, and city
and county, levied by the board of supervisors; amount of

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

105

Statement of the Case.

state taxes at the state rate; and amount due of county, and
city and county, taxes upon the assessment as apportioned.
It was admitted that the apportionment was made as the
Political Code required it to be made, and that the mileage
for each county was correctly stated.
Plaintiff then proved, under objection, that the taxes sued
for had not been paid, or any portion thereof. Evidence was
also introduced in regard to the value of services of counsel.
Defendant called as a witness C. I. Coglan, clerk of the
Board of Equalization, and identified the original minutes of
the proceedings of the board relating to the assessment of the
property of the Central Pacific Railroad Company for the
year 1888, under date of August 17, 1888. It appeared therefrom that the attorney general recommended to the board
that the franchises of the Central Pacific and Southern Pacific
companies,- derived from the State, be assessed, and that the
valuation thereof be stated, separately in the record of assessments; that the board assess the moles,.bridges and culverts
of each road separately, and in respect of certain railroad
companies declare that the steamers used in operating those
roads were not assessed; whereupon the board proceeded to
make such assessment, and ordered that the franchise of the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, derived from the State of
California, be assessed at $1,250,000, and that the franchise of
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, derived from- the
State of California, be assessed at $1,000,000; that the moles,
culverts, bridges and wharves upon which the tracks of the
Central Pacific are laid be assessed at $1,000,000; that the
moles, culverts, bridges and wharves upon which the tracks of
the Southern Pacific are laid be assessed at $400,000. The
original record of the assessment of the Central Pacific Railroad Company made by the board for the year 1888 was
offered in evidence, and was to the effect that the board
assessed the franchise derived from the State of California,
the roadway, roadbed and rolling stock of said company
within said State, at the total sum of $15,000,000.
On the cross-examination of Mr. Coglan, plaintiff offered
and the court admitted, in evidence, under defendant's objec-

OCTOBER TERI,. 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tion, the verified statements furnished by defendant to the state
Board of Equalization during the years 1887 and 1888, which
were marked plaintiff's Exhibits 4 and 6. Exhibit four was
the return made by the Central Pacific Railroad Company
for 1888, which read thus:
"The Central Pacific Railroad Company answers the questions propounded by the board as follows: And makes the
following statement in relation to its property subject to taxation in the State of California, owned by it for the year ending on the first Monday in March, 1-888, and of all property
used in operating its railway during such year:
"The length of railway owned and operated as a system in
and out of the State is 1344.14 miles.
"Length of track, sidings and double track reduced to
single track is-;
out of the State, 597 miles.; in the State,
747.14 miles.
"The value of the franchise derived from the
State within this State ................
$25 00
"The value of the entire roadway, roadbed,
rolling stock and rails within this State is 9,376,607 00
$9,376,632 00"
This was followed by a list of the mileage of the road in
California in each of the counties through which it ran, and
schedules of the rolling stock; the earnings and expenses of
the road as a system in and out of the State; of the operating expenses; and of the earnings and expenses within the
State. The return was duly sworn to.
Exhibit six was the return of the company for the year
1887. This opened with the same statement as the other,
and after giving the length of the railway owned and operated as a system and the length of track, single and double,
out of and in the State, continued: "The value of the franchise and entire roadway, roadbed and rails within this
State is $12,273,785.00."
The usual lists and schedules
were attached.
Defendant then called as a witness one Morehouse, a member of the state Board of Equalization, whose evidence tended

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

107

Statement of the Case.

to show that the assessment for 1887 was intended by him
to and did include defendant's Federal franchise, but that he
could not say that the value of the Federal franchise operated
on the minds of the other members of the board in making up
the items of the valuation. Defendant offered to prove by
Morehouse that at every session from 1883 and prior to 1888,
the board, in making its assessment of the valuation of the
property of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, included
in its total estimate the value of the Federal franchise held by
that company, by virtue of the acts of Congress referred to,
and that the valuation of the Federal franchise was blended
into the general assessment of that company in such a manier
as to be indistinguishable from it and not capable of separation.
This was objected to as incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial,
the objection sustained by -the court, and exception saved.
E. W. :Naslin, secretary of the state Board of Equalization
from April, 1880, to March, 1891, who was present at the
board meetings and kept the record of its proceedings, was
called as a witness by defendant, and testified that from his
acquaintance with the history of the assessment of the road
since 1880, his relation to it with respect of the franchise
and personal property, his conversation with many members
through those years, the knowledge he had of how two members arrived at their conclusions and the knowledge that he
thought he had as to how three members arrived at their
conclusions, he thought he could state what elements of value
were considered by the board in making their estimate for the
total values for 1887. Thereupon defendant asked witness the
following questions:
"Q. From the various sources of knowledge which you
have enumerated, please state to the court what elements were
taken into consideration by the state Board of Equalization in
making the assessment of this company for the year 1887.
"Q. Did you hear any conve'rsation between the members
of the state Board of Equalization during the meeting when
the assessment of this company was made for the year 1887,
with reference to the elements that they proposed to and did
include in the assessment?

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

"Q. At the time that the assessment of 1887 was made by
the state Board of Equalization upon the property of the Cen-

tral Pacific Railroad Company, what was said and done at the
meeting of the state Board of Equalization on that day in your
presence? "
To each of these questions plaintiff interposed objections,
which were sustained by the court, and defendant excepted.
Defendant then made the following offer:
"Now, in view of the ruling of the court on this subject, we
now offer to prove by thig witness that from the time of the
organization of the state Board of Equalization in 1880 down
to and including the year 1887, that board had every year considered the value of the Federal franchise -that is, the franchise derived from the United States by the acts of Congress
of the government of the United States, belonging to and
owned by the Central Pacific Railroad Company, as an element of value in assessing the total value of the property of
-that railroad company; and that in 1888, in consequence of
the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States upon
the subject, the state Board of Equalization for the first time
ceased to consider this Federal franchise as an element of value,
and hence reduced their valuation by the sum of three million
dollars on the Central Pacific Railroad Company's property."
This offer was disallowed by the court, and defendant
excepted.
Plaintiff in rebuttal called C. E. Wilcoxen and J. P. Dunn,
who were members of the board and participated in .making
the assessment of 1887, and they testified that the Federal
franchise was not included in the assessment for that year.
On the cross-examination of Mr. Wilcoxen an effort was made
to introduce testimony that he had given before a committee
of the general assembly of California in 1889, which the court
excluded, except so far as it related to the year 1887.
The statement on motion for new trial then continued:
"In its written opinion, upon which the findings were
based, the .court after determining as a fact, from a preponderance of the evidence before it, that the Federal franchise
of defendant was not assessed or included in the assessment of

CENTRAL .PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

109

Statement of the Case.

the property of defendant by the state Board of Equalization,
for the year 1887, uses the following language:
"' But if the parol evidence offered did not weigh in plaintiff's favor, and if by a preponderance of such evidence defendants could have 9hown that the State intended to and did
include a Federal franchise in the assessment, I think the
court would have to disregard it as incompetent. The effect
of such parol evidence would be to contradict the record,
which cannot be done.
"'The best and only evidence of the acts and intentions
of deliberative bodies must be drawn from the record of its
intentions.
.
.
From both standpoints of fact and of
law, the findings must be that a Federal franchise was not
included in these assessments."'
On February 3 the Superior Court made and filed its written findings of fact and conclusions of law. The findings of
fact included the following:
"XXX. That on the 13th day of August, 1887, the state
Board of Equalization, of the State of California, did, for the
purposes of taxation for the fiscal year 1887 assess as a unit,
and not separately, the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and
rolling stock of defendant's railroad, then being and situate
within the State, at the sum and value mentioned in the
amended complaint, and did then and there enter said assessment upon its minutes, and in its record of assessments. That
such assessment is the one upon which the several taxes mentioned in the complaint .herein are based, and no other assessment than the one aforesaid was ever made by said Board of
Equalization or other assessor of said property of the defendant for said fiscal year. That said state Board of Equalization did at the time and in the manner alleged in the amended
complaint apportion said assessment and transmit such assessment and the apportionment to the county and city and county
auditors, and said assessment and the apportionment thereof
were entered upoln the assessment rolls of said counties and
said cities and counties as alleged in said amended complaint,
as hereinbefore found.
"XXXI. That the said Board of Equalization, in making

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

said assessment, did assess the franchise, roadway, roadbed,
rails and rolling stock of defendant's railroad, at their full cash
value, without deducting therefrom the value of the mortgage,
or any part thereof, or the value of said bonds issued under
said acts of Congress, given and existing thereon, as aforesaid,
to secure the indebtedness of said company 'to the holders of
said bonds, and, in making said assessment, said board did not
deem nor treat said mortgage or bonds as an interest in said
property, but it assessed the whole value of said property as
assessed to defendant in the same manner it would have done
had there been no mortgage thereon. At the time said assessmnent and apportionment were made as aforesaid by said state
Board of Equalization the assessment books or rolls for the said
fiscal year had been completed and were in existence, and the
assessment and valuation of defendant's property for the purposes of taxation for said fiscal year bad been ascertained and
fixed as provided by law, and'said board, in making said valuation and apportionment, did exercise all'necessary powers
relative to the equalization of values for the purposes of
taxation."
"XXXIII. Said state Board of Equalization, in making
said assessment of defendant's roadway, did not include in the
valuation of said roadway the value of any fences erected
upon the land of coterminous proprietors, and did not value
said roadway at a greater value than the value of other property similarly situated and greater than its actual cash value,
and did not blend in said assessment the value of any.fences.
That said board, in making its said assessment and valuation
therefor, did not adopt a system of valuation which operated
unequally, or which was intended to or which -did in any manner violate the rule prescribed in section 10 of article 13 of the
state constitution, and said board, in making its said assessment and valuation therefor, did not value the rolling stock
of defendant at sixty (60) or any other per cent above its
actual value, and did not value nor assess defendant's franchise
in excess of its actual value.
"XXXIV. That in making said assessment and valuation
therefor said state Board of Equalization did not include the

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

111

Statement of the Case.

value -f or assess any steamboats or boats, nor blend the value
or assessment of any steamboats or boats, with the value of or
assessment of defendant's roadway, rails- roadbed and rolling
stock.
"XXXV. That in making its assessment and valuation
therefor of defendafit's franchise said state Board of Equalization did not include, assess or value any franchise or corporate
power held or exercised by defendant under the acts of Congress hereinbefore mentioned, or under any act of Congress
whatever. And said board, in making said assessment and
valuation therefor, upon defendant's franchise, roadbed, roadway, rails and rolling stock, for purposes of taxation for the
fiscal year 1887, did not include in its said assessment and
valuation therefor any Federal frahchise, then possessed by
defendant, nor any franchise or thing 'whatsoever, which said
board could not legally include in such assessment of valuation. That the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling
stock of defendant's railroad were valued and assessed by-said
state Board of Equalization, for purposes of taxation for the
fiscal year 1887, at their actual value, and in proportion to
their values respectively."
The conclusions of law were that plaintiff was entitled to
recover the sums claimed, with five per cent penalty, interest
and counsel fees, the amounts being stated, and costs.
Judgment was rendered in.
plaintiff's favor accordingly.
On the 19th of June following, the statement, on motion for
new trial, was approved and filed as part'of the record, including an assignment and specification of errors. The defendant's motion for a new trial Was overruled, and defendant
appealed to the Supreme Court of the State from the judgment and from the order denying the motion for new trial.
January 6, 1895, the supreme Court rendered judgment, direct
ing the court below to modify its judgment by striking therefrom the amount allowed for interest prior to the entry thereof,
and also certain counsel fees, and that, as so modified, the
judgment and order denying a new trial should stand affirmed.
The opinion is reported in Peop16 v. CentralPaoiflc Ralh'oad,
105 California, 576.

OCTOBER TERM:, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

.A. J. Hubley Ashton (with whom was Mr. Charles -.
Tweed on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
ilr. J. P. Langhorne and Mir. J. H. Mkiller, (with whom
was .Ar. IV. F. Fitzgerald, attorney general of the State of
California, on the brief,) for defendant in error.
M . CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The assessment of the state Board of Equalization is not
attacked on the ground of fraud, but it is contended that
the value of the Federal franchise or franchises possessed by
plaintiff in error was included therein, and that as the assessment embraced all the property assessed as a unit, it was
thereby wholly invalidated. Santa Clara County v. Southern
Pacific Railroad,118 U. S. 394:; Californiav. Central Pacific
Railroad,127 U. S. 1.
By section 1 of article XIII of the constitution of California,
it is provided that "all property in the State, not exempt
under the laws of the United States, shall be taxed in proportion
to its value, to be ascertained as provided by law. The word
' property' as used in this article and section is hereby declared
to include moneys, credits, bonds, stocks, dues, franchises and
all other matters and things real, personal and mixed, capable
of private ownership; " and by section 10 that "the franchise,
roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of all railroads operated in more than one county in this State shall be assessed
by the state Board of Equalization, at their actual value;"
and the Political Code provided that this must be, and the
mode in which it should be, done.
Railway corporations were required to furnish the Board
of Equalization, before it acted, and as of the first Monday of
March in each year, a statement signed and sworn to by one
of their officers, showing in detail the whole number of miles
of railway in the State, and, when the line was partly out of
the State, the whole number of miles within and without,
owned or operated by each corporation, and the value thereof;
the value of the roadway, roadbed and rails of the whole, and

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

113

Opinion of the Court.

the value of the same within the State; the width of the right
of way; the rolling stock and value; the gross earnings of
the entire road and of the road within the State; the net
income; the capital stock authorized and paid in; the number of shares authorized and issued, etc.
I
This verified statement for 1887 was made by plaintiff in
error in due time, and purported to be a "statement in relation to its property subject to taxation in the State of California owned by it for the year ending on the first Monday
in March, 1887, and of all property used in operating its railway during such year." And it was therein set forth, among
other things: "The value of the franchise and entire roadway,
roadbed and rails within this State is $12,273,785.00." The
Board of Equalization determined "that the actual value of
*the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of
said company, within this State, at the said date and time in
March, was and still is the sum of eighteen million dollars,!'
and thereupon assessed "the said franchise, roadway, roadbed,
rails and rolling stock for the year 1887" at that sum.
By section 3670 of the Political Code, the duplicate record
of assessments of railways, and the duplicate record of apportionment of railway assessments, or copies thereof, were made
priza facie evidence of the assessment, and that the forms
of law in relation to the assessment and levy of such taxes
had been complied with, and these were put in evidence.
Under this state of facts, the presumption was that the
franchise thus included by plaintiff in error in its return and
by the board in its assessment was a franchise which was
not exempt under the laws of the United States, and that the
board had acted upon property within its jurisdiction rather
than upon property which it had no power to include in
the assessment. Indeed, as the Supreme Court points out,
when plaintiff in error included the franchise in its statement,
if there were two franchises, one of which could be assessed and
the other could not, plaintiff in error ought not to be permitted
to say, that the one which was not capable of assessment
was intended by it to be or was included therein. People v.
Central Pacjfc Railroad,105 California, 576, 592. And the
VOL. cXian-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

court cited San Franisco v. Flood, 64 California, 504; Lake
County v. Sulphur Bank Quicksilver Mining Co., 68 California, 14, and Dear v. Varnum, 80 California, 86, which rule
that a party who furnishes a list of property for taxation is
estopped from questioning the sufficiency of the description
so furnished in an action to collect the taxes. Undoubtedly
if the Board of Equalization had included what it had no
authority to assess, the company might seek the remedies
given under the law to correct the assessment so far as such
property was concerned, or recover back the tax thereon, or,
if those remedies were not held exclusive, might defend
against the attempt to enforce it. But where the property
mentioned in the description could be assessed and the assessment followed the return, as it did here, the company ought,
at least, to be held estopped from saying that the description
was ambiguous.
It is said that plaintiff in error should not be bound by this
statement because it was on printed blanks prepared by the
board; but when plaintiff in error filled out and swore to the
statement of its property "as being subject to taxation," and
the blank form called on plaintiff in error to give a statement
of the value of its franchise within the State for the purpose.
of assessment and taxation, if it had intended to claim that
its state and Federal franchises were so merged as to render
the former not subject to taxation, or that it bad-no franchise
subject to taxation, it was its duty to so indicate in making
the return. Nothing in the law and nothing in the blank
form could have compelled it to make a statement contrary
to the facts.
Plaintiff in error attempted to rebut the case made by introducing evidence which it claimed tended to show that the
franchise assessed covered franchises derived from the United
States as well as from the State, but the findings of fact of
the trial court were to the contrary, and there being a conflict of evidence on the point, the Supreme Court treated the
findings as conclusive in accordance with the well-settled rule
on the subject in that jurisdiction. In Reay v. Butler, 95
California, 206, 214, .it was said: "It has been held here in

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

.115

Opinion of the Court.

more than a hundred cases, commencing with .Paynev. Jacobs,
1 California, 39, in the first published book of reports of this
court, and ending with Dobinson v. MfcDonald, 92,,California,
83, in the last volume of said reports, that the, finding of a
jury or court as to a fact decided upon.the weight of evidence
will not be reviewed by this court."
That rule is equally binding on us. Republican River
Bridge Co. v. Kansas Pacific Railway, 92 U. S. 315; Dower
v. Richard8,151 U. S. 658.
It was argued in the Supreme Court of California, as it has
been here, that because the trial judge, after having determined as a fact from -the preponderance of the evidence before
him that the Federal -franchise was hot assessed- stated that
he 'thought that if the parol evidence offered had not weighed
in plaintiff's favor, and that if by a preponderance of such evidence defendants could have shown that the board intended
to and did include aFederal franchise in the assessment, the
court would have to disregard it as incompetent, because the
effect would be to contradict the record,, therefore the evi-dence had been disregarded by the court in making its decision, and that the rule in respect of the conclusiveness of a
determination of facts on a conflict of evidence did not apply.
We entirely concur with the disposition of this suggestion by
the Supreme Court, which said: ".It clearly appears, however, that the court did not disregard the evidence, but that,
after determining as a. fact from the preponderance of evidence before it that the Federal franchise had not been assessed, it stated That if the preponderance of evidence had
been otherwise, it would have held as a matter of law that
the assessment must be tested by its own language. The fact
that a court, after giving its decision upon an issue, gives its
opinion upon the manner in which it would have decided the
issue under other circumstances, does not constitute an error
to, be reviewed in this court."
Counsel for plaintiff in error also urge that inasmuch as it
appeared in the proceedings to assess for 1888 that the board
placed "the franchise of the Central Pacific company derived
from the State of California" at $1,250,000, and then assessed

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"the franchise derived from the State of California, the roadway, roadbed and rolling stock of said company within said
State at the total sum of $15,000,000," it should be inferred
from the difference in the language used in the assessment of
1887, and the difference in the total amount, that the franchise then assessed included the Federal franchise. But it also
appeared that the return of the company for 1888 in respect
of this matter was as follows:
"The value of the franchise derived from the
$25 00
State within this State ..................
"The value of the entire roadway, roadbed,
rolling stock and rails within this State is.. 9,376,607 00
$9,376,632 00"
And we think that neither the difference in valuation nor the
difference in the mode of statement has a material bearing on
the assessment of 1887. The proceedings in 1888 showed
greater care on the part of the company in making the return and on the part of the board in making the assessment,
and possibly if plaintiff in error had been equally careful in
-relation to the assessment in 1887, it might have resulted that
the valuation would have been less, although it does not follow that the reduction in 1888 might not be attributed to a
change of financial conditions.
After all, these are considerations which were presented to
the trial judge, in connection with all the evidence, and they
have been disposed of adversely to the company.
Exceptions were saved to the action of the trial court in
respect of the exclusion of certain evidence, but we are unable
to find in these rulings or in the decision of the Supreme Court
thereon the denial of any title, right, privilege or immunity
specially set up or claimed under the Constitution or laws of
the United States.
The rulings passed on by the Supreme Court, and which
we must assume were all that were called to its attention,
relate to the.cross-examination of the witness Wilcoxen, as to
statements previously made by him, which the Superior Court
confined to the assessment for 1887, in respect of which he had

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

117

Opinion of the Court.

.been examined in chief. The Supreme Court held that, under
the circumstances disclosed by the record, the Superior Court
did not err in this particular.
And also to the exclusion of the evidence -of Maslin as to
the conversations of members of the board, in making the
assessment, in relation thereto. The Supreme 'Court held as
to this that "the intention of the board or of any of its
members, or the signification to be given to the term ' franchise,' as used in the assessment, could not be shown in this
manner, and the evidence could not be used for impeaching
purposes, unless the members of the board had been pre.iously
questioned thereon."
The correctness of these rulings commends itself to us, but
it is enough to say that it is impossible to predicate error raising a Federal question as to these or any of the rulings on
evidence referred to by counsel.
Clearly no such error. was committed in the rejection of the
general offers of proof if we should treat them as open to
consideration notwithstanding the apparent abandonment of
the exceptions in that regard in the Supreme Court. The
issue was upon the assessment for the year 1887. The decision in California v. Pacif o Railr"oad Company, 127 U. S.
1, was announced April 30, 1888, but the last of the judgments of the Circuit Court therein considered and affirmed
was rendered July 15, 1886. And the action of the board in
years prior to 1887, as sought to be shown, was not necessarily relevant or material. Offers of proof must be offers of
relevant proof, specific, not so broad as to embrace irrelevant
and immaterial matter, and made in good faithS. The exercise
-of the discretion of the trial court in rejecting these offers
cannot properly be reviewed by us.
The errors assigned as to the non-deduction of outstanding
mortgages from the valuation of the property are expressly
waived, though it is assigned for error in the brief that the
court erfed in not holding that, as the state franchise ivas
subject to the lien of a mortgage to the United States, the
assessment was invalid because in effect taxing the interest of
the United States in that franchise created by the mortgage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

As to this, no such question was raised or passed on in the
state court; and, moreover, the objection is without merit,
on principle and authority, on grounds hereafter stated.
We are thus brought to the consideration of the real question in the case, presented in various aspects and argued with
much ability by counsel for plaintiff in error, namely, that
the company's franchises are one and inseparable, constituting an indivisible unit, which cannot be subjected to taxation
by the State of California because that would be necessarily
to subject the Federal franchise to taxation.
The argument is that the franchise of railroads authorized
by the state constitution and the provisions of the Political
Code to be assessed is nothing but the right to operate the
railroad and charge and take tolls thereon; that the right of
the Central Pacific Railroad Company to construct, maintain
and operate its railroad in California was conferred upon that
company by, and derived by it from, the United States; and
that the right is a single right, though granted also by the
State.
The company is a corporation of California, made up of
two California corporations consolidated by articles of association entered into under the laws of California, and recognized
as a California corporation by the acts of Congress through
which it obtained Federal assistance and Federal franchises,
subsequently to its incorporation in 1861, act of July 1, 1862,
c. 120, 12 Stat. 489; act of July 2, 1864, c. 216, :13 Stat. 356;
act of March 3, 1865, c. 88, 13 Stat. 504; act of May 7,
1878, c. 96,.20 Stat. 56; and never otherwise regarded in the
legislation of the State. Indeed, by the act of April 4, 1864,
Stat. Cal. 1863-1864, c. 417, passed to "enable the said company more fully and completely to comply with and perform
the provisions and conditions of said act of Congress," of
July 1, 1862, California authorized the company to construct,
maintain and operate the road and telegraph in the territory
lying east of the State, with the usual incidental rights, privileges and powers, also vesting in the company the rights,
franchises and powers granted by Congress, with the express
reservation that the company should be "subject to all the

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA-

119

Opinion of the Court.

laws of this State concerning railroad and telegraph lines,
except that messages and property of the United States, of
this State, and of the said company, shall have priority of
transportation and transmission over said line 9f railroad and
telegraph." Sinking Fund cases, 99 U. S. 700, 754. Severance of the allegiance of the corporation to the State that
created it, and deprivationi or transfer of the powers and
privileges conferred by -the State, were not the object of the
grant by the United States, nor the consequence of the acceptance of that grant by the corporation as thereto authorized by the State. Pennsylvania Railroadv. St. Lou't,
Alton &o. Railroad,118 U. S.290, 296. But it was not contended at the bar that the company ever became a corporation of the United States, or that it is other than a state
corporation.
Even in respect of railway corporations created by act of
Congress the claim of an exemption of their property from
state taxation has been repeatedly denied. This Was so ruled
in Railroad Company v. Peniton, 18 Wall. 5, 30, 36, and Mr.
Justice Strong said,:
"It cannot be that a state tax which remotely affects the
efficient exercise of a Federal power is for that reason alone
inhibited by the Constitution. To hold that would be to
deny to the States all power to tax persons or property.
Every tax levied by a State withdraws from the reach of
Federal taxation a portion of the property from which it is
taken, and to that extent diminishes the subject upon which
Federal taxes may be laid. The States are, and they must
ever b&, coexistent with the National Government. Neither
may destroy the other. Hence the Federal Constitution must
receive a practical. construction. Its limitations and its implied prohibitions must not be extended so far as to destroy
the necessary powers of the States, or prevent their efficient
exercise.
' It is, therefore, manifest that exemption of Federal agencies from state taxation is dependent, not -upon the nature of
the agents, or upon the mode of their constitution, or upon
the fact that they are agents, but upon the effect of the tax;

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that is, upon the question whether the tax does in truth deprive them of power to serve the government as they were
intended to serve it, or does hinder the efficient exercise of
their power. A tax upon their property has no such necessary effect. It leaves them free to discharge the duties they
have undertaken to perform. A tax upon their operations is
a direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers.
"In this case the tax is laid upon the property of the railroad company precisely as was the tax complained of in
Thomson v. Union P'acific. It is not imposed upon tbhe franchises or the right of the company to exist and perform the
functions for which it was brought into being. Nor is it laid
upon any act which the company has been authorized to do.
It is not the transmission of dispatches, nor the transportation
of United States mails, or troops, or munitions (f war that is
taxed, but it is exclusively the real and personal property of
this agent, taxed in common with all other property of the
State of a similiar character. It is impossible to maintain that
this is an interference with the exercise of any power belonging to the General Government, and if it is not, it is prohibited by no constitutional implication."
In Thomson v. Pacific Railroad,9 Wall. 579, 590, the Union
Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, a corporation
created by the legislature of Kansas, received government aid
in bonds and land, and, thus aided, constructed its road to
become one link in the transcontinental line known as the
Union Pacific system, in accordance with the same acts of
Congress relating to plaintiff in error, and conferring the same
functions and privileges. The State of Kansas having subsequently taxed the roadbed, rolling stock and certain personal
property of the corporation, its stockholders sought to enjoin
the collection of the tax on the ground that the property was
mortgaged to the United States and that it was bound under the
Congressional grant to perform certain duties and ultimately
pay five per cent of its net earnings to the United States, and
that state taxation would retard and burden it in the discharge
of its obligations to the general government. But the contention was overruled, and Mr. Chief Justice Chase said:

CENTRAL PACIFIC RIMLROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

121

Opinion of the Court.

"But we are not aware of any case in which the real estate
or other property of a corporation not organized under an act
of Congress, has been held to be exempt, in the absence of
express legislation to that effect, to just contribution, in common with other property, to the general expenditure for the
common benefit, because of the employment of the corporation in the service of the government.
"It is true that some of the reasoning in the case of JJrc6ulloch v. Maryland seems to favor the. broader doctrine. But
the decision itself is limited to the case of the bank, as a corporation created by a law of the United States, and responsible, in the use of its franchises, to the government of the
United States.
"And even in respect to corporations organized under the
legislation of Congress, we have already held, at this term,
that the implied limitation upon state taxation, derived from
the express permission to tax shares in the national banking
associations, is to be so construed as not to embarrass the imposition or collection of state taxes to the extent of the permission fairly and liberally interpreted. National Bank v.
Commonwealth, 8 Wall. 353.
"We do not think ourselves warranted, therefore, in extending the exemption established by the case of .MoCullochv.
Maryland, beyond its terms. We cannot apply it to the case
of a corporation d6riving its existence from state law, exercising its franchise under state law, and holding its property
within state jurisdiction and under state protection.
No one questions that the power to tax all property, business and persons, within their respective limits, is
original in the States and has never been surrendered. It cannot be so used, indeed, as to defeat or hinder the operations of
the national government; but it will be safe to conclude, in
general, in reference to persons and state corporations employed in government service, that when Congress has not
interposed to protect their property from state taxation, such
taxation is not obnoxious to that objection. Lane County v.
Ore-gon, 7 Wall. 71, 77; National Bank v. Commonwealth,
8 Wall. 353. We perceive no limits to the principle of exemp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion which the complainants seek to establish. It would remove from the reach of state taxation all the property of
every agent of the government.
"The nature of the claims to exemption which would be
set up, is well illustrated by that which is advanced in behalf
of the complainants in the case before us. The very ground
of claim is in the bounties of the general government. The
allegation is, that the government has advanced large sums to
aid in the construction of the road; has.contented itself with
the security of a second mortgage; h&h made large grants of
land upon no condition of benefit to itself, except that the
company will perform certain services for full compensation,
independently of those grants; and will admit the government to a very limited and wholly contingent interest in remote net income. And because of these advances and these
grants, and this fully compensated employment, it is claimed
that this state corporation, owing its being to state law, and
indebted for these benefits to the consent and active interposition of the state legislature, has a constitutional right to hold
its property exempt from state taxation; and this without any
legislation on the part of Congress which indicates that such
exemption is deemed essential to the full performance of its
obligations to the government."
In his dissenting opinion in Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18
Wall. 5, 48, Mr. Justice Bradley distinguishes Thonson v.
Pacific Railroadfrom that case thus: "That was a state corporation, deriving its origin from state laws, and subject to
state regulations and responsibilities. It would be subversive
of all our ideas of the necessary independence of the national
and state governments, acting in their respective spheres, for,
the general government to take the management, control,
and regulation of state corporations out of the hands of the
State to which they owe their existence, without its consent,
or attempt to exonerate them from the performance of any
duties, or the payment of any taxes or contributions, to which
their position, as creatures of state legislation, renders them
liable."
Both these cases were referred to with approval by Mr.,

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

123,

Opinion of the Court.

Justice Miller in Mestern Union Telegraph Co. v. jljassachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, and by Mr. Justice Brewer in Reagan v.
.-Mereantile Trust Co., 154 U. S.413, 416. In the latter case
it was contended that, as the Texas and Pacific I ailway was
a corporation organized under the laws of the United States,
it was not subject to the control of the State even as to rates
of transportation wholly within the State. The argument
was that the company received all its franchises from Congress; that among those franchises was the right to charge
and collect tolls, and that the State had not the power, therefore, in any manner to limit or qualify such franchise. But
that positioi was not sustained, and Mr. Justice Brewer, delivering the opinion, said "that, conceding to Congress the
power to remove the corporation in all its operations from the
control of the State, there is in the act creating the company
nothing which indicates an intent on the part of Congress to
so remove it, and there is nothing in the enforcement by the
State of reasonable rates for transportation wholly within the
State which will disable the corporation from discharging
all the duties -and exercising all the powers conferred by
Congress."
Although the Central Pacific company is not a Federal
corporation, it is nevertheless true that important franchises
were conferred upon the company by Congress, including
that of constructing a railroad from the Pacific Ocean to
Ogden in the Territory of Utah. But as remarked in California v. Central Paciflc Railroad, 127 U. S. 1, 38, 40, "this
important grant, though in part collateral to, was independent
of, that made to the company by the State of California, and
has ever since been possessed and enjoyed." That case came
up from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern. District of California, and the Circuit Court found that
the assessment made by the state Board of Equalization
"included the full, value of all franchises and corporate
powers, held and exercised by the defendant ;" and as it could
not b6 denied that that embraced franchises conferred by the
United States, it was held that the assessment was invalid,
but it was not held nor intimated that if ,the Board of Equali-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

zation had only included the state franchise, the same result
would have followed.
Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court,
said:
"Assuming, then, that the Central Pacific Railroad Company has received the important franchises referred to by
grant of the United States, the question arises whether they
are legitimate subjects of taxation by the State. They were
granted to the company for national purposes and to subserve
national ends. It seems very clear that the State of California can neither take them away, nor destroy nor abridge
them, nor cripple them by onerous burdens. Can it tax them?
It may undoubtedly tax outside visible property of the company, situated within the State. That is a different thing.
" But may it tax franchises which are the grant of the
United States? In our judgment, it cannot. 'What is a franchise? Under the English law Blackstone defines it as 'a
royal privilege, or branch of the King's prerogative, subsisting in the hands of a subject.' 2 Bl. Com. 37. Generalized,
and divested of the special form which it assumes under a
monarchical government based on feudal traditions, a franchise is a right, privilege or power of public concern, which
ought not to be exercised by private individuals at their
mere will and pleasure, but should be reserved for public
control and administration, either by the government directly, or by public agents, acting under such conditions and
regulations as the government may impose in the public interest, and for the public security. Such rights and power
must exist under every form of society. They are always
educed by the laws and customs of the community. Under
our system, their existence and disposal are under the control
of the legislative department of the government, and they
cannot be assumed or exercised without legislative authority.
No private person can establish a public highway, or a public
ferry, or railroad, or charge tolls for the use of the same,
without authority from the legislature, direct or derived.
These are franchises. No private person can take another's
property, even for a public use, without such authority; which

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

125

Opinion of the Court.

is the same as to say, that the right of eminent domain can
only be exercised by virtue of a legislative grant. This is a
franchise. Noopersons can make themselves a body corporate
and politic without legislative authority. Corporate capacity
is a franchise. The list might be continued indefinitely."
Mr. Justice Bradley then referred to McCulloch v. .Maryland, Osborn v. Bank/ of the United States, and Brown v.
Maryland to the proposition that a p9wer given to a person
or corporation by the United States cannot be subjected to
taxation by a State, and added "that these views are not in
conflict with the decisions of this court in Thomson v. -Pacif
Railroad, 9 Wall. 579, and Railroad CJompany v. Peniston,
18 Wall. 5. As explained in the opinion of the court in the
latter case, the tax there was upon the property of the company and not upon its franchises or operations. 18 Wall.
35, 37."
Thus it was reaffirmed that the property of a corporation
of the United States might be taxed, though its franchises,
as for instance its corporate capacity and its power to transact
its appropriate business and charge therefor, could not be. It
may be regarded as firmly settled that although corporations
may be agents of the United States, their property is not the
property of the United States, but the property of the agents,
and that a State may tax the property of the agents, subject
to the limitations pointed out in Railroad Co. v. Peniston.
Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S.151, 177.
Of course, if Congress should think it necessary for the protection of the United States to declare such property exempted,
that would present a different question. Congress did not see
fit to do so here, and unless we are prepared to overrule a
long line of well considered decisions the case comes within
the rule therein laid down. Although in T]iomson's case
it was tangible property that was taxed, that can make no
difference in principle, and the reasoning, of the opinion
applies.
Under the laws of California plaintiff in error obtained
from the State the right and privilege of corporate capacity;
to construct, maintain and operate; to charge and -collectfares

OCTOBER TERM, 1895..
Opinion of the Court.

and freights; to exercise the power of eminent domain; to
a:cquire and maintain right of way; to enter upon lands or
waters of any person to survey route; to construct road
across, along or upon any stream, watercourse, roadstead,
bay, navigable stream, street, avenue, highway or across any
railway, canal, ditch or flume; to cross, intersect, join or
unite its railroad with any other railroad at any point on
its route; to acquire right of way, roadbed and material for
construction; to take material from the lands of the State,
etc., etc. Stat. Cal. 1861, c. 532, 607; 2 Deering's Annotated
Codes and Stat.-Cal. 114.
It is not to be denied that such rights.and privileges have
value and constitute taxable property.
The general rule, as stated by Mr. Justice Miller, in State
Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S.' 575, 603, is "that the franchise,
capital stock, business and profits of all corporations, are
liable to taxation in the place where they do business and by
the State which creates them, admits of no dispute at this
day." And the constitution of California expressly declares
that the word "property" as used in section 1 of article 13,
providing that "all property in the State, not exempt under
the laws of the United States, shall be taxed in proportion to
its value," includes franchises as well as all other matters and
things capable of private ownership.
The question here is not a question of the value of the state
franchise, but whether that franchise existed, for if in 1887
plaintiff in error possessed any subsisting rights or privileges,
otherwise called franchises, derived from the State, then they
were taxable, and the extent of their value was to be determined by the Board of Equalization.
So far as the ability of the company to discharge its duties
and obligations to the general government is concerned it is
difficult to see that taxation of the state franchise would tend
to impair that ability any more than taxation of the roadway,
roadbed, rails and rolling stock. If the necessary effect of a
tax on such tangible property is not to unconstitutionally
hinder the efficient exercise of the power to serve the governmdnt, neither can it be so in respect of the state franchise.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

127

Opinion of the Court.

Indeed the taxation by the State of the franchise granted by
it does not, and could not, prevent plaintiff in error from acting under its Federal franchise.
This was an action to recover judgment against the company under the statute, and the franchise was only an element
in arriving at the valuation in making the assessment, but if
the power to tax the state franchise involved the power to
dispose of it at delinquent tax sale or on execution, such sale
would be subject to the superior and independent rights of
the United States, and the fact that this would affect the
value is of no consequence. If the state franchise should be
voluntarily surrendered by the company to the State, or forfeited by the State, yet the United States through the Federal
franchise could still operate the road in California. And, on
the other hand, should plaintiff in error in any manner be
deprived of its Federal franchise, it would not thereby be prevented from operating in California under its state franchise.
The right and privilege, or franchise, of being a corporation,
is of value to its members and is considered as property separate and distinct from the property which the corporation
may acquire; but, apart from that, if the state franchise to be
assessed were confined to the right to operate the road and
take tolls, such a franchise was originally granted by the
State to this company, and as such was taxable property. If
the subsequent acts of Congress had the effect of creating a
Federal franchise to operate the road, that merely rendered
the state right subordinate to.the Federal right,, and did not
destroy the state right nor merge it into the Federal right, and
no authority is 6ited to sustain any such proposition. No act
of Congress in terms attempted to bring about this result, and
no such result can be deduced therefrom by necessary implication. Whether plaintiff in error now operates its road under
the franchise derived from the United States or from the
State is immaterial, as the Supreme Court well said. The
right to operate the road is valuable, whether it is being exercised or .not, and the question, we repeat, relates to the existence of the franchise, and not to the extent of its value.
When we consider that plaintiff in error returned its fran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

chise for assessment, declined to resort to the remedy afforded
by the state laws for the correction of the assessment as made
if dissatisfied therewith, or to pay its tax and bring suit to
recover back the whole or any part of the tax which it claimed
to be illegal, we think its position is not one entitled to the
favorable consideration of the court; but, without regard to
that, we hold, for the reasons given, that the state courts
rightly decided that the company had no valid defence to the
causes of action proceeded on.
Judgment affi'med.
Mn. JUSTICE WHITE concurred in the result.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissenting.
I am unable to concur with my associates in their opinion
or judgment in the present case.
The case comes before us on writ of error to the Supreme
Court of California, affirming the judgment of the Superior
Court of the city and county of San Francisco, and an order
of that court, denying a new trial in an action brought by the
people of the State against the Central Pacific Railroad Company to recover moneys alleged to be due by it to the State
for taxes for the fiscal year of 1887, upon assessments made
by the state Board of Equalization. The Supreme Court of
the State affirmed the judgment of the Superior Court against
that company in disregard, in my opinion, of the long established doctrine of this court, that the powers of the general
government and the instrumentalities of the State, called into
exercise in enforcement of those powers, cannot be impaired
or their efficiency lessened by taxation or any other action
on the part of the State. This doctrine has been constantly
asserted by this court when called upon to express its opinion
thereon, its judgment being pronounced by the most illustrious Chief Justice in its history with the unanimous concurrence of his associates. It has become a recognized principle,
made familiar in the courts of the country by the decision
of this court in feCulloch v. Miaryland, 4 Wheat. 316, and
Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738. The disregard

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

129

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of this doctrine in the present case recalls the aphorism of
Coleridge, applied with equal force, but not more applicable,
to moral principles, "Truths," he says, "of all others the
most awful and interesting, are too often considered as so true
that they lose all the power of truth and lie bed-ridden in
the dormitory of the soul, side by side with the most despised
and exploded *errors." It would seem that the truth of the
constitutional doctrine has lost some of its force by the very
fact that it has heretofore been considered so true as never to
be questioned.
By the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489,
the Union Pacific Railroad Company was organized by Congress, and authorized and empowered to lay out, construct,
furnish and maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph,
with the appurtenances, from a point on the 100th meridian
of longitude west from Greenwich, between the south margin
of the valley of the Republican River and the north margin of
the valley of the Platte River, in the Territory of Nebraska,
to the western boundary of Nevada Territory; and was
vested with all the powers, privileges and immunities necessary to carry into effect the purposes of the act. In aid of
the great work thus inaugurated, railway corporations by the
States through which the overland railroad projected was to
pass were called into existence. If rights, powers, privileges
and immunities were conferred by state authority upon these
state corporations, they constituted a portion of their franchises, subordinate to those conferred by the general goyernment, and comprised with those of that government an
essential part of the means for the efficiency and usefulness
of the auxiliary corporations.
The powers, privileges and immunities conferred upon the
state corporations by the United States were necessarily paramount to those derived from the State. When the powers,
privileges and immunities of such state corporations were
derived solely from the authority of the State they were generally designated, when spoken of collectively, as the state
franchise or franchises of the corporation, and when the
rights, powers, privileges and immunities were supposed to be
VOL. CLXII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

derived solely from the United States they were generally
designated, when spoken of collectively, as the Federal franchise or franchises of the corporation. When no indication
of the source of the franchise or franchises was specified, the
rights, powers, privileges and immunities involved in that
term held by the defendant were usually designated as the
franchise or franchises of the company specifically, without
other description, and the terpn included the powers, privileges and immunities conferred by both Federal and state
authority. The term embraced all those powers, duties and
immunities which were conferred, or supposed to be conferred, upon the railroad company for its operation from
either source, or from both sources.
By section 9 of the general act of 1862, mentioned above,
the Central Pacific Railroad Company was authorized to construct a railroad and telegraph line from the Pacific coast, at
or near San Francisco, or the navigable waters of the -Sacramento River, to the eastern boundary 6f California, upon .the
same terms and conditions in all respects as were contained in
the act for the construction of the overland railroad and telegraph line, and to meet and connect with the railroad and
telegraph line on the eastern boundary of California. Each
of the companies was required to file its acceptance of the
conditions of the act in the Department of the Interior within
six months after its passage.
By the tenth section of the general act the Central Pacific
Railroad Company, after complteting its road across the State
of California, was authorized to continue the construction
of the railroad and telegraph through the territories of the
United States to the Missouri River, including the branch
roads specified in the act, upon the routes indicated, on the
terms and conditions provided in the act in relation to the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, until the roads should meet
and connect, and the whole line of the railroad and branches
and telegraph should be completed.
By section 16 of the act mentioned power was given to the
Central Pacific to consolidate with the other companies named
therein.

CENTRAL PACIFIQ RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

131

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

By section 17 it was provided that in case the company or
companies failed to comply with the terms and conditions of
the act, Congress might pass an act to insure the speedy completion of the road and branches, or put the same in repair
and use, and direct the income of the railroad and telegraph
line to be thereafter devoted to the"use of the United States;
and further, that if the roads mentioned were not completed
so as to form a continuous line from the Missouri River to the
navigable waters of the Sacramento River by July 1, 1,876,
the whole of the railroads mentioned and to be constructed
under the provisions of the act, together with all their property of every kind and character, should be forfeited to and
taken possession of by the United States.
The eighteenth section provided that when the net earnings
of the entire road should reach a certain percentage upon its
cost, Congress might reduce the rates; of fare thereon, if unreasonable in amount, and might fix and establish the same
by law; and it declared that the better to accomplish the
object of the act, namely, to promote the public interest and
welfare by the construction of the railroad and telegraph line,
and to keep the same in working order, and to secure to the
goverfiment at all times (but particularly in time of war) the
use and benefits of the same for postal, military and other
purposes, Congress might, at any time, having due regard for
the rights of the companies named, add to, alter, amend or
repeal the act, and the companies were required to make
annual reports as to the matters mentioned to the Secretary
of the Treasury.
By the act of Congress of July 2,1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356,
amendatory of the act of July 1, 1862 additional powers,
rights, privileges, immunities and property were granted to
the companies engaged in the great national work proposed
by Congress in the former act, in order to secure the completion of that work, which, at that time, was of imminent
necessity.
By section 16 of this last act it was provided that should
the Central Pacific Railroad Company complete its line to the
eastern boundary of the State of California before the line of

OCTOBER TER-f, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

the Union Pacific Railroad shall have been extended westward so as to meet tho line of the first named company, that
company might extend its line eastward -one hundred and
fifty miles on the established route so as to meet and connect
with the line of the Union Pacific Railroad, complying in all
respects with the provisions and restrictions of the act as to
the Union Pacific Railroad, and when it was completed should
enjoy all the rights, privileges .and benefits conferred by the
act on the latter company.
It is found by the court that the Central Pacific Railroad
Company accepted the provisions of the acts of 1862 and
1864; and that on or about October 21, 1864, that company
assigned to the Western Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created and then existing under the laws of California,
all its rights under the acts of Congress, so far as they related
to the construction of the railroad and telegraph line between
the cities of San Jos6 and Sacramento, in California; and that
this assignment was ratified and confirmed by Congress, in the
act of March 3, 1865, to amend the constituting acts of 1862
and 1864.
The act of March 3, 1865, c. 88, 13 Stat. 504, provided that
section 10 of the act of July 2, 1864, should be so modified
and amended as to allow the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and the Western Pacific Railroad Company of California, the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and the eastern
division of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and all other
companies provided for in the act of July second, eighteen
hundred and sixty-four, to issue their six per centum thirty
years' bonds, interest payable in any lawful money of the
United States, upon their separate roads. And the companies
were thereby authorized to issue respectively their bonds to
the extent of one hundred miles in advance of a continuous
completed line of construction, and the assignment made by
the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California to the
Western Pacific Railroad Company of the State, of the right
to construct all that portion of the railroad and telegraph from
the city of San Jose to the city of Sacramento, was thereby ratified and: confirmed to the Western Pacific Railroad Company,

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

133

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

with all the privileges and benefits of the several acts of Congress relating thereto, subject to the conditions thereof.
The Central Pacific Railroad Company was empowered by
the State of California to construct within its limits various
lines of railroad, and to'equip them with the appurtenances essential to give to their operations efficiency and usefulness. It
is conceded that until April 4,1861, the Central Pacific Railroad Company and other railroad corporations of the State
exercised and enjoyed what are termed the franchises of its
corporations, that is, the rights, powers, privileges and immunities conferred upon them by state authority, and also various
powers, duties, privileges and immunities conferred upon them
by the general government, and which are termed their Federal
franchises. But on that date, the 4th of April, 1864, the legislature of California abrogated the state franchises of those
corpbrations, and substituted by adoption in their place the
Federal franchises which have remained in force ever since.
The provisions of the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, and
of July 2, 1864, state with entire distinctness the rights,
powers, duties, privileges and immunities of the principal railroad -that of the Union Pacific -and of the auxiliary roads
connecting therewith. The most essential features are the
following:
I. The act of July 1, 1862, authorized the Union Pacific
Railroad Company to construct its road, vesting it with all
powers necessary for that purpose, and requiring it to transport mails, troops and munitions of war. This was a plain,
exercise of the express power "to - establish post roads" and
of the implied power to construct military roads.
II. The same act authorized the Central Pacific Railroad
Company to construct its road on the same terms and conditions as those of the Union Pacific.
III. The third section of the act of July 2, 1864, provided
in the usual form for the exercise by both companies of the
Federal right to acquire the right of way. for the construction
of these post and military roads.
IV. The Central Pacific company was thus made the
agent of the government in its exercise of the constitutional

OCTOBER TERvf, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

power to establish post roads and military roads. No state
law could have obstructed or impeded the Federal government
in the exercise of this power or in any degree whatever have
limited or facilitated the Central Pacific company in the
enjoyment of the Federal franchise thus conferred.
V. If the consent of the State was necessary to the establishment of this road by the United States it will be found in
the statute of California enacted in 1852, which, independent
of its preamble, reads as follows:
"SEc. 1. The right of way through this State is hereby
granted to the United States for the purpose of constructing
a railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans." Statutes
of California of 1852, ch. 77,  1, p. 150.
If the consent of the State was necessary to the complete
substitution of the Federal franchise for any then existing
state franchise for the construction of the road, it will be
found in the act of the legislature of the State of California
of April 4, 1864, which, after a compriehensive grant to the
company of all necessary privileges and powers, including
the State's right of eminent domain, made, as the act recites,
"to enable said company more fully and completely to com-'
ply with and conform to the provisions and condition of
said act of Congress," concludes with the following language: "Hereby confirming to and vesting in said company
all the rights, privileges, franchises, power and authority conferred upon, granted to, or vested in said company by said
act of Congress; hereby repealing all laws and parts of laws
inconsistent or in conflict with the provisions of this act or
the rights and privileges herein granted." Statutes of California, 1863-64, c. 417,  1, p. 471. In the opinion of the
majority of the court, delivered by the Chief Justice, it is
said that the general rule expressed by Mr. Justice Miller
in the State Railroad Tax cases, 92 U. S. 575, "that the
franchises, capital stock, business and profits of all corporations are liable to taxation in the place where they do business and by the State which creates -them," admits of no dispute at this day, and then the opinion adds that the question
here is not a question of the value of the state franchises, but

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

135

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

whether those franchises existed, for if in 1887 the plaintiff
in error (the Central Pacific Railroad Company),possessed any
subsisting rights or privileges, otherwise called franchises, derived from the State, then they were taxable, and the extent
of their value was to be determined by the Board of Equalization. A complete answer to the ground of the opinion is
found in the act of the legislature of California of April 4,
1861, passed twenty-three years before 1887, to which I have
above referred, which abrogated the state franchises previously existing, and substituted in their place the Federal
franchises.
The Federal franchises for the construction of the Central
Pacific Railroad from the Pacific coast to the eastern boundary line of California -as a part of the continuous military
and post road to the Missouri River established by Congress
could have had no rival in a state franchise for the construction of the same road; but in order that this might never be
questioned, the legislature of the State of California obliterated its own franchises when it ratified and confirmed the
franchises given by the Federal government to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company. How then can the State twentythree years later tax alleged state franchises claimed by its
authorities to underlie the Federal franchises? Suppose the
alleged state franchises should be sold for a delinquent tax
thereon under the authority of the State, and an attempt
should be made to place the purchaser in possession, a Federal
judge would, of course, be applied to for an injunction, which
would undoubtedly be granted, and the shadow of the shade
of the state franchises would appear no more.
But, notwithstanding this express abrogation of the state
franchises, meaning by that the powers, duties, rights, privileges and immunities of the state corporations conferred by
the legislature of the State of California, and the substitution
in place thereof-of the franchises conferred by the general
government, the State of California has since the abrogation
of the state franchises and.the substitution of the Federal franchises in various ways subjected that railroad and its franchises,
whether derived from state or Federal authority, which were

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

essential to the successful working of the road brought into
existence by the Federal government, to heavy burdens in the
way of taxation, and thus imposed an additional obstacle to
the efficiency of the Central Pacific Railroad in the execution
of the general operations of the overland railroad.
The question presented is whether the burden thus imposed
upon the franchises, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of railroads, whether or not operated in more than one county, can
be lawfully assessed upon them when they constitute the
grant of the general government, or an essential part of, or
are appurtenant to the franchises of the state corporation
which is used as an instrumentality of the overland road. The
state Board of Equalization has assessed the franchises of the
State as a distinct element in the estimate of the valuation
of the railroad, carrying its estimate to an enormous sum in
many instances, as, in the present case, to the sum of eighteen
millions, and at the same time it has assessed the Federal franchises, that is, those derived from the general government, as
a distinct and separate element in the estimate of the valuation of the railroad, and has blended the two- franchises in
determining the valuation of the railroad for the purpose of
taxation.
It seems to me as an extravagant if not an absurd position,
in the face of the specific legislation by the State, abrogating
its frarichises of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and
substituting the Federal franchises in their place, to contend
that the state franchises still exist and can be enforced and be
made the subject of estimate in the valuation of the railroad
for taxation. The Federal franchises, standing alone, cannot
be impeded or hampered in any way by state legislation.
This would follow had not the State expressed itself in the
emphatic way it has done: "Confirming to and vesting in
said company all the rights, privileges,- franchises, powers and
authority conferred by the grant to or vested in said company by said act of Congress, hereby repealing all laws and
parts of laws inconsistent or in conflict with the provisions
of this act, or the rights and privileges herein granted." The
state franchises thus abrogated and discarded cannot be again

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

137

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

restored to life by mere words, however often repeated and
with whatever asseveration, made. The dishonored franchises
are gone forever.
Independently of this view, the two franchises, the so
,called state franchise and the so-called Federal franchise, if
both exist at the same time, are to be treated as necessarily
so blended together that they cannot be separated and given
a distinct valuation in the total estimate. And even when
separated," were that possible, the inevitable blending follows
the moment the value of the railroad becomes a matter of'
serious consideration for the purpose of fixing the amount of
the assessment. I construe the state and Federal franchises
as being simply the right conferred upon them to complete
and operate the road. And whatever part the state or Federal franchises may have played in accomplishing this result,
the separate effect of either cannot be distinguished from the
other, and apply to each and every mile of the road. The two
franchises have interlaced each other at every step of their exercise. It follows that the separate estimation of the taxation
of the so called state franchises when they existed, which, as appears, was only for a limited period, was impossible, and, for
many reasons, which we will state, it was never intended that
such state franchises should be assessed and taxed as a separate entity in the estimate of the value of the railroad.
In the case of California v. Pacific Railroad,127 U. S. 1, 34,
this court decided that, as the assessments of the state Board
of Equalization against the Central Pacific Railroad Company
of 1883 and 1884, and the assessment against the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company of 1883, included the franchises
conferred by the United States upon those corporations, respectively, the assessments were void as repugnant to the
Constitution and laws of the United States and the power
of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States.
127 U. S.41, 42, 43.
It appears by the record that the complaint in this action
contains nineteen counts, upon the same number of alleged
causes of action. The first count is for state taxes; the other
counts are for county taxes.

OCTOBER TER-f, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

In People v. Central Pacic Railroad Co., 83 California,
393, 399, it was held by the Supreme Court of the State that
section 3670 of its- Political Code, prescribing a special form
of complaint, was in conflict with its constitution, and that a
complaint in an action to recover taxes levied upon a railroad
could not join causes of action in favor of the several counties
through which the road runs. But that is not material in the
present action.
Each of the eighteen counts alleges that the defendant is
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of California, engaged in operating a railroad in more than one
county of the State. The State sets forth its claims for a
recovery, and asks for judgment in its favor for the several
assessments stated against the franchises, or some portion
thereof, which constitute a grant of the general government,
or appurtenances to the grant of the state corporation, rendering it efficient and useful as an instrumentality of the
overland road, the great work undertaken by the general
government. The complaint alleges in its several counts that
in August, 1887, which, as stated above, was twenty-three
years after the state franchises to the defendant had been
abrogated and annulled, the state Board of Equalization, for
the purpose of state and county taxation for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1888, assessed to the defendant, then'the
owner and operator thereof in more than one county in the
State, the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock
of the defendant's railway, then within the State, at the sum
of eighteen millions of dollars; and that within ten days after
the third Monday in August of that year the board apportioned the total assessment of the franchise, roadway, roadbed,.
rails and rolling stock of the defendant to the counties in the
State in which defendant's railway was located, in proportion
to the number of miles of defendant's railway laid in such
counties; and the amounts of the total assessment thus apportioned by the board to the counties respectively, and the
number of miles of defendant's railway laid in the counties
respectively.
The complaint concludes with a demand for judgment

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

139

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

against the defendant for the several sums of state and county
tax alleged to be delinquent and unpaid as stated therein,
aggregating the sum of $295,740.71,. with five per. cent thereon
for delinquency and non-payment, with interest at the rate of
two per cent on the amount from the last of December, 1887;
also for the costs of suit and for attorney's fees. :,
To the complaint a demurrer, general and special, was interposed by the defendant. The Superior Court overruled the demurrer with leave to the defendant to answer the complaint.
The answer of the defendant puts in issue most of the
material allegations of the complaint, and sets up various
special and affirmative defences. One of those defences is
that the "franchise" assessed to the defendant by the state
-Board of Equalization was derived from the government of the
United States through certain acts of Congress (commonly
known as the Pacific Railroad Acts); that the same is held
and used by the defendant as one of the means and instrumentalities of the Federal government, and was, therefore, not
taxable by the State; and that the assessment of this franchise
was so blended with the whole assessment as not to be separable therefrom; .and that the whole assessment was, therefore, void.
On the trial of the issues presented by the pleadings, the
complainant was allowed by the court, against the objection
of the defendant, to introduce in evidence (1) the duplicate
record of assessment of railways by the state Board of Equalization for 1887, filed in the office of the comptroller of the
of the State of California, October 11, 1887. The court overruled the objections of the defendant and admitted the paper
in evidence, and an exception was taken to the ruling of the
court. The duplicate record of assessment of railways by
the state Board of Equalization for 1887, which was dated
August 13, 1887, simply states that the defendant owns a certain railway in the'State, operated in more than one county,
being ,the entire railway of the company in the State, and
then follows this paragraph, withoit any evidence in,support
of its averment:
"And it appearing that the actual value of the franchises,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of said company
within the State, at the said date and time, was and still is
the sum of eighteen million dollars; therefore, it is hereby
ordered that the said franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and
rolling stock, for the year 1887, be, and the same are hereby,
assessed to the said Central Pacific Railroad Company at the
sum of eighteen million dollars."
The evidence mentioned in the duplicate record of assessment of railways was the only proof offered by the plaintiff
in support of any of its causes of action, and that evidence, it
is plain, was not entitled to any weight in the determination
of the case, not being supported by any other evidence.
On the part of the defendant evidence was offered to show
that the state Board of Equalization knowingly included the
value of the "Federal franchise" in the assessment in question,
as it had done in the assessment which was afterwards before
this court, and declared void, in California v. Pacific Railr'oacl Company, and in other assessments.
The findings of the Superior.Court, as to Lhe allegations of
the complaint, were that they were true, except as to counsel
fees, as to which it was found that a reasonable compensation
for the services of two of the counsel employed was 7j per
cent on the amount recovered, and 24 per cent for the third
counsel.
As to the affirmative allegations for the answer, the court
among other things found:
"That on the 13th day of August, 1887, the state Board of
Equalization of the State of California did, for the purposes of
taxation for the fiscal year 1887, assess, as a unit, and not separately, the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling
stock of defendant's railroad, then being and situate within
the State, at the sum and value mentioned in the amended
complaint, and did then and there enter such assessment upon
its minutes and in its record of assessment; that such assessment is the one upon which the several taxes mentioned in the
complaint herein are based, and no other assessment than the
one aforesaid was ever made by the Board of Equaliiation or
other assessor of the property of defendant for the fiscal year;

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

141

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

that the board did, at the time and in the manner alleged in
the amended complaint, apportion the assessment and transmit
it and the apportionment to the county and city and county
auditors, and the assessment and' the apportionment thereof
were entered upon the assessment rolls of the counties and the
cities and counties as alleged in the amended -complaint, as
hereinbefore found.
"That the board of equalization, in making the assessment,
did assess the fran6hise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling
stock of defendant's railroad at their full cash value, without
deducting therefrom the value of the mortgage or any part
thereof, or the value of the bonds issued under the acts of
Congress, given and existing-thereon, as aforesaid, to secure
the indebtedness of the company to the holders of the bonds,
and, in making such assessment the board did not deem nor
treat the mortgage or bonds as an interest in the property, but
it assessed the whole value of the property as assessed to defendant in the same manner it would have done had there
been no mortgage thereon."
The conclusions of law from the findings were that plaintiff
was entitled to recover judgment for the several principal
sums of state -and county taxes, found in the record of assessments of railways to be delinquent and unpaid; also interest
upon the principal sums-from the 27th day of December, 1887,
at the rate of seven per cent per annum, up to the date of
judgment; also to recover five per cent penalty upon the
principal sums; also fees for legal services rendered herein by
two of the counsel, a sum equal to seven and one-half per cent
on the amount recovered, and by the third counsel a sum
equal to two and one-half per cent of that amount.
Judgment was entered upon the findings, in favor of the
plaintiff, for the sums mentioned, and a motion for a new trial
was overruled.
-The majority of the Supreme Court of the State, in their
opinion, sustained the contentions of the State upon the questions presented, with the exception of the questions in respect
to interest on the amount of taxes,-and the fees of one of the
counsel, and affirmed the judgment entered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

Mr. Justice McFarland dissented from the opinion of the
court. This dissenting opinion expresses so fully and clearly
and satisfactorily the views which I entertain, that they are
set forth in full:
"In my opinion," says Justice McFarland, pp. 598, 599,
"the assessment in question [that of 1887] is void under the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States in the
cases of California v. Central Pacific Railroad Company and
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, 127 U. S. 1, because it
includes a Federal franchise, and thus attempts to tax one of
t1~e means or instrumentalities employed by the United States
government for carrying into effect its sovereign powers.
That this cannot be done by a State has been the established
law ever since the decision of the Supreme Court in _McCulloch
v. -Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, in 1819. The principle was fully
recognized and declared by this court in San Benito County v.
Southern Pacific Railroad, 77 California, 518, and in San
Francisco v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 California, 140.
"The only difference between the cases in 127 U. S. and
the case at bar is that in the former the trial court found that
the state Board of Equalization included in the assessment the
value of 'all franchises and corporate powers held and exercised by the defendant,' while in the case at bar the court
below found that the said board in making the assessment for
the year 1887 'did not include in its said assessment any Federal franchise.' But the assessment in both instances was
exactly the same, namely, 'the franchise' of the railroad. In
the former cases it does not appear that the trial court
received any evidence on the question as to what 'the franchise' included; and it is probable that the finding was based
upon the language of the assessment alone. In the case at
bar the court did receive evidence as to what the members of
the board intended by the words 'the franchise,' and it
appears in the record that the court, after having concluded
that ' from a preponderance of evidence before it the Federal
franchise of defendant was not assessed or included in the
assessment,' proceeded to say that 'if by a preponderance of
such evidence defendants could have shown that the State

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

143

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

.intended to and did include the Federal franchise in the
assessment, I think the court would have to disregard it as
incompetent. The effect of such parol evidence would be to
contradict the record, which cannot be done.' Now, if it was
competent to introduce testimony to show the intent of the
members of the boarid when they made the assessment, then
the court clearly erred in ruling out certain evidence offered
on that point by appellant.
"On the other hand, if the record of the board should alone
be considered, then it simply appears that 'the franchise' was
assessed; and I cannot possibly see how that phrase can be
construed to mean anything else than the whole franchise of
the iailroad- all of the franchise belonging to it. It means
just what the lower court has found it to mean, as above
quoted, in said cases in 127 U. S. The words Ithe franchise'
clearly, in my judgment, include the right of the appellant to
do business -and. the whole of that right. That right is a
unit and inseparable. The court below found [see finding 30]
that the board ' did assess as a unit, and not separately, the
franchise, roadway,' etc. And I cannot conceive how a court
can, first, separate it, or, second, if it could, how it could
determine which part to throw away.' Moreover, the main
foundation of the doctrine of -H Culloch v. faryland, 4
Wheat. 316, is that the power to tax includes the power to
destroy; and thus a State might, under the guise of taxation,
destroy or materially cripple an instrumentality of the Federal
government. And is it not manifest that in the case at bar
that principle protects the instrumentality here involved from
injury or destruction under the pretence that only that part of
the unity which comes from the State is taxed?. Are not the
effects and consequences the same?
"In my opinion, therefore," adds the dissenting Justi'e,
"without disctissing the other questions involved, the judgment should be reversed."
To review and reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court,
affirming the judgment of the Superior Court for the city and
county of San Francisco, a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State was sued out of this court, and several assign-

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

ments of error were filed for its consideration. My attention
will be confined to those deemed the most important.
1st. The Supreme Court should have reversed the judgment
of the Superior Court for the city and county of San Francisco
on the ground that upon the finding of facts in the record the
value of the "franchise" of the Central Pacific Railroad, derived from the United States, called Federal franchise, was
included in the assessment of the franchise, roadway, roadbed,
rails and rolling stock of the railroad, made by the state Board
of Equalization for the year 1887, and was inseparable therefrom; and that the whole of the assessment was therefore
illegal and void under the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
2d. The Supreme Court should have reversed the judgment
of the Superior Court, because that court found that the state
Board of Equalization on August 3; 1887, did, for the purpose
of taxation for the fiscal year, 1887, assess as a unit, and not
separately, the franchise, roadway, roadbed and rolling stock
of the Central Pacific Railroad, then being within the State
of California.
3d. The Supreme Court should have reversed the judgment
of the Superior Court upon tha ground that the property of
the Central Pacific Railroad Company, including the franchise, and every part of the franchise of the railroad was and
issubject to the lien of the mortgage of the United States to
secure the indebtedness of that company to it, and the United
States had and have an interest and ownership therein to the
extent of the lien, and, therefore, the franchise of the railroad
could not and cannot be taxed or assessed for taxation by the
State of California, under the Constitution and laws of the
United States.
4th. The Supreme Court should have reversed the judgment
of the Superior Court on the ground that that court admitted
in evidence the portion of the duplicate record of assessment
of railways by the state Board of Equalization for the year of
1887, relating to the assessment of the property of the plaintiff
in error for that year without proof of its correctness.
The facts which are the basis of the several assignments of

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

145

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

error are contained in the legislation or authorized statements
of Congress or of the States mentioned, or in the findings
of the court. Their legality and validity are thereby fully
established:
By the legislation of Congress to which I have referred, as
well as by the legislation of the State of California, it is plain
that the Central Pacific Railroad Company was made one of
the means of accomplishing the great work of Congress, and
whenever, by any act of the state authorities of California,
the franchise of the Central Pacific Railroad Company was
included in the assessment of the franchise, roadway, roadbed,,
rails and rolling stock of that company, there was necessarily
included the franchise thus derived from the legislation of
Congress. Indeed, treating the franchise of the railroad as
meaning its power to construct the work contemplated and
to condudct its operations, it is difficult to see how, in any respect, its franchise could be treated other than as one entire
whole. Its power to construct the road authorized by the
government, and to carry on its operations, could not be
under the control of the state authorities so as to interfere
in any respect with the full exercise of the powers, privileges
and immunities granted by Congress.
And: it was specially found by the court below, in its thirtieth finding of fact, that the state Board of Equalization on
August 13, 1887, for the purpose of taxation for the fiscal year
1887, assessed'as a unit, and not separately, the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock. It was, therefore, unlawful that its taxation by the State should in any respect
impede, retard or delay the exercise of the powers conferred
by Congress upon the Central Pacific Railroad Comapany or
defeat its action. Nor could any part of the powers, privileges and immunities conferred upon the railroad be separated
from the rest, so as to be treated as' an independent part
thereof, and any part considered as the special grant of the
State, and superior to or in any way impairing the control
thereof by the United States pursuant to their legislation.
It also appears from the legislation of Congress that the
Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to issue and did
VOL. CLXII-1O

OCTOBER TERME, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

issue to the Central Pacific Railroad Company bonds of the
United States, in designated amounts per mile, to aid in
the construction of its road, which bonds and interest were
to be repaid by the company, at their maturity, and that, to
secure such repayment, the United States were to hold a lien
upon all the property of the railroad company to the extent
of the bonds thus issued. Any taxation of the property or
franchises of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, without
the consent of Congress, was hence an impairment of such
lien of the United States, and, therefore, invalid.
The Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco
erred in receiving in evidence the portion of the duplicate
record of the assessment of railways by the state Board of
Equalization for the year 1887, relating to the assessment of
the property of the plaintiff in error, for the obvious reason
that such duplicate in no way established the legality and
validity of the assessment.
This court, in the case of California v. Pacific .Railroad
Companies, 127 U. S.1, adjudged that the State of California
had no power, without the consent of Congress, to tax the
franchises derived by the Central Pacific Railroad Company
from the government of the United States, or any franchise
conferred on it by that government, or any part of any franchise granted to that company by the United States. The
opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley.
"Assuming," he said, "that the Central Pacific Railroad
Company has received the important franchises referred to
by grant of the United States, the question arises whether
they are legitimate subjects of taxation by the State. They
were granted to the company for national purposes and to
subserve national ends. It seems very clear that the State
of California can neither take them away, nor destroy nor
abridge them, nor cripple them by onerous burdens. Can it
tax them ? It may undoubtedly tax outside visible property
of the company situated within the State. That is a different
thing. But may it tax franchises which are the grant of the
United States? In our judgment it cannot. What is a franchise

. . . Generalized, and divested of the special form

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

147

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

which it assumes under a monarchical government based on
feudal traditions, a franchise is a right, privilege or power of
public concern, which ought not to be exercised by private
individuals at their mere will and pleasure, -but'should be
reserved for. public control and administration, either by the
government directly, or by public agents, acting under such
conditions and regulations as the government may impose in
the public interest, and for the public security. Such rights
and powers must exist under every form of society. Under
our system, their existence and disposal are under the control
of the legislative department of the government, and they
cannot be assumed or exercised without legislative authority.
No private person can establish a public highway, or a public
ferry, or railroad, or charge tolls for the use of the same,
without authority from the legislature, direct or derived.
These are franchises. No private person can take another's
property, even for a public use, without such authority; which
is the same as to say, that the right of eminent domain can
only be exercised by virtue of a legislative grant. This is a
franchise. No persons can make themselves a body corporate
add politic without legislative authority. Corporate capacity
is a franchise. The list might be continued indefinitely.
"In view of this description of the nature of a franchise,
how can it be possible that a franchise granted by Congress
can be subject to taxation by a State without the consent of
Congress? Taxation is a burden, and may be laidso heavily
as to destroy the thing taxed, or render it valueless. As Chief
Justice Marshall said in MeCulloch v. .faryland, ' the power
to tax involveg the power to destroy.' Recollecting the fundamental principle that the Constitution, laws and treaties of
the United States are the supreme law of the land, it seems to
us almost absurd to contend that a power given to a person or
corporation by the United States may be subjected to taxation
by a State. The power conferred emanates from, and is a portion of, the power of the government that confers it. To
tax it, is not only derogatory to the dignity, but subversive
of the powers of the government, and repugnant to its paramount sovereignty. It is unnecessary to cite cases on this

148

OCTOBER TERIMT, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

subject. The principles laid down by this court in McCulloch
v. -MarTland,4 Wheat. 316; Osborn v. The Bank of the
United States, 9 Wheat. 738; and Brown v. .3Laryland, 12
Wheat. 419, and numerous cases since which have followed in
their lead, abundantly sustain the views we have expressed.
It may be added that these views are not in conflict with the
decisions of this court in Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9
Wall. 579, and Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5. As explained in the opinion of the court in the latter case, the tax
there was upon the property of the company, and not upon its
franchises or operations. 18 Wall. 35, 37.
"The taxation of a corporate franchise merely as such,
unless pursuant to a stipulation in the original charter of the
company, is the exercise of an authority somewhat arbitrary
in its character. It has no limitation but the discretion of the
taxing power. The value of the franchise is not measured
like that of property, but may be ten thousand or ten hundred thousand dollars, as the legislature may choose. Or,
without any valuation of the franchise at all, the tax may be
arbitrarily laid. It is not an idle objection, therefore, made
by the company against the tax imposed in the present case."
The important cases bearing upon the subject intervening
between the great Bank cases and Thomson v. Pacific Railroad and Railroad Company v. Peniston, were Weston v. The
City of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 467; Dobbins v. Commissioners
of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435; Bank of Commerce v. Hfew York
City, 2 Black, 620; The Banks v. The -Mayor,7 Wall. 16, and
Hational Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall 353; and in those
cases the doctrine was consistently maintained and enforced
that a State cannot lay a tax which bears upon a power of the
National Government, or, in the judgment of the court, may
hinder, impair or burden any "operation" of that Government,
or interfere with or affect the efficiency of any "agency" of
the National Government in performing the functions by
which it is designed to serve the United States.
In Weston v. The City qf Charleston, this court declared the
tax on the stock of the United States, involved, to be unconstitutional, because it "operated upon the power" to borrow

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

149

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

money oil the credit of the United States, and was deemed by
the court to be "a burden, however inconsiderable," on "the
operations of government."
The court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, in that case,
again declared that the State cannot by taxation, or otherwise, "retard, impede, burden or in any manner control the
operation of the- constitutional laws enacted by Congress to
carry into execution the powers vested in the General Government."
The case of Dobins v. The Commissioners of Erie County,
adjudged that a state tax on an officer of the United States,
for his office, or its emoluments, was void, mainly because of
"its interference with the constitutional means" employed
by the government to execute its powers.
The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Wayne, said: "Does not
a tax by a State upon the office, diminishing the recompense,
conflict with the laws of the United States, which secures it
to the officer in its entirety? It certainly has such, an effect;
and any law of a State imposing such a tax cannot be constitutional, because it conflicts with a law of Congress made in
pursuance of the Constitution."
The principles declared in lVeston v. The City of Charleston
governed the decisions of the court in Bank of Commerce v.
NSew York City and in The Banks v. The .Mayor, which adjudged that the bonds and other securities of the United
States are "as much beyond the taxing power of the States
as the operations themselves in furtherance of which they
were issued."
The court again declared, in those cases, that any interference by the state governments tending to the interruption
of, or in derogation of, the full legitimate exercise of the
powers granted to the Nati6nal Government was prohibited
by the Constitution.
The theory of the majority of the court below was that the
franchise of this railroad can be segregated into two franchises, a state franchise and a Federal franchise. But the franchise of the railroad, or the right in the company to operate
its railroad, is a single right, from how many sources soever

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

derived; and, being derived from the National Government,
that right could not be assessed for taxation, agreeably to the
Constitution of the United States, whether or not the right
had been granted by the State also to the railroad company.
The theory of the separation of the franchise into two distinct rights for the purpose of taxation by California is effectually disposed of by Mr. Justice McFarland, at the close of
his opinion, in these few words:
"The court below found that the board 'did assess as a unit,
and not separately, the franchise, roadway,' etc. People v. Cent.
Pao.Rd. 0o., 105 California, 599. I cannot conceive how a
court can, first, separate it, or second, if it could, how it could
determine which part to throw away. Moreover, the main
foundation of the doctrine of Mc Culloch v. -Maryland is that
the power to tax includes the power to destroy, and thus a
State might, under the guise of taxation, destroy or materially
cripple an instrumentality of the Federal Government. And
is it not manifest that in the case at bar that principle protects the instrumentality here involved from injury or destruction under the pretence that only that part of the unity which
comes from the State is taxed? Are not the effects and consequences the same?"
The fact that each government has granted the right, does
not create two rights. The two grants taken together confer
nothing more than each of them separately conferred. A tax
on "the franchise" of the Central Pacific Railroad, being
nothing more nor less than a tax on the right of the company
to operate its road, is a tax on its right to operate its railroad
granted by the United States, or on the franchise granted by
that government.
How is that part of the franchise 'granted by the State to
be separated from that part granted by the General Government? What part of the life of this being is at the mercy of
the State? Upon what member of its body may the tax collector execute his judgment of death?
If we should consider the right of the Central Pacific Railroad Company to operate its road, derived from the State, as
one thing, and its same right derived from the United, States

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

151

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

as another and distinct, or different, thing, what results will
follow ? Plainly these.
If the State can tax the.right so derived from itself,-it can
levy a tax upon it as it pleases,, and may sell the right assessed,
in case of non-payment of the tax. There can be no such
thing as taxable property which cannot be sold for the tax,
and the title to which cannot be transferred to the purchaser.
By such a sale the property will pass from the delinquent to
the purchaser. If a sale could be -made of this particular
right, then the Central Pacific would lose the right, and the
purchaser would gain it.
It is obvious that the right to operate its railroad cannot,
by virtue of the State's taxing powers, be taken from the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, or conferred upon, any
other corporation or individual. Nothing, then, would pass
by such a sale, and as there is nothing to sell or transfer, there
can be nothing to assess.
If the position asserted by the defendant in error, the State
of California or the people of the State, (considering both expressions as meaning substantially the same contesting organization,) that the so called state franchise .of the Central Pacific
Railroad can be separated from the Federal franchise of that
company, and separately valued, and subjected to taxation, be
maintained, destructive consequences would follow, as will be
seen from a brief consideratiofi.
In Nartohkem Paco
Railroad v. Trail County, 115 U. S.
600, 610, the court, in referring to a sale, for taxes, of lands
belonging to a railroid company, said: "A valid sale for taxes
being the highest exercise of sovereign power of the State
must carry the title to the property sold, and if it does not do
so, it is because the assessment is void. It follows that if the
assessment of these taxes (those previously stated to have Bieen
levied upon the lands of the company) is valid and the-proceedings well conducted, the sale confers a title paramount to
all others, and thereby destroys the lien of .the United States
for the costs of surveying these lands. If, on the other hand,
the sale would not confer such a title, it is because there exists
no authority to make it." There would seem to be no doubt,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

therefore, that the State cannot be held to have had the power
to tax the so called state franchise of the Pacific Railroad so
long as it was of any validity, and previously and subsequently
to its abrogation the State plainly possessed no such power
unless the court is prepared to decide expressly, as the effect of
the legislation, that Congress intended that the State should
be able to divest the company of that franchise, and to transfer by a tax sale the title of the franchise to the purchaser as
against both the company and the United States; and in that
way to destroy the right and interest of the government of
the United States in the franchise. There is clear and conclusive evidence in the Pacific Railroad legislation that Congress
intended that the so called state franchise, so long as it remained of any value, should not be subject to state legislation,
and that the right and interest of the United States therein,
whilst of any value, should not be destroyed by the State in
the exercise of its taxing power. For example, section 5 of
the act of July, 1, 1862, provides that the issue and delivery of
bonds to the company, referring to bonds the issue and delivery of which were authorized by the act, shall ipso facto
constitute a first mortgage on the whole line of the railroad
and telegraph, together with the rolling stock, fixtures and
property of every kind and description, and on the refusal or
failure of the company to redeem its bonds, or any part of
them, when required by the Secretary of the Treasury in
accordance with the provisions of the act, then the road, with
all rights, functions, immunities and appurtenances thereunto
belonging, also all lands granted to the company by the
United States, may be taken possession of by the Secretary of
the Treasury for the use and benefit of the United States.
The only change made in this provision in regard to the security of the United States for the subsidy bonds is by section
10 of the act of 1861, which is that "the lien of the United
States bonds shall be subordinate to that of the bonds of any
or either of said companies hereby authorized to be issued on
their lespective roads, property and equipments, except as
to the provisions of the sixth section of the act, to which this
act is an amendment relating to the transmission of dispatches,

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

153

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

and the transportation of mails, troops, munitions of war,
supplies and. public stores for the government of the United
States."
The subsidy bonds are, therefore, a mortgage upon any subsisting state franchise of the railroad, which may be taken
possession of by the Secretary of the Treasury for the use and
benefit of the United States, on the refusal or failure of the
company to redeem the bonds, or any part of them, when
required by the Secretary of the Treasury. Congress manifestly intended that the rights of the United States under this
mortgage, in respect to the state franchise, if any such existed,
should not be destroyed or disturbed by the State in the exercise of its taxing power, or any other power. If the so called
state franchise of the railroad is a thing of value, as the assessment in these cases claims it to be, in .the estimation of the
state Board of Equalization, it is a valuable part of the security
of the United States for the redemption of the subsidy bonds,
which the Secretary of the Treasury has the right to take
possession of in the contingency mentioned in the act. The
franchise, if it existed and possesses any value, cannot, therefore,
in my opinion, be taken from under the mortgage, and transferred to a purchaser at a tax sale by the State of California.
Take, again, the provisions of the sinking fund actrof May 7,
1878, which appropriates and applies the earnings of the company in the exercise of all the franchises of the company for
the purposes and in the manner named. In the face of that
act, it cannot be believed that Congress supposed that there
was power reserved to the State to control or affect its interest or right in the franchise or franchises of the railroad, so
long as it, or they possessed any value.
There can be no doubt that a tax to be levied on the so
called state franchise, whilst it was in existence, was a tax
upon-an instrumentality by which the government effects its
objects, and a tax upon the operations of that instrumentality,
within the doctrines ot this court in the great cases to which
I have referred.
The United States selected- this corporation as an agency
for carrying out a national object, and the right of the cor-

OCTOBER TgRTM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

poration to operate its railroad, or, in other words, the franchise of the railroad, whether conferred by state or national
authority, or by both the State and Nation, is an instrumentality by which the United States effects its objects.
A&s a tax on the franchise of the Central Pacific lRailroad
while in existence was nothing more nor less than a tax on
the right of the company to operate its railroad, such a tax
was a tax on its right to operate its railroad derived from
the government of the United States, and, therefore, unconstitutional.
There are no operations of the corporation, as an agency
of the government, which are performed exclusively in the
exercise of any state franchise in connection with its railroad,
assuming the existence of any such franchise, but all its operations are in the exercise of its entire franchise, and a tax
purporting to be levied on any state franchise is, therefore,
a tax on the operations of the corporation in the ex'ercise of
the Federal franchise, and a tax directly on the Federal franchise itself.
In NSatidnal Bank v. The Commonwealth, where the right
of the States to tax the shares of the national banks was
reaffirmed, it was expressly conceded that the agencies of the
National. Government are uncontrollable by state legislation
so far as it may interfere with, or impair, their efficiency, in
performing the service, or the functions, for which they are
employed, or designed to perform.
The Supreme Court of California in the case of San Benito
County y. Southern Pacific Railroad, 77 California, 518, accepted the authority of the decision of this court, in California
v. Pacific Railroad Companies, 127 U. S. 1, and held that an
ordinance of the board of supervisors of San Benito County
imposing a license tax upon corporations or individuals engaged in the business of carrying persons or freight for hire
on railroad cars in the county was void, so far as it assumed
to affect the Southern Pacifre Railroad Company, as the tax
was deemed to be levied upon the use of the franchise granted
to the company by the United States, or the operations of the,
railroad in the exercise of that franchise

OENTRAt PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

155

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

It was determined that the franchise of that company and
its use were equally beyond the taxing power of the State, or
any of its political subdivisions, agreeably to the decision of
this court in Californiav. Pacific Railroad Companies,which
the court felt constrained to obey.
"The franchise" of a railroad, which is contemplated by the
state constitution, and authorized to be assessed for taxation
by the state Board of Equalization, is nothing but the right to
operate the railroad, including the incidental right to charge
and take tolls thereon, and the like.
The constitution applies equally to all railroads, whether
owned by corporations or associations or individuals, and the
assessment provided for is wholly independent of the ownership or the character of the ownership of the railroad property assessed.
The tax proposed by the constitution is consequently and
necessarily a tax upon the operations of the railroad, in the
exercise of the franchise or right to operate the property.
The right of the Central Pacific Railroad Company to construct, maintain and operate its railroad, in the State of California, was conferred upon the company by.and derived by it
from the government of the United States, and any assessment of the right of the company to maintain and operate its
railroad, in that State, for.state taxation, is void, under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, whether or not
the company received the same right from the State of
California.
The right of the company to operate its railroad in the
State is a single right, and a single thing, whether the right
was derived by the company from one or more than one government, and it cannot be subjected to taxation by the State
of California.
In conclusion, it appears, beyond -all controversy, that the
State imposed burdens, in the way of taxation, -upon the exercise of powers and privileges conferred by the Congress of. the
United States upon the Central Pacific Railroad Company
and other companies of the State, rights, powers and privileges which were granted in furtherance of the great object

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of Congress in the creation and operation of the overland
railroad, and also imposed burdens by taxation upon the mortgage held by the United States as security for the subsidy
bonds issued to the company. And for, such irregular and
illegal action. the judgment of the Supreme Court of. the State
should be reversed.
I have shown that the franchises granted by the State of
California to the Central Pacific iRailr6ad Company were abrogated and .annulled by express legislation of the State on
the 4th of April, 1864, and that the taxation was subsequently
made against the railroad company upon an assessment of the
value of its franchises thus discarded and thrown away, and
after the Federal franchises, that is, franchises derived by
grant of the United States, had been substituted in their place
and confirmed by the State, with a release of all inconsistent
and conflicting provisions with the rights and privileges thus
granted.
I have also shown that the assessment of the property of
the defendant made in 1887 was twenty-three years after the
law was passed abrogating and annulling the franchises of the
State upon which the valuation for taxation was made.
I have also shown that the United States hold a lien, constituting a first mortgage on. the whole line of the railroad
and telegraph, together with the rolling stock, fixtures and
property of 'every kind and description, as security for certain
subsidy bonds issued to the company, and on the refusal or
failure of the company to redeem such bonds, or any part of
them, when required by the 'Secretary of the Treasury, in
accordance with the provisions of the act, then the road, with
all rights, functions, immunities and appurtenances thereunto
belonging, also all lands granted to the company by the United
States, might be taken possession of by the Secretary of the
Treasury for the use and benefit of the United States.
If the taxation levied in the present case can be enforced
against the defendant, in face of th~e facts thus stated, there
will be developed a new and unknown power of taxation possessed by the State, in the existence of- which I shall not willingly believe.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

157

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

It seems to me, clear as the sun at noonday, that the taxation imposed by the State of California upon the exercise of
the powers, rights, privileges and immunities constituting the
franchises of the United States, or of the State to the overland railroad company, or to any of its auxiliary companies,
to aid in the construction of the overland railroad and its connecting roads, is directly inimical to the rights and interests
of the United States, and that the blending of the franchises
of the United States and of the State, and the subjection of
either to taxation and to sale, which must follow if the taxation be valid, would necessarily lead to the direct and speedy
destruction of the different roads; and thus we should see, in
the same century in which this greatest enterprise of our
country was undertaken by its government and carried to
cormpletion and successful operation, that enterprise utterly
destroyed- the completeness of the ruin being marked by
the contrast with its original construction and successful operation, rendering its destruction the more significant and deplorable.
I am of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
California affirming the judgment of the Superior Court of
the city and county of San Francisco, and an order of that
court denying a new trial in an action brought by the people
of the State against the plaintiff corporation, should be reversed, and a new trial in that action granted.
MR. JusrTic. HARLAN dissenting.
On the trial of this case in the state court of original jurisdiction, the secretary of the state Board of Equalization,
from April, 1880, to March, 1891, was called as a witness by
the defendant. His examination showed that he was present
at the meetings of that board and kept the record of its proceedings. He said that from his knowledge of what passed
at such meetings he could state what elements of value were
considered by the board in making their estimate for the total
values for 1887. He was asked the following questions separately: "From the various sources of knowledge which you

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

have enumerated, please state to the court what elements
were taken into consideration by the state Board of Equalization in making the assessment of this company for the year
1887?" "Did you hear any conversation between the members of the state Board of Equalization during the meeting
when the assessment of this company was made for the year
1887, with reference to the elements that they proposed to
and did include in the assessment?" "At the time that the
assessment of 1887 was made by the state Board of Equalization upon the property of the Central Pacific Railroad Company, what was said and done at the meeting of. the state
Board of Equalization on that day in your presence?"
The State objected to each question, as it was propounded,
and its objection was sustained, the defendant excepting.
The company then made the following offer: "Now, in
view of the ruling of the court on this subject, we now offer
to prove by this witness that from the time of the organization of the state Board of Equalization in 1880 down to and
including the year 1887, that board had every year considered
the value of the Federal franchise -that is, the franchise derived from the United States by the acts of Congress of the
government of the United States, belonging to and owned by
the Central Pacific Railroad Company, as an element of value
in assessing the total value of the property of that railroad
company; and that in 1888, in consequence of the decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States upon the subject, the
state Board of Equalization for the first time ceased to consider this Federal franchise as an element of value, and hence
reduced their valuation by the sum of three million dollars
on the Central Pacific Railroad Company's property." This
offer was disallowed, and the company duly excepted.
Notwithstanding this action of the court, the State was
permitted to prove by two members of the hoard, who participated in the assessment of 1887, that the Federal franchise
was not included in that assessment.
One of the findings of fact was in these words: "That in
making its assessment and valuation therefor of defendant's
franchise said state Board of Equalization did not include,

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

159

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

assess or value any franchise or corporate power held or exercised by defendant under the acts of Congress hereinbefore
mentioned, or under any act of Congress whatever. And
said board, in making said assessment and valuation therefor,
upon defendant's franchise, roadbed, roadway, rails and rolling stock, for purposes of taxation for the fiscal year 1887, did
not include in its said assessment and valuation therefor any
Federal franchise, then possessed by defendant, nor any franchise or thing whatsoever, .which said board could not legally
include in such assessment or valuation. That the franchise,
roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of defendant's railroad werevalued and assessed by said state Board of Equalization, for purposes of taxation for the fiscal year 1887, at their
actual value, and in proportion to their values respectively."
A statement, on motion, was filed for a new trial and approved by the court. In that statement will be found the following: "In its written opinion, upon which the findings were
based, the court after determining as a fact, from a preponderance of the evidence before it, that the Federal franchise of
defendant was not assessed or included in the assessment of
the property of defendant by the state Board of Equalization,
for the year 1887, uses the following language: 'But if the
parol evidence offered did not weigh in plaintiff's favor, and if
by a preponderance of such evidence defendants could have
shown that the State intended to and did include a Federal
franchise in the assessment, I think the court would have to
disregard it as incompetent. The effect of such parol evidence
would be to contradict the record, which cannot be done.
The best and only evidence of the acts and intentions of deliberative bodies must be drawn from the record of its intentions. . . . From both standpoints of fact and of law, the
findings must be that a Federal franchise was not included in
these assessments.'"
.It thus appears that the trial court permitted the State to
prove by oral testimony that the state board did not include
the Federal franchises in its assessment, but denied to the defendant the privilege of showing, -by the same kind of evidence, that -such franchises were, in fact,, included- in the

OCTOBER TERM. 1895.
Dissenting Opinion': Harlan, J.

assessment. This, in my judgment, was error, and directly
affected the proper determination of the Federal question.
The recital in the records of the board were not conclusive of
the question. If, in fact, the board did include the Federal
franchise in its assessment, the defendant should have been
allowed to prove it by the best evidence capable of being
produced; otherwise, it would be without remedy against
a false statement on the records of the board.
Independently of this error, the judgment of the court below should be reversed upon the ground that the franchises of
the Central Pacific Railroad Company are not subject to be
taxed at all by the State, although some of its visible property
may, according to the principles announced in former decisions
of this court, be taxable for state purposes.
In the Sinking .Fund cases, 99 U. S. 700, 710, 727, this
court, speaking by Chief Justice Waite, and referring to the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, said: "By the act of 1862,
Congress granted this corporation a right to build a road from
San Francisco, or the navigable waters of the Sacramento
River, to the eastern boundary of the State, and thence
through the territories of the United States until it met the
road of the Union Pacific Company. For this purpose all
the rights, privileges and franchises were given this company
that were granted to the Union Pacific Company, except the
franchise of being a corporation, and such others as were
merely incident to the organization of the company. The
land grants and the subsidy bonds to this company were the
same in character and quantity as those to the Union Pacific,
and the same right of amendment was reserved. Each of the
companies was required to fie in the Department of the Interior its acceptance of the conditions imposed before it could
become entitled to the benefits conferred by the act. This
was promptly done by the Central Pacific company, and in
this way that corporation voluntarily submitted itself to such
legislative control by Congress as was reserved under the
power of amendment. . . . But for the corporate powers
and financial aid granted by Congress it is not probable that
the road would have been built."

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

161

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

In California v. Pacic Railroad Company, 127 U' S. 1,
38, this court, referring to the Pacific Railroad acts, so far as
they related to the Central Pacific Railroad, said: "Thus,
without referring to the other franchises and privileges conferred upon this company, the fundamental franchise was
given by the act of 1862 and the subsequent acts to construct
a railroad from the Pacific Ocean across the State of California
and the Federal Territories until it should meet the Union
Pacific, which it did meet at Ogden in the Territory of Utah."
In the case of United States v. Stanford, 161 U. S. 412,
recently decided, we said: "In United States v. Union PabifL
Railroad Company, 91 U. S. 92, this court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Davis, held that tle construction of a railroad connecting the Missouri River with the Pacific Ocean was'a
national Work, because such a road would be a great national
highway, under national control; that the scheme for establishing 'that highway originated in national necessities, the
country being involved at the time in a civil war which
threatened the disruption of the Union, and endangered the
safety of our possessions on the, Pacific; and that the enterprise required national assistance, because private capital was
inadequate for an undertaking of such magnitude. It appears
upon the face of the act of 1862, as amended by the act of
1864, that Congress had in view the promotion of the public
interest and welfare by the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line that could be used by the government at all
times, but particularly in time.of war, for postal, military and
other purposes, and that, so far as the government and the
public were concerned, such road and telegraph were to be
operated as -one continuous line. These ends were to be
attained through the agency of a corporation created by Congress, and of certain corporations organized under state laws
which Congress selected as instruments to be employed in
accomplishing the public objects specified in its legislation."
Again, in the same case: "Although the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California became an artificial being, under
the laws of that State, its road owes its existence to the
national government; for, all that was accomplished in the
VOL. CLXII-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

exercise of privileges granted by, and because of the aid
derived from, the United States. . . . The relations between the California corporation and the State were of no
concern to the national government at the time the purpose
was formed to establish a great highway across the continent
for governmental and public use. Congress chose this existing
artificial being [the Central Pacific Railroad Company] as an
instrumentality to accomplish oational ends, and the relations
between the United States and that corporation ought to
be determined by the enactments which establish those relations."
The relations between this railroad company as well to the
United States and the State is shown by the act of the legislature of California, approved April 4, 1864, c. 417, entitled "An
act to aid in carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Railroad
and Telegraph act of Congress and other matters relating
thereto," Stat. Cal. 1863, 1864, 471. That statute referred to
the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, and
to enable the Central Pacific Railroad Company, therein
named, more fully and completely to comply with and perform its provisions and conditions, provided that that company "are hereby authorized and empowered, and the right,
power and privilege is hereby granted to, conferred upon and
vested in them, to construct, maintain and operate the said
railroad and telegraph line, not only in the State of California,
but also in the said territories lying east of and between said
State and the Missouri River, with such branches and extensions of said railroad and telegraph line, or either of them, as
said company may deem necessary or proper; and also the
right of way for said railroad and telegraph line over any
lands belonging to this State, and on, over and along any
streets, roads, highways, rivers, streams, water and water
courses, but the same to be so constructed as not to obstruct or
destroy the passage or navigation of the same; and also the
right to condemn and appropriate to the use of said company
such private property, rights, privileges and franchises as
may be proper, necessary or convenient for the purposes of
said railroad and telegraph, the compensation therefor to be

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

163

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

ascertained and paid under and by special proceedings, as
prescribed in the act providing for the incorporation of railroad companies, approved May twentieth, eighteen hundred
and sixty-one, and the acts supplementary and amendatory
thereof; said company to be subject to all the laws of this
.State concerning railroad and telegraph lines, except tnat
messages and property of the United States, of this State. and
of the said company shall have priority of transportation and
transmission over said line of railroad and telegraph; hereby
.confirming to and vesting in said company all the rights, privileges, franchises, power and authority conferred upon, granted
to or vested in said company by said act of Congress; hereby
.repealing all laws and parts of laws inconsistent or in conflict
with the provisions of this act, or the rights and privileges
,herein granted."
Looking at the question in the light most favorable to the
State, it may be said that the franchises which the railroad
-company possesses, with reference to the construction and
.maintenance of its road within California, came jointly from
the United States and the State. If the rights, privileges and
franchises granted by the United States to this company were
-not all that was needed for the accomplishment of the objects
had in view by the construction of a national highway between the Missouri River and the Pacific Ocean, the state
enactment of 1864, carried into the charter of the company,
looking at the company simply as a state corporation, all the
powers and franchises granted by the United States.
If the assessment in question had been separately upon the
visible property of the company, as distinguished from its
franchises, the case would have presented a different aspect;
.and we should then have been comp.elldd to reexamine the
question as to the extent to which the property of the company, used in accomplishing the objects designed by Congress,
could be taxed by the State. But, as the opinion of the court
shows, the present assessment was upon the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails and rolling stock of the company without
stating separately their respective values., That which was
invalid cannot be separated from. that which was valid., So

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

that the question is presented whether it is competent for the
State to sell for its taxes the franchise of the company. If it
cannot, the whole assessment is void. Santa Clara County
v. South. Pacifc Railroad,118 U. S. 394, 415.
The court says that the railroad company obtained from,
the State the right and privilege of corporate capacity; to
construct, maintain and operate its road; to charge and collect fares and freights; to exercise the power of eminent
domain; to acquire and maintain right of way; to enter upon
lands or waters of any person to survey route; to construct
road across, along or upon any stream, watercourse, roadstead, bay, navigable stream, street, avenue, highway, or
across any railway, canal, ditch or flume; to cross, intersect,
join or unite its railroad with any other railroad at any point
on its route; to acquire right of way, roadbed and material
for construction; to take material from the lands of the
State, etc., etc.
But did it not acquire those rights and privileges also from,
the United States? Did not the United States grant "the
fundamental franchise" to construct and maintain a railroad
from San Francisco across the State and through the territories, until it met the Union Pacific Railroad? If that franchise be sold by the State for its taxes, how are the national
objects contemplated by Congress to be accomplished? What
becomes of the mortgage of the United States upon the entire
property of the company, roadbed, right of way, rolling stock,
station houses, etc., which mortgage was taken in order to
secure the payment of the bonds issued by the United States
under the acts of Congress? What becomes of the power of
the United States reserved in the acts of Congress for the
General Government, in certain contingencies, to take possession of this railroad? In Northern Pacifti Railroadv. Traill
County, 115 U. S. 600, 610, where the question was as to the
power of a State or Territory to tax certain lands that had
'been granted by Congress to aid in the construction of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for the court, said : " No sale of land for taxes, no
taxes can be assessed on any property, but by virtue of the

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

165

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

sovereign authority in whose jurisdiction it is done. If not
assessed by direct act of the legislature itself, it must, to be
valid, be done under authority of a lawv enacted by such legislature. A valid sale, therefore, for taxes, being the highest
exercise of sovereign power of the State, must carry the title
to the property sold, and if it does not do this, it is because
the assessment is void. It follows that if the assessment of
these taxes is valid and the proceedings well conducted, the
sale confers a title paramount to all others, and thereby destroys the lien of the United States for the cost of surveying
these lands. If, on the other hand, the sale would not confer
such a title, it is because there exists no authority to make it."
It may be said that the franchise which the State may sell_
is that which was granted by it. But is the state franchise
so distinct and separate from the franchise granted by the
United States that it can be sold separately from the franchise granted by the United States? It seems to me that the
franchise to build, operate and maintain a railroad from*San
Francisco to a point.of junction with the Union Pacific Railroad is a unit, and that it is utterly impracticable to separate
and sell so much of that fraxnchise as originally came from
the State, and leave intact that which was derived from the
United States. The State cannot lawfully do anything to
impair or cripple the franchise, rights and privileges derived
from the United States. What was said in Pacific Railroad
Removal cases, 115 U. S. 1, 16, in reference to the relations
between the Union Pacific Railroad Company and certain
State corporations which consolidated with that company, is
applicable here: "The whole being, capacities, authority and
obligations of the company thus -consolidated are so based
upon, permeated by and enveloped in the acts of Congress referred to, that it is impracticable, so far as the operations and
transactions of the company are concerned, to disentangle
those qualities and capacities, which have their source and
foundation in these acts, from those which are derived from
state or territorial authority.".
This court has often declared that the Central Pacific Railroad Company was one of the instrumentalities that had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

selected and was being employed by the United States in
accomplishing important national objects, to which the United
States is competent under the Constitution. Upon the franchises, and upon all the property of that corporation, rests
a mortgage to secure the government against liability for the
bonds it issued to that corporation. With the consent of the
State, if such consent was necessary, that corporation has received large grants of land upon the condition that it would
meet and perform all the obligations imposed upon it by the
acts of Congress. I cannot agree that the franchise which
the corporation has received from the United States and the
State can be assessed by the State for taxation, along with its
roadbed, right of way, etc., and then sold. That is taxation
of one of the instrumentalities of the National Government,
which no State may do without the consent of the Congress
of the United States. Of course, this corporation ought to
contribute its due share to the support of the government
of each State within whose limits its property is situated and
its privileges exercised. But it is for Congress to prescribe
the rule of taxation to be applied at least to the franchises
of the corporation which, although created by the State, is as
much a Federal agency as if it had been created a corporation
by national enactment. It has never heretofore been recognized that a State could, without the assent of Congress, sell,
for its taxes, the franchises, rights and privileges, employed,
under the authority of the National Government, to accomplish national objects, particularly where such franchises, rights
and privileges, are under mortgage to secure the government
against specified liabilities.
For the reasons stated, I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.

