STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Syllabus.

country, as well as American interests of incalculable value, at
the mercy of foreign capital and foreign combinations -a
result never cofitemplated by the legislative branch of the
government.
I cannot accept this view, and, therefore, dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.
I am authorized by MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN to say that he con-

curs in this opinion.
MR. CHIEF TUSTIcE FULLER

dissenting:

In my judgment the second and third sections of the Interstate Commerce Act are rigid rules of action, binding the
Commission as well as. the railway companies. The similar
circumstances and conditions referred to in the act are those
under which the traffic of the railways is conducted, and the
competitivq conditions which may be taken into consideration
by the Commission are the competitive conditions within the
field occupied by the carrier, and not competitive conditions
arising wholly outside of it.
I am, therefore, constrained to dissent from the opinion and
judgment of the court.

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
ERROR TO THE COUIRT OF

CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH SU-

PREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 653.

Submitted January 10, 1696.-Decded March 23, 1896.

Neither the Secretary of War, nor the Attorney Gefteral, nor any subordinate of either, is authorized to waive the exemption of the United States
from judicial process; or to submit the United States, or their property,
to the jurisdiction of the court in a suit brought against their officers.
In an action of trespass to try title, under the statutes of Texas, brought by
one claiming title in.an undivided third part of a parcel of land, and possession of the whole, against officers of the United States, occupying the

OCTOBER TERM

1895.

Syllabus.
land as a military station, and setting up title in the United States, a
judgment that the plaintiff recover the title in the third part, and possession of the whole jointly with the defendants, is a judgment against the
United States and against their property.
The United States are not liable to judgment for costs.
In order to charge a purchaser with notice of a prior unrecorded conveyance
of land, he or his agent in the purchase must either have knowledge of
the conveyance, or, at least, of such circumstances as would, by the exercise of ordinary diligence and judgment, lead to that knowledge; vague
rumor or suspicion is not sufficient; and notice of a sale does not imply
knowledtge of an unrecorded conveyance.
A conveyance of land by a city to the United States, in consideration of the
establishment of military headquarters thereon, to the benefit of the city,
is for valuable consideration.
A purchaser of land, for valuable consideration, and without notice of a
prior deed, takes a good title, although his grantor had notice of that
deed.
Even where, as in Texas, a purchaser taking a quitclaim deed is held to be
affected with notice of all defects in the title, a purchaser from him by
deed of warranty is not so affected.
The United States, by warranty deed duly recorded, purchased land from a
city for a military station, in consideration of the benefits to enure to the
city from the establishment of the station there. The attorney employed
by the United States to examine the title testified that the city acquired
the land by quitclaim deed, describing it as "known as tile McMillan
lot; " that he had information of a sale to McMillan, but satisfied himself that he had not paid the purchase money; and searched the records,
and ascertained that no deed to him was recorded; and advised the
United States that the title was good. There was no evidence that
the attorney had any other means of ascertaining whether a deed had
been made to McMillan. Held, that the evidence was insufficient in law
to warrant the conclusion that the United States took no title as against
an unrecorded conveyance to McMillan.
Where the judgment of the highest court of a State against the validity of
an authority set up under the United States necessarily involves the decision of a question of law, it is reviewable by this court on writ of error,
whether that question depends upon the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States, or upon the local law, or upon principles of general
jurisprudence.
An action to recover the title and possession of land against officers of tile
United States setting up title in the United States, and defended by the
District Attorney of the United States, was dismissed by the highest court
of tile State as against the United States; but judgment was rendered
against the officers, upon the ground that they could not avail themselves
of the statute of limitations. This court, on writ of error, reversed that
judgment, and remanded the case for further proceedings. The highest
court of the State thereupon held that the United States were a party to

STANLEY. v. SCHWALBY.

257

Statement of the Case.
the action, and decided, upon evidence insufficient in law, that the United
States had no valid title, because they took with notice of a prior conveyance; and gave judgment against the officers for title and possession, and
against the United States for costs. This court, upon a second writ of
error, reverses the judgment, and remands the case with instructions to
dismiss the action against the United States, and to enter judgment for
the individual defendants, with costs.

THis was an action of trespass to try title, brought in the
district court of Bexar county in the State of Texas, by Mary
U: Schwalby, joining her husband, J. A. Schwalby, against
David S..Stanley, William IR. Gibson, Samuel T. Cushing and
Joseph 0. Bailey, to recover a parcel of land in the city of San
Antonio.
The original petition was filed February 23, 1889; and, as
amended by leave of court December 2, 1889, alleged that
Mrs. Schwalby was seized and possessed in fee simple of an
undivided third part of the land, and she and her husband
were entitled to the possession of the whole, and that the defendants, without any right or title, ousted them from the
possession thereof; and prayed "judgment for the recovery of
the title to one third of said premises, and possession of the
whole thereof, for costs of said suit, and for general relief."
The individual defendants, and "the United States, by their
attorney, Andrew J. Evans, acting by and through instructions from the Attorney Gbneral 'of the United States, here
exhibited to the court," (but not at that time made part of the
record, filed an amended answer, in which they pleaded not
guilty; and set up, among other defences, that the title to the
land was in the United States, and the individual defendants
had and claimed no title therein, but were lawfully in possession thereof as officers and agents of the United States; and
specially pleaded that the city of San Antonio in 1875 purchased the land, and on June 16, 1875, conveyed it to the
United States, with no notice of the plaintiffs? claim, and the
United States were innocent purchasers for valuable consideration;. and that from June 16, 1875, to the bringing of this
action the United States had been in the actual, peaceable and
adverse possession of the land, continuously enjoying and improving it, no taxes 'eing due thereon - under dceed duly reVOl.

CLXII-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

corded, and "under title, and color of title, from and under
the sovereignty of the soil, down to the defendant, the United
States, duly registered " - and therefore pleaded the statutes
of limitations of the State of Texas of three, five and ten
years; and also that the United States had made permanent
and valuable improvements on the land.
The plaintiffs, by supplemental petition, excepted to the
answer, so far as it was filed in behalf of the United States,
upon the ground that the United States were not a party defendant, and that neither the District Attorney nor the Attorney General of the United States had authority to submit for
adjudication, in the courts of the State of Texas, the rights of
the United States of America; as well as upon the ground
that the pleas of the statutes of limitations of the State of
Texas constituted no defence to the action, because the United
States were neither bound by nor protected by those statutes,
and because the plaintiffs could not, in any court, bring suit
against the United States; and, to the pleas of the statutes of
limitations replied that on January 18, 1871, and long before
their adverse possession commenced, the plaintiff, Mary U.
Schwalby, was lawfully married to her co-plaintiff, and had
ever since continued to be a married woman.
Joseph Spence, Jr., intervened by leave of court, and filed a
petition, similar to the principal one, likewise claiming an undivided third part of the land.
The parties submitted the case to the decision of the court
without a jury. At the trial the following facts were proved
or admitted:
The common source of title, through whom all parties, the
plaintiffs, the intervenor, and the United States, claimed this
land, was Antony M. Dignowity.
On September 13, 1858, he executed to Amanda J. Dignowity, his wife, a general power of attorney to sell and convey
his real estate; and by virtue thereof she, on May 9, 1860,
executed a warranty deed to Duncan B_ McMillan of this parcel, reciting the payment by him of a consideration of $100.
This deed was acknowledged on the same day before William
"I. Cleveland, notary public; but was not recorded until Sep-

. STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Statement of the Case.

tember 30, 1889. McMillan died in Louisiana in February,
1865, intestate, a widower, leaving three children: Mary, the
female plaintiff, who was born September 11, 1848, was married to J. A. Schwalby January 18, 1871, and was still his wife
when this action was tried; Sarah, who was born August 3,
1854, married to one Neely February 14, 1875, and died
August 17, 1878, leaving two children, who were still living;
and Duncan W. McMillan, born November 2, 1850, who by
deed, dated and acknowledged March 26, 1889, and recorded
March 29, 1889, conveyed his interest in this land to the intervenor, Joseph Spence, Jr.
Dignowity died in April, 1875, and by his will, admitted to
probate April 22, 1875, devised and bequeathed all his property to his wife, and made her independent executrix, with
full power of sale and disposition of all his propertr, and requiring of her no bond or inventory. By deed of quitclaim
and release, dated May 1, 1875, and recorded June 1, 1875,
the widow, in her own right, and as independent executrix,
for the consideration of $1500, conveyed to the city of San
Antonio four lots of land, one of which was that now in question, described as "lot number one, in block number -two,
known as the MIc[illan lot,"' with special -warranty against
all persons claiming by, under or through Dignowity or his
estate. By warranty deed in the statutory form, dated
June 16, 1875, and recorded October 21, 1875, the city of San
Antonio conveyed the four lots to the government of the
United States of America for military purposes, "in consideration of one dollar paid to the said city of San Antonio by
the said government, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and for divers and other good and sufficient considerations thereunto moving."
The defendant Stanley, being called as a-.witness for the
plaintiffs, testified' as follows: "Myself and the other defendants were in possession of "the lot when this suit was brought.
I am a brigadier general in the United States Army; my codefendants are-6fficers in the United States Army.' We took,
held and hold such possession as such officers of the -United
States- Army. 'The government of the United States took

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

actual possession of the land in controversy in the year 1882The land sued for is part of the military reservation of the
United States of America. at San Antonio. We hold possession under the United States of America. According to
my understanding, the United States first took possession
of this lot in the year 1875 or 1876; it was then open prairie.
We do not claim title to the land in our own right, but hold
it for the United States. The United States have made the
following improvements upon the lot in controversy before
the institution of this suit" (stating them). "These improvements were made since the year 1881; before that, the lot
was open prairie. I never heard of a claim against this land
until the commencement of this suit."
Mrs. Dignowity, in a deposition taken by the plaintiffs,
July 23, 1889, before William H. Houston, notary public, but
introduced in evidence by the defendants, after being shown
her deed to the city of San Antonio, dated May 1, 1875, testified as follows: "Lot 1 in block 2, named in that deed, was
called by me the McMillan lot, because it was the habit of
my husband during his lifetime, whenever he sold a city lot,
to mark the name of the purchaser in pencil on the map, and,
when the lot was paid for, to write the name in ink. I presume I found this lot marked in the name of IMcMillan in
pencil, and therefore called it the McMillan lot. This is the
only explanation I am now able to give." "I must have
known in some way that the lot had been sold and a payment.
made on it; and I know of no other way I should have
known it, except as stated above." "I have no recollection
of ever making a deed to Duncan B. McMillan of lot 1 in
block 2, though I may have done so. If such a deed was
made by me twenty-nine years ago, I do not see why it was
not recorded, unless perhaps the full purchase money had not
been paid." "I do not know who was in possession of the
lot from 1860 until my husband's death in 1875, but believe
it was unoccupied I do not know that it was claimed by
any one but him. I paid the taxes on it during that time. I
never took actual possession of the lot, but continued to pay
the taxes until it was sold to the city. I never had said lot in

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Statement of the Case.

actual possession, and never had a tenant on it." "Neither
Duncan B. MoMillan, nor any one for him, nor any of his
heirs, ever claimed an interest in the lot in suit in this case,
from 1860 to 1875, to Thy knowledge. When I sold the lot in
controversy to the city of San Antonio, I acted in good faith.
I believed for some reason that Duncan B. MeMillan had
some claim on the lot, or I should not have specially quitclaimed it to the city."
In a second deposition, taken by the defendants December 31, 1889, she testified: "I am in my seventieth year, and
reside in San Antonio." "I have seen the original of the deed
from me to Duncan B. McMillan, dated May 0, 1860. I was
shown the deed by Captain William Houston. I have never
seen it but that one time, since it was executed by me, until
to-day. I carefully examined it, and it is a genuine deed. I
don't know why said deed was never recorded until a few
months ago. I don't know whether I ever delivered possession of the lot in controversy to Duncan B. Mc] illan or his
agent for him formally, or not. I paid taxes on the land
until it was sold siubsequently. I don't remember of receiving but fifty dollars on the transaction, and think that was
paid before the date of the deed. I don't recollect anything
more than that I was paid fifty dollars on the trade, and I
executed the deed, and acknowledged it before Mr. Cleveland,
and left it with him." "I have not seen Duncan B. McMillan
since 1860. He was then on his way home to Louisiana." "I
do remember W. H. Cleveland. He was a lawyer in good
standing- about the year 1860. He did at times attend to
business both for myself and husband. I have owned and
sold considerable real property in Texas, and still own property and have experience in dealing in lands and city lots."
"The deed fkom me to McMillan recites a consideration of
$100; but I do not recollect of receiving but fifty. I received
fifty dollars, as before stated; my husband never received a
cent. I don't know anything about what other persons may
have received. I know nothing of any note. I don't know
anything about the money having beqn paid to Cleveland; if
it was, I don't know anything about it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

George C. Altgelt, being called as a witness for the defendants, testified: "I am plaintiffs' attorney. I do not know
Mrs. Mary U. Schwalby personally. I received the deed to
Duncan B. McMillan from Amanda J. Dignowity, attorney
in fact for Anthony M. Dignowity, by mail. It was sent to
me by Joseph Spence, Jr., who is a lawyer and land agent
of San Angelo, Tom Green county, Texas. I never saw
Mrs. Schwalby."
James I. French, a witness for the defendants, testified:
'I was mayor of the city of San Antonio in 1875, at the time
the city purchased the property from Mrs. Dignowity. The
city paid the consideration, $-,
to Mrs. Dignowity, in 1877.
The government buildings, the officers' quarters, were placed
upon the Dignowity property. The city had the title examined by A. J. Evans. When the city purchased from Mrs.
Dignowity and paid the money, the city had notice of this
claim; that is, the claim of D. B. McMillan. We bad this
notice from Mrs. A. J. Dignowity. Mrs. Dignowity refused
to give a warranty deed to the lot in controversy. I, as
mayor of the city, had notice of the McMillan claim at the
time the city purchased. There was no consideration paid
direct from the government to the city for the property. It
was a donation from the city to the government. The city
never received any consideration from the government for the
conveyance; but, by reason of the establishment of the military headquarters here, the city has received a thousand-fold
benefit on the consideration paid by her to Mrs. Dignowity."
Andrew J. Evans, being called by the defendants, testified:
"I, as United States District Attorney for the Western District of Texas, in 1875, made an examination of the title to
the lot in controversy, and traced the title back to the case
of Lewis v. City of San Antonio. I examined the records
of deeds for Bexar county, Texas, and did not find any deed of
record from Dignowity, and after I had made the examination I believed the title was good. I so advised the department at Washington, and upon my advice the government
took the deed from the city in good faith."
Upon cross-examination, Evans testified: "I made the ex-

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Statement of the Case.

amination of the title as United States Attorney, and advised
that the title was good. I saw the deed from Mrs. Dignowity
as executrix, etc., to the city of San Antonio, read it, and had
notice of all its recitals. I had information of the sale to
Duncan B. McMillan, but I satisfied myself that he had never
paid the purchase money." He was then asked, "When you
read the deed from Mrs. Dignowity to the city of San Antonio, and saw there the lot in dispute was quitclaimed, and
described as being ' known as the McMillan lot,' did not these
facts create in your mind a suspicion that the title to this lot
was not all right? 1" To this question, the witness answered,
"They did not."
There was no evidence, beyond that above stated, bearing
upon the question whether the deed from Dignowity to McMillan was ever delivered ; or upon the question whether the
United States took the deed from the city of San Antonio
with notice of a previous conveyance to McMillan.
The district court of Bexar county sustained the plaintiffs'
exceptions to the pleas of the statutes of limitations, and
ordered those pleas to be struck out; overruled the other
exceptions of the plaintiffs; and gave judgment for the plaintiffs and the ifrtervenor against the individual defendants and
the United States for two thirds of the title to the land, and
for possession -jointly with the defendants of the whole,
and for costs, and allowed to the United States the value
of their improvements. On. March 24, 1890, the United
States and the other defendants appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State of Texas, which, on March 4, 1892, ordered
the judgment to be set aside and the action dismissed as
against the United States, and affirmed the judgment as
against the individual defendants. -Stanley v. Schwalby, 85
Texas, 348. Upon a writ of error sued out by the United
States and the other defendants, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Texas was reversed by this court, at October term,
1892, and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion, reported 147 U. S. 508. The
Supreme Court of the State thereupon vacated its own judgment, reversed the judgment 6f the district court, and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

manded the case to that court for such further proceedings.
In that court, leave to file an amended answer was then
requested by thie individual defendants, with whom, as the
record stated, "come also the United States of America, by
their attorney, Andrew J. Evans, who is United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas, duly appointed and
commissioned as such, and who so appears for the said United
States of America by direction of the Attorney General of the
United States of America;" and who, as evidence of Such
direction, exhibited and filed a letter dated April 18, 1889,
from the Secretary of War to the Attorney General, relating
to this suit, and requesting that 'the proper United States
Attorney be requested to appear and defend the interests of
the United States in this matter;" and a letter dated April 20,
1889, from the Attorney General, enclosing the letter of the
Secretary df War, and "in compliance with his request" instructing the District Attorney "to appear and defend the
interests of the United States involved therein."
Leave being granted, the United States, by the District
Attorney, "by direction of the Attorney General, as heretofore exhibited to the court," together. with the individual
defendants, filed two pleas in bar: 1st, that this was an
action, nominally against the individual defendants, "but in
fact against the United States of America, a sovereign corporation not liable to suit in this court or any other, in the
absence of an act of Congress;" 2d, that the action was
against the property of the United States; and, in connection
with each of these pleas, alleged that the individual defendants were officers in the military service of the United States,
in possession as such of this land, under 6nd by direction of.
the President of the United States of America, the Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States, and not of their own volition, will or wish, and that
neither of them ever pretended to hold or have possession, or
right of possession, or title, or color of title, of the land, as
individuals, and that this suit was but a palpable device to
maintain an action at law against the United States and their

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Statement of the Case.

property, and should not be further maintained; and also
pleaded not guilty; and that the United States had held adverse possession in good faith, under a warranty deed made to
them in 1875 by the city of San Antonio, and without knowledge or suspicion of any adverse title; and that the United
States were innocent purchasers of the land for a valuable
consideration, without notice of the plaintiffs' unrecorded
claim; and set up the statutes of limitations, and a claim-for
improvements, as in their former answer.
The case was again tried by the district court, without a
jury, and the same evidence introduced as at the first trial.
The court overruled the first and second pleas in bar; and
adjudged that Spence, the intervenor, take nothing by his
petition; that the plaintiffs recover from the individual defendants one undivided third part of the lot in question, and
the sum of $126.66 for their use and occupation of that part,
and costs, and be put in joint possession with the defendants;
and that the United States be allowed the sum of $333.33 for
improvements.
Thereupon, as the record stated, "all parties, to wit, the
plaintiff, the intervenor, the defendants, and the United States
of America, in open court excepted to the judgment of the
court, and gave due notice of appeal." And a report or statement of the case, called in the Texas practice "a statement of
facts, or agreed statement of the pleadings and proof," (the
material parts of which are given, above,) was made up by
the parties and certified by the judge. Texas Rev. Stat. of
1879, §§ 1377, 1414; Stat. April 13, 1892, c. 15, § 24.
Upon a writ of error sued out by the United States, and an
assignment of errors by the defendants, and upon cross assignments of errors by the plaintiffs and by the intervenor, the case
was taken to the Court of Civil Appeals for the fourth supreme
judicial district, of the State of Texas, which affirmed the judgment, except as to the allowance for improvements; and thereupon, "proceeding to render such judgment as should have been
rendered by the court below," adjudged that the plaintiffs recover of the individual defendants one undivided third part of
the land, (describing it,) and the sum of $126.66 for the use and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

occupation of that part, with interest thereon from the date of
the judgment below, andcosts, and "have their writ of possession
against said defendants and all other persons who have entered
said premises since the filing of this suit on the 23d day of February, 1889, placing them in joint possession with the defendants; " that Spence, the intervenor, take nothing by his suit;
and "that the plaintiff in error, the United States of America,
who voluntarily made itself a party in the court below, take
nothing by its plea, and pay all costs of this court and of the
court below." The opinions on rendering that judgment, and on
denying a motion for a rehearing, are reported, under the name
of United States v. Schwalby, in 8 Texas Civ. App. 679, 685.
The Supreme Court of the State of Texas denied a petition
of the United States for a writ of error from that court to the
Court of Civil Appeals. The Chief Justice of the Court of
Civil Appeals refused to allow to the United States a writ
of error to bring up the case to this court. The present writ of
error was thereupon sued out by the individual defendants and
the United States, and was allowed by a justice of this court.
.M.. Solicitor General for the United States, plaintiffs in
error, submitted on a printed argument.
Mr. A. I. Garlandand Mrr. 1?. C. Garland;for defendants
in error, submitted on the record.
MR. JusTiE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This action was brought in a district court of the State of
Texas, by Mary A. Schwalby and her husband against General Stanley and other officers of the Army, to try the title
to a parcel of land, part of the military reservation of the
United States at San Antonio. The plaintiffs claimed title
in one third of the land, and possession of the whole; and
Joseph Spence, Jr., intervening, also claimed title in one third.
The District Attorney, professing to act in behalf of the
United States under instructions from the Attorney General,
joined with the defendants in an answer setting up these

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Opinion of the Court.

defences: 1st. That the action was really against the United
States, who were not liable to be sued. 2d. Not guilty.
3d. Title in the United States. 4th. The statutes of limitations of Texas. 5th. Permanent and valuable improvements
by the United States.
At the first trial, the inferior court gave judgment for the
plaintiffs and the ilrervenor, against the United States, as
well as against the original defendants, for two thirds of the
title in the land, and for joint possession with the defendants
of the whole, and allowed the United States for their improvements. On appeal from that judgment, the Supreme Court
of the State, on March 4, 1892, held that the District Attorney
could not submit the rights of the United States to the jurisdiction of the court; that the plaintiffs and the intervenor
had made out their title ;. that the United States were not
innocent purchasers, and had no title to the land; and that
the statutes of limitations, as they did not bind the United
States, could not be pleaded by the United States, or by their
officers acting under them; and therefore disallowed the
claim for improvements, set aside the judgment and dismissed
the action as against the United States, and affirmed the judgment against the other defendants. 85 Texas, 348. But this
court, at October term, 1892, upon writ of error, held that the
United States and their agents were entitled to the benefit of
the statutes of limitations; and therefore, without any consideration of the case upon its merits, reversed the judgment,
and remanded the case for further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion. 147 U. S. 508, 519, 520.
The case having been remanded accordingly to the Supreme
Court of the State, and by that court to the district court, an
amended answer, setting up substantially the same defences
as before, was filed by the individual defendants, and by the
District Attorney, purporting to act in behalf of the United
States under the instructions of the Attorney General. Those
instructions (then first filed in the case) appear to have been
given by the Attorney General at the request of the Secretary of War, and to have been only "to appear and defend
the interests of the United States involved" in this suit. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

district court, upon the same evidence as at the first trial, adjudged that the plaintiffs recover from the individual defendants one undivided third part of the land, and costs, and be
put in joint possession with them; and that the United States
be allowed for their improvements.
The case was taken by writ of error to the Court of Civil
Appeals, which had been vested, by the statutes of Texas of
April 13, 1892, with appellate jurisdiction from the district
courts, with a provision for the review of its decisions by the
Supreme Court of the State upon petition for a writ of error.
Texas Rev. Stat. §§ 101la-1011c; Stat. 1892, c. 14, § 1; c. 15,
§ 5 : Gen. Laws, 1st sess. 22d legislature, pp. 19, 20, 26.
The Court of Civil Appeals affirmed the judgment of the
district court, except as to the allowance for improvements;
.and, "proceeding to render such judgment as should have
been rendered by the court below," adjudged that the plaintiffs recover judgment against the individual defendants for
one undivided third part of the land, and for costs, and "have
their writ of possession against said defendants and all other
persons who have entered said premises since the filing of this
suit, placing them in joint possession with the defendants,"
and that the United States pay all the costs in the case.
The views of that court are shown by the following extracts
from its opinion: "In 1881 or 1882 the United States went
into possession of the lot by virtue of the deed [from the city
of San Antonio] and were occupying, using and enjoying the
same up to the time the suit was instituted on February 23,
1889. The United States had actual notice that the land had
been conveyed by Mrs. Dignowity to Duncan B. MKcM illan,
.at the time the deed was made to them by the city of San
Antonio, and did not make the improvements in good faith.
The claim of Joseph Spence was barred by five years' limitation; but Airs. Schwalby being under the disability of coverture, the statute did not run as to her." "The United States
were not sued, and neither was it attempted to subject the
property of the United States to suit; and neither of these
-propositions was advanced or held by the district court. Stanley and others were sued individually as trespassers, not as

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.

269'

Opinion of the Court.

officers of the United States; and the United States voluntarily made themselves parties to the suit. That this suit was.
properly brought has been decided in a number of cases, and
has been reaffirmed, in this identical case by the Supreme
Court of the United States. The jurisdiction of the court is
not ousted because the individuals sued assert iauthoritv to.
hold possession of the property as officers of the United States
government. They must show sufficient authority in law to
protect them. The mere fact that individuals have been
placed in possession by the government would not be a valid
defence, unless the government had the lawful authority to.
so place them." "If fMcMillan had not paid the purchase
money, that did not place appellants in any better position as.
to notice. They had actual notice of his claim, and took the
risk in making the improvements." 8 Texas Civ. App. 679,
681, 682, 684.
A petition for a writ of error to the Court of Civil Appeals
having been presented to the Supreme Court of the State, and
denied, the present writ of error from this court was properly addressed to the Court of Civil Appeals, in which the
record remained. Rev. Stat. § 709; Gregory v. XfTeeigh, 23
Wall. 294; Polleys v. Black River Co., 113 U. S. 81 ; Fisher
v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522.
It is contended by the Solicitor General in behalf of the
United States that, upon the facts shown by the record, the
judgment should b6 reversed, for several reasons, all of which
are worthy of consideration, and may conveniently be considered in the following order:
First. That the suit is against the United States, and against
property of the United States.
Second. That the claim of the plaintiffs was barred by the
statute of limitations.
Third. That the deed from Dignowity to McMillan, under
whom the plaintiffs claim, was never delivered.
Fourth. That the United States, when they took their deed
from the city of San Antonio, had no notice of a previous conveyance to M cMillan.
It is a fundamental principle of public law, affirmed by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

long series of decisions of this court, and clearly recognized in
its former opinion in this case, that no suit can be maintained
against the United States, or against their property, in any
court, without express authority of Congress. 147 U. S. 512.
See also -Belknapv. Schild, 161 U. S. 10. The United States,
by various acts of Congress, have consented to be sued in
their own courts in certain classes of cases; but they have
never consented to be sued in the courts of a State in any
case. Neither the Secretary of War nor the Attorney General, nor any subordinate of either, has been authorized to
waive the exemption of the United States from judicial
process, or to submit the United States, or their property, to
the jurisdiction of the court in a suit brought against their
officers. Case v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199, 202; Carr v. United
States, 98 U. S. 433, 438; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196,
205. The original instructions from the Attorney General to
the District Attorney, having now been filed and made part
of the record, are shown to have been, (as they were at the
former stage of this case supposed by the Supreme Court of
Texas and by this court to be,) no more than "to appear and
defend the interests of the United Statbs involved" in this
suit, that is to say, by appearing and taking part in the defence of the officers, and, if deemed advisable, by bringing the
rights of the United States more distinctly to the notice of
the court by formal suggestion in their name. 85 Texas, 354;
147 U. S. 513. As the present Chief Justice then remarked,
repeating the words of Chief Justice IMarshall in the leading
case of The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116, 147: "There seems to
be necessity for admitting that the fact might be disclosed
to the court by the suggestion of the attorney for the United
States." The answer actually filed by the District Attorney,
if treated as undertaking to make the United States a party
defendant in the cause, and liable to have judgment rendered
against them, was in excess of the instructions of the Attorney General, and of any power vested by law in him or in
the District Attorney, and could not constitute a voluntary
submission by the United States to the jurisdiction of the
court.

STANLEY. Y. SCHWALBY.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgments of the courts. of the State of Texas appear
to have been largely based on United States v. Lee, above
cited. In that case, an action of ejectment was brought in
the Circuit Court of the United States against officers occupying in behalf of the United States lands used for a military
station and for a national cemetery. The Attorney General
filed a suggestion of these facts, and insisted that the court
had no jurisdiction. The plaintiffs produced sufficient evidence of their title and possession; and the United States
proved no valid title. This court held that the officers were
trespassers, and liable to the action; and therefore affirmed
the judgment below, which, as appears by the record of that
case, was simply a judgment that the plaintiffs recover against
the individual defendants the possession of the lands described,
and costs: And this court distinctly recognized that, if the
title of the United States Were good, it would be a justification of the defendants; that the United Statas could not be
sued directly by original process as a defendant, except by v.irtue of an express act of Congress; and that the United States
would not be bound or concluded by the judgment against
their officers. 106 U. S. 199, 206, 222.
In an action of trespass to try title, under the laws of Texas,
a judgment for the plaintiff is not restricted to the possession,
but may be (as it was in this case) for title also. By section 4781 of the Revised Statutes of the State, "the method
of trying titlc to lands, tenements or other real property shall
be by action of trespass to try title." - By section 4808, "upon
the finding of the jury, or of the court where the case is tried
by the court, in favor of the plaintiff for the whole or any
part of the premises in controversy, the judgment shall be that
the plaintiff recover of the defendant the title, or possession,
or both, as the case may be, of such premises, describing them,
and where he recovers the possession, that' he have his wyit of
possession." By section 4811, the judgment "shall be conclusive, as to the title or right of possession established in, such
action, upon the party against whom it is recovered, and
upon all persons claiming, from, through or under such party,
by title arising after the commencement of such action."

OCTOBER TERM, 1.895.
Opinion of the Court.

And it has been declared by the Supreme Court of the State
that, by the statutory action of trespass to try title, "it was
unquestionably the legislative intention to provide a simple
and effectual remedy for determining every character of conflicting titles and disputed claims to land, irrespective of the
fact of its actual occupancy or mere pedal possession;" and
"a method of vesting and divesting.the title to real estate, in
all cases where the right or title, or interest and possession, of
land may be involved," by partition or otherwise. Bridges v.
Cundijj, 45 Texas, 440; Titus v. Johnson, 50 Texas, 224, 238;
Hardy v. Beaty, 84 Texas, 562, 568.
In the case at bar, the United States, and their officers in
their behalf, claimed title in the whole land. The plaintiffs
claimed title in one undivided third part only. The final
decision below was against the claim of the intervenor for
another third part of the land. It was thus adjudged that the
United States lad the title in that part, if not also in the remaining third, to whicht no adverse claim was made. Such
being the state of the case, the final judgment in favor of the
plaintiffs for the third part awarded to them, and for possession
of the whole jointly with the individual defendants, was directly
against the United States and against their property, and not
merely against their officers.
The judgment for costs against the United States was clearly
erroneous, in any aspect of the case. United States v. Hooe,
3 Cranch, 73, 91, 92; United States v. Barker, 2 Wheat. 395;
The Antelope, 12 Wheat. 546, 550; United States v. Ringgold,
8 Pet. 150, 163; United States v. Boyd, 5 How. 29, 51.
But, with a view to the ultimate determination of the case,
it is fit to proceed to a consideration of the other questions
arising therein.
That the United States and their officers were entitled to
avail themselves of the statutes of limitations, was adjudged
when this case was first brought before this court. 147 U. S.
508. The Court of Civil Appeals of the State has now held
that those statutes did not run against Mrs. Schwalby, because
she was under the disability of coverture.
The principal grounds, upon which the Solicitor General

STANLEY v. SCHWAL3BY.
Opinion of the Court.

contends that this conclusion was unwarranted by the facts of

the case, are as follows: Dignowity,. under whom all parties
claimed title, had the title and the consequent right of possession of the land, at the time of his supposed deed to McMillan
in 1860. The possession is to be presumed to have continued
in him, and in those claiming under the subsequent deed of his
widow to the city of San Antonio in May, 1875, and the city's
deed to the United States in June, 1875. There was no evidence that McMillan, or.any one claiming underhim, was ever
in actual possession of the land. If the title and the right of
possession were ever in McMillan, they descended to his daughter Mary and her co-heirs upon his death in 1865. She was
then .under the disability of infancy, having been born September 11, 1848. On September 11, 1869, she became of age, and
the statutes of limitations began to run against her, and could
hot, by a general rule of law, recognized alike by this court and
by the Supreme Court of Texas, be again suspended by the
new disability created by her subsequent marriage to Schwalby
on January 18j 1871. .MoDonald v. Hovey, 110 U. S.619;
White v. .atiher, 12 Texas, 61. See also ic.Masters v. .Mils,
30*Texas, 591; Tackeson v. Houston, 84 Texas, 622.
But the statutes of limitations of Texas do not appear to
run against a suit to recover real estate, except in favor of one
in "adverse possession," which is defined to be "an actual
and visible appropriation of land, commenced and continued
under a claim of right inconsistent with and hostile to the
claim of another." Paschal's Digest, arts. 4621-4624; Rev.
Stat. % 3191-3199. There was no affirmative evidence showing that such adverse possession of the United States, or of
their predecessors in title, the city of San Antonio, and. Dignowity, began before 1882, at which time Mrs. Schwalby was
under the disability of coverture; or who, if any one, before
that time, was in. actual possession of the land ; although Mrs.
Dignowity testified that she paid the taxes upon it from 1860
until she conveyed it to the city in May, 1875. The conclusion that the plaintiffs' claim was not barred may, therefore,
have rested upon a possible inference of fact, rather than upon
a determination of law.
VOL.

CLXn-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiniofi of the Court.

Upon the question whether the deed from Dignowity to
McMillan was ever delivered to the grantee, or to any one
in his behalf or claiming under him, the evidence was in substance as follows: The deed was executed May 9, 1860, by
Mrs. Dignowity, under a power of attorney from her husband;
was acknowledged by her on the same day before William H.
Oleveland, who Was a notary public, and was a lawyer who
had sometimes done business for her husband and herself;
and was left by her with Cleveland.
The consideration
named in the deed was $100, only $50 of which was paid;
and that was received by her about the time of executing the
deed. She testified that she did not know whether or not she
ever formally delivered possession of the land to McMillan or
his agent; but that she continued to pay the taxes on the
land until she sold and conveyed it to the city of San Antonio
in May, 1875. The deed to McMillan was not recorded until
September 30, 1889, more than twenty-nine years after its
execution. There was io evidence where the deed was during that time, or by whom it was left for record; nor was
there any explanation of the delay in recording ft. Mrs.
Schwalby's attorney testified that he never saw her, and did
not know her personally; and that he received the deed by
mail from Spence, a lawyer and land agent. Spence was the
intervenor in this case, claiming title in one third of the land
under a deed from McMillan's son, executed, acknowledged
and recorded in March, 1889.
This evidence is far from satisfactory as proof of an actual
delivery of the deed. But, considering that the deed to
McMillan may possibly have come from him into the hands
of his son, and thence into those of Spence, and that some
presumption of delivery may arise from the plaintiffs' possession of the deed, we are not prepared to say that the evidence
was insufficient, as matter of law, to warrant the conclusion
that the deed was in fact delivered. See Sicard v. Davi&
,6
Pet. 124, 137; Gaines v. Stiles, 14 Pet. 322, 327.
The more serious question is whether there was any evidence that the United States took the deed from the city of
San Antonio in June, 1875, with notice of a previous convey-

STANLEY v. SCOWALBY.
Opinion of the Court.

ance to McMillan. All the evidence which can be supposed
to have any bearing upon this point was as follows:
The deed from Mrs. Dignowity to the city of 'San Antonio
was a quitclaim deed; and the mayor testified that, at the
time of the purchase by the city, he had notice from Mirs.
Dignowity of McMillan's claim. But the deed from the city
to the United States was a deed of warranty,'conveying this
and other lands to the United States for ifilitary purposes;
the consideration recited therein was not merely the payment
of the nominal sum of one dollar, but "divers and 6ther good
and sufficient considerations thereunto moving;" and the conveyance was in fact, as appears by the uncontradicted testimony of the mayor, for the very valuable consideration
enuring to the city from the establishment of the military
headquarters there.
The District Attorney, who made the examination of the
title for the United States, testified that he examined the records of the county; that he read the quitclaim deed from
Dignowity to the crty, and had notice of all its contents; that
he found no record of any other deed from Dignowity; and
that, after making the examination, he believed the title was
good, and so advised the department at Washington, and
upon his advice the government took the deed from the city
in good faith. Upon cross-examination, he testified that he
"had information of the sale to McMillan," but satisfied himself that he had never paid the purchase money; and that the
facts that the deed from Dignowity to the city was a quitclaim deed, and described the land as "known as the McMillan lot," created no suspicion in his mind that the title was
not all right.
By the statutes of Texas, lands cannot be conveyed from
one to another, except by instrument in writing'; and unrecorded conveyances of lands are void as against subsequent
purchasers for valuable consideration without notice; but are
valid as between the parties and their heirs, and as to all subsequent purchasers with notice thereof or- without valuable
consideration. Paschal's Digest, arts. 997, 4988; Rev. Stat.
§§ 548, 549)- 4332. These provisions have not been regarded

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

as introducing a new rule; but only as declaratory of the law,
as recognized in the chancery jurisprudence of England and
of the United States. Parks v. Willard, 1 Texas, 350.
A purchaser of land for valuable consideration may doubtless be affected by knowledge which an attorney, solicitor or
conveyancer, employed by him in the purchase, acquires or
has while so employed, because, it is the duty of the agent to
communicate such knowledge to his principal, and there is a
presumption that he will perform that duty. The Distilled
Spirits, 11-Wall. 356, 367; R[olland v. Hart, L. R. 6 Oh. 678,
682; Agra Bank v. Barry, L. R. 7 H=T.
L. 135; -Kaufmanv.
]?obey, 60 Texas, 308. But in order to charge a purchaser
with notice of a prior unrecorded conveyance, he or his agent
must either have knowledge of the conveyance, or, at least,
of such circumstances as would, by the exercise of ordinary
diligence and judgment, lead to that'.knowledge.; and vague
rumor or suspicion is not a sufficient foundation upon which
to charge a purchaser 'vith knowledge of a title in a third
person.

Wilson v. Wall, 6 Wall. 83; Flagg v. 3.ann, 2 Sum-

ner, 486, 551; Montefiore v. Browne, 7 H. L. Cas. 241, 262,
269 ; Bailey v. Barnes, (1894) 1 Ch. 25 ; Wethered v. Boon, 17

Texas, 143. Notice of a sale does not imply knowledge of an
outstanding and unrecorded conveyance. .Mills v. Smith, 8
Wall. 27; H1olmes v. Stout, 2 Stockton, (10 N. J. Eq.) 419;
Lamb v. Pierce, 113 Mass. 72.
A valuable consideration may be other than the actual payment of money, and may consist of acts to be done after the
conveyance.- Prewit v. Wilson, 103 U. S. 22; titz v. -Metro-

politan Bank, 111 U. S. 722, 727; 4 Kent Com. 463; Dart
on Vendors, (6th ed.) 1018, 1019. The advantage enuring to
the city of San Antonio from the establishment of the military headquarters there was clearly a valuable consideration
for the deed of the city to the United States.
A purchaser of land, for value, and without notice of a
prior deed, holds and can .convey an indefeasible title; and
therefore the title, either of one who, without notice, purchases from one who purchased with notice, or of a purchaser
with notice from a purchaser without notice, is good. liar-

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Opinion of the Court.

rison v. Forth, before Lord Somers, Pre. Oh..51; _oo~w v.
C/tiles, 10 Pet. 177, 209; Thynt v. Arnold, 2 Met. 619, 623; 4
Kent Com. 179. While it is held, in Texas, that a purchaser
who takes a quitclaim deed of his' grantor's interest only is
affected with notice of all defects in the title, yet mere knowledge that the deed is in that form cannot affect the title of
one claiming under a subsequent deed of warranty from the
grantee.. United States v. California Land Co., 148 U. S. 31,
46, 47; .loore v. Curry, 36 Texas, 668; Graham v. Hawkins,
38 Texas, 628. Still less, could oral notice to the mayor of
M Millan's claim, not shown to have been communicated to
the United States or their attorney, affect their title under
the subsequent deed of warranty, from the city.
The attorney's "information of the-sale to McMillan," with
the purchase money unpaid, was evidently no more than of a
bargain between Mrs. Dignowity and McMillan, and not of
any deed of conveyance. He searched the records, and found
no such deed, and advised the United States that the title was
good. The deed from Mrs. Dignowity to McMillan, now produced, had then already remained unrecorded for fifteen
years; and there is no evidence in whose custody it wag, or
that the attorney had any reason to supppse that it existed,
or could have learned anything.about it from Mfrs. Dignowity,
or knew, or had the means of ascertaining, where McMillan
lived, or whether:he was living or dead. The mere description of the land as "known as the McMillan lot" r:aised no
inference that it was still owned, if it ever had been, by any
one of that name.
The evidence appears to us wholly insufficient, in fact and
in law, to support the conclusion that the attorney had any
notice of the previous deed to McMillan, or any knowledge of
such circumstances tending to prove the.existence of such a
deed, that he should have considered or treated them as of
any weight, or have reported them to the authorities at
Washington. The inevitable conclusion, as matter of law, is
that the United States acquired a good and valid title, as
innocent purchasers, for valuable consideration, and without
notice of a previous conveyance to McMillan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

As was said by this court, when this case was brought here
before, "The validity of an authority exercised under the
United States is drawn in question; and where the final judgment or decree in the highest court of a State in which a
decision could be had is against its validity, jurisdiction exists
in this court to review that decision on writ of error." 147
U. S. 519; Rev. Stat. § 709.
The validity of the authority exercised by the defendants
as officers of the United States depends, according to the
decision in United States v. Zee, before cited, upon the question whether the United States had or had not a good title
in the land.
In United States v. Thoimpson, 93 U. S. 586, 588, Chief
Justice Waite said: "Judgments in the state courts against
the United States cannot be brought here for reexamination
upon a writ of error, except in cases where the same relief
would be afforded to -private parties." This dictum, in so
geaeral a form, is in danger of misleading; and it went
beyond anything required by the decision of that case, in
which the only issue understood to have been decided in the
state courts was one of payment, and no authority under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States was set up
and decided against. The United States are in the same condition as other litigants, in the sense that neither can invoke
the jurisdiction of this court by writ of error to a.state court,
unless that court has decided against a right claimed under
the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States. But
surely the United States have, and may assert, a right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution of the United States,
.which private parties could not have.
We do not undertake to review the conclusions of the state
court as to the effect of Mrs. Schwalby's disability under the
statutes of limitations, or as to the delivery of the deed to
M Millan, both perhaps depending, as has been seen, upon
questions of fact. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; Israel
v. Arthur, 152 U. S. Z55; In 'e Buchanan, 158 U. S. 31, 36.
But, so far as the judgment of the state court Against the
validity of an authority set up by the defendants under the

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Opinion of the Court.

United States necessarily involves the decision of a question
of law, it must be reviewed by this court, whether that question depends upon the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, or upon* the local law, or upon principles of
general jurisprudence. For instance, if a marshal of the
United States takes personal property upon attachment on
mesne process issued by a court of the United States, and is
sued in an action of trespass in a state court by one claiming
title in the property, and sets up his authority under the
United States, and judgment is rendered against him in the
highest court of the State, he may bring the case by writ of
error to this court; and, as his justification depends upon the
question whether the title to the property was in the defendant in attachment, or in the plaintiff in the action of trespass,
this court, upon the writ of error, has the power to decide
that question, so far as it is one of law, even if it depends
upon local law, or upon general principles. B-uck v. Oolbaih,
'3 Wall. 334:; Etheridge v. Sperry, 139 U. S. 266; Bock v.
Perkins, 139 U. S. 628. And see .MoNulta v. Lockridge, 141
U. 5, 327, 331; Dusane v. BeaZI, 161 U.-S. 513.
The decision of the Court of Civil Appeals that the United
States had notice of the deed to McMillan, and therefore had
no title in the land, and judgment should be rendered against
their officers for both title and possession, was a decision in
matter of law against the validity of the authority set up
by those officers under the United States; and as such was
reviewable by this court, and, being erroneous, must be
reversed.
The proper form of the judgment to be entered by this
court remains to be considered; and in order to ascertain this,
it will be convenient to trace the history of the statutes and
decisions upon that subject.
Under the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789i c. 20, 4 25,
n final judgment or decree in the highest court of a State in
which a decision could be had might "be reexamined and reversed or affirmed" in this court upon a writ of error, "in the
same manner and under the same regulations, and the writ
shall have the same effect, as if the judgment or decree com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

plained of had been rendered or passed in a Circuit Court;
and the proceeding upon the reversal shall also be the same,
except that the Supreme Court, instead of remanding the cause
for a final decision as before provided, may, at their discretion,
if the cause shall have been once remanded before, proceed to
a final decision of the same, and award execution." 1 Stat. 86.
The qualification, " if the cause shall have been once remanded
before," restricted only the power to proceed to a final decision
and award execution in this court, and did not restrict the power
of this court to reverse or affirm the judgment of the state
court, as justice might require. Accordingly, in the leading
case upon the subject of the appellate jurisdiction of this court
from the courts of a State, this court, upon the first writ of
error to the Court of Appeals of Virginia, not only reversed
the judgment of that court, but affirmed the judgment of the
inferior court- of the State, which had been reversed by the
Court of Appeals, and issued its mandate to the Court of
Appeals accordingly; and, upon that court declining to obey'
the mandate, this court, upon a second writ'of error, rendered
judgment in the same terms as before. Fairfax v. Hunter,
7 Cranch, 603, 628; Martin v. h1unter, 1 Wheat. 304, 323,
362.
The act of FeIruary 15, 1867, c. 28, § 2, revising the subject,
omitted the qualification "if the cause shall have been once
remanded before," and put the last clause of the section in
this form: "and the proceeding upon the reversal shall also be
the same, except that the Supreme Court may, at their discretion, proceed to a final decision of the case, and award execution, or remand the same to an inferior court." 14 Stat. 386.
The sections of the acts of'1789 and 1867 are printed side by
side in 1T Wall. 681, 682.
In Mhlaguire v. Tyler, this court, at December term, 1869,
adjudged that a decree in equity of the Supreme Court of
Missouri be reversed, and the case remanded with directions
to enter a decree affirming the decree of an inferior court of
the State; but, upon motion of counsel, modified its judgment
so as to remand the cause for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of this court, and declared this to "be more

STANLEY v. SCHWALBY.
Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with the usual practice of the court in such
-cases." 8 Wall. 650, 658, 662. The Slipreme Court of Missouri, after receiving the ma-ldate of this court, entered a decree dismissing the suit because there was-an adequate remedy
at law; and thereupon this court, at December term, 1872,
upon a second writ of error, entered judgment here, reversing
that decree, with costs, and ordering a writ of possession to
issue from this court; and, speaking by Mr. Justice Clifford,
after referring to the difference between the provisions of the
acts of 1789 and 1867, said: "Much discussion of those provisions is unnecessary, as it is clear that the court, under either,
possesses the power to remand the cause or to proceed to a
final decision. Judging from the proceedings of the state court
under the former mandate, and the reasons assigned by the
court for their judicial action in the case, it seems to be quite
clear that it would be useless to remand the cause a second
time, as the court has virtually decided that they cannot, in
their view of the law, carry into effect the directions of this
court as given in the mandate.' Such being the fact, the duty
of this court is plain, and not without an established precedent." 17 Wall. 253, 289, 290, 293. The precedent referred
to was tartin v. lHnter, above cited.
Section 2 of the act of 1867 was substantially renacted in
Rev. "Stat. § 709. By the act of February 18, 1875, c. 80,
entitled "An act to correct errors and to supply omissions
in the Revised Statutes of the United States," section 709 of
the Revised Statutes was amended by striking out this provision: "and the proceeding upon the reversal shall be the
same, except that the Supreme Court may, at their discretion,
proceed to a final decision of the case, and award execution,
or remand the same to the court from which it was so. removed." 18 Stat. 318 ; Rev. Stat. (2d ed.) p. 133.
The repeal of this provision may not have revived that provision of the act of 1789 which had been superseded by the
act of 1867. Rev. Stat. § 12. But it did not affect the general power, conferred by section 709 of the Revised Statutes,
as by all former acts, by which the judgment of the state
court may be " reexamined and reversed or affirmed" by this

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

court, and in 'the exercise of which this court, in Fairfax v.
Hunter, and -Martinv. Hunter, above cited, ordered the proper.
judgment to be entered in the state court..
Under the statutes and practice of the State of Texas, the
appellate court, upon a statement of the case certified by the
judge, may, as the Supreme Court and Court of Civil Appeals.
did in this case, and as this court does upon a finding of facts
by the Circuit Court of the United States in cases tried by the
court upon a jury being duly waived, render such judgment
as should have been rendered by the court below. Texas RevStat. § 1048; Stat. April 13, 1892, c. 14, § 1; c. 15, § 36;.
.Mc.ntosh v. Greenwood, 15 Texas, 116; Creager v. Douglass,
77 Texas, 484; Fort Scott v. Hickman, 112 U. S. 150, 165;
Cleveland Rolling .Millv. Rhodes, 121 U. S. 255, 264.
In the present case, the previous course of the proceedings
has been such as to make it proper that the usual practice, by.
which, upon reversing a judgment of the highest ccurt of a
State, the case is remanded generally for further proceedings.
not inconsistent with the opinion of this court, should be departed from; and that this court should instruct the state
court to enter a judgment finally disposing of the case.
The Supreme Court.of Texas, after the first trial, held that
the United States were not a party to the action, and dismissed it as to the United States; but held that the United
States were not innocent purchasers for value, and denied to,
the United States and their officers the benefit of the statutes
of limitations, and therefore gave judgment for the plaintiffs
against those officers. This court, upon the first writ of error,
reversed that judgment, and, assuming the statutes of limitations to afford a conclusive, defence, refrained from considering the case upon its merits, and remanded it for further
proceedings in the courts of the State. The case was then
submitted to the inferior court of the State of Texas, -and to
the Court of Civil Appeals, upon the same facts as before;
and the Court of Civil Appeals, held that the United States
were a party to the action, thereby in effect overruling the
former judgment of the Supreme Court of the State; and
decided, upon evidence wholly insufficient in law, that the

SENECA NATION v. CHRISTY.
Syllabus.

United States had no valid title to the land, because they took
with notice of a prior conveyance to McMillan; and gave
judgment for the plaintiffs against the individual defendants,
acting under lawful authority of the United States, for the
title in an undivided third part of the land demanded, and for
joint possession of the whole; and also gave judgment against
the United States for costs, to which the United States are
never liable. The Supreme Court of the State denied a peition for a writ of error to review that judgment; the Chief
Justice of the Court of Civil Appeals refused to allow a writ
of error from this court to review it; and the allowance of
the-present writ of error was obtained from a justice of this
court.
Judgment of the Court of Civil Apleals reversed, and case
remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the
action as against the Unaited States, and to enter judgment
,for the individualdefendants, with costs.

SENECA NATION v. CHRISTY.
RROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 180.

Argued March 26, 1896.-Decided

April 18, 1096.

On the 31st day of August, 1826, the Seneca Nation by treaty and conveyance conveyed away the lauds sued for in this-action for a valuable
consideration, the receipt of which was acknowledged, but the treaty was
not ratified by the Senate or proclaimed by the President. On the 13th
of October, 1885, this action was commenced in the Supreme Court of
New York to recover a, portion of the lands so conveyed'
It 'was
brought undir the provisions of the act of May 8, 1845- c. 150, of the
Laws of New York for that year, entitled "An act for the protection and
improvement of the Seneca Indians," etc. The trial coirt gaie judgment for defendant, which judgment was sustained by the Court of
Appeals of the State on two grounds: (1) 'that the grant of August, 1826
was a valid.transaction, not in contravention of -the Constitution of the
United States, or of the Indian Intercourse Act-of 1802 ; and, (2) that

