WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

We are, therefore, of opinion that Brown obtained a good
title to the land in question by the patent of December 1,
1876, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado is
accordingly
A4lfivned.

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
1".ROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 884. Submitted April 13, 1896. -Decded

April 27, 1S96.

Possession of the fruits of crime, recently after its commission, justifies
the inference that the possession is guilty possession, and, though only
prima facie evidence of guilt, may be of controlling weight, unless explained by the circumstances, or accounted for in some way consistent
with innocence.
The existence of blood stains at or .near a place where violence has been
inflicted is relevant and admissiblein evidence, and, if not satisfactorily
explained, may be regarded by the jury as a circumstance in determining
whether or not a murder has been committed.
The testimony of the defendant in a criminal case is to be considered and
weighed by the jury, taking all the evidence into consideration, and such
weight is to be given to it as in their judgment it ought to have.
In the trial of a person accused of murder, the picture of the murdered
man is admissible in evidence, 6n the question of identity, if for no other
reason.
The true test of the admissibility in evidence of the confession of a person
on trial for the commission of a crime is that it was made freely, voluntarily and without compulsion or inducement, and this rule applies to
preliminary examinations before i magistrate of persons accused of crime.
When there is a conflict of evidence as to whether a confession is or is not
voluntary, if the court decides that it is admissible, the question may be
left to the jury, with the direction that they should reject it if, upon the
whole evidence, they are satisfied that it was not the voluntary act of
the defendant.

WILSON was convicted of the murder' of one Thatch, both
being white men and not Indians, on May 15, 1895, at the
Creek Nation in the Indian country, and sentenced to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

hanged. There was evidence tending to show that Thatch's
body was found in a creek near where Wilson and Thatch had
camped together two weeks before, in a state of decomposition
indicating that deceased had been dead for that length of time.
Wilson was arrested the day the body was discovered, and had
in his possession five horses and a colt, a wagon, gun, bed
clothing and other property that had belonged to Thatch.
When Thatch left home he had no money except some thirty
dollars in cash and a certificate of deposit for one hundred
and forty dollars, issued by the bank of Springdale, Arkansas.
Wilson, when taken, had about twenty-eight dollars, and the
certificate of deposit was found among Thatch's things in a
trunk claimed by Wilson. All of Thatch's clothing was in the
possession of Wilson, except a pair of overalls, and the body
had on a pair of overalls similar to Thatch's. The bed clothing was bloody and the blood had passed through the bed, the
bloody parts being a foot or more in diameter; a pillow case
belonging to Thatch was sewed over tlhe blood spots on one
side of the bed tick and a flour sack sewed over those on the
other; charred pieces of cloth and some buttons were found at
the camping place, and some blood in the ground under where
there had been fire.
Wilson claimed that Thatch was his uncle, but Thatch's-relatives knew of no such relationship; also, that he had known
Thatch for several years, but the evidence tended to show that
Thatch had never known Wilson before he was brought to his
camp by a boy who had started with Thatch from Springdale,
Arkansas, but concluded to return, and was requested to find
some one else to go in his place.
On the day before that on which he was alleged to have
been killed, Thatch and Wilson were seen camping at dark
near the creek, and that night about ten o'clock two gun shots
were heard in that direction, but the body was so badly decomposed that it could not be told whether any bullets had
entered it. The head was crushed with some blunt instrument, and there was testimony that an axe found in Wilson's
possession had blood on it. Wilson was seen at the camp the
next morning at sunrise, but Thatch was not there. Wilson

WILSON -v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Cas

said that Thatch had left about two weeks before the discovery
of the body, and that he had heard nothing from him since;
told contradictory stories as to where Thatch had gone; asserted that Thatch owed him and the indebtedness was liquidated by his purchasing the wagon and two of the horses; that
he bought the clothing after the time he said Thatch had left;
that the pillow case was sewed on the bed tick when he bought
it; that Thatch rode away on horseback, though Thatch's saddle
was there, the only pair of shoes that Thatch had was there, the
plates had been taken from the heels of the shoes, and similar
plates were found in Wilson's possession. The body had on no
shoes, hat or coat, only an undershirt, overalls and a pair of
socks. Tracks resembling Wilson's near where the body. was
found were testified to. Wilson admitted that he had been
there, and then said that it was lower down the creek. One
witness, after Wilson was 'put in jail, assured him that he
would go and look for Thatch if necessary, and Wilson told
him not to go, as it was not necessary. His explanations of
the appearances against him, on the stand and otherwise,
were inadequate ahd improbable, and evidence in much
detail showed that many of his statements were false.
Wilson called witnesses to show that the blood found on
the bed clothes had gotten there from the blood of a prairie
chicken which they had killed, and also from the bleeding
of sick horses, and that Thatch had been seen in Oklahoma
Territory several, times after the body was found.
Wilson testified, among other things, as set forth in the bill
of exceptions, "that after he was arrested he was taken to
Keokuk Falls, where a great crowd of people gathered around
him and threatened to mob him, and he was taken before J.
B. George, who proceeded to examine him in the presence of
the crowd without giving him the benefit of counsel, or warning him of his right of being represented by counsel, or in any
way informing him as to-His right to be thus represented."
On behalf of the United States a written statement purporting to have been made by Wilson before J. B. George was
offered in evidence and objected to "on the ground that it was
not voluntary;" whereupon J. B. George was examined on be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

half of the government and testified that he was a United
States commissioner; that Wilson was brought to his office at
night; there was a crowd at the door and talk of mobbing;
and he directed him to be turned over to the city marshal to be
taken to jail; that he examined him the next day, and that the
statement was his statement as made and written down at the
time; that he read the charges to Wilson and went on and
examined him, and he answered the questions; that he was not
represented by any attorney; that witness had the questions
and answers taken down by others than himself, but did not
read them over to Wilson as he remembered; it was just
Wilson's statement of the case; that Wilson voluntarily made
the statement -that is, he (George) asked the questions and
Wilson went on and answered them. He did not tell Wilson
that he had a right to answer or not as he chose, or advise him
as to his rights, or tell him he had the right to be represented
by counsel; that there were a dozen or more present; that
there had been a talk of mobbing before Wilson was interrogated. The witness said that he told Wilson that the bed
clothes and the axe showed his guilt, but that was not before
he made the statement but at the winding up; that other
witnesses were examined, but not in the presence of Wilson.
George was asked whether "the statement was made freely
and voluntarily," and answered "Yes, sir. I stated the charge
to him and went on and asked him these questions and he answered them, and that is what was done. He went on and
made these replies to my questions." One Edmons testified
that he wrote down some of the questions and answers and
did it correctly. The statement was then again offered in
evidence, defendant objected, his objection was overruled, the
statement admitted, and he excepted. This statement was
throughout a denial of guilt, but contained answers to questions
which were made the basis for contradiction on the trial.
The district attorney offered in evidence a picture purporting to be that of Thatch. Defendant objected to its introduction, his objection was overruled, and he excepted.
The court charged the jury, among other things, as follows:
(1) "The law says that if a man has been killed, and killed

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

in such a way as to show .that it was done murderously under
the law I have given you defining the crime of murder; then
you are to look to see whether the party accused of the killing was found in possession of any of the property of the man
killed. If so, that is the foundation for a presumption. It is
not conclusive in the beginning, but it is a presumption which
you are to look at just as you would look at it as reasonable
men outside of the -jury box. The party so found in possession of such property, recently after the crime, is required to
account for it, to show that as far as he was concerned that
possession was innocent and was honest. If it is accounted
for in that way then it ceases to be the foundation for a presumption. If it is not accounted for in that satisfactory,
straightforward and truthful way that would stamp it as an
honest accounting, then it is the foundatiofl for a presumption
of guilt against the defendant in this case, just upon the same
principle if a certain man is charged with robbery or larceny,
and is found in the possession of the property stolen or robbed
recently after the crime, he is called upon to explain that possession. If his explanation of it is truthful; if it is consistent;
if it is apparently honest; if it is not contradictory; if it is
the same at all times; if it has the indicia of truth connected with it, that may cause to pass out of the case the
consideration. of the presumption arising from the possession
of the property, but if it is not explained in that way it becomes the foundation of a presumption against the party who
is thus found in possession of that property.
(2) " N o w , that is not the only foundation for .a presumption, but you take into consideration the very appearance of
this property, Whether there were blood stains upon it, indicating that there was blood of some kind there; and, -if so,
whether that fact has been satisfactorily explained by the
defendant in this case. If not, whether, -in your judgment,
there is that in these numerous blood stains upon these clothes,
bed.clothing, and found upon the straw in that bed, whether
or not that fact, if it has not been satisfactorily explained, is
a fact upon which you may base a presumption that there was
an act of deadly .violence perpetrated while the party was

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

upon these bed clothes, or while he was connected with them
in such a way as that the blood was the blood of the murdered man or the missing man.
(3) "Now, another foundation of a presumption is the fact
of his false statements.
.
.
If a man makes a statement
to you today about a transaction, which is one thing, and details to you another one tomorrow, which is something else,
and another again, which is something else, you necessarily
call upon him to explain why he has made these contradictory
statements, because you know they are not the attributes of
truth; you know they do not belong to the truth, because the
highest attribute which it possesses is harmony, is consistency,
and it possesses these attributes at all times.
... Therefore, if statements in this case before you, which are Talse,
were made by the defendant or upon his side of the case; if
they were made by his instigation, and they were knowingly
instigated by him, you have a right to take into consideration
the falsehoods of the defendant, first to see -whether they
are falsehoods. Then you are to look at them to see whether
he satisfactorily explains to you the making of these false
statements, and if he does not they are the foundation of a
presumption against him for the reasons I have given you,
because if they are not in harmony with nature, if they are
not in harmony with truth, if they do not speak the voice of
truth, then they speak the voice of falsehood; they speak the
voice of fraud ; they speak the voice of crime, for they are not
in harmony with that great law of truth which in all of its
parts is consistent and harmonious. Then look at these statements and view them not alone, but in connection with the
other circumstances in the case -all the other circumstances
which have gone before you as evidence -to see whether or
not the conduct which is urged by the government as accusatory, as inculpatory, has been satisfactorily explained by the
defendant upon the theory of his innocence. If so, then that
conduct passes away as proving facts in the case. It is no
longer the foundation as proving facts for a presumption; but
if these explanations are not satisfactory, if they are not in
harmony with the truth, the presumption must remain in the

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

case, and you have a right to draw inferences from these circumstances I have named.
(4) "The defendant goes upon the stand in this case, and
you are to view his evidence in the light of his relation to
the case, in the way I have named, and in addition thereto
you are to look at all the other facts and circumstances in the
case as bearing upon his evidence to see whether it contradicts
what he says, and therefore-weakens it; whether it is so as to
be contradictory and inconsistent from statements made by
him at other times; whether it is shown to lack these elements of truthfulness known as rationality, known as consistency, known as naturalness.
"-Whether these things are all absent from it, or whether
in your judgment it seems to be consistent and probable in
itself when you come to look at the story and listen to it and
weigh it by your judgment. If it has these attributes they
are evidences of its being true. If it hasn't them, but has the
opposite, this opposite condition made up of these circumstances is an evidence of its being false."
The defendant saved exceptions to each of the foregoing
instructions numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Eirors were assigned to the admission of the picture; the
admission of the statement; and .the giving of instructions.
No appearance for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Dickinson for defendants in error submitted on their briLf.
MR. CHIEF JusricE FuMLRn, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Possession of the fruits of crime, recently after its commission, justifies the inference that the possession is guilty possession, and, though onlyyrima facie evidence of guilt, may be
of controlling weight unless explained by the circumstances
or accounted for in some way consistent with innocence. 1
Greenl. Ev. (15th ed.) § 34. In Rickman's case, 2 East P. 0.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

1035, cited, it was held that on an indictment for arson, proof
that property was in the house at the time it was burned, and
was soon afterwards found in the possession of the prisoner,
raises a probable presumption that he was present and concerned in the offence; and in Rex v. Diggles, (Wills Cir. Ev.
*53,) that there is a like presumption in the case of murder
accompanied by robbery. Proof that defendant had in his
possession, soon after, articles apparently taken from the
deceased at the time of his death is always admissible, and
the fact, with its Jegitimate inference, is to be considered by
the jury along with the other facts in the case in arriving at
their verdict. JFilliams v. Commonwealth, 29 Penn. St. 102;
Commonwealth v. 3McGorty, 114 Mass. 299 ; Sahlinger v. People,
102 Illinois, 241; State v. Raymond, 46 Connecticut, 345;
Whart. Cr. Ev. § 762.
The trial judge did not charge the jury that they should be
controlled by the presumption arising from the fact of the
possession of the property of one recently murdered, but that
they might consider that there was a presu.mption and act
upon it, unless it were rebutted by the evidence or the explanations of the accused.
Again, the existence of blood stains at or near a place where
violence has been inflicted is always relevant and atdmissible
in evidence. Wharton Crim. Ev. § 778; Commonwealth v.
Sturtivant, 117 Mass. 122. The trial judge left it to the jury,
if they found that there were blood stains and that the defendant had not satisfactorily explained them, to draw the
inference, in the exercise of their judgment, that there was
an act of deadly violence perpetrated against a person while
upon or connected with the bed clothing. In other words,
that the jury might regard blood stains not satisfactorily explained as a circumstance in determining whether or not a
murder had been committed.
Nor can there be any question that if the jury were satisfied
from the evidence that false statements in the case were made
by defendant, or on his behalf, at his instigation, they had the
right not only to take such statements into consideration in
connection With all the other circumstances of the case in

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

determining whether or not defendant's conduct had been satisfactorily explained by him upon the theory of his innocence,
but also to regard false statements in explanation or defence
made or procured to be made as in themselves tending to show
guilt.- The destruction, suppression or fabrication of evidence
undoubtedly gives rise to a presumption of guilt to be dealt
with by the jury. 1 Greenl. § 37 ; 3 Id. § 34; Commonwealth
v. Webster, 5 Gush. 295.
The testimony of the defendant in a crimiinal case is to be
considered and weighed by the jury, taking all the evidence
into consideration, and giving such weight to the testimony
as in their judgment it ought to have. iHics v. U-nited States,
150 U. S. 442, 452; Allison v. United States, 160 U. S. 203.
The trial judge did not charge the jury to treat the testimony
of defendant in a manner. different from that in which they
treated the testinony of other witnesses, and left it to them
to give to his evidence,. under all the circumstances affecting
its credibility and weight, such consideration as they thought
it entitled to receive.
We cannot reverse this judgment for error in either of the
instructions complained of.
No ground of objection is specified to the admission of the
picture of Thatch, nor is any particular ground disclosed by
the rebord. It was, we presume, admitted on the question of
identity, and as such was admissible in connection with the
other evidence. Udderzook v. Commonwealth, '76 Penn. St.
340; Cowley v. People, 83 N. Y. 464; Ruloff v. People, 45
N. Y. 213 ; Luke v. Calhoun County, 52 Alabama, 115 ; _Franklin v. State, 69 Georgia, 36. And see Luoo v. United States,
23 How. 515.
This brings us to consider the exception taken to the admission of defendant's statement in evidence. The ground of the
objection was that it was not voluntary. Although his answers to the questions did not constitute a confession of guilt,
yet he thereby made disclosures which furnished the basis of
attack, and whose admissibility may be properly passed on in
the light of the rules applicable to confessions. Of course, all
verbal admissions must be received with caution, though free,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

deliberate and voluntary confessions ot guilt are entitled to
great weight. But they are inadmissible if made under any
threat, promise, -r encouragement of any hope or favor.
1 Greenl. Ev. §§ 214, 215, 219.
In Ioypt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 584, Mr. Justice Harlan,
delivering the opinion of the court, remarked: "While some
of the adjudged cases indicate distrust of confessions which
are not judicial, it is certain, as observed by Baron Parke in
Regina v. Baldry, 2 Den. Cr. Cas. 430, 445, that the rule
against their admissibility has been sometimes carried too far,
and in its application justice and common sense have too frequently been sacrificed at the shrine of mercy. A confession,
if freely and voluntarily made, is evidence of the most satisfactory character. Such a confession, said Eyre, C. B., 1 Leach,
263, 'is deserving of the highest credit., because it is presumed
to flow from the strongest sense of guilt, and, therefore, it is
admitted as proof of the crime to which it refers.' Elementary
writers of authority concur in saying that, while from the
very nature of such evidence it must- be subjected to careful
scrutiny and received with great caution, a deliberate, voluntary confession of guilt is among the most effectual proofs
in the law, and constitutes the strongest evidence against the
party making it that can be given of the facts stated in such
confession. 1 Greenleaf Ev. § 215; 1 Archbold Cr. Pl. 125;
1 Phillips Ev. 533-34; Starkie Ev. 73.
"But the presumption upon which weight is given to such
evidence, namely, that one who is innocent will not .imperil
his safety or prejudice his interests by an untrue statement,
ceases when the confession appears to have been made either
in consequence of inducements of a temporal nature, held out
by one in authority, touching the charge preferred, or because
of a threat or promise by or in the presence of such person,
which, operating upon the fears or hopes of the accused, in
reference to the charge, deprives him of that freedom of will
or self control essential to make his confession voluntary
within the meaning of the law. Tested by these conditions, there seems to have been no reason to exclude the
confession of the accused; for the existence of any such in-

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinioh of the Court.

ducements, threats or promises seems to have been negatived
by the statement of the circumstances under which it was
made."
In short, the true test of .admissibility is that the confession
ismade freely, voluntarily and without compulsic-n or inducement of any sort.
The same rule that the confession must be voluntary is
applied to cases where the accused has been examined before
a magistrate, in the course of which examination the confession is made, as allowed and restricted by statute in England
and in this country in many of the States. Gr. Ev. § 224.
But it is held that there is a well defined distinction between an
examination when the person testifies as a witness and when
le is examined as a party accused; Peopie v. .ondon, 103
N, Y. 211; State v. Ganvey, 25 La. Ann. 191; and that where
the adcused is sworn, any confession he may make is deprived
of its voluntary character, though there is a contrariety of
opinion on this point. Gr. Ev. § 22k; State v. Gilman, 51
Maine, 215; Commonwealth v.Clarke, 130 Penn. St. 641; I-eople v. -Yelley, 47 California, 125. The fact that he is in custody
and manacled does not necessarily render his statement involuntary, nor is that necessarily the effect of popular excitement shortly preceding.
parf v. United States, 156 U. S.51;
Pierce v. United States, 160 U. S. 355 ; State v. Gorham, 67
Vermont, 365; State v. Ingram, 16 Kansas, 14. And it is
laid down that it is not essential to .the admissibility of a confession that it should appear that the person was warned that
what he said would be used against him, but on the contrary, if the confession was voluntary, it is sufficient though
it appear that he was not so warned. Joy on Confessions,
*45, *48, and cases cited.
In the case at bar'defendant was not put under oath, and
made no objection to answering the questions propounded.
The commissioner testified that the statement was made
freely and voluntarily, and no evidence to the contrary was
adduced. Nor did defendant when testifying on his own
behalf testify to the contrary. He testified merely that the
commissioner examined him "without giving him the benefit

OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of counsel or warning him of his right of being represented
by counsel, or in any way informing hn of his right to be
thus represented." lHe did not testify that he did not know
that he had a right to refuse to answer the questions, or that;
if he had known it, he would not have answered. His answers were explanations, and he appeared not to be unwilling
to avail himself of that mode of averting suspicion. It is true
that, while he was not sworn, he made the, statement before a
commissioner who was investigating a charge against him, as
he was informed; he was in custody but not in irons; there
had been threats of mobbing him the night before the examination; he did not have the aid of counsel; and he was not
warned that the statement might 'be used against him or
advised that he need not answer. These were matters which
went to the weight or credibility of what he said of an incriminating character, but as he was not confessing guilt but
the contrary, we think that, under all the circumstances disclosed, they were not of themselves sufficient to require his
answers to be excluded on the ground of being involuntary
as matter of law.
When there is a conflict of evidence as to whether a confession is or is not voluntary, if the ceurt decides that it is
admissible, the question may be left to the jury with the
direction" that they should reject the confession if upon the
whole evidence they are satisfied it was not the voluntary act
of the defendant. commonwealth v. Preece, 140 Mass. 276;
Peopl1 v. Bowes, 81 Mlichigan, 396; Thomas v. State, 84
Georgia, 613; lldrdy v. United States, 3 Dist. Col. App. 35.
The question here, however) is simply upon the admissibility
of the statement; and we are not prepared to hold that there
was error in its admission in view of its nature and the evidence of its voluntary character; the absence of any threat,
compulsion or inducement; or assertion or indication of fear;
or even of such influence as the administration of an oath has
been supposed to exert.
Judgment affimed.

