GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. BURNHAM.

339

Syllabus.

The limitation of actions is governed by the lexfori, and is
controlled by the legislation of the State in which the action
is brought, as construed by the highest court of that State,
even if the legislative act or the judicial construction differs
from that prevailing in other jurisdictions. .McElmoyle v.
Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. -647;
.Afeteaf v. Watertown?, 153 U. S. 671; Balkam v. WVoodstock
Iron Co., 154 U. S. 177.
Neither the statutes nor the decisions of the State of Iowa
upon this subject .have made any discrimination against the
citizens, the contracts or the judgments of other States, or
against any right asserted under the Constitution or laws of
the United States. The case is thus distinguished froil Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, cited at the bar.
The question at what time the cause of action accrued in
this case, within the meaning of the statute of limitations of
Iowa, was not a Federal question, but a local question, upon
which the judgment of the highest court of the State cannot
be reviewed by this court.

Judgment affirmec.

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
BURNHAM.
SRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF MILWATKEE COUNTY,

STATE OF

WISCONSIN.No. 159. Argued and submitted March 19, 20, 1896.-Decided April 13, 1896

When the highest court of a State, upon a first appeal, decides a Federal
question against the appellant, and remands the case for further proceedings according to law, and upon further hearing the inferior court of
the State renders final judgment against him, he cannot have that judgment reviewed by this court by writ of error, without first appealing
from it to the highest court of the State; although that court declines
upon a second appeal to reconsider any question of law decided upon
the first appeal.

OCTOBER TERMK, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action similar to that of Great Wfestern Telegraph Company v. Purdy,ante, 329, and was brought October
8, 1888, in the circuit court of Milwaukee county in the State
of Wisconsin, by the same plaintiff against George Burnham,
and prosecuted against his executors, to recover the amount
of an assessment alleged to be due under a contract of subscription in the same form as in that case, and under the decree
of the circuit court of Cook County in the State of Illinois,
therein stated.
The complaint did not state the law of Illinois, nor set forth
the decree of assessment in full; but alleged, among other
things, that by that decree an assessment of thirty-five per
cent a share was laid upon all stockholders who had not paid
in full; and that some stockholders, including the defendant,
had paid ten dollars or forty per cent on each share, and
inany stockholders had never paid more than fifty cents or
two per cent on a share.
A demurrer to the complaint, upon the ground, among
others, that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, was filed by the defendant, and overruled by
the court.
Upon appeal by the defendant from the order overruling
the demurrer, the Supreme Court of the State, as the record
shows, adjudged that the order be reversed, and the cause
"remanded to the said circuit court for such further proceedings therein as may be according to law;" and, in its opinion,
after deciding that the assessment was unequal and unjust,
added: "We do not intend to express any definite opinion
as to the real effect of the decree of the Illinois court, or as
to how far it concludes the rights of shareholders who were
not parties to that proceeding. Those questions are not now
necessarily before us, and may be postponed until they arise.
We confine our decision to the objection that the cdmplaint
shows an unlawful and illegal call or assessment upon Mr.
Burnham which should not be enforced." 79 Wisconsin, 47,
52, 53.
The cause was accordingly remanded to the inferior court.
The plaintiff refused to amend the complaint, and insisted

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. BURNHAm.

341

Opinion of the Court.

that it stated a sufficient cause of action; and relied upon the
decree of assessment as a judgment of a court of the State
of Illinois, entitled, under the Constitution ancL laws of the
United States, to full faith and credit in the State of Wisconsin. The inferior court sustained the demurrer, upon the
ground "that the complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, because it does not appear
upon the face of the .said complaint that a valid or legal
assessment was made upon the stockholders, and that the
said assessment appears by the said complaint to be unequal
and unjust ;" and entered final judgment for the defendant,
with costs: The plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ of
error.
.Mr. Thomas . Sutherland for plaintiff in error. 2r.
William P. Black and Mr. Charles E. Sliepard were on his
brief.
Mr. Reese H. Toorhees, Mr.Charles Quarles and MAr. George
Lines, for defendants in error, submitted on their brief.
MR. JUsTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This court has no jurisdiction* upon writ of error, to review
a judgment of a state court, unless it was a final judgrhent,
by the highest court of the State in which a decision in the
suit could be had, and against a right set up under the Constitution or laws of the United States. Rev. Stat, ยง 709.
The order of the inferior court of Wisconsin, overruling the
defendant's demurrer, with leave to answer over, was clearly
not a final judgment, under the Judiciary Act of the United
States, although it was reviewable on appeal in .the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, under the statutes and practice of the
State.
The judgment which was rendered by the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin upon such an appeal cannot be 'reviewed by this
court; because, although it was a judgment of the highest
court of the State, and against the plaintiff in error, it was

OCTOBER TERMA,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

not a final judgment, disposing of the whole case, but only
reversed the order of the inferior court overruling the demurrer, and remanded the case to that court for further
proceedings.
The subsequent judgment of the inferior court, sustaining
the demurrer and dismissing the action, cannot be reviewed
by this court; because, although that was a final judgment
against the plaintiff in error setting up a right under the Constitution and laws of the United States, it was not a final
judgment in the highest court of the State in which a decision
in the suit could be had.
v. FZnox County ComThe case is singularly like .McCombmissioners, 91 U. S.1, in which an order of a court of common pleas, overruling a demurrer to an answer, was reversed
by the Supreme Court of Ohio, and the case remanded for
further proceedings according to law; the court of common
pleas, in accordance with that decision, sustained the demurrer
to the answer, and the defendant not moving to amend, but
electing to stand by his answer, gave judgment against him;
and a writ of error to review that judgment was dismissed by
this court, Chief Justice Waite saying: "The Court of Common Pleas is not the highest court of the State; but the judgment we are called upon to reexamine is the judgment of that
court-alone. The judgment of the Supreme Court is one of
reversal only. As such, it was not a final judgment. Parcels
v. Johnson, 20 Wall. 653; .Moore-v. Robbins, 18 Wall. 588;
St. Clair v. Lovingston, 18 Wall. 628. The Common Pleas
was not directed to enter a judgment rendered by the Supreme
Court and carry it into execution, but to proceed with the
case according to law. The Supreme Court, so far from putting an end to the litigation, purposely left it open. The law
of the case upon the pleadings as they stood was settled; but
ample power was left in the Common Pleas to permit the
parties to make a new case by amendment." "The final
judgment is, therefore, the judgment of the Court of Common
Pleas, and not of the Supreme Court. It may have been the
necessary result of the decision by the Supreme Court of the
questions presented for its determination; but it is none

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. BURNHAM.

343

Opinion of the Court.

the less, on that account, the act of the Common Pleas. As
such, it was, when rendered, open to review by the Supreme
Court, and for that reason is not the final judgment of the
highest court in the State in which a decision in the suit could
be had. Rev. Stat. ยง 709. The writ is dismissed." See also
Bostwicc v. Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3; Rice v. Sanger, 144:
U. S. 197; Rutland Railroad v. Central Vermont Railroad,
159 U. S.630, 638; Sanford Co.,petitioner,160 U. S. 24,7.
In the case at bar, it was argued in support of the jurisdiction of this court that, if an appeal had been taken from ,the
final judgment of the inferior court to the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin, that court, according to its uniform course of decisions, would have affirmed the judgment, upon the ground
that its decision upon the first appeal was conclusive; that
this court, according to the decision in _forthern PacificRailToad v. Ellis, 144 U. S.458, would not take jurisdiction of a
writ of error to review a judgment based upon that ground
only; and consequently that a writ of error from this court
to the inferior court was the only way ir.
which the decision
of that court, refusing full faith and credit to the judicial proceeding in Illinois, could be reviewed by this court.
If all this were so, there would be strong ground for sustaining the present writ of error. Wheeling d- Belmont Bridge
v. Wheeling Bridge, 138 U. S. 287, 290; Lulton, v. North
River Bridge, 147 U. S.337, 342. But the argument is based
upon a misconception of the decisions supposed to support it.
It is true, that the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, upon a second appeal from an inferior, court, has always declined to
reconsider any question of law decided upon the first appeal.
Downer v. Cros., 2 Wisconsin, 371, .381; Y.Zoonan v. Orton,
27 Wisconsin, 300; Da Pont v. Davis, 35 Wisconsin, 631 ;
Lathrop v. Enapp, 37 Wisconsin, 307; Oskkosh Fire Department v. Tuttl.e, 50 Wisconsin, 552. It does not, however, as
appears by the two cases last cited, when that question is The
only one presented by the second appeal, dismiss that appeal
for want of jurisdiction; but it entertains jurisdiction, and
affirms the judgment. In so doing, that court has done no
.mote than this court has always done, or than is necessary to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

enable an appellate court to perform its duties satisfactorily
and efficiently, which would be impossible if a question, once
considered and decided by it, were to be litigated anew in the
same case upon any and every subsequent appeal. Washington Bridge v, Stewart, 3 How. 413, 425 ; ]oberts v. Gooper,
20 How. 467, 481; Clark v. Keith, 106 U. S. 464; Chajfin v.
Taylor, 116 U. S. 567; Sanford Co., petitioner, 160 U. S. 247,
259.
The case of _Northern Pacific Railroadv. Ellis was very
peculiar in its circumstances, and was as follows: Ellis brought
an action against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in
an inferior court of the State of Wisconsin, to quiet title to
land; and in his complaint set forth not only his own title,
but also the title of the railroad company under a conveyance
by way of donation from a county. The railroad compaly
demurred to the complaint, the demurrer was overruled, and
the company appealed to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin,
which held the conveyance to be void for want of power in
the county under the constitution of the state, and therefore,
without any Federal question being presented or considered,
affirmed the order overruling the demurrer, and remanded
the case to the inferior court for further proceedings. 77
Wisconsin, 114. The railroad company then filed an answer,
reasserting its title under the deed from the county; and
afterwards applied for leave to file a supplemental answer,
setting up a decree which, since the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State, had been rendered by the Circuit Court of
the United States in a suit commenced, after the former order
of the inferior court, by the railroad company against Ellis
and others, by which judgment the title of the railroad company in other lands held under the same conveyance was adjudged to be valid. The inferior court of the State denied
leave to file the supplemental answer, and, upon a hearing,
rendered final judgment against the railroad company. The
company again appealed to the Supreme'Court of the State,
which affrined the judgment, upon the ground that its own
decision upon the demurrer as to the validity of the title of
the railroad company was res adjudicata,and could not, accord-

GREAT WESTERN TELEGRAPH CO. v. BURNHAM.

345

Opinion of the Court.

ing to the settled law of the State, be reviewed by the inferior
court, or even by the Supreme Court of the State, save upon'
motion for rehearing. 80 Wisconsin, 459, 465. The only
right under the laws of the United States, suggested or considered at any stage of the proceedings in the courts of the
State, was the claim that the decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States, rendered after the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State upon the first appeal, estopped Ellis to
deny the validity of the conveyance from the county to the
railroad company. The only decision made by, the Supreme
Court of the State upon that claim was that the invalidity of
that conveyance had been finally adjudged, for the purposes
of the suit, by its former decision, and therefore the decree of
the Circuit C6urt of the United States should not be permitted
to be pleaded by supplemental answer, in the nature of a plea
puis darrein continuance. This court, in dismissing the writ
of error to the Supreme Court of the State, dealt with no
other question; 144 U. S.458 ; and never considered the right
of the railroad company, merely by virtue of its charter from
the United States, to take land by such a conveyance, until
that subject was brought into judgment upon the subsequent
appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States. Roberts v. Nortern Pacific Railroad,158' U. S.1,
25, 27.
There is nothing in the decisions above cited, or ip 'ny other
decision of this court, which countenances the position that in
Wisconsin, or in any other State, when the highest court of the
State, upon a first appeal, decides a Federal question against
the appellant, and remands the case to the inferior court, not
merely to carry the judgment into execlition, but for further
proceedings according to law, and upon further hearing the inferior court renders final judgment against him, he can have
that judgment reviewed by this court by writ of error, without first appealing from it to the highest court of the State,
or at least, where such is the practice, presenting a petition
to that court for leave to appeal. Fisher v. Perkins, 122
U. S. 522.
In thecase.at bar, as in .Micombv. Knox County. Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

sioners,above cited, the final judgment of the inferior court of
the State may have been the necessary regult of the previous
decision by the Supreme Court of the questions presented for
its determination ; but it was none the less, on that account, a.
judgment of the inferior court. As such, it was, when rendered, open to review by the Supreme Court upon a new
appeal; and, for that reason, was not the final judgment of
the highest court of the State in which a decision in the suit
could be had.
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. PETERSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 153. Argued and submitted March 18, 1896. -Decded April 18, 1896.

H. was foreman of an extra gang of laborers for plaintiff in error on its
road, and as such had charge of and superintended the gang in putting
in ties and assisting in keeping in repair three sections of the road. He
had power to hire and discharge the hands, (13 in number,) in the gang,
and had exclusive charge of their direction and management in all
matters connected with their employment. The defendant in error was
one of that gang, hired by H., and subject, as a laborer, while on duty
with the gang, to his authority. While on such duty the defendant in
error suffered serious injury through the alleged negligence of H., acting
as foreman in the course of his employment, and sued the railroad company to recover damages for those injuries. 1reld, that H. was not such
a superintendent of a separate department, nor in control of such a distinct branch of the work of the company, as would be necessary to render
it liable to a co-employ6 for his neglect; but that he was a fellow-workman,
in fact as well as in law, whose negligence entailed no such liability on
the company as was sought to be enforced in this action.
The duties of a railroad company, as master, towards Its employ6s, as servants, defined; and it is held that if the master, instead of personally
performing these obligations, engages another to do them for him, he
is liable for the neglect of that other, which, in such case, is not the
neglect of a fellow-servant, but of the master.
The previous cases in this court on this subject examined, and found to deter-

