OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

Pacific Railroad from the Pacific coast to the eastern boundary line of California as a part of a continuous military and
post road across the continent established by Congress could
have had no rival in a state franchise for the construction of
the same road; but in order that this might never be questioned, the legislature of the State of California obliterated its
own franchise when it ratified and confirmed the franchises
given by the Federal government to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company.
No assessment could, therefore, be laid upon any merely
assumed state valuation, and, consequently, no tax enforced
upon its alleged assessment. It follows that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of California, affirming the judgment of
the Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco,
should be reversed.

TELFENER v. RUSS.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 462.

Argued March 2, 3, 1896. -Decided

March 80, 1596.

Under the provisions of the act of the State of Texas of July 14, 1879,
amended March 11, 1881, and repealed January 22, 1883, in respect of the
purchase of unappropriated lands, the applicant was obliged, in order to
obtain the right to purchase, to cause the land desired to be survbyed, and
the survey, field-notes and maps to be returned within a time prescribed;
and no tract could be purchased containing more than six hundred and forty
acres. R. and T. entered into an agreement consisting of two papers but
constituting and declared on in this case as one contract, whereby R. agreed
to transfer to T. his rights to purchase acquired under applications for the
survey of 1,160,320 acres; to make all the surveys, field-notes and maps
thereof, and file them in the office of the surveyor and in the General Land
Office of the State within the time prescribed by law; and T. agreed to pay
twenty-five cents per acre for such rights, and five cents per acre for the
surveys, field-notes and maps and the filing thereof. T. failed to make any
of the payments, and R. failed to file the surveys, field-notes and maps in
the General Land Office within the stipulated time excepting those covering
15,360 acres. Held,

TELFENER v. RUSS.
Statement of the Case.
(1) That the covenants of the contract were mutual and dependent and
subject to the rule that the party who insists upon performance
from the other side must show a performance on his own part, while
he who wishes to rescind a contract need only show non-performance or inability to perform by the other party;
(2) That as between applicants and the State, while it seems from the
course of decision in Texas that an applicant could obtain more
than a single tract at one time, yet the policy of the act was that,
each tract should be considered as independent of other tracts the
purchase of which also-might be sought, and as R. failed as to the
larger number of tracts to file the surveys, field-notes and maps
within the time prescribed, he lost the absolute right to demand
patents from the State, on- payment, for such tracts, and was
therefore unable to perform his contract with T., for the whole
number of acres, according to its terms;
(3) That if upon application the applicant obtained any right which
under the act was susceptible of transfer, it was not vested until
the surveys, etc., were filed ;
(4) That the act contemplated that the surveys should be made upon the
ground, and it not only did not appear in this case that such surveys had been made, but it would seem that they must have been
made up from office documents and not from actual survey on the
ground.

Tins case was first argued March 5, 6, 1895. On April 8
reargument was ordered before a full bench. The facts, as
now stated by the court, are as follows:
This case comes up on a writ of certiorari, issued to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
The action was brought for damages for an alleged breach of
a contract, for the sale, by the defendant to the plaintiff, of
certain unappropriated public lands of the State of Texas, the
right to the title of which he claimed to have acquired from
the State, and it arose upon the following facts: In July, 1879,
the legislature of that State passed an act for the sale of a portion of its unappropriated public lands and the investment of
its proceeds. It provided that any person, firm or corporation
desiring to purchase any of such lands set apart and reserved
for sale might do so by causing the tract of land which the
parties desired to purchase to be surveyed by the authorized
public surveyor of the county or district in which the land
was situated. And it was made the duty of the surveyor, to

OCTOBER TER~f, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

whom application was made by responsible parties, to survey
the lands designated in such application within three months
from the date thereof, and within sixty days after the survey,
to certify to, record and map the field-notes of the survey,
and to return to and file the same in the General Land Office,
as required by law in other cases. The statute also provided
in its fifth section that within sixty days -after the return to
and filing in the General Land Office of the surveyor's certificate, map and field-notes of the land desired, it should be the
right of the parties who had the same surveyed to pay or
cause to be paid into the treasury of the State the purchase
money therefor at the rate of fifty cents per acre, and that
upon the presentation to the commissioner of the general land
office of the receipt of the state treasurer for the purchase
money, the commissioner should issue to the applicant a patent for the tract or tracts of land thus surveyed and paid for.
The statute declared that no tract of land should be sold
under the provisions of the act which contained more than
six hundred and forty acres, and that no tract should have a
greater frontage on any running stream or permanent water
than one vara per acre for each survey of three hundred and
twenty acres or less, and three fourths of one vara per acre
for all other surveys.
The statute also enacted that after the survey of any of the
public domain authorized, it should not be lawful for any person to file or locate upon the lands surveyed, and that such file
or location should be void. It also declared that should any
applicant for the purchase of public lands fail, refuse or neglect
to pay for the same at the rate of fifty cents per acre within
the time prescribed in section five of the act, that is, within
sixty days after the return to and filing in the General Land
Office of the surveyor's certificate, map and field-notes, he
should forfeit all rights thereto, and should not thereafter be
allowed to purchase the same, and that the land thus surveyed
might be sold by the commissioner of the General Land Office
to any other person, firm or corporation who would pay into
the treasury the purchase money therefor.
The plaintiff below, the defendant in error in this case,

TELFENER v. RUSS.
Statement of the Case.

George W. Russ, a citizen of Texas, alleged that some time
in October, 1882, he, being a responsible party, and intending
to purchase a body of land which was subject to purchase and
sale, applied, under the act of Texas, as amended, to the
surveyor of the county of El Paso for the purchase from the
State and for the survey of eighteen hundred and thirteen
sections of land of six hundred and forty acres each, being,
in the aggregate,one million, one hundred and sixty thousand
three hundred and twenty acres, situated in that county, and

forming part of the Pacific Reservation; that the application
was made in two instruments, describing different portions
of the land, and that his applications were filed and recorded
in the office of the surveyor; that on the first of November,
1882, he was about to proceed to have the lands surveyed
into tracts of six hundred and forty acres each, when the
defendant below, Telfener, offered to assume the payment
thereof and to contract for the sale and assignment of his,
Russ's, right to purchase the lands applied for from the
State, and that thereupon a contract was executed between
them, Russ and Telfener, bearing date on that day, in two
separate instruments, constituting, however, only one distinct
contract in its entirety, and as such contract, with dependent
conditions, it was declared upon, by the terms of which Russ,
claiming to have made application in due form for the purchase of about one million of acres of land in El Paso County,
and reciting that Telfener was desirous of purchasing of him
all his right, title and interest in the lands under the applications made for their purchase, provided they were regularly
made under the act of Xuly 14, 1879, agreed and promised to
transfer and assign to Telfener all his (Russ's) right, title and
interest in the lands applied for, the consideration being
twenty-five cents per acre, which consideration Telfener
proinised to pay, and Russ also agreed to have the surveys
made and filed with the maps and field-notes in the General Land Office, for which Telfener was to pay him five cents
per acre. It was for an alleged breach of this contract that
the action of Russ (the plaintiff below) v. Telfener was instituted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion ofthe Court.

Mr. Andrew Wesley Eent and Mr.J. L. Peeler for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr.Clarence H. Miller, (with whom were .Mr. S. 1R. Fisher,
Mr._E. B. Hancock and Mr.Franz Piset on the brief,) and
Mr. Joseph Fheeler, (with whom was Mr. Josiah Patterson
'onthe brief,) for defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the provisions of the act
of Texas as above, delivered the opinion of the court, as
follows:

No right, title or interest in the lands which Russ desired
and applied to purchase passed to him solely by his application for the survey. Until that was followed by the survey,
map and field-notes of the survey, and they were filed in the
General Land Office of the State, it gave no right to the
applicant to purchase the land.
In White v. Mfartin, 66 Texas, 340, the court, referring to
the act of July 14, 1879, asks the pertinent question, "How
may an applicant for lands under that statute become a purchaser?" and replies as follows:
"The statute answers the question. He 'may do so by
causing the tract or tracts which such person, firm or corWhen this
poration desires to purchase to be surveyed.'
is done as the act contemplates, then and not before, the State
contracts, upon the purchaser's complying with the other requirements of the act, that it will convey to him the land
surveyed. When this point was reached there existed an
executory contract which gave the purchaser a vested right,
upon complying with his part of the contract, to have the
land purchased."
In Campbell v. Wade, 132 U. S. 34, which was in this court
at the October term, 1889, it was stated that it was contended
in the state courts, and the contention was renewed here, that
the petitioner, (who desired to purchase a portion of the unappropriated lands of Texas,) by his application for a survey, had
acquired a vested interest in the lands he desired to purchase,
which could not be impaired by their subsequent withdrawal

TELFE-ER v. RUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

from sale. But the court replied that this positionwas clearly
untenable; that the application was only one of different steps,
all of which were necessary to be performed before the applicant could acquire any right against the State. The application was to be followed by a survey, and the surveyor, was
allowed three months in, which to make it. By the express
terms of the act, it was only after the return and filing in the
General Land Office of the surveyor's certificate, map and fieldnotes of the survey, that the applicant acquired the right to
purchase the land by paying the purchase money within sixty
days thereafter. "But for this declaration of the act," said the
court, "we might doubt whether a right to purchase could be
considered as conferred by the mere survey so as. to bind the
State. Clearly," the court adds, "there was no such right in
advance of the survey. The State was under -no obligation to
continue the law in force because of the application of any one
to purchase. It entered into no such contract with the public.
The application did not bind the applicant to proceed any further in the matter; nor, in the absence of other proceedings,
could it bind the State to sell the lands."
There is another view of this case which merits consideration.
The contract between Russ and Telfener was for Russ to sell
to the latter his right to purchase from the State the entire
tract of eighteen hundred and thirteen sections of its public
lands.for which he had applied, not for any particular portion
of that tract. Telfener had never proposed to take any less
than the whole amount nor contracted to do so. An offer of
any less by Russ, had it been made, of which there is no evidence, would never have been a compliance with his contract
with Telfener.
It does not appear that the entire tiact of land was surveyed
until after November 1, 1882. At that time ninety-eight sections, embracing sixty-two thousand seven hundred and twenty
acres of the tract, were unsurveyed, and it could not, in truth,
be alleged that on the 1st day of that month the plaintiff was
the sole owner of a valuable, valid and transferable interest in
the whole body of land, embracing eighteen hundred and
thirteen tracts, amounting to more than a million acres of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

land, as averred by him in his declaration. On the contrary,
he possessed no interest in the whole body of land of that
amount, and if the contract for the purchase was possessed of
any validity, it must have applied to the whole body in its entirety and not to any particular portion thereof. And of the
land surveyed, payment, at the rate of fifty cents per acre was
only made on twenty-five of the surveys, at least there was no
evidence of the payment on any other land surveyed. And
the applicant Russ had acquired no vested right to purchase of
the State the whole of the land because he had not complied
with the law in that behalf.
The ninth section of that statute declared in express terms
that should the applicant for the purchase of public lands fail,
refuse or neglect to pay for the same, at the rate of fifty cents
per acre, within the time prescribed in section fie of the act,
which was within sixty days after the return to and filing in
the General Land Office of the surveyor's certificate, map and
field-notes of the land desired, he should forfeit all right
thereto, and should not thereafter be allowed to purchase the
same, and the land thus surveyed might be sold by the commissioner to any other party who would pay into the treasury
the money therefor. No official survey, as it appears, wu s
made of the whole amount of the lands which the plaintiff
below, Russ, desired to purchase, and no map or field-notes of
the whole amount were ever made and returned to the General
Land Office, and no payment for the lands was ever made or
tendered to the treasurer of the State. The claim therefore of
having acquired any right or title in and to the whole amount
of the lands by the proceedings taken was manifestly groundless. The plaintiff below could not convey any proprietary
interest in the whole amount of the lands desired until the required payment therefor was made, and any promise by the
defendant below, Telfener, to pay to him twenty-five cents,
or any amount, for an acre of such hoped for, and not acquired,
land or for any less quantity was worthless, without any value
or consideration. The plaintiff below, however, pushed his
claim for the compensation of twenty-five cents an acre, which,
not being recognized, he brought an action against Telfener

TELFENER

v. RUSS.

Opinion of the Court.

to recover the same and for the surveys and the return and
filing of the same and the map and field-notes in the district
court for the county of Travis, in Texas. The defendant
below, Telfener, appeared to the action, and on his motion it
was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas. Hie then answered the petition,
denying its allegations, and averring that his pretended agent,
one Baccarisse, through whom Russ alleged the contract was
made, never had any authority to make a contract of the
kind, and that Russ never acquired by his applications any
right or interest in the land, the right to purchase which
he claimed to have sold to the defendant, the survey, map
and field-notes never having been returned to the General
Land Office as required by the third section of the statute of
Texas, and he never having made or tendered any payment
for the same as also required by that section, and that any
interest thus acquired was without any tangible or appreciable value.
The case was tried in the. Circuit Court of the United
States at Austin, Texas, and a judgment therein was rendered in favor of Russ against Telfener, the plaintiff in
error, in July, 1893, for the sum of $518,440.50.
The latter thereupon took the case on writ of error to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, where
the judgment was affirmed in February, 1894.
He then filed a petition for rehearing in the Court of
Appeals, which was overruled in May, 1894, and the case
was afterwards removed into this court oil petition of the
plaintiff in error upon a writ of certiorari in October, 1894.
The plaintiff in error now submits, upon the writ of certiorari from this court, that there was manifest error in the
rulings of the Circuit Court of Appeals requiring the reversal
of its judgment, in this:
-First. That the law of Texas expressly restricted the right
of the applicant to.purchase any portion of the unappropriated public lands of the State to six hundred and forty acres
in one tract, and in this case the plaintiff claimed, and the
Court of 'Appeals sustained his claim, that he had acquired a
VOL. CLXII-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

right pursuant to the proceedings taken under the statute, to
purchase one million one hundred and sixty thousand three
hundred and twenty acres in one tract of the unappropriated
.lands of the State.
Second. That the evidence in the record shows that the
alleged contract between the plaintiff in error and Russ was
made on the first day of November, 1882, and that after
that date Russ caused ninety-eight sections of the lands, embracing over sixty-two thousand seven hundred and twenty
acres (the right or privilege to purchase which he pretended
to have previously sold to the plaintiff in error) to be surveyed, and though, until such survey and its completion and
return with map and field-notes to the commissioner of the
General Land Office and filing of the same in that office, no
right or privilege on the part of Russ to purchase any portion of the ninety-eight sections was initiated, the Court of
Appeals held that Russ had a valuable and assignable right
in those sections, whether the survey thereof and its fieldnotes were returned and filed in the General Land Office or
not, directly in contravention of the third section of the statute of Texas, which declares that: "It shall be the duty of
the surveyor, to whom application is made by responsible
parties, to survey the lands designated in said application
within three months from the date thereof, and within sixty
days after said survey to certify to, record and map the
field-notes of said survey; and he shall also, within the said
sixty days, return to and file the same in the General Land
Office, as required by law in other cases." And also in disregard of the forfeiture of any right acquired by Russ to purchase the lands for which he had applied, imposed by section
nine of the statute of Texas, which declares in express terms
that should any applicant for the purchase of public land fail,
refuse or neglect to pay for the same at the rate of fifty cents
per acre within the time prescribed in section five of this act,
that is, within sixty days after the return to and filing in the
General Land Office of the surveyor's certificate, map and fieldnotes of the land desired, he shall forfeit all right thereto,
and shall not thereafter be allowed to purchase the same, but

TELFENER v. RTUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

the land so surveyed m.ty be sold by the commissioner of the
General Land Office to any other person, firm or corporation
who shall pay into the treasury the purchase money therefor.
And the evidence contained in the record, shows the fact
to be that out of the eighteen hundred and thirteen sections
of land of which survey was desired, only the field-notes of
a portion of the sections were returned and filed within the
time required, yet the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
it was wholly immaterial whether the surveys under the application of Russ were made and 'returned within the sixty
days designated, or not returned at all, which ruling was
plainly in disregard of the express provisions of the act of
the Texas legislature, providing for the sale of any of the
unappropriated public lands of the State.
Third. That the testimony contained in the record of the
csuse further shows that none of the sections which Russ alleged that he had requested to be surveyed, and had obtained
a,survey thereof, were surveyed on the ground, but that which
was alleged to be a survey of the sections and returned as
such consisted of work done in the office-of the commissioner
of the General Land Office and presented as a survey, and
although it was held by the laws of Texas and the decision
of its Supreme Court that the surveys of its unappropriated
public land must be made on the ground, that the surveys'not
thus made were null and void, and did not confer upon the applicant any right of purchase, the Court of Appeals held .that
it *as immaterial whether the surveys were actually made on
the ground or consisted of office work.
Fourth. But assuming that the plaintiff finally pursued
fully all the proceedings required to obtain a right to purchase of Texas the whole amount of her unapportioned lands
claimed, namely, oe million one hundred and sixty thousand
three hundred and twenty acres, -and the contract alleged
between Russ, the plaintiff, and Telfener, the defendant, was
made, yet such contract was conditional and dependent upon
the performance by the respective parties of the conditions
devolving upon each party at the time stipulated, and ceased
to be binding upon either one on the failure of the other to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

comply with the performance stipulated on his part. Russ,
the plaintiff, was to acquire of the State such interest in the
property as would authorize him to sell and transfer to the
defendant a valid title thereto, and to acquire .such a valid
title he was bound to make performance of his contract with
the defendant by filing the surveys, map and field-notes of
the whole within the prescribed time so that the defendant
might have the right to demand patents of the State on payment of the purchase money of such property to its treasury,
which he never did, and therefore released the defendant of
all obligation to perform the alleged contract on his part.
Authority for this position will be found in the cases of Bank
of Columbia v. H1agner, 1 Pet. 455, 465; 11ill v. Grigsby &
Smiltle, 35 California, 656; and Englander v. Rogers, 41 California, 420.
In Bank of Columbia v. lagn er, 1 Pet. 455, 464, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Thompson of the distinctions made in
covenants or promises of parties to a contract for the purchase and sale of real property, whether they were to be
considered as independent or dependent, said: "It is evident
that the inclination of courts has strongly favored the latter
construction as being obviously the most just. The seller
ought not to be compelled to part with his property without
receiving the consideration, nor the purchaser to part with
his money without an equivalent in return. Hence in such
cases, if either a vendor or vendee wish to compel the other
to fulfil his contract, he must make his part of the agreement
precedent, and cannot proceed against the other without an
actual performance of the agreement on his part, or a tender
and refusal. And an averment to that effect is always made
in the declaration upon the contracts containing dependent undertakings, and that averment must be supported by proof."
In this case there was no offer or tender of performance by
the plaintiff to the State, which was essential to create an
obligation to pay any money on the part of the defendant.
There is, therefore, no ground for recovery by the plaintiff
upon his alleged contract with the defendant, there having
been no such performance, or offer of performance, on his

TELFENER v. RUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

part to the State as would enable him to acquire such an
interest in the property that he could comply with his engagement to the defendant.
In Hill v. Grigsby & Smittle, the Supreme Court of California held that "in a contract for the sale of real estate,
where the purchaser covenants-to pay the purchase money,
and the vendor covenants to convey the premises at the time
of payment, or as soon as it is paid, the covenants are mutual
and dependent, and neither can sue without showing a performance, or an offer to perform on his part. Performance,
or an offer to perform on the one part, is a condition precedent to the right to insist upon a performance on the other
part." 35 California, 656.
And in Englander v. Rogers, the same court held that "the
obligations of the parties to an agreement for.the sale of land
are mutual and dependent, where one is to convey, and the
other at the same time to pay the purchase money; and
neither can put the other in default, except by tendering a
performance on his part, unless the other party waives thetender, or by his conduct renders it unnecessary." 41 California, 420.
It is only upon the return and filing in the General Land
Office as stated above, that any right to the land surveyed
attaches to the applicant, and until such filing the State does
not agree to part with any interest in the lands surveyed, and
the purchaser does not acquire any.
Such was'the decision of this court when the case was before
it at the October term of 1891. 145 U. S. 522, 532. "An
applicant," we there said, "under the laws of Texas, for the
purchase of a portion of its unappropriated public lands, could
acquire no vested interest in the land applied for, that is, no
legal title to it, until the purchase price was paid, and the
patent of the State was issued to him. If the price was not
paid within sixty days after the return to the general land
office of a map of the land desired and- the field-notes of its
survey, he forfeited all right to the land and was nct thereafter allowed to purchase it." We added, however, "that he
had the right to complete the purchase and secure a patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

within the prescribed period, after the map andfield-notes of

the survey werefiled in the general land office," which is designated in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State as
a vested right that could not be defeated by subsequent legislation.
This reserved right, however, only applies where the map
and field-notes of the survey have been previously filed in the
general land office. No such reserved right could be asserted
in the present case, for no such field-notes of all the lands were
previously filed. The claim of Russ, the plaintiff below, was
that he had an assignable right on November 1, 1882, to
eighteen hundred and thirteen sections of land for which he
had made application in October of that year. There are
objections to recognizing that the field-notes of such alleged
eighteen hundred and thirteen sections were filed before the
expiration of three months. They were of no validity if not
made on the ground, and it is not pretended that the fieldnotes were made by a survey on the ground, and it is not
shown that they were made or could be made in any other
way.
Each of the eighteen hundred and thirteen sections was to
be in a tract of six hundred and forty acres. It appears by
the record that the field-notes of the survey purport to have
been made between the 13th of October and the 3d of November, 1882, except 'sections one to twenty-four. It is to be
borne in mind that each section of six hundred' and forty acres
comprises a distance around it of four miles, and the eighteen
hundred and thirteen sections, leaving out the twenty-four
sections which are claimed to have been surveyed on the 9th
of November, 1882, would embrace a circumference of seven
thousand one hundred and fifty-six-miles, and the survey of
the twenty-four sections would have embraced ninety-six miles
additional. No survey of land on the ground, of that extent,
could have been made during the time-designated. Neither
the twenty-four sections, embracing ninety-six miles, could
have been surveyed in one day - the 9th of November -

nor

the seventeen hundred and eighty-nine remaining, embracing
seven thousand one hundred and fifty-six miles, in the twenty-

TELFENER v. RUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

one days between the 13th of October and the 3d of November,
'1892. Therefore, if any surveys were returned in such sections
they must have been made up from office doc-iments, and not
by actual survey on the ground.
In Jumbo Cattle Co. v. Bacon, 79 Texas, 5, the Court of
Civil Appeals of Texas decided, that. under the act of July 14,
1879, as amended by the act of March 11, 1881, providing that
any person desiring to purchase any unappropriated land may
do so by causing the tract which said person desires to purchase
"to be surveyed" by the authorized public surveyor of the
county in which the land is situated, a survey not abtually
made in the field, but copied from the field-notes of a prior survey on file in the surveyor's office, is not subh a survey as is
contemplated by the act of the legislature; and that such a
survey does not entitle the proposed purchaser to a deed to
the land.
The claim that the plaintiff below, Rugs, had parted with
valuable property, for which he was entitled to a judgmhent
exceeding half a million of dollars from Count Telfener, for
having transferred to him his hopes of securing a million acres
of land from the State, for which he did not hold any promise or obligation of the State, does not merit consideration.
As a claim it rests upon no solid foundation.
It follows that, for the errors stated,
The judgment of the Circuit Court of 4.ppeals should be reversed, and the judgment of the Circuit Court should also
be reversed, and the cause remanded with a direction to
set aside the verdict and grant a new trial,and it is so

ordered.

