OCTOBER TERI, 1898.
Counsel for Parties.

TEXAS
ERROR

TO

AND
THE

PACIFIC RAILWAY
CLAYTON.
CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

COMPANY v.
FOR

THE

SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 222. Argued January 27, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

['he Texas and Pacific Railway Company received at Bonham, in Texas, 467
bales of cotton for transportation to Liverpool. It was to be taken by
the company over its road to New Orleans, and thence to Liverpool by a
steamship company, to which it was to be delivered by the railway company at its wharf in New Orleans. Each bill of lading contained the
following, among other clauses: " The terms and conditions hereof are
understood and accepted by the owner, viz.: (1) That the liability of the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company, in respect to said cotton, and under
this contract, is limited to its own line of railway, and will cease, and
its part of this contract be fully performed upon delivery of said cotton
to its next connecting carrier; and in case of any loss, detriment or damage done to or sustained by said cotton before its arrival and delivery at
its final destination, whereby any legal liability is incurred by any carrier,
that carrier alone shall be held liable therefor in whose actual custody
the cotton shall be at the time of such damage, detriment or loss." The
cotton reached New Orleans in safety, and was unloaded at the wharf, and
the steamship company was notified; but before it was taken possession
of by that company it was destroyed by fire at the wharf. The owners
in Liverpool having brought suit against the railway company to recover
the value of the cotton, that company, on the facts detailed at length in
the opinion of the court, contended that the cotton had passed out of its
possession into that of the steamship company; or, if the court should
hold otherwise, that its liability as common carrier had ceased, and that
it was only liable as a warehouseman. Held, that the goods were still in
the possession of the railway company at the time of their destruction;
and that that company was liable to their owners for the full value as a
common carrier, and not as a warehouseman.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

k'. Bush Taggart and .Ab'. Arthur H.
inerror.

asten for plaintiff

_Yb'. Treadwell Cleveland for defendants in error.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CLAYTON.

349

.Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the defendants in error, subjects
of the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, against the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, a corporation existing under
an act of Congres approved March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat.
573, and engaged in the business of a common carrier of merchandise for hire. Its object was to recover the value of four
hundred and sixty-seven bales of cotton destroyed by fire.
The complaint alleged that in the month of October, 1894,
at Bonham, Texas, the plaintiffs delivered to the defendant
railway company 500 bales of cotton, which it agreed to carry
safely and securely at a through price or rate from the place
of shipment to Liverpool, England, by way of New Orleans
and there deliver the same on the payment of the freight;
that the defendant failed to keep its agreement and to carry
safely 46.7 of the bales of cotton to Liverpool, and there to
deliver the same, although the plaintiffs had duly demanded
delivery thereof and had been at all times ready and willing
to pay the freight for the carriage; that through its negligence and carelessness and without the fault of the plaintiffs
those 467 bales, worth $17,314.43, were on or about November 12, 1894, wholly destroyed by fire at Westwego, Louisiana, "at which time and place the same were in the possession
of the defendant in the course of such carriage and as a common carrier;" and that the defendant has refused upon plaintiffs' demand to pay the value of the cotton so destroyed.
The defendant admitted the destruction of the cotton by
fire at the time and place named, but made such denial of
the material allegations of the complaint as put the plaintiffs
on proof of their case.
The plaintiffs having read in evidence the bills of lading,
and made proof of the value of the cotton as shown by certain stipulations between the parties, rested their case. Thereupon the defendant moved the court to direct the jury to
render a verdict in its behalf. That motion was denied with
exceptions to the defendant. At the close of all the evidence
the jury by direction of the court returned a vedict in favor

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiffs for the sum of $14,068, and judgment for
that sum with costs was entered against the defendant company. Upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals
that judgment was affirmed. 51 U. S. App. 676.
The action was based upon four bills of lading issued by the
railway company. Two of them were dated October 10th, and
the others October 15th and October 23d respectively. They
are alike in form, and identical in respect of the terms and
conditions of the contract. Each one showed a receipt by the
railway company of a given number of bales, "in apparent
good order and well conditioned, of Castner & Co., for delivery
to shippers' order or their assigns, at Liverpool, England, be
or they paying freight and charges as per margin;" also, that
the cotton received was to be carried "from Bonham, Texas,
to Liverpool, England, route, via New Orleans and Elder,
Dempster & Co. steamship line."
Each bill of lading contained also the following clauses:
"The terms and conditions hereof are understood and
accepted by the owner.
"Upon the following terms and conditions, which are fully
assented to and accepted by the owner, viz.:
"1. That the liability of the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company, in respect to said cotton, and under this contract,
is limited to its own line of railway, and will cease, and its
part of this contract be fully performed upon delivery of said
cotton to its next connecting carrier; and in case of any loss,
detriment or damage done to or sustained by said cotton
before its arrival and delivery at itsfnal destination,whereby
any legal liability is incurred by any carrier, that carrier alone
shall be held liable therefor in whose adtual custody the cotton shall be at the time of such damage, detriment or loss.
"2. That the rate of freight for transportation of said
cotton, specified in the margin hereof, is quoted and guaranteed with the distinct understanding and only on condition
that the weight -of said cotton is truly and correctly represented and stated; that said rate only includes the charge for
transportation, and the specification of said rate shall not be
taken as any guide for construction or evidence to extend this

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CLAYTON.

351

Opinion of the Court.

contract in other respects, or to bind the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company to transport or to become in anywise
responsible for said cotton after delivery thereof to its next
connecting carrier, but shall only bind said company to protect said rate. . .
"5. It is further agreed that in case said cotton is found
at point of delivery to have been injured by any of the excepted clauses specified in this bill of lading, the burden of
proof shall be upon the owner of said cotton or claimant to establish that such injury resulted from the fault of the carrier.
"6. That the said cotton shall be transported from the
port of New Orleans to the port of Liverpool, England, by
the Elder, Dempster & Co. steamship line, with liberty to
ship by any other steamship or steamship line; and upon
delivery of said cotton to said ocean carrier at the aforesaid
port this contract is accbmplished, and thereupon and thereafter the said cotton shall be subject to all the terms and
conditions expressed in the bills of lading and master's receipt
in use by the steamship or steamship company or connecting
lines by which said cotton may be transported; and upon
delivery of said cotton, at the usual place of delivery of the
steamship or steamship lines carrying the same, at the port
of destination the responsibility of the carriers shall cease."
The facts out of which the case arises are these: The railway company had warehouses and yards in New Orleans
where its road terminated. Westwego is a branch station or
terminal opposite that city. The company had a wharf with
tracks and an office and sheds on it- the wharf having been
constructed over the Mississippi River so that cars could be
run upon the railroad tracks in its rear and unloaded, and so
that vessels could come to its front to receive freight placed
on it. The cotton in question was unloaded at the wharf at
various dates from October 22, to November 4, 1894, and was
burned while on the wharf in the evening of November 12,
1894.
On each of the bills of lading are the following words:
"T. & P. contract No. 44." It does not appear that the
shippers were informed what were the terms of that contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It was in proof, however, that it was in substance a contract
with the Elder, Dempster & Co. steamship line to connect
with the Texas and Pacific Railway Company and receive
from the latter 20,000 bales of cotton during the months
of October, November and December, 1894, on the conditions
specified on the reverse side of the contract. Those conditions
do not affect the questions here presented, but it was proved
that the railway and the steamship companies agreed that
the place of delivery of the cotton under the contract between
them should be the wharf at Westwego.
The mode in which the railway company and the steamship company transacted business was as follows: Upon the
shipment of cotton, bills of lading would be issued in Texas
to the shipper. Thereupon the cotton would be loaded in the
cars of the railway company and a way bill indicating the
number and initial of the car, the number of the bill of lading,
the date of shipment, the number of bales of cotton, the consignor, the consignee, the date of the bill of lading, the number of bales forwarded on that particular way bill, the marks
of the cotton, the weight, rate, freights, amount prepaid, etc.,
would be given to the conductor of the train bringing the car
to Westwego. Upon the receipt of the way bill and car at
Westwego, a "skeleton " would be made out by the clerks at
that place for the purpose of unloading the car properly.
It contained the essential items of information covered by
the way bill, and had also the date of the making of the
skeleton. When this skeleton had thus been made out and
the car had been pushed in on the side track in the rear of the
wharf, it would be taken by a clerk known as a "check clerk,"
and with a gang of laborers, who actually handled the cotton
and were employed by the railway company, the car would
be opened; and as the cotton was taken from the car bale by
bale the marks would be examined to see that they corresponded with the items on the skeleton, and the same were
then checked. The cotton thus taken from the car was deposited at a place on the wharf designated by the check clerk,
and it would remain there until the steamship company came
and took it away. After the checking of the cotton in this

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CLAYTON.

353

. Opinion of the Court.

way to ascertain that the amounts, marks and general information of the way bill were correct, the skeleton would be transmitted to the general office of the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company in New Orleans, which thereupon would make out
what was designated as a "transfer sheet" that contained
substantially the information contained in the way bill, and
which being at once transmitted to the steamship company
or its agents was a notification understood by the steamship
company's agents that cotton for their line was on the wharf
at Westwego ready for them to come and take away. Upon
the receipt of these transfer sheets the steamship company
would collate the transfers relating to such cotton as was
destined by them for a particular vessel, advise the railway
company with the return of the transfers that this cotton
would be taken by the vessel named, and would thereupon
send the vessel with their stevedores to the wharf at Westwego. The clerk at Westwego would go around the wharf
and by the aid of the transfers returned from the steamship
agents point out to the master or mate of the vessel, or the one.
in charge of the loading, the particular lots of cotton named in
the transfers and designated for his vessel, and the stevedores
and their helpers would thereupon take the cotton and put it
on board the ship. In connection with the loading upon the
vessel or after the cotton was pointed out in lots, the master
or mate would sign a mate's receipt for. this cotton. The
stevedores and all men employed in loading the vessel were
wholly in the employ of the steamship company. The time
of coming to take cotton from the wharf was entirely in the
control of the steamship company. They sent for it as soon
as they were ready..
This was conceded to have been substantially the method
of business between the railway company and the steamship
company.
Counsel for the railway company correctly states that on
the morning of the fire, and on other occasions prior thereto
both in October and November, the officers of the railway
company gave verbal notice to the steamship company that
the cotton was upon the wharf ready for the steamship comVOL. cLxxm-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

pany to take away and made request that the same should be
removed; that the attention of the officers of the steamship
company was called to the amount of cotton on the wharf
which they had contracted to carry, and they were requested
to move it at the earliest possible moment and to comply with
their contract; and that in reply they said, in substance, that
their ships had been delayed, the principal cause being certain
labor troubles then existing in New Orleans with employ~s
of the steamship companies, and another cause being the bad
weather.
It may be taken as established by the evidence that the
cotton in question was for some days before the fire in a position on the wharf ready to be taken by the steamship company.
So far as the management of the wharf and the protection
of the cotton against fire were concerned, the evidence failed
to show any negligence on the part of the railway company.
The defendant moved for a verdict in its behalf upon two
grounds: 1. The evidence showed a delivery of the cotton to
the connecting carrier before the fire occurred. 2. If no delivery took place before the fire, there had been a sufficient
tender of the cotton to the steamship carrier, and thereafter,
in view of the facts, the railway company should be deemed
to have held it as a warehouseman, and as there was no proof
of negligence it was not liable for the value of the cotton.
The principal question arises out of that clause in the bill of
lading providing that in case of any loss, detriment or damage
done to or sustained by the cotton before its arrival and delivery at its final destination, whereby liability was incurred by
any carrier, that carrier alone should be held liable therefor
in whose actual custody the cotton should be at the time of
such damage, detriment or loss. The Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court concurred in the view that the
cotton when burned was, within the meaning of the contract,
in the actual custody of the railway company. It will not be
disputed that in determining this question regard must be had
to all the provisions of the contract. The clause declaring
that the railway company should be deemed to have fully performed its part of the contract "upon delivery of said cotton

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY C0. v. CLAYTON.

355

Opinion of the Court. •

to its next connecting carrier" must be taken with the clause
immediately following which makes that carrier alone liable
who had actual custody of it at the time of the loss. The first
thought suggested by these clauses, taken together, is that the
parties recognized the possibility that it might be often difficult to determine what, as between carriers, in view of their
relations to each othe, would constitute a sufficient delivery
to the connecting carrier. 4nd in order to meet that difficulty
the clause relating to actual custody was added, so as to
indicate that the delivery intended, so far as liability to the
shipper for loss was concerned, was not a constructive one, but
such a delivery as involved actual custody of the cotton by the
connecting carrier. We do not understand that counsel for
the railway company dispute this general view. But they insist that within the meaning of the contract, and under the
facts disclosed by the evidence, the steamship company had
actual custody of the cotton at the time it was burned. In
support of their contention they rely principally upon Prattv.
Railway Company, 95 U. S. 43, 46, and the cases upon which
that case largely restserriam v. Har~ford & .NewHaven
Railroad Co., 20 Conn. 354, and Converse v. Norwich & NYew
York Transportation Co., 33 Conn. 166.
It is important to understand what were the facts upon
which the judgment in Prattv. Railway Company was based.
According to the report of that case they were these:
The Grand Trunk Railway Company, engaged as a carrier
in the transportation of property, had received at Montreal to
be carried to Detroit certain goods shipped at Liverpool for
St. Louis. The goods reached Detroit in the cars of that
company on the 17th day of October, 1865, and were destroyed by fire in the night of the succeeding day.
The company had no freight room or depot at Detroit, but
it used there a single section or apartment in the freight depot
of the Michigan Central Railroad Company, a building several
hundred feet long, three or four hundred feet wide, and all
under one roof. Its different sections were without partition
walls between them. In the centre of the building there was
a railroad track for cars to be loaded with freight. The sec-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

tion in that building used by the Grand Trunk Company was
used only as a place for depositing goods and property that
came over its road or that were delivered for shipment over
it. In common with the rest of the building, that section
was under the control and supervision of the Michigan Central Company.
The Grand Trunk Company employed in its section two men,
who checked freight coming into it. But all freight that came
into that section was handled exclusively by the employ~s of
the Michigan Central Company, and the Grand Trunk Company paid that company a fixed compensation per hundredweight for such work as well as for the use of its section.
Goods coming into that section from the Grand Trunk Railroad to be carried over the road of the Mlichigan Central Company, after being unloaded were deposited by the employ~s
of the latter company in a certain place in the Grand Trunk
section, from which they were loaded into the cars of the
Michigan Central Company by its own employ~s, whenever
that company was ready to receive them ; and after being so
placed the employ~s of the Grand Trunk Company did not
further handle such goods.
Whenever the agent of the Michigan Central Company saw
any goods deposited in the section of the freight building used
by the Grand Trunk Company and which were to be carried
over the line of the former company, he would call on the
agent of the latter company in the building, and from the
way bill exhibited by the agent of the Grand Trunk Company
take a list of such goods, and would then for the first time
learn their place of destination, together with the amount of
freight charges due thereon. From the information thus
obtained a way bill would be made out by the Michigan Central Company for transportation of the goods over its line of
railway, and not before.
The goods referred to in the Pratt case were taken from
the Grand Trunk cars on the 17th day of October, 1865, and
deposited in the apartment of the freight building used by
the Grand Trunk Company in the place assigned for goods so
destined.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CLAYTON.

357

Opinion of the Court.

At the time the goods were forwarded from Montreal the
way bill in accordance with usage in such cases was made out
in duplicate, on which were entered a list of the goods, the
names of the consignees, the places to which they were consigned, and the charges against them from Liverpool to
Detroit. The conductor having charge of the train containing the goods would take one of these way bills, and on arriving at Detroit would deliver it to the checking clerk of the
Grand Trunk Company, "from which said clerk checked said
goods from the cars into said section." The other copy would
be forwarded to the agent of the Grand Trunk Company at
Detroit. "It was the practice of the Michigan Central Railroad Company, before forwarding such goods, to take from
said way bill in the custody of said checking clerk, in the
manner aforesaid, the place of destination and a list of said
goods, and the amount of accumulated charges, and to collect
the same, together with its own charges, of the connecting
carrier."
This court, in view of these facts, said: "We are all of the
opinion that these acts constituted a complete delivery of the
goods to the Michigan Central Company, by which the liability of the Grand Trunk Company was terminated. 1. They
Michigan
were placed within the control of the agents of the ]
Company. 2. They were deposited by one party and received
by the other for transportation, the deposit being accessory
merely to such transportation. 3. No further orders or direc- V
tions from the Grand Trunk Company were expected by the /
receiving party. Except for the occurrence of the fire, the
goods would have been loaded into the cars of the Michigan
Central Company, and forwarded, without further action of
the Grand Trunk Company. 4. Under the arrangement
between the parties, the presence of the goods in the precise
locality agreed upon, and the marks upon them, 'P. & F.,
St. Louis,' were sufficient notice that they were there for
transportation over the Michigan road towards the city of
St. Louis; and such was the understanding of both parties."
Referring to the section of the freight building specially used
by the Grand Trunk Company, the court said: "It was a por-

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the freight house of the Michigan Company, in which
a precise spot was selected or set apart, where the defendant
might deposit goods brought on its road and intended for
transportation over the Michigan road, and which, by usage
and practice and the expectation of the parties, were then
under the control of the Michigan Company, and to be loaded
on its cars at its convenience, without further orders from
the defendant."
We do not think that the judgment in Pratt v. Railway
Company controls the determination of the present case. In
many important particulars the two cases are materially different. In the Pratt case the court proceeded upon the
ground that the goods were deposited in a section of a freight
building set apart by the connecting carrier, the owner of the
building, for goods coming over the line of the first carrier to
be transported in the cars of the connecting carrier to the
place to which they were consigned, the goods having been
unloaded by the employ~s of the connecting carrier and by
them deposited in that section, to be put by such employ~s
into the cars of that carrier at its convenience. It was a case
in which the goods passed under the complete control and
supervision and into the actual custody of the connecting
carrier from the momefit they were deposited in the section
set apart for them.
In the case at bar, the facts plainly indicate that although
the goods had been placed by the first carrier upon the wharf,
and although that was the place at which the steamship company was to receive or usually received goods from the railway company for further transportation, they were not in
the actual possession or under the actual control of the connecting carrier at the time of the fire. The connecting carrier had not given a mate's receipt for the cotton or assumed
control of it. True, it had received notice that the goods
were on the wharf and could be taken into possession, but
such notice did not put the cotton into the actual custody of
the connecting carrier. The opportunity given it to take possession or its mere readiness to take possession was not under
the contract equivalent to placing the cotton in the actual

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CLAYTON.

359

Opinion of the Court.

custody of the steamship line. The undertaking of the railway company was to transport safely and deliver to the next
connecting carrier. But its further express agreement was,
in substance, that if any carrier incurred liability to the
shipper in respect of the goods, that carrier alone was to be
liable who, at the time the cotton was damaged or lost, had
it in actual custody. In other words, the delivery to the connecting carrier which would, as between the first carrier and
the shipper, terminate the liability of such carrier, must have
been a delivery that put the cotton into the actual, not constructive, custody of the connecting carrier. To hold otherwise is to eliminate from the contract the clause relating to
actual custody. The entire argument of the learned counsel
for the railway company in effect assumes that the contract
means no more than it would mean if that clause were omitted.
But the court cannot hold that that clause is meaningless, or
that it was inserted in the contract in ignorance of the meaning of the words "actual custody." Nor can it be supposed
that the parties understood the contract to mean that the connecting carrier was to be deemed to have actual custody from
the moment it could have taken actual custody if it had seen
proper to do so. So far as the shipper was concerned, the
actual custody of the first carrier could not cease until it was
in fact displaced by the actual custody of the connecting carrier. It may be that the railway company has good ground
for saying that, as between it and the connecting carrier, the
latter was bound to take actual custody whenever the railway
company was ready to surrender possession, and thereby relieve the latter from possible liability to the shipper in the
event of the loss of the cotton while in its custody. That is
a matter between the two carriers, touching which we express
no opinion. But we adjudge that the shipper cannot be compelled, when seeking damages for the value of his cotton
destroyed by fire in the course of its transportation, to look
to any carrier except the one who had actual custody of it at
the time of the fire. One of the conditions imposed upon him
by the contract was that if any carrier became liable to him
he should have no remedy except againist the one having such

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

actual custody. That remedy should not be taken from him
by a construction of the contract inconsistent with the ordinary meaning of the words used.
The two cases in the Supreme Court of Connecticut which
were cited in P'ratt v. Railway Co., undoubtedly sustain the
principles announced in that case, but they do not militate
against the views we have expressed in this case.
ew Haven Railroad Co., 20
ilferriam v. Hartford cf&
Conn. 354, 360, was an action on the case for negligence on
the part of a railroad company in the transportation and
delivery of certain goods, and in which it was a question
whether the goods had been delivered to the company before
their destruction. After stating the general rule to be that,
in order to charge a common carrier for the loss of property
delivered to it for transportation, the property faust be delivered into the hands of the carrier itself or its servant or
some person authorized by the carrier to receive it, and that
if it was merely deposited in the yard of an inn, or upon a
wharf to which the carrier resorts, or in the carrier's cart,
vessel or carriage, without the knowledge and acceptance of
the carrier, its servants or agents, there would be no sufficient
delivery to charge the carrier, the court said: "But this rule
is subject to any conventional arrangement between the parties in regard to the mode of delivery, and prevails only where
there is no such arrangement. It is competent for them to
make such stipulations on the subject as they see fit; and
when made, they, and not the general law, are to govern.
If therefore they agree that the property may be deposited
for transportation at any particular place, without any express notice to the carrier, such deposit merely would be a
sufficient delivery. So if, in this case the defendants had not
agreed to dispense with the express notice of the delivery of
the property on their dock, actual notice thereof to them
would have been necessary; but if there was such an agreement, the deposit of it there, merely, would amount to constructive notice to the defendants, and constitute an acceptance
of it by them. And we have no doubt, that the proof by the
plaintiff of a constant and habitual practice and usage of the

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CLAYTON.

361

Opinion of the Court.

defendants to receive property at their dock for transportation, in the manner in which it was deposited by the plaintiff,
and without any special notice of such deposit, was competent, and in this case, sufficient to show a public offer, by the
defendants, to receive property for that purpose and in that
mode; and that the delivery of it there accordingly by the
plaintiff in pursuance of such offer should be deemed a compliance with it on his part, and so to constitute an agreement
between the parties by the terms of which the property, if so
deposited, should be considered as delivered to the defendants
without any other notice. Such practice and usage were tantamount to an open declaration, a public advertisement, by
the defendants, that such a delivery should of itself be deemed
an acceptance of it by them for the purpose of transportation;
and to permit them to set up against those who had been
thereby induced to omit it, the formality of an express notice,
which had thus been waived, would be sanctioning the greatest injustice and the most palpable fraud."
Converse v. NAorwich and New York Transportation Co.,
33 Conn. 166, 181, involved the question whether certain goods
had been delivered to the connecting carrier prior to their
destruction by fire. The wharf and depot building in which
the goods were deposited by the first carrier were owned by
the connecting carrier, and the first carrier paid an annual
rental for its use in its business. The court, among other
things, said: "We have no difficulty in determining, indeed
we must hold, that there was a mutual agreement, or tacit
understanding equivalent to such an agreement, that the
transportation company should place the through freight at
that precise spot, and that the Northern road should take it
from thence at a time convenient to them. The construction
of the depot and the uniform usage are conclusive of it. The
depot was constructed with a platform by the side of the track
for the reception of goods to be taken from or put into the
cars; and on that platform the railroad company in the first
and every instance of delivery by them placed their freight,
and the transportation company at their convenience took it
away and carried it on board their boat. And so the trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

portation company in like manner, in the first and every
instance, placed there the freight for the Northern road;
and they at their convenience put it in their cars and took
it away. And the usage was precisely the same with the
Upon this wharf and into the enWorcester road. . .
closure the Northern road laid their track for the delivery
and reception of freight to and from the transportation company. Both parties then contemplated a delivery and reception on this wharf and in this enclosure, and obviously in the
precise manner actually pursued. . . . It is clear then that
both the transportation company and the Northern road contemplated that a placing of freight by either intended for the
other upon that platform was all that either was to do by way
of delivery of their freight to each other."
It is to be observed that neither in the Pratt case nor in the
Converse and _3ferriam cases was there any clause in the contract between the parties to the effect that the shipper, in enforcing his claim for liability, should look alone to the carrier
who had the actual custody of the goods at the time they were
lost or destroyed. It is the clause of that character in the
bill of lading now in suit which makes the judgments in the
Pratt,Converse and ferriam cases inapplicable to the present
case.
A further contention of the defendant is that at the time of
the fire it held the goods, if at all, only as a warehouseman
and not as a common carrier, and that the Circuit Court erred
in not so instructing the jury. We cannot assent to this view.
As the goods had not at the time of the fire passed into the
actual custody of the steamship company, and as the contract
expressly declared that if any carrier was liable for their destruction that one alone should be liable in whose actual custody the goods were when destroyed, the defendant could not
escape responsibility by showing that the connecting carrier
could by reasonable diligence have taken actual custody prior
to the fire. In other words, it could not convert itself into a
warehouseman by proving that it had, before the fire, tendered the goods to the connecting carrier, and that the latter
neglected, although without reasonable excuse, to take them

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Syllabus.

into its actual custody. Even if this were not so, the suggestion that the railway company had become a warehouseman
before the fire occurred can be disposed of on the grounds
stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Speaking by Judge
Wallace, that court said: "There is no room for the contention that the defendant had ceased to be a carrier and became
a warehouseman. It had done no act evidencing its intention
to renounce the one capacity and assume the other. Although
it had requested the steamship line to remove the cotton, it
had not specified any particular time within which compliance
was insisted on, and had not given notice that the cotton would
be kept or stored at the risk of the steamship line upon failure
to comply with the request. The request to come and remove
it ' as soon as practicable ' was, in effect, one to remove it at the
earliest convenience of the steamship line. There is nothing
in the case to indicate that the defendant had not acquiesced in
the delay which intervened between the request and the fire."
51 U. S. App. 676, 686.
Under the views expressed in this opinion, it is unnecessary
to enter upon a review of the numerous cases cited by counsel
for the railway company in their able and elaborate brief to
support the different propositions discussed by them.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in
directing a verdict for the plaintiff, and the judgment is
Afwmed.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 59.

APPEALS

FOR

THE

Submitted November 10, 1898. - Decided February 27, 1S99.

In proceedings taken by a District Attorney of the United States, by order
of the Attorney General at the request of the Secretary of War, and
conducted under directions of the latter, to secure the condemnation of
private lands within the limits of his district for the purpose of erecting

