UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Syllabus.

into its actual custody. Even if this were not so, the suggestion that the railway company had become a warehouseman
before the fire occurred can be disposed of on the grounds
stated by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Speaking by Judge
Wallace, that court said: "There is no room for the contention that the defendant had ceased to be a carrier and became
a warehouseman. It had done no act evidencing its intention
to renounce the one capacity and assume the other. Although
it had requested the steamship line to remove the cotton, it
had not specified any particular time within which compliance
was insisted on, and had not given notice that the cotton would
be kept or stored at the risk of the steamship line upon failure
to comply with the request. The request to come and remove
it ' as soon as practicable ' was, in effect, one to remove it at the
earliest convenience of the steamship line. There is nothing
in the case to indicate that the defendant had not acquiesced in
the delay which intervened between the request and the fire."
51 U. S. App. 676, 686.
Under the views expressed in this opinion, it is unnecessary
to enter upon a review of the numerous cases cited by counsel
for the railway company in their able and elaborate brief to
support the different propositions discussed by them.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in
directing a verdict for the plaintiff, and the judgment is
Afwmed.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 59.

APPEALS

FOR

THE

Submitted November 10, 1898. - Decided February 27, 1S99.

In proceedings taken by a District Attorney of the United States, by order
of the Attorney General at the request of the Secretary of War, and
conducted under directions of the latter, to secure the condemnation of
private lands within the limits of his district for the purpose of erecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
fortifications thereon for the use of the United States, he is performing
his official duties as District Attorney of the United States, and is not
entitled to any extra or special compensation for them.

T.H case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for the United States.
Mr. Jesse Johnson in person for Johnson.
Mit. JUsTIcE l-ARLi

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of New York a judgment was rendered against the
Government and in favor of the defendant in error Johnson
for the sum of $6513.95. Of that amount $6500 represented
the value of legal services rendered for the United States by
Johnson, while he held the office of District Attorney for that
district in proceedings in that court for the condemnation of
certain lands for public purposes.
The case having been carried by writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, certain questions of law arose as to which
instructions are desired from this court -the controlling question being whether Johnson was entitled, for the services
rendered, to any compensation beyond the salary and emoluments attached to his office.
The sections of the Revised Statutes (Title XIII, c. 16) upon
the construction of which the answers to the questions propounded more or less depend are the following:
"SEc. 355. No public money shall be expended upon any
site or land purchased by the United States for the purpose of
erecting thereon any armory, arsenal, fort, fortification, navyyard, customhouse, lighthouse or other public building, of
any kind whatever, until the written opinion of the Attorney
General shall be had in favor of the validity of the title, nor
until the consent of the legislature of the State in which the
land or site may be, to such purchase, has been given. The
District Attorneys of the United States, upon the application

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Attorney General, shall furnish any assistance or information in their power in relation to the titles of the public
property lying within their respective districts. And the
Secretaries of the Departments, upon the application of the
Attorney General, shall procure any additional evidence of
title which may be deemed necessary,.and which may not be
in possession of the officers of the Government, and the expense of procuring it shall be paid out of the appropriations
made for the contingencies of the Departments respectively."
"SE c. 767. There shall be appointed in each District, except
in the Middle District of Alabama, and the Northern District
of Georgia, and the Western District of South Carolina, a
person learned in the law, to act as Attorney for the United
"
.
States in such District.
"SEC. 770. The District Attorney for the Southern District
of New York is entitled to receive quarterly for all his services
a salary at the rate of six thousand dollars a year. For extra
services the District Attorney for the District of California is
entitled to receive a salary at the rate of five hundred dollars
a year, and the District Attorneysfor all other districts at the
rate of two hundred dollars a year.
"SEC. 771. It shall be the duty of every District Attorney
to prosecute in his district all delinquents for crimes and
offences cognizable under the authority of the United States,
and all civil actions in which the United States are concerned,
and, unless otherwise instructed by the Secretary of the Treasury, to appear in behalf of the defendants in all suits or proceedings pending in his district against collectors, or other
officers of the revenue, for any act done by them or for the
recovery of any money exacted by- or paid to such officers
and by them paid into the Treasury."
"SEc. 823. The following and no other compensation shall
be taxed and allowed to attorneys, solicitors and proctors in
the courts of the United States, to District Attorneys, clerks
of the Circuit and District Courts, marshals, commissioners, witnesses, jurors and printers in the several .States and Territories, except in cases otherwise expressly provided by law. But
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit attorneys, solici-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tors and proctors from charging to and receiving from their
clients, other than the Government, such reasonable compensation for their services, in addition to the taxable costs, as
may be in accordance with general usage in their respective
States, or may be agreed upon between the parties.
"SEc. 824. . . . For examination by a District Attorney,
before a Judge or commissioner, of persons charged with crime,
five dollars a day for the time necessarily employed. For each
day of his necessary attendance in a court of the United States
on the business of the United States, when the court is held at
the place of his abode, five dollars; and for his attendance
when the court is held elsewhere, five dollars for each day of
the term.
"SEc. 825. There shall be taxed and paid to every District
Attorney two per centum upon all moneys collected or realized
in any suit or proceeding arising under the revenue laws, and
conducted by him, in which the United States is a party,
which shall be in lieu of all costs and fees in such proceeding."
"SEC. 827. When a District Attorney appears by direction
of the Secretary or Solicitor of the Treasury, on behalf of any
officer of the revenue in any suit against such officer, for any
act done by him, or for the recovery of any money received
by him and paid into the Treasury in the performance of his
official duty, he shall receive such compensation as may be
certified to be proper by the court in which the suit is brought,
and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury."
"SEc. 833. Every District Attorney, clerk of a District
Court, clerk of a Circuit Court, and marshal, shall, on the first
days of January and July, in each year, or within thirty days
thereafter, make to the Attorney General, in such form as he
may prescribe, a written return for the half year ending on said
days, respectively, of all the fees and emoluments of his office,
of every name and character, and of all the necessary expenses
of his office, including necessary clerk hire, together with the
vouchers for the payment of the same for such last half year.
He shall state separately in such returns the fees and emoluments received or payable under the bankrupt act; and every
'marshal shall state separately therein the fees and emoluments

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

received or payable for services rendered by himself personally,
those received or payable for services rendered by each of his
deputies, naming him, and the proportion of such fees and
emoluments which, by the terms of his service, each deputy is
to receive. Said returns shall be verified by the oath of the
officer making them.
"SEC. 834. The preceding section shall not apply to the fees
and compensation allowed to District Attorneys by sections
eight hundred and twenty-five and eight hundred and twentyseven. All other fees, charges and emoluments to which a
District Attorney or a marshal may be entitled by reason of
the discharge of the duties of his office, as now or hereafter
prescribed by law, or in any case in which the United States
will be bound by the judgment rendered therein, whether prescribed by statute or allowed by a court, or any judge thereof,
shall be included in the semi-annual return required of said
officers by the preceding section.
"SEc. 835. No District Attorney shall be allowed by the
Attorney General to retain of the fees and emoluments of his
office which he is required to include in his semi-annual return,
for his personal compensation, over and above the necessary
expenses of his office, including necessary clerk hire, to be audited and allowed by the proper accounting officers of the
Treasury Department, a sum exceeding six thousand dollars a
year, or exceeding that rate for any time less than a year."
"SEc. 844. Every District Attorney, clerk and marshal
shall, at the time of making his half-yearly return to the Attorney General, pay into the Treasury, or deposit to the credit
of the Treasurer, as he may be directed by the Attorney General, any surplus of the fees and emoluments of his office,
which said return shows to exist over and above the compensation and allowances authorized by law to be retained by him."
"SEc. 1764.

No allowance or compensation shall be made

to any officer or clerk, by reason of the discharge of duties which
belong to any other officer or clerk in the same or any other
Department; and no allowance or compensation shall be made
for any extra services whatever, which any oificer or clerk may
be required to perform, unless expressly authorized by law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"Sxc. 1765. No ojlcer in any branch of the public service,
or any other person whose salary, pay or emoluments are fixed
by law or regulations, shall receive any additional pay, extra
allowance or compensation, in any form whatever, for the disbursement of public money, or for any other service or duty
whatever unless the same is authorized by law, and the appropriation therefor explicitly states that it is for such additional
pay, extra allowance or compensation."
By section 3 of the act of June 20, 1874, c: 328, 18 Stat. 85,
109, it was provided that "no civil qficer of the Government
shall hereafter receive any compensation or perquisites, directly or indirectly, from the Treasury or property of the
United States beyond his salary or compensation allowed by
law: Provided,That this shall not be construed to prevent
the employment and payment by the Department of Justice
of District Attorneys as now allowed by law for the performance of services not covered by their salariesor fees."
The facts to be considered in connection with these statutory provisions are set forth in a statement accompanying the
certificate of questions. They may be thus summarized:
By the fortification act of Auugust 18, 1890, c. 797, 26 Stat.
315, 316, appropriations were made for gun and mortar batteries, as follows: "For construction of gun and mortar
batteries for defence of Boston Harbor, two hundred and
thirty-five thousand dollars; New York, seven hundred and
twenty-six thousand dollars; San Francisco, two hundred
and sixty thousand dollars."
The same act contained the following provision: "For the
procurement of land, or right pertaining thereto, needed for
the site, location, construction or prosecution of works for fortifications and coast defences, five hundred thousand dollars,
or so much thereof as may be necessary, and hereafter the
Secretary of War may cause proceedings to be instituted in the
name of the United States, in any court having jurisdiction of
such proceedings, for the acquirement by condemnation of any
land, or right pertaining thereto, needed for the site, location,
construction or prosecution of works for fortifications and
coast defences, such proceedings to be prosecuted in accord-

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ance with the laws relating to suits for the condemnation of
property of the States wherein the proceedings may be instituted: Provided,That when the owner of such land or rights
pertaining thereto shall fix a price for the same, which in the
opinion of the Secretary of War shall be reasonable, he may
purchase the same at such price without further delay: Providedfurther,That the Secretary of War is hereby authorized
to accept on behalf of the United States donations of land, or
rights pertaining thereto, required for the above-mentioned
purposes: And provided further, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize an expenditure, or to involve the Government in any contracts for the future payment
of money, in excess of the sums appropriated therefor."
By the subsequent act of July 23, 1892, c. 233, 27 Stat. 257,
258, five hundred thousand dollars; or so much thereof as was
necessary, was appropriated "for the procurement of land, or
right pertaining thereto, needed for the site, location, construction or prosecution of work for fortifications and coast
defences."
In the year 1891, at the special written request of the Secretary of War, Johnson, being then United States District
Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, was instructed
by the Attorney General of the United States to institute
proceedings on behalf of the Government of the United States
for the condemnation for a mortar battery of certain lands
on Staten Island, New York, adjacent to Fort Wadsworth in
that district. With such instructions the Attorney General
enclosed a copy of the Secretary's request, and stated that he
acted agreeably thereto.
Proceeding under the above employment in the name of
the Government of the United States, Johnson took steps to
acquire such lands by proceedings for their condemnation,
and obtained decrees against the persons interested in them.
In order to carry on such proceedings it was necessary that
he should search and ascertain, and he did search and ascertain, the titles to the lands sought to be condemned. After
rendering these services, he presented two bills against the
Government, which were approved and allowed by the AttorVOL. cLxII-24

OCTOBER TER1M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ney General, one being for $4000, and the other for $2500.
These services were rendered by him in 1892 and were worth
those sums respectively.
In the statement that accompanies the questions certified it
is said that for many years before 1892, and for many years
prior to Johnson's employment, it was the custom and usage
of the Government to pay to District Attorneys, under like
employment and for like services, compensation outside of
their annual salaries as fixed by statute at the sum of two
hundred dollars.
Johnson bad received from the United States for services
(other than those above mentioned) rendered for the Government in the year 1892, either as District Attorney or under
employment or directions of the Attorney General, the sum
of $2250.
In 1891 he rendered services to the Government in and
about the acquisition of other lands in his district by condemnation proceedings. These services were rendered under
employment similar to that above stated in acquiring lands
for like purposes. For the services thus rendered in 1891 he
was paid by the Government a sum exceeding six thousand
dollars. He had also been paid for other services rendered
to the Government in 1891 further and additional sums. The
aggregate so paid for services in 1891 exceeded six thousand
dollars by a sum which, together with the amounts paid to
him as above stated for services rendered in 1892, equalled
the sum of six thousand dollars. Such excess over six thousand dollars existed and appeared after crediting and allow-

ing on the sums so received by him the necessary expenses of
his office, including the necessary clerk hire, as audited and
allowed to him in the years 1891 and 1892.
After the services rendered in 1892, and after the above
sum of six thousand five hundred dollars bad been allowed
by the Attorney General as stated, the accounting officers of
the United States caused a warrant on funds appropriated for
the War Department to be drawn for the sum of six thousand
five hundred dollars and "conveyed into the Treasury of the
United States." That warrant "was drawn and conveyed"

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

against and in payment of the amount which Johnson, for
services rendered in 1891, had been paid in excess of the
maximum fixed by section 835 of the Revised Statutes. Such
conveyance and application were made by the Government
without his consent, and except as above stated his claim for
six thousand five hundred dollars has not been allowed or paid.
After the above services were rendered in 1892, Johnson
requested that the amounts so allowed be paid by the officers
of the Treasury, but those officers refused to audit or allow
his bills or any part of the same except as above stated, and
refused to allow or pay to him any part of the same.
Upon the trial in the Circuit Court it was admitted that
the expense account of Johnson was $1018.23, which was
allowed by the Attorney General; that if the amounts he
received for services in obtaining lands in said district (which
services were similar in nature, employment, etc., to those
here claimed for) are to be computed as part of the amount
limited by section 835 of the Revised Statutes, then he had
received in excess of the amount so limited for the year 1891
a sum which, added to the amounts received by him for the
year 1892, (and which are fees and emoluments referred to
by section 835 of the Revised Statutes,) equalled the sum of
six thousand dollars and the legitimate office expenses of his
office; and that if the services involved-in this action and the
other similar services stated above are to be accounted as a
part of the maximum fixed by section 835 of the Revised
Statutes, and if the Government, having paid him for one
year in excess of such maximum, has the right to recoup, set
off or counterclaim such overpayment against an amount
otherwise due, then Johnson had no cause of action as set
forth in his present suit.
The Circuit Court of Appeals desires information upon the
following questions of law arising out of the above facts:
1. Whether Johfison is entitled to be paid the said sum of
six thousand five hundred dollars for the services rendered by
him in the year 1892? This question is submitted without
reference to the provisions of section 835 of the Revised
Statutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

2. Whether, if the first question be answered in the affirmative, such compensation should be included in the fees and
emoluments of claimant's office within the meaning of sections 834, 835 and 844 of the Revised Statutes.
3. Whether, if both of the above questions are answered
in the affirmative, the Government of the United States can,
under the circumstances stated, apply the six thousand five
hundred dollars as such sum was applied, on account of the
payments made by the United States for services rendered by
Johnson in the year 1891.
The Government contends that the services in question
were such as the law required the District Attorney to render,
and consequently that he could receive no special compensation therefor.
In support of this proposition the Assistant Attorney General refers to Gibson v. Peters, 150 U. S. 342, 3417. That was
an action against the receiver of a national bank to recover
the value of legal services alleged to have been rendered or
offered to be rendered by a District Attorney of the United
States in a suit brought in the name of the receiver against
one McDonald. In its opinion in that case this court referred
to section 380 of the Revised Statutes providing that "all
suits and proceedings arising out of the provisions of law
governing national banking associations, in which the United
States or any of its officers or agents shall be parties, shall be
conducted by the District Attorneys of the several districts
under the direction and supervision of the Solicitor of the
Treasury," and observed that the suit against McDonald was
one embraced by that section, and that the receiver was, within
its meaning, an officer and agent of the United States.
After referring also to sections 770, 823 to 827 inclusive,
1764 and 1765, the court said: "It ought not to be difficult
under any reasonable construction of these statutory provisions
to ascertain the intention of Congress. A distinct provision
is made for the salary of a District Attorney, and he cannot
receive, on that account, any more than the statute prescribes.
But the statute is equally explicit in declaring, in respect to
compensation that may be ' taxed and allowed,' that he shall

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

receive no other than that specified in sections 823 to 827 inclusive," except in cases otherwise expressly provided by law.'
It also declares that no officer in any- branch of the public
service shall receive any additional pay, extra allowance or
compensation, in any form whatever, for any service or duty,
unless the same is expressly authorized by law, or unless the
appropriation therefor explicitly states that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance or compensation. No room is left
here for construction. It is not expressly provided by law that
a District Attorney shall receive compensation for services performed by him in conducting suits arising out of the provisions of the national banking law in which the United. States
or any of its officers or agents are parties. Without such express provision, compensation for services of that character
Nor can the expenses of
cannot be taxed, allowed or paid. N
the receivership be held to include compensation to the District Attorney for conducting a suit in which the receiver
is a party, for the obvious reason that the statute does not
expressly provide compensation for such services. Congress
evidently intended to require the performance by a District
Attorney of all the duties imposed upon him .by law, without
any other remuneration than that coming from his salary,
from the compensation or fees authorized to be taxed and
allowed, and from such other compensation as is expressly
allowed by law specifically on account of services named.
Nothing in the last clause of section 823 militates against
this view. On the contrary, the proper interpretation of that
clause supports the conclusion we have reached. Its principal object was to make it clear that Congress did not intend to
prohibit attorneys, solicitors and proctors, representing individuals in the courts of the United States, from charging and
receiving, in addition to taxable fees and allowances, such
compensation as was reasonable under local usage, or such as
was agreed upon between them and their clients. But to prevent the application of that rule to the United States, the
words ' other than the Government' were inserted. The introduction of those words in that clause emphasizes the purpose
not to subject the United States to. any system for compen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

sating District Attorneys except that expressly established by
Congress, and, therefore, to withhold from them any compensation for extra or special services, rendered in their official
capacity, which is not expressly authorized by statute. Whatever legal services were rendered or offered to be rendered by
the plaintiff in the McDonald suit were rendered or offered to
be rendered by him as United States District Attorney, and
in that capacity alone. As such officer he is not entitled to
demand compensation for the services so rendered or offered
to be rendered."
The fLll scope of the decision in Gibson v. Peters is shown
by this extract from the opinion in that case. The point in
judgment was that the services rendered by Gibson were in
discharge of duties imposed upon him by law in relation to
suits of a particular kind, and as no statute made provision
for additional or special compensation for such services, his
claim against the United States for extra pay could not be
allowed.
In United States v. Winston, 170 U. S. 522, 525, which involved the question whether the District Attorney of the
United States for the District of Washington could be allowed special compensation for services rendered by direction or at the instance of the Attorney General in a case in
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit sitting at
San Francisco, it was held that the duties of the claimant as
District Attorney of the United States were limited by the
boundaries of his district; and that while he was required to
discharge all his official duties within those boundaries, he was
not required to go beyond them. The court said: "Whenever the Attorney General calls upon a District Attorney to
appear for the Government in a case pending in the Court of
Appeals, he is not directing him in the discharge of his official
duties as District Attorney, but is employing him as special
counsel. The duties so performed are not performed by him
as District Attorney, but by virtue of the special designation
and employment by the Attorney General, and the compensation which he may receive is not a part of his compensation
as District Attorney or limited by the maximum prescribed

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

therefor. It seems to us that this is the clear import of the
statutes, and we have no difficulty in agreeing with the Court

of Appeals in its opinion upon this question."
In Ruhin v. United States, 66 Fed. Rep. 531, 532, it was
held that as it is the. duty of a District Attorney to prosecute
in his district all civil actions in which the United States are
concerned, he is not entitled to extra compensation for conducting a suit to recover pension money fraudulently secured.
The controlling question, therefore, in the present case is,
whether Johnson was under a duty imposed upon him as District Attorney to perform the services for which he here claims
special compensation. If such was his duty as defined by law,
then he is forbidden by statute from receiving any special
compensation on account of such services-this, for the reason that no appropriation for such compensation has been made
by any statute 'explicitly stating that it was for such additional pay, extra allowance or compensation. §§ 1764, 1765.
On the other hand, if his duties as District Attorney did not

embrace such services as he rendered, and for which he here
claims special compensation, then he is entitled to be paid therefor without reference to the regular salary, pay or emoluments
attached to his office.
What relations did the District Attorney have, by virtue
of his office, with the proceedings instituted in his district for
the condemnation of land under the act of 1890 relating to
gun and mortar batteries for the defence of New York? That
act authorized the Secretary to cause condemnation proceedings to be instituted, in the name of the United States-such
proceedings to be prosecuted in accordance with the laws relating to suits for the condemnation of property in the States
wherein the proceedings were instituted. The application of
the Secretary to the Attorney General was doubtless made
under the provisions of the act of August 1, 1888, c. 728, 25
Stat. 357, providing that in every case in which the Secretary
of the Treasury, "or any other officer of the Government has
been, or hereafter shall be, authorized to procure real estate
for the erection of a public building or for other public uses,
he shall be, and hereby is, authorized to acquire the same for

OCTOBER TERll, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States by condemnation under judicial process,
whenever in his opinion it is necessary or advantageous to the
Government to do so, and the United States Circuit or District
Courts of the district wherein such real estate is located shall
have jurisdiction of proceedings for such condemnation, and
it shall be the duty of the Attorney General of the United
States, upon every application of the Secretary of the Treasury, under this act, or such other officer, to cause proceedings
to be commenced for condemnation, within thirty days from
the receipt of the application at the Department of Justice."
By the same act it was provided that "the practice, pleadings,
forms and modes of proceeding in causes arising under the
provisions of this act shall conform, as near as may be, to the
practice, pleadings, forms and proceedings existing at the time
in like causes in the courts of record of the State within which
such Circuit or District Courts are held, any rule of the court
to the contrary notwithstanding."
This statute being in force, the Attorney General directed
the defendant in error as District Attorney to institute on
behalf of the Government the condemnation proceedings
desired by the Secretary of War. It was of course not contemplated by Congress that the Attorney General should be
away from the National Capital in order to give his personal
attention to the conduct of such proceedings. He therefore
directed the District Attorney of the district in which the
lands were situated to institute and prosecute the required
proceedings. Could the District Attorney have declined to
represent the United States in such proceedings upon the
ground that he was not required by law to do so in his official
capacity? The answer to that question depends upon the construction to be given to section 771 of the Revised Statutes
which defines generally the duties of District Attorneys. That
section, as we have seen, makes it the duty of every District
Attorney to prosecute in his district, not only all crimes and
offences cognizable under the authority of the United States,
but" all civil actions in which the United States are concerned."
We are of opinion that within the reasonable meaning of that
section the proceedings instituted in the Federal court by Dis-

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

trict Attorney Johnson to condemn the lands in question for
the benefit of the United States constituted a civil action in
which the Government was concerned; and that in following
the directions of the Attorney General to institute such proceedings and have the lands referred to condemned for the
United States, he was only discharging an official duty imposed upon him by statute. It would involve a very narrow
construction of section 771 to hold that judicial proceedings
in a court of the United States to condemn lands for the use
of the Government were not civil actions in which the United
States was concerned. We think that when he attended court
in the prosecution of those proceedings he was, within the
meaning of section 824, "on the business of the United
States."
Under the interpretation placed by us upon sections 771 and
824, it results that according to the principle announced in
Gibson v. Peters the defendant in error having been under a
duty to represent the United States in the condemnation proceedings referred to, and there being no statute explicitly
allowing him extra compensation for the services rendered
by him in and about those proceedings, his present claim
must be disallowed.
This conclusion it is contended is not consistent with the
usage and custom which has obtained in the Executive Departments of the Government for many years prior to the year
1892. How long such usage or custom prevailed, upon what
specific grounds it rested, and in what way it is evidenced,
does not appear from the statement of facts accompanying the
certificate of questions. The opinions of Attorneys General
to which our attention has been called by counsel certainly
do not cover the precise question now before us. Some of
them hold that a District Attorney is entitled to special compensation for representing the interests of the United States
in such courts not being
in suits in state courts -services
his official duties. That
regulating
required by the statutes
case. We perceive
present
the
in
is a question not involved
any such longbeen
has
there
no reason for holding that
DepartExecutive
continued practical interpretation by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ments of the Government of sections 1764 and 1765 of the
Revised Statutes, brought forward from the acts of March 3,
1839, c. 82, 5 Stat. 337, 349, § 3; August 23, 1842, c. 183, 5
Stat. 510, § 2; and August 26, 1842, c. 202, 5 Stat. 525, § 12;
as to justify this court in departing in any degree from such
an interpretation of those sections as is required by the obvious
import of the words found in them. Such a practice may be
resorted to in aid of interpretation, but it cannot be recognized
as controlling when the statute to be interpreted is clear and
explicit in its language and its meaning not doubtful. United
States v. Graham, 110 U. S. 219, 221; United States v. lealey,
160 U. S. 136, 141.
It may, however, be observed that some of the opinions of
Attorneys General rest upon rules of construction that forbid
the allowance of the claim of the defendant in error. In 1855,
special or extra compensation was claimed by a District Attorney for services rendered under employment by the Navy
Department in a certain case in a Circuit Court of the United
States in which the Government was a party. Attorney General Cushing referred to the act of February 26, 1853, regulating "the fees and costs to be allowed clerks, marshals and
attorneys of the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States, and for other purposes." 10 Stat. 161, c. 80. That
act declared, among other things, that in lieu of the compensation then allowed to the officers named, no other compensation should be taxed and allowed. It also established for
District Attorneys a fee for each day "of his necessary
attendance in a court of the United States on the business
of the United States." The provisions of the act of 1853
have been preserved in Chapter sixteen of Title XIII of the
Revised Statutes. After referring to some former opinions
given by him, Mr. Cushing said: "But in a matter like that
now before me, which is of the direct official business of a
District Attorney in the court of the United States for his
district, which is of the very class of business for which the
act of 1853 expressly and in plain terms provides, and as to
which any other compensation is emphatically excluded by
the strong terms of that act, it does not appear to me that

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

any extra or special compensation can'be lawfully paid to
the District Attorney. Nor, in my judgment, is the case
taken out of the general rule by the fact that the suit concerns immediately the business of the Navy Department, and
has been the subject of instructions from the Secretary of the
Navy. All the civil business of the Government concerns some
one of its Departments, and may require the attention of its
Head. It cannot be that a suit in the name of the United
States, pending in the District or Circuit Court, is out of the
scope of the regular duty of a District Attorney because of its
arising in the business of the Navy Department rather than
the Treasury or any other Department; nor that in such a
case the service of the District Attorney becomes that of
counsel specially retained by the Department. This latter
enactment must have been designed, it seems to me, for contingencies, where a Head of Department needs professional
services in a cas6 not provided for by the particular terms of
the law, and the special compensation to a District Attorney
for the performance of such a service must depend on that
fact, not on the fact that he has been instructed by the Head
of the Department. A contrary construction would lay the
foundation for extra compensation to District Attorneys in
almost every case in which they appear in civil actions in
which the United States are concerned." 7 Op. 84, 86.
At a later date, May 25, 1858, Attorney General Black had
before him an application for special allowance to a District
Attorney for services rendered by him. The claim, he said,
involved three questions, the first of which was: Can the
District Attorney, in any case, charge more for his services
than the fee-bill expressly allows? He said: "The first question does not, for a moment, admit of any other reply .than a
direct negative: the District Attorney can receive such compensation, and such only, as the fee-bill gives. This is not
only the general policy of the Government, but it is expressly
declared to be the will of Congress by the act of 1853. When,
therefore, a District Attorney makes a charge against the
Treasury for service§, he must support it by showing some
clause in the fee-bill which authorizes him to receive what he

OCTOBER TERMiV,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

claims. When a duty is enjoined upon him by the law of his
office and not merely by the request of a Department, he is
bound to perform it and take as compensation what the law
gives him. That is his contract; and if it be a bad one for
him he has no remedy but resignation. The subject is not
open to a new bargain between him and any other officer of
the Government. All criminal prosecutions and all civil suits
in which the United States are a party of record fall within
this principle. In them no charge for extra services can be
legally allowed, though it be true that some of them require an
amount of labor and skill for which the compensation allowed
by the fee-bill is altogether inadequate. I cannot make out, in
any way satisfactory to my own mind, the ingenious distinction which would pay the officer as attorney what the fee-bill
gives, and then pay him besides a quantum meruit for managing the same case as counsel." 9 Op. 146, 147.
In an opinion rendered March 13, 1888, Attorney G neral
Garland, upon an extended review of the adjudged cases, said:
"From these authorities it may be derived that the elements
necessary to justify the payment of compensation to an officer
for additional services are, that they shall be performed by
virtue of a separate and distinct appointment authorized by
law; that such services shall not be services added to or connected with the regular duties of the place he holds; and that
a compensation, whose amount is fixed by law or regulation,
shall be provided for their payment." 19 Op. 121, 125, 126.
The same views were expressed by the Second Comptroller
of the Treasury in an opinion delivered by him as late as 1893
in Earhart'scase. Cousar's Dig. 12.
We are of opinion that Congress intended by sections 1764
and 1765 to uproot the practice under which, in the absence
of any statute expressly authorizing it, extra allowances or
special compensation were made to public officers for services
which they were required to render in consideration only of
the fixed salary and emoluments established for them by law.
Our duty is to give effect to the legislation of Congress, and
not to defeat it by an interpretation plainly inconsistent with
the words used.

UNITED STATES v. MATTHEWS.
Syllabus.

The conclusion is that as the defendant in error was under
a duty as District Attorney to represent the United States in
the condemnation proceedings referred to (§ 771); as his
attendance in court on those proceedings was on the business
of the United States (§ 824); as no statute provides for extra
or special compensation for services of that character; and as
the existing statutes declare that no officer in any branch of
the public service shall directly or indirectly, or in any form
whatever, receive from the Treasury of the United States any
additional pay, extra allowance or compensation, unless the
same be authorized by law and the appropriation therefor
expressly states that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance or. compensation, Rev. Stat. §§ 1764, 1765, act of June
20, 1874, c. 328, the claim of the defendant in error must be
rejected, and judgment rendered for the United States.
For the reasons stated the first question is answered in the
negative; and under the certificate the answer to the other
questions becomes both unnecessary and immaterial. It
will be so certified.
MR. JUsTICE SHIRAs and MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAm dissented.

UNITED STATES v. MATTHEWS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 79. Argued December 8, 1898. -Decided

March 6, 1899.

The authority conferred upon the Attorney General by the act of March
3, 1891, c. 542, 26 Stat. 985, to offer rewards for the detection and prosecution of crimes against the United States, preliminary to the indictment,
empowered him to authorize the marshal of the Northern District of
Florida to offer a reward for the arrest and delivery of a person accused
of the committal of a crime against the United States in that district,
the reward to be paid upon conviction; and a deputy marshal, who had
complied with all the conditions of the offer and of the statute, was
entitled to receive the amount of the reward offered.

