NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

205

Statement of the Case.

appear in that case that the complaining party, in regard to
the state statute, was a non-resident of the State, but on the
contrary it would seem that she was a resident thereof. That
fact is a most material one, and renders the case so unlike the
one at bar as to make it unnecessary to further refer to it.
The statute, upon which the right to enter this personal
judgment depends, being as to the non-resident lot owner an
illegal enactment, it follows that the judgment should and
must be amended by striking out the provision for such personal liability. For that purpose the judgment is
Reversed and the cause remanded to the Supreme Oourt of
Iowa,for furtherroceedingstherein,not inconsistentwith
this opinion.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v.
CHAPMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 13.

Argued January 13, 16, 1899. -Decided

February 2T, 1899.

The system of taxation adopted in Ohio was not intended to be unfriendly
to, or to discriminate against owners of shares in national banks, and, in
its practical operation it does not materially do so; and there is nothing
upon the face of these statutes which shows such discrimination.
The term "moneyed capital" in the act of Congress fixing limits to state
taxation on investments in national banks, Rev. Stat. § 5219, does not
include capital which does not come into competition with the business
of national banks, and exemptions from taxation, made for reasons of
public policy, and not as an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national bank shares, cannot be regarded as forbidden by those
statutes.

THIS action was brought to restrain the collection of taxes,
through or by means of the bank, by the defendant in error,
levied under a statute of Ohio, upon certain individual shareholders in the bank, on the ground, as alleged, that the assessments upon such specified shareholders were illegal, as having
been made without regard to the debts of such individual

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

the
owners, contrary to the case of other moneyed capital in
be
to
permitted
were
debts
hands of individual citizens whose
assessment
the
before
capital
deducted from the value of such
of taxes thereon.
The petition contained allegations intended to show a case
was
for the interposition of a court of equity, and a tender
plaintiff
the
which
therein made of the amount of the taxes
admitted to be due on such shares after deducting the debts.
The answer, while not taking any objection that a case for
equitable relief by injunction was not made, provided the contention of the petition as to the assessments being illegal was
the
well founded, claimed, substantially, that by the laws of
and
legal,
United States and of Ohio the assessments were
the petition should therefore be dismissed. Upon trial in the
the
court of common pleas of Lorain County the court found
following facts:
"First. Plaintiff is a national banking- association, incorporated under and by virtue of an act of Congress, entitled
'An act to provide for the national currency, secured by a
pledge of United States bonds, and to provide for the circulation and redemption thereof,' approved June 3, 1864, and the
amendments thereof, and is established and doing business in
the village of Wellington, county of Lorain, and State of Ohio.
"Second. The defendant is the duly elected and qualified
treasurer of the county of Lorain and State of Ohio.
"Third. The plaintiff has a capital stock of $100,000, divided
into 1000 shares of $100 each, all of which are fully paid up,
and certificates for the shares are outstanding and owned by
a large number of persons.
"Fourth. That in accordance with section 2765 of the
Revised Statutes of Ohio, then and now in force, the cashier
of plaintiff duly reported in duplicate to the auditor of said
county the resources and liabilities of said banking association,
at the close of business on the Wednesday next preceding the
second Monday of May, 1893, together with a full statement
of the names and residences of the shareholders therein, with
the number of shares held by each, and the par value thereof,
as required by said section; that included in said return so

NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

207

Statement of the Case.
made by said cashier was the real estate owned by the plain-,
tiff, valued at $3420, separately assessed and charged on the
tax duplicate of said county; that thereupon said auditor proceeded, as required by section 2766 of the Revised Statutes of
Ohio, to fix the total value of said shares according to their
true value in money, and fixed the same at $74,710.00, exclusive of the assessed value of plaintiff's real estate, and made
out and transmitted to the annual board of equalization of
incorporated banks a copy of the report so made by said
cashier, together with the valuation of such shares as was
fixed by said auditor; that said state board of equalization,
acting under sections 2808 and 2809 of the Revised Statutes
of Ohio, did examine the return aforesaid, made by said cashier
to said county auditor, and the value of such shares as fixed
by said county auditor, and did equalize said shares to their
true value in money, and fixed the valuation thereof at
$74,710.00, exclusive of the assessed value of plaintiff's real
estate, and the auditor of said State did certify said valuation
to the auditor of said county of Lorain', which said auditor of
said county did enter upon the tax duplicate of said county.
for the year 1893.
"Fifth. That the following named stockholders of said bankwere on the said day next preceding the second Monday of
April, 1893, the owners of the number of shares of stock of
said bank set opposite their respective names, to wit:
S. S. W arner .......................
R. A. Horr .........................
W . Cushion, Jr .....................
C. W . Horr .........................
0. P. Chapman .....................
E. F. W ebster ......................
W. R. Wean ........................
S. K. Laundon ......................

150
10
50
120
10
10
20
120

shares.
shares.
shares.
shares.
shares.
shares.
shares.
shares.

"That said shares were valued by said state board of
equalization for the year 1893 at $36,607.90, and certified by
said board to the auditor of Lorain County as the taxable
.value of the same; that the rate of taxation for all taxes

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

assessed and collected for the year 1893 within said county
and village was $0.0255 on a dollar's valuation, and amounted
on said value of said shares to $933.50.
"Sixth. That on said day next preceding said second iMonday of April, 1893, and at the time the cashier of said banking association made return to the auditor of said county of
the names and residences of the shareholders of said association, with the numbers and par value of the shares of capital
stock of said banking association for the year 1893, to wit,
between the first and second Mondays of May of said year,
each of said above named shareholders was indebted and
owing to others of legal bona fide debts a sum in excess of
the credits, from which, under the laws of Ohio, he was entitled to deduct said debts to an amount equal to the value of
said shares. That proof of said indebtedness was duly made
to said auditor by the shareholders aforesaid at the time that
the valuation of said shares of stock was so fixed by him, and
that said auditor refused to allow the deduction of any indebtedness of said shareholders from the value of said shares,
as so fixed by said board of equalization, and the auditor of
said county carried upon the duplicate delivered to the treasurer the entire valuation of said shares so made without allowing any deductions therefrom, by reason of any bona ]ide
indebtedness of said shareholders to others, from the valuation so fixed by said board of equalization.
"Seventh. That the plaintiff tendered to said treasurer of
Lorain County on the 28th day of December, 1893, and offered
to pay to said treasurer, the sum of $485.80, if he would receive the same in full for the tax assessed upon the valuation
of the shares of stock owned by the shareholders named in
the petition for the entire year of 1893, and said treasurer
refused to accept the same, and said treasurer intends, if not
enjoined by this court, to use all lawful means for the collection of said tax so assessed upon the valuation of said shares
of stock."
The court also found as a conclusion of law from the
above facts that the injunction should be denied and the
petition dismissed. The plaintiff appealed to the circuit court

NATIO1AL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

209

Statement of 'the Case.

of Lorain County, where, after argument, the judgment for
defendant was reversed and judgment ordered for plaintiff
enjoining the collection of the tax. The defendant, the treasurer of Lorain County, brought the case to the Supreme Court
of the State, where, after hearing, the court reversed the circuit court and affirmed the judgment of the common pleas
dismissing the petition. Chapman v. lVational Bank of WelZington, 56 Ohio St. 310.
The state law on the subject of taxation, so far as it may
be claimed to in any way affect the question, is contained in
the various sections of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, which
are set out in the margin.'
1 Section 2730 gives definitions of the terms used in the article relating
to taxation. This section is not set out in so many words, but as therein
used the following terms are thus defined:
a. "Real property" and "lands" mean not only land itself, but everything connected therewith in the way of buildings, structures and improvements, and all rights and privileges appertaining thereto.
b. "Investment in bonds" includes moneys in bonds or certificates of
indebtedness of whatever kind, issued by incorporated or unincorporated
companies, towns, cities, villages, townships, counties, States or other incorporations, or by the United States.
c. "Investment in stocks" includes all moneys invested in the capital
or stock of any association, corporation, joint stock company or other company, where the capital or stock is divided into shares, transferable by each
owner without the consent of the other shareholders, for the taxation of
which no special provision is made by law.
d. "Personal property" includes (1) every tangible thing the subject of
ownership, whether animate or inanimate, other than money, and not forming part or any parcel of real property; (2) the capital stock, undivided
profits and all other means not forming part of the capital stock of a
company, whether incorporated or unincorporated, and all interest in
such stock, profits or means, including shares in a vessel as therein stated;
(3) money loaned on pledge or mortgage of real estate, although a deed
may have been given, provided the parties consider it as security merely.
e. The term "moneys" includes surplus or undivided profits held by
societies for savings or banks having no capital stock, gold and silver coin,
bank notes of solvent banks in actual possession, and every deposit which
the person owning, holding in trust, or having the beneficial interest therein,
is entitled to withdraw in money on demand.
f. The term " credits" means the excess of the sum of all legal claims
and demands, whether for money or other valuable thiing, or for labor or
service due or to become due to the person liable to pay the tax thereon,
VOL. CLXXM-14

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Counsel for Parties.

M3,r. IF IF Boynton for plaintiff in error.
2Xr. F. S.
error.

lonnett and 3Cr. S. TV. Bennett for defendant in

including deposits in banks, or with persons in or out of the State, other
than such as are held to be money as defined in this section, when added
together, (estimating every such claim or demand at its true value in
money,) over and above the sum of legal bona fide debts owing by such
person; but in making up the sum of such debts owing, no obligation can
be taken into account: (1) to any mutual insurance company; (2) for
any unpaid subscription to the capital stock of any joint stock company;
(3) for any subscription for any religious, scientific or charitable purpose;
(4) for any indebtedness acknowledged unless founded upon some consideration actually received and believed at the time of making the acknowledgment to be a full consideration therefor; (5) for any acknowledgment
made for the purpose of diminishing the amount of credits to be listed for
taxation; (6) for any greater amount or portion of any liability as surety
than the person required to make the statement of such credits believes
that such surety is in equity bound to pay, etc.
Other sections read as follows:
Src. 2736. Each person required to list property shall, annually, upon
receiving a blank for that purpose from the assessor, or within five days
thereafter, make out and deliver to the assessor a statement, verified by
his oath, as required by law, of all the personal property, moneys, credits,
investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies, annuities or other,wise, in his possession, or under his control, on the day preceding the
second Monday of April of that year, which he is required by law to list
for taxation, either as owner or holder thereof, or as parent, husband,
guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver, accounting officer,
partner, agent, factor or otherwise; and also of all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies or otherwise, held on said
day by another, residing in or out of this State, for and belonging to the
person so listing, or any one residing in this State, for whom he is required
by law to list, and not listed by such holder thereof, for taxation in this
State.
SEc. 2737. Such statement shall truly and distinctly set forth, first, the
number of horses, and the value thereof; second, the number of neat
cattle, and the value thereof; third, the number of mules and asses, and
the value thereof; fourth, the number of sheep, and the value thereof;
fifth, the number of hogs, and the value thereof; sixth, the number of
pleasure carriages (of whatever kind), and the value thereof; seventh, the
total value of all articles of personal property, not included in the preceding or succeeding classes; eighth, the number of watches, and the value
thereof; ninth, the number of piano fortes and organs, and the value
thereof; tenth, the average value of the goods and merchandise which such

NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

211

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAm, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Complaint is made in behalf of the shareholders of the
national bank in question that they are, by means of the sysperson is required to list as a merchant; eleventh, the value of the property which such person is required to list as a banker, broker or stock
jobber; twelfth, the average value of the materials and manufactured
articles which such person is required to list as a manufacturer; thirteenth, moneys on hand or on deposit subject to order; fourteenth, the
amount of credits as hereinbefore defined; fifteenth, the amount of all
moneys invested in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies, annuities or
otherwise; sixteenth, the monthly average amount or value, for the time
he held or controlled the same, within the preceding year, of all moneys,
credits or other effects, within that time invested in or converted into bonds
or other securities of the United States or of this State, not taxed, to the
extent he may hold or control such bonds or securities on said day preceding the second Monday of April; and any indebtedness created in the purchase of such bonds or securities shall not be deducted from the credits
under the fourteenth item of this section; but the person making such
statements may exhibit to the assessor the property covered by the first
nine items of this section, and allow the assessor to affix the value thereof,
and in such case the oath of the person making the statement shall be in
that regard only that he has fully exhibited the property covered by said
nine items.
SEc. 2746. Personal property of every description, moneys and credits,
investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies or otherwise, shall be
listed in the name of the person who was the owner thereof on the day preceding the second Monday of April, in each year; but no person shall be
required to list for taxation any share or shares of the capital stock of any
company, the capital stock of which is taxed in the name of such company.
UNINCORPORATED BANKS AND BA~icuRS.

SEc. 2758. Every company, association or person, not incorporated
under any law of this State or of the United States, for banking purposes,
who shall keep an office or other place of business, and engage in the business of lending money, receiving money on deposit, buying and selling
bullion, bills of exchange, notes, bonds, stocks or other evidence of indebtedness, with a view to profit, shall be deemed a bank, banker or bankers, within the meaning of this chapter.
SiC. 2759. All unincorporated banks and bankers shall annually, between the first and second Mondays of May, make out and return to the
auditor of the proper county, under oath of the owner or principal officer
or manager thereof, a statement setting forth:
First. The average amount of notes and bills receivable, discounted or

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ten of taxation adopted and enforced in the State of Ohio,
subjected to taxation at a greater rate than is imposed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens,
purchased in the course of business, by such unincorporated bank, banker
or bankers, and considered good and collectible.
Second. The average amount of accounts receivable.
Third. The average amount of cash and cash items in possession or in
transit.
Fourth. The average amount of all kinds of stocks, bonds, including
United States government bonds or evidences of indebtedness, held as an
investment or in any way representing assets.
Fifth. The amount of real estate at its assessed value.
Sixth. The average amount of all deposits.
Seventh. The average amount of accounts payable, exclusive of current
deposit accounts.
Eighth. The average amount of United States government and other
securities that are exempt from taxation.
Ninth. The true value in money of all furniture and other property not
otherwise herein enumerated. From the aggregate sum of the first five
items above enumerated the said auditor shall deduct the aggregate sum of
the fifth, sixth, seventh and such portions of the eighth items as are by
law exempt from taxation, and the remainder thus obtained, added to the
amount of item nine, shall be entered on the duplicate of the county in the
name of such bank, banker or bankers, and taxes thereon shall be assessed
and paid the same as provided for other personal property assessed and
taxed in the same city, ward or township.
SEC. 2759a. The said bank, banker or bankers shall, at the same time,
make statement under oath of the amount of capital paid in or employed in
such banking business, together with the number of shares or proportional
interest each shareholder or partner has in such association or partnership.
INCORPORATED BANKS.
SEc. 2762. All the shares of the stockholders in any incorporated bank
or banking association, located in this State, whether now or hereafter
incorporated or organized under the laws of this State or of the United
States, shall be listed at their true value in money, and taxed in the city,
ward or village where such bank is located, and not elsewhere.
SEc. 2763. The real estate of any such bank or banking association shall
be taxed in the place where the same may be located, the same as the real
estate of individuals.
SEc. 2765. The cashier of each incorporated bank shall make out and
return to the auditor of the county in which it is located, between the first
and the second Monday of May, annually, a report in duplicate, under oath,
exhibiting, in detail, and under appropriate heads, the resources and liabilities of such bank, at the close of business on the Wednesday next preced-

NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMANf.

213

Opinion of the Court.

contrary to section 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States.

The complaint is founded upon the allegation that the
owners of what is termed credits in the law of Ohio, (Rev.
Stat. § 2730,) are permitted to deduct certain kinds of their
debts from the total amount of their credits, and such owners
are assessed upon the balance only, while no such right is
given to owners of shares in national banks. The claim is
that shares in national banks should be treated the same as
credits, and their owners permitted to deduct their debts from
the valuation. The owners of property other than credits are
not permitted to deduct their debts from the valuation of that
property.
It is also claimed that there is an unfavorable discrimination against the national bank shareholder and in favor of an
unincorporated bank or banker.
At the outset it is plain that the system of taxation adopted
in Ohio was not intended to be unfriendly to or to discriminate
against the owners of shares in national banks, for, as observed by the state Supreme Court, that system was adopted
long prior to the passage of the law by Congress providing
for the incorporation of national banks. Under this system
the owner of shares in national banks is taxed precisely like
the owner of shares in incorporated state banks. Rev. Stat.
Ohio, § 2762.
The main purpose of Congress in fixing limits to state
taxation on investments in national banks was to render it
impossible for'the State in levying such a tax to create and
ing said second Monday, together with a full statement of the names and
residences of the stockholders therein, with the number of shares held by
each, and the par value of each share.
SEC. 2766. Upon receiving such report the county auditor shall fix the
total value of the shares of such banks according to their true value in
money, and deduct from the aggregate sum so found the value of the real
estate included in the statement of resources as the same stands on the
duplicate, and thereupon he shall make out and transmit to the annual state
board of equalization for incorporated banks a copy of the report so made
by the cashier, together with the valuation of such shares as so fixed by the
auditor.

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

fix an unequal and unfriendly competition by favoring institutions or individuals carrying on a similar business and
operations and investments of a like character. The lan-

guage of the act of Congress is to be read in the light of this
policy. "Moneyed capital" does not mean all capital the
value of which is measured in terms of money, neither does
it necessarily include all forms of investments in which the
interest of the owner is expressed in money. Shares of stock
in railroad companies, mining companies, manufacturing companies and other corporations are represented by certificates
showing that the owner is entitled to an interest expressed
in money value in the entire capital and property of the
corporation; but the property of the corporation which constitutes this invested capital may consist mainly of real and
personal property which, in the hands of individuals, none
would think of calling moneyed capital, and its business may
not consist in any kind of dealing in money or commercial
representatives of money. This statement is taken from
3Jferoantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, 155.

That

case has been cited with approval many times, especially
in First N17ational Bank of Garnett v. Ayers, 160 IU.S.660,
and in Aberdeen Bank v. Chiehalis County, 166 U. S. 440.

The result seems to be that the term "moneyed capital," as
used in the Federal statute, does not include capital which
does not come into competition with the business of national
banks, and that exemptions from taxation, however large,
such as deposits in savings banks or moneys belonging to
charitable institutions, which are exempted for reasons of
public policy and not as an unfriendly discrimination as
against investments in national bank shares, cannot be regarded as forbidden by the Federal statute.
The case last cited contains a full and careful reference to
most of the prior cases decided in this court upon the subject,
and gives the meaning (as above stated) of the term "moneyed
capital," when used in the Federal statute.
With no purpose to discriminate against the holders of
shares in national banks, and with the taxation of the shareholders in the two classes of banks, state and national, pre-

:NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

215

Opinion of the Court.

cisely the same, the question is whether this system of
taxation in Ohio, in its practical operation, does materially
discriminate against the national bank shareholder in the
assessment upon his bank shares?
Under the Ohio law the shares in national and also in state
banks are what is termed stocks or investments in stocks, and
are not credits from which debts can be deducted. As between the holders of shares in incorporated state banks and
national banks on the one band, and unincorporated banks or
bankers on the other, we find no evidence of discrimination in
favor of unincorporated state banks or bankers. In regard to
this latter class, there is no capital stock so-called, and section
2759 of the Revised Statutes therefore makes provision, in
order to determine the amount to be assessed for taxation, for
deducting the debts existing in the business itself from the
amount of moneyed capital belonging to the bank or banker
and employed in the business, and the remainder is entered
on the tax book in the name of the bank or banker, and taxes
assessed thereon. This does not give the unincorporated bank
or banker the right to deduct his general debts disconnected.
from the business of banking and not incurred therein from
the remainder above mentioned. It cannot be doubted that
under this section those debts which are disconnected from
the banking business cannot be deducted from the aggregate
amount of the capital employed therein. The debts that are
incurred in the actual conduct of the business are deducted so
that the real value of the capital that is employed may be
determined and the taxes assessed thereon.
This system is, as nearly as may be, equivalent in its results
to that employed in the case of incorporated state banks and
of national banks. Under the sections of the Revised Statutes which relate to the taxation of these latter classes of
banks (§§ 2762, etc.) the shares are to be listed by the auditor
at their true value in money, which necessarily demands the
deduction of the debts of the bank, because the true value of'
the shares in money is necessarily reduced by an amount corresponding to the amount of such debts. In order to arrive
at their true value in money the bank returns to the auditor

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount of its liabilities as well as its resources. Thus in
both incorporated and unincorporated banks the same thing
is desired, and the same result of assessing the value of the
capital employed in the business, after the deduction of the
debts incurred in its conduct, is arrived at in each case as
nearly as is possible, considering the difference in manner in
which the moneyed capital is represented in unincorporated
banks as compared with incorporated banks which have a
capital stock divided into shares. That mathematical equality is not arrived at in the process is immaterial. It cannot
be reached in any system of taxation, and it is useless and idle
to attempt it. Equality, so far as the differing facts will permit, and as near as they will permit, is all that can be aimed
at or reached. That measure of equality we think is reached
under this system. So far as this point is concerned, it is
entirely plain there is no discrimination between unincorporated banks and bankers on the one hand and holders of
shares in national banks on the other.
If the value of national bank shares is increased by reason
of the franchises of the bank itself, as claimed by the plaintiff
in error, while no such added value obtains in the case of
unincorporated banks, there is no discrimination against bank
shareholders on that account. This is simply a case where
added elements of value exist in the national bank shares
which are absent in the case of unincorporated banks, but in
both cases all the debts of the business itself are deducted
from the capital employed before reaching the sum which is
assessed for taxation, and in neither case can the debts of the
individual, simply as an individual, be deducted from the value
of the capital assessed for taxation.
The court below did not hold, as erroneously suggested by
counsel for plaintiff in error, that as the state and national
banks were placed on an exact equality regarding taxation,
therefore there was no discrimination made against national
banks, and in favor of other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens. The state court said upon this subject
that if the state and national banks were treated equally, the
latter were not assessed at a greater rate than the former;

NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

217

Opinion of the Court.

that national bank shareholders were not, in such event, illegally assessed, unless there were a clear discrimination in
favor of moneyed capital other than that employed in either
state or national banks. This statement, we think, is plainly
correct.
The question recognized by the state court, therefore, remains whether there is any such discrimination?
The chief ground for maintaining that there is, exists in the
fact that the owner of what is termed " credits" in the statute
is permitted to deduct certain classes of debts from the sum of
those credits, upon the remainder of which taxes are to be assessed, while the national bank shareholder is not permitted to
deduct his debts from the value of his shares upon which he is
assessed for taxation.
Itis claimed in substance that all credits are moneyed capital, and that they are large enough in amount, when coinpared with the moneyed capital invested in national banks, to
become an illegal discrimination against the holders of such
shares.
There is no finding of the trial court upon the subject of the
total amount of credits in the State. Reference was made
on the argument to the report of the auditor of the State for
1893, from which it is said to appear that the total credits, after deducting the debts allowed, were $106,O00,000 or
$111,000,000, the amounts differing to that extent as presented by the counsel for the different parties. The case does
not show that the trial court received the report in evidence,
and nothing in any finding has reference in ahy way to that
report. We do not think it is a document of which we can
take judicial notice or that we could refer to any statement or
alleged fact contained therein, unless such fact were embraced
in the finding of facts of the trial court upon which we must
decide this case.
However, if we were to look at this report we should then
see that the total credits do not show what portion of those
credits consists of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals
which in fact enters into competition for business with national
banks. It is only that kind of moneyed capital which this

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

court, in its decisions above cited, holds is moneyed capital
within the meaning of the act of Congress.
Indeed, there is no evidence as to what the total moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens, and included in the
term " credits," amounts to even under the widest definition of
that term.
In looking at the statutory definition of the term "credits"
we find that so far from its including all legal claims and
demands of every conceivable kind, except investments in
bonds of the classes described in section 2730, and investments
in stocks, it does not include any claim or demand for deposits
which the person owning, holding in trust or having the beneficial interest therein, is entitled to withdraw in money on demand, nor the surplus or undivided profits held by societies
for savings or banks having no capital stock, nor bank notes
of solvent banks in actual possession, and from the credits as
defined their owner cannot deduct certain kinds of indebtedness therein mentioned. It cannot be contended that all
credits, as defined in the statute, are moneyed capital within
the meaning of the act of Congress. The term " credits" ineludes among other things, as stated in the statute, "all legal
claims and demands
for labor or service due or to
become due to the person liable to pay taxes thereon." These
claims are not in any sense of the statute moneyed capital.
They include all claims for professional or clerical services, as
well as for what may be termed manual labor, and their total
must amount to a large sum.
What proportion that total
bears to the whole sum of credits we do not know, and the
record contains no means of ascertaining.
It is impossible to tell from anything appearing in the
record what proportion of the whole sum of credits consists
of moneyed capital within the meaning of the Federal act.
We know that claims for labor or services do not consist of
that kind of capital. We also know that there are probably
large amounts of other forms of property which might enter
into the class of credits as defined in the act which would not
be moneyed capital within the meaning of the act of Congress, as that meaning has been defined by .this court in

NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CIAPTiNAN.

219

Opinion of the Court.

the cases above cited.

It is thus seen that there are large

and unknown amounts of what are in the act termed "credits"
which are not moneyed capital, and that the total amount of

credits which are moneyed capital, within the definition given
by this court to that term, is also unknown. That portion of
credits which is not moneyed capital, as so defined, does not
enter into the question, because the comparison must be made
with other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens. We are thus wholly prevented from ascertaining what
proportion the moneyed capital of individual citizens, included
in the term "credits "(and from which some classes of debts can
be deducted) bears to the amount invested in national bank
shares. We are, therefore, unable to say whether there has
or has not been any material discrimination such as the Federal statute was enacted to prevent. We cannot see upon these
facts any substantial difference between this case and that of
Bank of Garnett v. Ayers, 160 U. S. 660, and Aberdeen Bank
v. Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440, and Bank of Commerce v.
Seattle, 166 U. S. 463.
As a result we find in this record no means of ascertaining
whether there is any unfavorable discrimination against the
shareholders of national banks in the taxation of their shares,
and in favor of other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens. There is nothing upon the face of these statutes
which shows such discrimination, and therefore it would seem
that the plaintiff in error has failed to make out a case for the
intervention of the court.
It is stated, however, that this specific question has been
otherwise decided in IWhitbeck v. Mercantile ._3ational Bank
of Cleveland, 127 U. S. 193. If this were true, we should be
guided by and follow that decision. Upon an examination of
the case it is seen that the court gave chief attention to the
question whether an increase in the value of the shares in
national banks made by the state board of equalization, from
sixty per cent of their true value in money, as fixed by the
auditor of Cuyahoga County, to sixty-five per cent, as fixed
by the board, (other property being valued at only sixty per
cent,) amounted to such a discrimination in the taxation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

shareholders of such banks as is. forbidden by the Federal
statute. It was held that it did.
Coming to the question of the deduction of the bona fide
indebtedness of shareholders, the court assumed that under
the statute of Ohio owners of all moneyed capital other than
shares in a national bank were permitted to deduct their bona
fide indebtedness from the value of their moneyed capital, but
that no provision for a similar deduction was made in regard
to the owner of shares in a national bank, and it was held that
the owners of such shares were entitled to a deduction of their
indebtedness from the assessed value of the shares as in the
case of other moneyed capital. The point to which the court
chiefly directed its attention related to the question whether a
timely demand had been made for such deduction of indebtedness. It was held that it was made in time, for the reason
that the court below expressly found that "the laws of Ohio
make no provision for the deduction of the bonaftde indebtedness of any shareholder from the shares of his stock, and provide no means by which such deduction could be secured."
As a demand at an earlier period would have been useless, the
court held it unnecessary.
An examination of the statutes of Ohio in regard to taxation shows that debts can only be deducted from credits, and
how much of credits is moneyed capital is unknown. The case
is not authority adverse to the principle we now hold.
For the reasons already stated, we think the judgment in
this case should be

Affirmed.

