UNITED STATES v. MATTHEWS.
Syllabus.

The conclusion is that as the defendant in error was under
a duty as District Attorney to represent the United States in
the condemnation proceedings referred to (§ 771); as his
attendance in court on those proceedings was on the business
of the United States (§ 824); as no statute provides for extra
or special compensation for services of that character; and as
the existing statutes declare that no officer in any branch of
the public service shall directly or indirectly, or in any form
whatever, receive from the Treasury of the United States any
additional pay, extra allowance or compensation, unless the
same be authorized by law and the appropriation therefor
expressly states that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance or. compensation, Rev. Stat. §§ 1764, 1765, act of June
20, 1874, c. 328, the claim of the defendant in error must be
rejected, and judgment rendered for the United States.
For the reasons stated the first question is answered in the
negative; and under the certificate the answer to the other
questions becomes both unnecessary and immaterial. It
will be so certified.
MR. JUsTICE SHIRAs and MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAm dissented.

UNITED STATES v. MATTHEWS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 79. Argued December 8, 1898. -Decided

March 6, 1899.

The authority conferred upon the Attorney General by the act of March
3, 1891, c. 542, 26 Stat. 985, to offer rewards for the detection and prosecution of crimes against the United States, preliminary to the indictment,
empowered him to authorize the marshal of the Northern District of
Florida to offer a reward for the arrest and delivery of a person accused
of the committal of a crime against the United States in that district,
the reward to be paid upon conviction; and a deputy marshal, who had
complied with all the conditions of the offer and of the statute, was
entitled to receive the amount of the reward offered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.r. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for appellants.
John G. Capers was on his brief.

Mr.

.Zkr. Richard II. iMe.Mahon and 3fr. George A. King for
appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The court below held that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the sum by them claimed, 32 C. Cl. 123, and the United
States prosecutes this appeal. The origin of the controversy
and the facts upon which the legal conclusion of the court was
rested are these: The two plaintiffs were, one a regular and the
other a specially appointed deputy marshal. They claimed five
hundred dollars, the sum of a reward offered by the Attorney
General for the arrest and conviction of one Asa McNeil, who
was accused of having been concerned in the killing of one or
more revenue officers at a village in Holmes County, Florida.
McNeil was arrested by the officers in question, tried and
convicted. This suit was brought in consequence of a refusal
to pay the reward. The act of March 3, 1891, c. 542, 26 Stat.
948, 985, "making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of
the government for the fiscal year ending June the thirtieth,
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, and for other purposes,"
under the heading "Miscellaneous," contained the following
appropriation: "Prosecution of crimes; for the detection and
prosecution of crimes against the United States, preliminary
to indictment
General, . .

.
.

. under the direction of the Attorney
Under the
thirty-five thousand dollars."

.

authority thus conferred the Attorney General, on July 31,
1891, addressed a letter to the marshal of the Northern District of Florida, saying: "Your letter of July 24 is received.
You are authorized to offer a reward of five hundred dollars
(500) for the arrest and delivery to you, at Jacksonville, of
Asa McNeil, chief of conspirators, who fired upon revenue
deputies at Bonifay, Holmes County, last fall, this reward

UNITED STATES v. MATTHEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

to be paid upon conviction of said iMcNeil." A capias for
the arrest of McNeil was executed by the deputies in question on the 11th day of July, 1892, the court below finding
that the arrest was due to their exertions.
Beyond doubt the appropriation empowered the Attorney
General to make the offer of reward, and hence in doing so
he exercised a lawful discretion vested in him by Congress.
It is also clear that the offer of the reward made by the Attorney General was broad enough to embrace an arrest made
by the deputies in question. If then the right to recover is
to be tested by the provisions of the statute and by the language of the offer of reward, the judgment below was correctly rendered. The United States, however, relies for
reversal solely on two propositions, which it is argued are
both well founded. First. That as at common law it was
against public policy to allow an officer to receive a reward
for the performance of a duty which he was required by law
to perform, therefore the statute conferring power on the
Attorney General and the offer made by him in virtue of
the discretion in him vested, should be so construed as to
exclude the right of the deputies in question to recover, since
as deputy marshals an obligation was upon them to make the
arrest without regard to the reward offered. Second. That
even although it be conceded that the officers in question
were otherwise entitled to recover the reward, they were
without capacity to do so because of the general statutory
provision forbidding "officers in any branch of the public
service or any other person whose salary, pay or emoluments
are fixed by law or regulations," from receiving "any additional pay, extra allowance or compensation in any form
whatever," (Rev. Stat. § 1165,) and because of the further
provision "that no civil officer of the government shall hereafter receive any compensation or perquisites, directly or indirectly, from the Treasury or property of the United States
beyond his salary or compensation allowed by law. . .
Act of June 20, 1874, c. 328, 18 Stat. 85, 109. The first of
these contentions amounts simply to saying that though the
act of Congress vested the amplest discretion on the subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in the Attorney General, and although that discretion was by
him exercised without qualification or restriction, it becomes
a matter of judicial duty in construing the statute and in interpreting the authority exercised under it to disregard both
the obvious meaning of the statute and the general language
of the authority exercised under it by reading into the statute
a qualification which it does not contain and by inserting in
the offer of reward a restriction not mentioned in it, the argument being that this should be done under the assumption
that it is within the province of a court to disregard a statute
upon the theory that the power which it confers is contrary
to public policy. It cannot be doubted that in exercising the
powers conferred on him by the statute, the Attorney General could at his discretion have confined the reward offered
by him to particular classes of persons. To invoke, however,
judicial authority to insert such restriction in the offer of reward when it is not there found, is to ask the judicial power
to exert a discretion not vested in it, but which has been
lodged by the lawmaking power in a different branch of the
Government. Aside from these considerations the contention
as to the existence of a supposed public policy, as applied to
the question in hand, is without foundation in reason and
wanting in support of authority.
It is undoubted that both in England and in this country
it has been held that it is contrary to public policy to enforce
in a court of law, in favor of a public officer, whose duty by
virtue of his employment required the doing of a particular
act, any agreement or contract made by the officer with a
frivate individual,stipulating that the officer should receive
an extra compensation or reward for the doing of such act.
An agreement of this character was considered at common
law to be a species of quasi extortion, and partaking of the
character of a bribe. Bridge v. Cage, Cro. Jac. 103; Badow
v. Salter, Sir Win. Jones, 65; Stotesunry v. Smith, 2 Burr.
924; Hatch v. ]iann, 15 Wend. 44; Gillmore v. Zewis, 12
Ohio, 281 ; Stacy v. State Bank of Illinois, 4 Scam. 91 ; Davies
v. Burns, 5 Allen, 349; Brown v. Godfrey, 33 Vt. 120; Morrell v. Quarles, 35 Ala. 544; Day v. Putnam Ins. Co., 16

UNITED STATES v. MATTHEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

Minn. 408, 414; Hayden v. Souge2', 56 Ind. 42; .fatter of
Russell's A1?lication, 51 Conn. 577; Ring v. Devlin, 68 W is.
384; St. Louis &c. Railway v. Gqafton, 51 Ark. 504. The
biroad difference between the right of an officer to take from
a private individual a reward or compensation for the performance of his official duty, and the capacity of such officer
to receive a reward expressly authorized by competent legislative authority and sanctioned by the executive officer to
whom the legislative power has delegated ample discretion
to offer the reward, is too obvious to require anything but
statement.
Nor is there anything in the case of Pool v. Boston, 5 Cush.
219, tending to obscure the difference which exists between
the offer of a reward by competent legislative and executive
authority and an offer by one not having the legal capacity
to do so. In that case, the plaintiff, a watchman in the employ of the city of Boston, while patrolling the streets, in the
ordinary performance of his duty, discovered and apprehended
an incendiary, who was subsequently convicted. The action
was brought to recover the amount of a reward which the
city government had offered "for the detection and conviction of any incendiaries" who had set fire to any building in
the city, or might do so, within a given period. Solely upon
the authority of decisions denying the right of a public officer to recover from a private individual a reward or extra
compensation for the performance of a duty owing to the
party sought to be charged, it was held that there could be
no recovery. The city government of Boston, acting in its
official capacity, and in the exercise of the general powers
vested in cities and towns by the law of Massachusetts, doubtless had authority to offer rewards for the detection and conviction of criminals. _Freeman v. Boston, 5 Met. 56; Crawshaw
v. Roxbuqy, 7 Gray, 374. But no act of the legislature, expressly or by implication, had intrusted municipal authorities
with the discretion of including in an offer of reward public
officers whose official duty it was to aid in the detection and
conviction of criminals. There is not the slightest intimation
contained in the opinion in that case that if the reward in
VOL. cLxxm-25

OCTOBER TERN, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

question had been offered within the limits of a discretion
duly vested by the supreme legislative authority of the Commonwealth that the court would have considered that it was
its duty to deny the power of the Commonwealth, or by indirection to frustrate the calling of such power into play, by
reading into the legislative authority by construction a limitation which it did not contain.
Looking at the question of public policy by the light of the
legislation of Congress, on other subjects, it becomes clear
that the expediency of offering to public officers a reward as
an incentive or stimulus for the energetic performance of public duty has often been resorted to. As early as July 31,
1789, in chapter 5 of the statutes of that year, a portion of
the penalties, fines and forfeitures which might be recovered
under the act, and which were not otherwise appropriated,
were directed to be paid to one or more of certain officers of
the customs. Like provisions were embodied in section 69 of
chapter 35 of the act of August 4, 1790; section 2 of chapter
22 of the act of May 6, 1796; and section 91 of chapter 22 of
the act of March 2, 1799. Similar provisions are also contained in the one hundred and seventy-ninth section of chapter 173, act of June 30, 1864, and the amendatory section,
No. 1, of chapter 78 of the act of March 3, 1865. So, also,
by section 3 of the Anti-moiety Act, chapter 391, June 22,
1874, a discretion was vested in the Secretary of the Treasury
to award to officers of the customs as well as other parties,
not exceeding one half of the net proceeds of forfeitures incurred in violation of the laws against smuggling. As said
by Mr. Justice Grier, delivering the opinion of the court in
Dorsheimerv. United States, 7 Wall. 166, 173: "The offer of
a portion of such penalties to the collectors is to stimulate
and reward their zeal and industry in detecting fraudulent
attempts to evade the payment of duties and taxes."
The fact that the statute vested a discretion in the Attorney
General to include or not to include, when he exercised the
power to offer a reward, particular persons within the offer
by him made, and that in the instant case the discretion was
so availed of as not to exclude deputy marshals from taking

UNITED STATES v. MHATTHEWS.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, J.

the offered reward, renders it unnecessary to determine
whether a deputy marshal is an offi'cer of the United States
within the meaning of section 1765 of the Revised Statutes
and section 3 of the act of June 20, 1874, to which reference
"has already been made. As the reward was sanctioned by
the statute making the appropriation and was embraced
within the offer of the Attorney General, it clearly, under
any view of the case, was removed from the provisions of the
statutes in question. The appropriation act being a special
and later enactment operated necessarily to engraft upon the
prior and general statute an exception to the extent of the
power conferred on the Attorney General and necessary for
the exercise of the discretion lodged in him for the purpose
of carrying out the provisions of the later and special act.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTIC

B.RowN

concurring in the result only.

Did the opinion of the court rest solely upon the ground
stated in the opinion of the Court of Claims, that a deputy
marshal is not, an "officer," or "other person whose salary,
pay or emoluments are fixed by law or regulations," as specified in Revised Statutes, section 1765; nor a civil officer receiving from the United States a salary or compensation
allowed by law, and therefore not within the act of June 20,
1874, IS Stat. 109, I should have been disposed, though with
some doubt, to acquiesce in the opinion. While I think a
deputy marshal is beyond all peradventure an officer of the
United States, yet as his compensation is by fees not paid directly by the Government, but by agreement with the marshal,
subject only to the limitation that such fees "shall iiot exceed
three fourths of the fees and emoluments received or payable"
to the marshal "for services rendered by him," (such deputy,)
I think it a grave question whether he is within the spirit of
either of the sections above quoted. I consider it a reasonable
construction to hold thatthese sections are limited to those
who receive a salary or other compensation directly from the
Government, or one of its departments, and doubt their appli-

OCTOBER TERMTI, 1898.
Concurring Opinion: Brown, J.

cation to one who, although holding a permanent appointment
as an officer, receives no pay directly from the Government,
but only such compensation as his superior may choose to allow
him. Douglas v. Wallace, 161 U. S. 346.
But I cannot concur in so much of the opinion as intimates
that, under an act of Congress making an appropriation for
the prosecution of crime, under the direction of the Attorney
General, the Attorney General has a discretion to direct any
portion of it to be paid to one of a class of persons who are forbidden by a previous act from receiving any additional pay or
compensation beyond such as is allowed to them by law. This
could only be done upon the theory stated in the opinion that
the appropriation act, being a special and later enactment,
operated necessarily to engraft upon the prior and general
statute an exception to the extent of the power conferred
upon the Attorney General. I do not think the two acts
stand in the relation of a prior general statute and a subsequent special one, but rather the converse. The prior acts are
general acts, applicable to all officers of Government whose
salaries or compensations are fixed by law; the latter act
makes a particular appropriation for the detection of crime,
and vests the Attorney General with power to direct to whom
it shall be paid. But there can be no inference from it that
he has a discretion to pay it to any one who is forbidden by
law to receive it. I had assumed it to be the law that a later
act would not be held to qualify or repeal a prior one, unless
there were a positive repugnancy between the provisions of
the new law and the old, and even then the prior law is only
repealed to the extent of such repugnancy. This was the declared doctrine of this court in Wood v. United States, 16 Pet.
342; in -MoCool v. Smith, 1 Black, 459; in Daviess v. Fairbairn, 3 How. 636; in Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682; in Farman v. liclol, 8 Wall. 44; in .Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85;
in United States v. Sixty-seven Packages, 17 How. 85; and in
Red Rock v. Hrenry, 106 U. S. 596.
In this case I see no intent whatever on the part of Congress to vary or qualify the prior law. Both enactments may
properly stand together, and the prior ones be simply regarded
as limiting the application of the later.

ALLEN v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

In justice to the Attorney General it ought to be said that
his offer of $500 for the arrest and delivery of McNeil was a
general one; and that he did not assume to say that any officer of the Government, who was forbidden by law from receiving extra compensation, should receive any portion of the
reward. There was no attempt on his part to disregard the
previous limitation or to offer it to any one who was forbidden by law from receiving it. The subsequent action of the
Acting Attorney General in refusing to pay Matthews the reward upon the ground that the arrest of McNeil was performed in the line of his duty is a still clearer intimation that
no such construction as is put by the court upon the offer of
reward was intended by the Attorney General.
For these reasons I cannot concur in the opinion, though I
do not dissent from the result.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAm dissented,

upon the ground that the offering or payment of a reward to
a public officer, for the performance of what was at all events
nothing more than his official duty, was against public policy,
and the act of Congress authorizing the Attorney General to
offer and pay rewards, did not include or authorize the offer
or payment of any reward to a public officer under such circumstances.

ALLEN v. SMITH.
SMITH v. ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 168,176. Argued January 19, 1S99. -Decided

March 6, 1899.

The manufacturer of the sugar, and not the producer of the sugar cane,
is the person entitled to the "bounty on sugar" granted by the act of
MIarch 2, 1895, c. 189, to "producers and manufacturers of sugar in the
United States."

