OCTOBER TERl1, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

MULLEN v. WESTERN U17ION BEEF COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
io.153. Argued and submitted January 1S, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1S99.

On the facts stated by the court in its opinion, it declines to hold that it
affirmativcly appears from the record that a decision could not have been
had in the Supreme Court of the State, which is the highest court in the
State; and this being so, it holds that the writ of error must be dismissed.

Tuis was an action brought by Mullen and McPhee against
the Western Union Beef Company, in the district court of
Arapahoe County, Colorado, to recover damages for loss of
stock occasioned by the communication from cattle of defendant to cattle of plaintiffs of the disease known as splenetic or
Texas fever, by the importation into Colorado of a herd of
Texas cattle, in June, 1891, and suffering them to go at large,
in violation of the quarantine rules, regulations and orders of
the United States Department of Agriculture, in accordance
with the act of Congress approved May 29, 1884, c. 60, entitled
"An act for the establishment of a Bureau of Animal Industry, etc.," 23 Stat. 31; and the act approved July 11, 1890,

c. 707, 26 Stat. 287; and in violation of the quarantine rules
and regulations of the State of Colorado. The trial resulted
in a verdict for defendant, on which judgment was entered.
Plaintiffs sued out a writ of error from the Court of Appeals
of the State of Colorado and the judgment was affirmed,
whereupon the present writ of error was allowed.
The Court of Appeals held that the question of violation
by defendant of the quarantine rules and regulations of the
State need not be considered because "upon sufficient evidence, it was settled by the jury in defendant's favor;" that
" no question of negligence generally in the shipment and management of the cattle is presented by the record;" and that
the theory on which the case had been tried below and was
argued in that court was that "if the loss of the plaintiffs'

MULLEN v. WESTERN UNION BEEF COMPANY.

117

Statement of the Case.

cattle was in consequence of disease communicated by the
cattle of the defendant, its liability depends upon its acts
with reference to rules and regulations which it was legally
bound to observe."
The regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture were as
follows:
"Regulations Concerning
"UNITED

Cattle Transportation.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY,
WASHINGToN, D. C., February 5, 1891.

"To the managers and agents of railroad and transportation
companies of the United States, stockmen and others:
"In accordance with section 7 of the act of Congress approved May 29, 1884, entitled 'An act for the establishment
-of a Bureau of Animal Industry, to prevent the exportation
of diseased cattle and to provide means for the suppression
and extirpation of pleuro-pneumonia and other contagious
diseases among domestic animals,' and of the act of Congress

approved July 14, 1890, making appropriation for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1891,
you are notified that a contagious and infectious disease known
as splenetic or southern fever exists among cattle in the following-described area of the United States: . . . From the
15th day of February to the 1st day of December, 1891, no
cattle are to be transported from said area to any portion of
the United States north or west of the above-described line,
except in accordance with the following regulations."
[Here followed a series of stringent rules concerning the
method to be pursued in transporting cattle from the infected
districts.]
"UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY,
WASHINGTON, D. C., April 23, 1891.

"Notice is hereby given that cattle which have been at
least ninety days in the area of country hereinafter described

OCTOBER TERMT, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

may be moved from said area by rail into the States of Colorado, Wyoming and Montana for grazing purposes, in accordance with the regulations made by said States for the
admission of southern cattle thereto.
"Provided:
"1. That cattle from said area shall go into said States
only for slaughter or grazing, and shall on no account be
shipped from said States into any other State or Territory of
the United States before the 1st day of December, 1891.
"2. That such cattle shall not be allowed in pens or on
trails or ranges that are to be occupied or crossed by cattle
going to the eastern markets before December 1, 1891, and
that these two classes shall not be allowed to come in contact.
"3. That all cars which have carried cattle from said area
shall, upon unloading, at once be cleaned and disinfected in
the manner provided by the regulations of this department of
February 5, 1891.
"4. That the state authorities of the States of Colorado,
Wyoming and Montana agree to enforce these provisions."
The court, after stating that the territory described in both
orders included that from which the defendant's cattle were
shipped, said: "It is the rules relating to the isolation of cattle moved from infected districts, and more particularly the
second proviso of the second order, which were claimed to
have been violated by the defendant."
And it was then ruled that the regulations were not binding, as it was not shown that the State had agreed to them;
that they were not authorized by the statute; that "the second provision undertakes to regulate the duties in relation to
them [the cattle], of the persons by whom they might be
removed after their arrival in the State, and it is upon this
provision that plaintiffs' reliance is chiefly placed. After becoming domiciled within the State their management would
be regulated by its laws and not by the act of Congress. Any
violation of the Federal law in connection with the cattle
would consist in their removal. The disposition of them after-

MJLLEN v. WESTERN UNION BEEF COMPANY.

119

Opinion of the Court.

wards was not within the scope of the statute."
497.

9 Colorado,

49 Pac. Rep. 425.

211r. T. B. Stuart for plaintiffs in error.
ley filed briefs for the same.

.Mr. V. C. Hings-

. r. C. S. Tlomas and .Xr. TV. H. Bryant for defendant in
error submitted on their brief, on which was also -Mr.H. H.
Lee.
M . CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We are met on the threshold by the objection that the writ
of error runs to the judgment of the Court of Appeals, and
cannot be maintained, because that is not the judgment of
the highest court of the State in which a decision could be
had.
The Supreme Court of Colorado is the highest court of the
State, and the Court of Appeals is an intermediate court,
created by an act approved April 6, 1891, (Sess. Laws, Col.
1891, 118,) of which the following are sections:
" SEcTiON 1. No writ of error from, or appeal to, the Supreme Court shall lie to review the final judgment of any inferior court, unless the judgment, or in replevin, the value
found exceeds two thousand five hundred dollars, exclusive of
costs. Provided, this limitation shall not apply where the
matter in controversy relates to a franchise or freehold, nor
where the construction of a provision of the Constitution of
the State or of the United States is necessary to the determination of a case. Provided,further, that the foregoing
limitation shall not apply to writs of error to county courts."
"SEIoN 4. That the said court. shall have jurisdiction:
"First- To review the final judgments of inferior courts
of record, in all civil cases and in all criminal cases not capital.
"Second-It shall have final jurisdiction, subject to the
limitations stated in subdivision 3 of this section, where the
judgment, or in replevin the value found is two thousand five
hundred dollars, or less, exclusive of costs.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"Third-It shall have jurisdiction, not final, in cases where
the controversy involves a franchise or freehold, or where the
construction of a provision of the Constitution of the State,
or of the United States, is necessary to the decision of the
case; also, in criminal cases, or upon writs of error to the
judgments of county courts. Writs of error from, or appeals
to, the Court of Appeals shall lie to review final judgments,
within the same time and in the same manner as is now or
may hereafter be provided by law for such reviews by the
Supreme Court."
The Supreme Court of Colorado has held in respect of its
jurisdiction under these sections, that whenever a constitutional question is necessarily to be determined in the adjudication of a case, an appeal or writ of error from that court
will lie; that "it matters but little how such question is raised
whether by the pleadings, by objections to evidence or by
argument of counsel, provided the question is by some means
fairly brought into the record by a party entitled to raise it;"
but " it must fairly appear from an examination of the record
that a decision of such question is necessary, and also that the
question raised is fairly debatable," Trimble v. People, 19
Colorado, 187; and also that "when it appears by the record
that a case might well have been disposed of without construing a constitutional provision, a construction of such provision
is not so necessary to a determination of the case as to give
this court jurisdiction to review upon that ground," Arapahoe
County v. Board of Equalization, 23 Colorado, 137; and,
again, that ".unless a constitutional question is fairly debatable, and has been properly raised, and is necessary to the
determination of the particular controversy, appellate jurisXAadden v. Day,
diction upon that ground does not exist."
24: Colorado, 418.
This record discloses that defendant insisted throughout
the trial that the acts of Congress relied on by plaintiffs were
unconstitutional if construed as authorizing the particular
regulations issued by the Secretary.
When plaintiffs offered the rules and regulations in evidence, which they contended defendant had violated, defend-

MULLEN v. WESTERN UNION BEEF COMPANY.

121

Opinion of the Court.

ant objected to their admission on the two grounds that they
were not authorized by the acts of Congress, and that, if they
The objection was
were, such acts were unconstitutional.
overruled and defendant excepted.
The regulations having been introduced in evidence, plaintiffs called as a witness, among others, a special agent of the
Department of Agriculture, who was questioned in respect
of their violation, to which defendant objected and excepted
on the same grounds.
At the conclusion of plaintiffs' case, a motion for non-suit
was made by defendant, the unconstitutionality of the acts
under which the regulations were made being again urged,
and an exception taken to the denial of the motion.
The trial then proceeded, and, at its close, defendant requested the court to give this instruction: "The court instructs the jury that the act of Congress and the rules and
regulations made under the same which the plaintiffs allege
to have been violated, are not authorized by the Constitution
of the United States, and are not valid subsisting laws or
rules and regulations with which the defendant is bound to
comply, and any violation of the same would not, of itself,
be an act of negligence, and you are not to consider a violation of the same as an act of negligence in itself in arriving
at a verdict in this case."
This instruction was objected to and was not given, though
no exception appears to have been thereupon preserved.
On behalf of plaintiffs the court was asked to instruct the
jury as follows:
"If the jury are satisfied from the evidence that the defendant company failed to comply with paragraph two of the rules
and regulations of the United States Department of Agriculture
of April 23, 1891, and that the defendant company did not put
its cattle in pens or on trails or ranges that were to be occupied
or crossed by the plaintiffs' cattle going to eastern markets
before December, 1891, so that these two classes should not
come incontact, then that constitutes negligence and want of
reasonable care on the part of the defendant, and you need
not look to any other evidence to find that the defendant did

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

not use reasonable care in this case, and that the defendant
was guilty of negligence."
This was refused by the court and plaintiffs excepted. But
the court charged the jury that the rule promulgated by the
Secretary of Agriculture " would have the effect to give to
this defendant notice that the United States authorities having
in charge the animal industries, so far as the Government of the
United States may control it, were of the opinion that it was
unsafe to ship cattle from Kimble County at that period of the
year into Colorado and graze them upon lands that were being
occupied by other cattle intended for the eastern market, or to
allow them to co-mingle with them." To this modification of
the instruction requested plaintiffs saved no specific exception.
After the affirmance of the judgment by the Court of Appeals, plaintiffs filed a petition for a rehearing, the eighth specification of which was that "This court erred in holding and deciding that the rules
and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture
on April 23, 1891, as shown by the record herein, were not
applicable to the herd of cattle which the defendant in error
imported into Colorado in June, 1891, as shown by the record
herein, for the reason, as this court held, that after said cattle
were domiciled in Colorado their management must be regulated by the state laws, and not by the act of Congress, and
that the disposition of said cattle afterwards was not within
the scope of Federal authority."
It thus appears that if the trial court and the Court of Appeals had been of the opinion that the Secretary's rules and
regulations were within the terms of the authority conferred
by the statutes, and that non-compliance therewith would
have constituted negligence per se, those courts would have
been necessarily compelled to pass upon the constitutionality
of the acts, which question was sharply presented by defendant. And it is also obvious that if the Supreme Court had
been applied to and granted a writ of error, and that court
had differed with the conclusions of the Court of Appeals,
arrived at apart from constitutional objections, the validity of
the acts and regulations would have been considered.

HENR IETTA MINING & 'ILLING

CO. v. GARDNER. "123

Syllabus.

The Court of Appeals seems to have been of opinion that
after the cattle arrived in Colorado, Congress had no power to
regulate their disposition, and hence that the regulations were
not binding. And the question of power involved the construction of a provision of the Constitution of the United
States. At the same time its judgment may fairly be said to
have rested on the view that the statutes did not assert the
authority of the United States, but conceded that of the State,
in this regard; and that the regulations were not within the
tepms of the statutes. But, if the case had reached the Supreme
Court, that tribunal might have ruled that the judgment could
not be sustained on these grounds, and then have considered
the grave constitutional question thereupon arising.
And although the Supreme Court might have applied the
rule that where a judgment rests on grounds not involving a
constitutional question it will not interfere, we cannot assume
that that court would not have taken jurisdiction, since it has
not so decided in this case, nor had any opportunity to do so.
We must decline to hold that it affirmatively appears from
the record that a decision could not have been had in the
highest court of the State, and, this being so, the writ of error
cannot be sustained. _Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522.
Writ of error dismissed.

HENRIETTA MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v.
GARDNER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 140. Argued January 16, 1899.-Decided February 20, 1699.
The provisions in the Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1887, c. 42, ยง 3, concerning the commencement of process for attachment, are inconsistent
with those concerning the same subject contained in the act of March 6,
1891; and although chapter 42 is not expressly repealed by the act of
1891, it must be held to be repealed by the later act on the principle laid

