DULUTH & IRON RANGE RAILROAD CO. v. ROY.

587

Statement of the Case.

DULUTH AND

IRON RANGE RAILROAD. COMPANY v. ROY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 221. Submitted March 10, 1899. -Decided April 3, 1899.
When a patent of public lands is obtained by inadvertence and mistake, to
the injury of a person who had previously initiated the steps required by
law to obtain possession and ownership of such land, the courts, in a
proper proceeding, will divest or control the title thereby acquired,
either by compelling a conveyance to such person, or by quieting his title.
The claimant against the patent must so far bring himself within the laws
as to entitle him, if not obstructed or prevented, to complete his claim.
Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, is decisive of this case.

THIS is an action to quiet title to the northwest quarter of
section number three, in township number sixty-one, north
of range number fifteen west of the fourth P. M., State of
Minnesota.
It was brought in the district court of the eleventh judicial
district of the State against the plaintiff in error and one John
Megins. One Moses D. Kenyon was afterwards made a party.
The pleadings consisted of the complaint, separate answers
of the defendants and replies of the plaintiff, (defendant in
error,) which respectively set up the titles, interests and claims
of the parties. As there is no point made on them, they are
omitted.
The case was tried by the court without a jury and full
findings of fact made, and judgment rendered in favor of the
plaintiff, (defendant in error,) adjudging and decreeing him to
be the equitable owner of the lands in controversy, and that
the defendants "and all persons claiming by or through or
under them be and they are hereby forever barred and precluded from having or claiming any right, title, lien or interest in or to the said lands or any part thereof adverse to the
plaintiff and parties claiming under him."
From this judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court, by which it was affirmed. 72 N. W. Rep. 794.
To the judgment of affirmance this writ of error is directed.

OCTOBER TERM,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

The findings of the court established the following:
The lands were patented to the State of Minnesota by the
United States as swamp and overflowed lands, and the plaintiff in error is the grantee of the State. The defendant in
error claims under the homestead laws. At the time of the
passage of the act of 1860, under which the patent was issued,
the lands were not swamp, wet or overflowed, or unfit for
cultivation, but were and now are "high, dry and fit for cultivation," except four or five acres in the northwest corner. In
May, 1883, the defendant in error, then being qualified to do
so, settled upon the lands with the bona ftde intention of
acquiring the same under the laws of the United States,
established his residence thereon, and has ever since continued to be in the actual, exclusive and notorious possession,
maintaining his home there, and cultivating and improving
the same. When defendant in error commenced his residence
on the lands the plat of the survey of the township in which
they were located had not been filed, but was filed subsequently, and after it was filed, to wit, on the 2d of July,
1883, he went to the land office with the intention of entering the lands under the homestead laws, and made a
request to do so, but the land officers informed him that there
was a mistake in the survey, and that in all probability a new
survey would be ordered; that numerous protests had been
made against the survey which were sufficient to raise the
question of its accuracy; that it was unnecessary for him to
protest or file on the land, and advised him to wait until such
protests were determined.
He was a foreigner, did not know the English language, nor
was he familiar with the laws, rules and regulations relating to the disposition of the public lands, and relied upon the
representations of the officers, and acted upon their advice.
On the 5th of August, 1884, he discovered that the State
was claiming the lands as swamp lands; thereupon he duly
made application to enter the same under the homestead laws,
and tendered the fees to the local land officer. No adverse
claim other than that of the State had arisen or was made to
said lands, but his offer of entry was rejected on the ground

DULUTH & IRON RANGE RAILROAD CO. v. ROY. 589
Opinion of the Court.

that the same had inured to the State under the act of March
12, 1860, and that his application to enter the lands had not
been made within three months after the filing of the township plat in the land office.
On the 6th of August, 1884, he duly filed contest, duly appealed from the rejection of his claim, which appeal and the
affidavits attached were transmitted to the commissioner of
the General Land Office, and were by him received and filed
September 1, 1884.
On the 23d of January, 1885, and while the appeal and
contest were pending, the lands, through mistake and inadvertence, were patented to the State of Minnesota. The defendants took conveyance of the lands with notice of the right,.
claim and interest of the plaintiff (defendant in error).
The assignments of error attack the conclusions of the state
courts as erroneous, and specify as reasons (a) that the legal
title to the lands was in plaintiff in error, and that there was
no finding that there was a mistake of law or fraud on the
part of the General Land Office of the United States or of
any officers of the United States; (b) the finding that the
patent to the State of Minnesota was issued through a mistake or inadvertence does not constitute a ground for adjudging defendant in error the equitable owner of the lands; (0)
the defendant in error is not the real party in interest and
never had the legal or equitable title to the land, the United
States being the only party which could attack the patent to
the State of Minnesota or invoke the action of the courts to
determine its validity.
.Yr. J. M. Wilson for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. J. X. V7ae and Xp. John. Brennan for defendant in
error.
MRt. JUSTICE MoKE. xA, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Do the facts entitle the defendant in error to the relief which
was awarded him by the state courts ?.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It is now too well established to need argument to support
or a citation of authorities, that when a patent is obtained from
the United States by fraud, mistake or imposition, the question thence arising becomes one of private right, and the
courts in a proper proceeding and in execution of justice will
divest or control the title, thereby acquired either by compelling a conveyance to the plaintiff or by quieting his title
as against the defendants, and enjoining them from asserting
theirs. And in two late cases, Germania Iron Co. v. United
States, 165 U. S. 379; Williams v. United States, 138 U. S. 514,
it was decided that this power extends to cases in which the
patent was issued by inadvertence and mistake, the grounds
relied on in the case at bar.
The plaintiff in error, however, contends that defendant in
error cannot invoke this doctrine because he is not in privity
with the United States; that he has not proved or offered to
prove or established, or even alleged in this case, the ultimate
facts upon which alone his claim could be recognized or its
validity established. In other words, that he has not made
or has not offered to make final proof.
This contention is attempted to be supported by the principles announced in Bohall v. .Dilla, 114 U. S. 47; Sparks v.
Pierce, 115 U. S. 408; Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48. The
principles are that to enable one to attack a patent from the
Government he must show that he himself was entitled to it.
It is not sufficient for him to show that there may have been
error in adjudging the title to the patentee. He must show
that by the law properly administered the title should have
been awarded to him.
We do not question these principles, but they only mean
that the claimant against the patent must so far bring himself
within the laws as to entitle him, if not obstructed or prevented, to complete his claim. It does not mean that at the
moment of time the patent issued it should have been awarded
to him. The acts performed by him may or may not have
reached that completeness; may not have reached it, and yet
justify relief, as in Ard v. Bralndon, 156 U. S. 537, and in Mjorrison v. Stalnaker,104: U. S. 213. And because of the well-estab-

DULUTH & IRON RANGE RAILROAD CO. v. ROY. 591
Opinion of the Court.

lished principle that where an individual in the prosecution of
a right has done that which the law requires him to do, and he
has failed to attain his right by the misconduct or neglect of
a public officer, the law will protect him. -Lytle v. Arkansas,
9 How. 314.
It would be arbitrary to apply the principle to some acts
and not to others -might destroy it utterly to require the performance of all. But we are indisposed to extend the argument, because we regard Ard v. Brandon as decisive.
In that case the claimant against the patent, being qualified
and entitled, offered to make final proof, and from the denial
of the offer prosecuted appeals successively to the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Secretary of the
Interior, and each decided against him. In this case defendant in error, also being qualified and entitled, offered to enter
the land, which offer was denied, and against the claim of the
State of Minnesota he instituted a contest, which was pending
in the General Land Office, when the patent was issued by
inadvertence and mistake, and his right thereby defeated.
We do not regard this difference in the cases substantial.
But it is urged defendant in error may not be able to make
final proof, and that the Land Department, whose jurisdiction
is exclusive, may determine the lands not to be swamp or
overflowed. Neither supposition can be indulged. The findings by the court show full qualification in the defendant in
error and we cannot presume that the Land Department will
find against the fact, which the state courts have found, that
the lands "were not, at the time of the passage of the act
of March 12, 1860, nor were they ever nor are they now,
swamp, wet or overflowed, or unfit for cultivation."
oIn Ard v. Brandon relief was adjudged against title derived
under patents -one from the State of land certified to it by
the United States and one directly from the United States.
Equally is the defendant in error entitled to relief against the
title claimed by plaintiff in error.

Judgment aflrmed.

