MERRILL v. NATfONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE.

131

Statement of the Case.

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 54, 55. Argued October 20, 21, 1898.- Decided February 20, 1899.
As the controversy in this case involved the question on what basis dividends in insolvency should have been declared, and therein the enforcement of the trust in accordance with law, this court has jurisdiction of
it in equity.
Less than two years having elapsed from the payment of the first dividend
to the filing of this bill, and the other creditors of the bank not having
been harmed by the delay, no presumption of laches is raised, nor can
an estoppel properly be held to have arisen.
A secured creditor of an insolvent national bank may prove and receive
dividends upon the face of his claim as it stood at the time of the declaration of insolvency, without crediting either his collaterals, or collections made therefrom after such declaration, subject always to the
proviso that dividends must cease when, from them and from collaterals
realized, the claim has been paid in full.

ON the seventeenth day of July, A.D. 1891, the First National
Bank of Palatka, Florida, a banking association incorporated
under the laws of the United States, having its place of business- at Palatka, Florida, failed and closed its doors.- Subsequently T. B. Merrill was duly appointed receiver of the bank
by the Comptroller of the Currency, and entered upon the discharge of his duties. At the time of the failure of the bank,
it was indebted to the National Bank of Jacksonville in the
sum of $6010.47, on sundry drafts, which indebtedness was
unsecured; and also in the sum of $10,093.34, being $10,000,
and interest, for money borrowed June 5, 1891, evidenced by
a certificate of deposit, which was secured by sundry notes belonging to the First National Bank of Palatka, attached to the
certificate as collateral. These notes aggregated $10,896.22,
the largest being a note of A. L. Hart for $5350.22. The

OCTOBER TERMI,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

National Bank of Jacksonville proved its claim upon the unsecured drafts for $6010.47, and as to this there was no controversy. It also offered to prove its claim for $10,093.34, but
the receiver would not permit it to do this, and, under the ruling of the Comptroller of the Currency, it was ordered first
to exhaust the collaterals given to secure the certificate of
deposit, and then to prove for the balance due, after applying
the proceeds of the collaterals in part payment.
The Jacksonville Bank collected all the notes excepting that
of A. L. Hart, obtained a judgment on the latter, which it assigned and transferred to the receiver, applied the proceeds of
the collaterals which it had collected to its claim on the certificate, and proved for the balance due thereon, being the sum of
8-496.44. On December 1, 1892, a dividend of $1573.75 was
paid on the claim as thus proven, and on May 17, 1893, a
second dividend of $449.64 was paid.
On the eleventh of September, 1894, the Jacksonville Bank
filed its bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Florida against Merrill as
receiver, which set forth the foregoing facts, complained of
the action of the receiver in not permitting proof for the full
amount of the certificate of deposit, and alleged that it "gave
due notice that it would demand apro rata dividend upon the
whole amount due your orator, without deducting the amount
collected on collateral security, to wit, that it would demand
a pro r'atadividend upon $16,103.81, and interest thereon from
the 17th-day of July, A.D. 1891."
The prayer of the bill was, among other things, for a pro
rata distribution on the entire amount of the indebtedness.
The defendant demurred to the bill, and, the demurrer having been overruled, answered, denying "that the complainant
gave due notice that it would demand a pro rata dividend
upon the whole amount due to it without deducting the
amount collected on collateral security;" and averring to
the contrary that "the complainant accepted the said ruling
of the said Comptroller without demur and accepted from
the said Comptroller, through this defendant, without protest.ing notice of any kind, the checks of the said Comptroller

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 133
Statement of the Case.
in payment of the dividends mentioned in the bill, and that
it was not until the 15th of March, 1894, that the complainant gave notice of any kind that it dissented from the said
ruling of the Comptroller and would demand payment upon
a different basis."
Sundry exceptions were taken to the answer, which were
overruled, and the cause was set down for final hearing on
bill and answer.
The Circuit Court entered its decree, January 29, 1896, that
complainant was entitled to receive dividends on the whole
face of the indebtedness due July 17, 1891, less the dividends
actually paid to it; that the receiver declare the dividend on
the basis of the whole claim, and pay it out of any assets
which were in his bands March 15, 1894:; and that he render
an account.
From this decree the receiver prosecuted an appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. That court,
differing from the Circuit Court as to the form of its decree,
reversed it and remanded the cause, with directions to enter
a decree that the Jacksonville Bank was entitled&to prove its
claims to the entire amount of the indebtedness, and to the
payment thereon of the same dividends as had been paid on
other indebtedness of -the Palatka Bank, with interest on such
dividends from the date of the declaration thereof, less a credit
of the sums which had been paid as dividends on the part of
the claim theretofore allowed provided the dividends theretofore paid and thereafter to be paid on the sum of $10,093.34,
together with the amounts theretofore and thereafter received
on the collaterals securing that indebtedness, should not exceed one hundred cents on the dollar of the principal and
interest of said debt; that the receiver recognize the Jacksonville Bank as creditor of the Palatka Bank in said sum of
$10,093.34 as of July 17, 1891, and pay dividends as aforesaid thereon, or certify the same to the Comptroller of the
Currency, to be paid in due course of administration; and
that the Jacksonville Bank receive, before further payment
to other creditors, its due proportion of the dividends as thus
declared, with interest. 41 U. S. App. 529. From that decree,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

after the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals had been
sent down to the Circuit Court, and proceedings had thereunder, an appeal was taken and perfected to this court and is
numbered 54: of this term.
The decree was entered by the Circuit Court in pursuance
of the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals, July 27,
1896, and the receiver prayed an appeal therefrom to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which was by that court dismissed
on motion of the Jacksonville Bank. 41 U. S. App. 645.
From this decree of dismissal, an appeal was allowed and
perfected to this court, and is numbered 55 of this term.
These appeals were argued together.
-ir. Edward Winslow Paige and Xr. _F'ancis F. Oldham
for appellant.
-M'.
William Worthington for appellee. Air. George R.
Yeaman was on his brief. Mr. J. C. Cooper filed a brief for
appellee.

MR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER,

after making the above state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree of the
Circuit Court with specific directions. Nothing remained for
the Circuit Court to do except to enter a decree in accordance with the mandate, and, for the purposes of an appeal to
this court, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final.
The mandate went down and the Circuit Court entered its
decree in strict conformity therewith before the appeal in
No.'54 was prosecuted to this court. This promptness of action did not, however, cut off that appeal, and any difficulty
in our dealing with the cause in the Circuit Court was obviated by the second appeal, which brings before us in No. 55
the record subsequent to the first decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
It is contended that the bill should have been dismissed
because of adequate remedy at law, and on the ground of

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 135
Opinion of the Court.
laches .and estoppel. As the controversy involved the question on what basis dividends should have been declared, and
therein the enforcement of the administration of the trust in
accordance with law, we have no doubt of the jurisdiction
in equity.
Nor was the lapse of time .such as to raise any presumption
of laches, nor could an estoppel properly be held to have
arisen. Less than two years had elapsed from the payment
of the first dividend to the filing of the bill, and the other
creditors of the insolvent bank had nof been harmed by the
temporary submission of complainant to the ruling of the
Comptroller. The decree affected only assets on hand or such
as might be subsequently discovered; and if the other creditors had no rights superior to that of complainant, they lost
nothing by the reduction of their dividends, if any, afterwards
declared to be paid out of such assets.
The inquiry on the merits is, generally speaking, whether a
secured creditor of an insolvent national bank may prove and
receive dividends upon the face of his claim as it stood at
the time of the declaration of insolvency, without crediting
either his collaterals, or collections made therefrom after such
declaration, subject always to the proviso that dividends must
cease when from them and from collaterals realized, the claim
has been paid in full.
Counsel agree that four different rules have been applied
in the distribution of insolvent estates, and state them as
follows:
"Rule 1. The creditor desiring to participate in the fund
is required first to exhaust his security and credit the proceeds
on his claim, or to credit its value upon his claim and prove
for the balance, it being optional with him to surrender his
security and prove for his full claim.
"Rule 2. The creditor can prove for the full amount, but
shall receive dividends only on the amount due him at the
time of distribution of the fund; that is, he is required to
credit on his claim, as proved, all sums received from his
security, and may receive dividends only on the balance due
him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"Rule 3. The creditor shall be allowed to prove for, and
receive dividends upon, the amount due.him at the time of
proving or sending in his claim to the official liquidator, being
required to credit as payments all the sums received from his
security prior thereto.
"Rule 4. The creditor can prove for, and receive dividends
upon, the full amount of his claim, regardless of any sums
received from his collateral after the transfer of the assets
from the debtor in insolvency, provided that he shall not receive more than the full amount due him."
The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals held
the fourth rule applicable, and decreed accordingly.
This was in accordance with the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Chemical ifational
Bank v. Armstrong, 16 U. S. App. 465, Mr. Justice Brown,
Circuit Judges Taft and Lurton, composing the court. The
opinion was delivered by Judge Taft, and discusses the question on principle with a full citation of the authorities. We
concur with that court in the proposition that assets of an
insolvent debtor are held under insolvency proceedings in
trust for the benefit of all his creditors, and that a creditor,
on proof of his claim, acquires a vested interest in the trust
fund; and, this being so, that the second rule before mentioned must be rejected, as it is based on the denial, in effect,
of a vested interest in the trust fund, and concedes to the
creditor simply a right to share in the distributions made from
that fund according to the amount which may then be due
him, requiring a readjustment of the basis of distribution at
the time of declaring every dividend, and treating, erroneously as we think, the claim of the creditor to share in the
assets of the debtor, and his debt against the debtor, as if
they were one and the same thing.
The third and fourth rules concur in holding that the creditor's right to dividends is to be determined by the amount
due him at the time his interest in the assets becomes vested,
and is not subject to subsequent change, but they differ as to
the point of time when this occurs.
In Hellock's case, L. R. 3 Ch. App. 769, it was held that

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 137
Opinion of the Court.

the creditor's interest in the general fund to be distributed
vested at the date of presenting or proving his claim; and
this rule has been followed in many jurisdictions where statutory provisions have been construed to require an affirmative
election to become a beneficiary thereunder. For instance,
the cases in Illinois construing the assignment act of that
State, which are well considered and full to the point, hold
that the interest of each creditor in the assigned estate "only
vests in him when he signifies his assent to the assignment by
filing his claim with the assignee." -Levy v. CAicago Ivational
Bank, 158 Illinois, 88; Fur2ness v. Union 2Yational Bank, 147
Illinois, 570.
On the other hand, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in
.Ailler's Appeal, 35 Penn. St. 481, and many subsequent
cases, has held, necessarily in view of the statutes of Pennsylvania regulating the matter, that the interest vests at the time
of the transfer of the assets in trust. In that case the debtor
executed a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
Subsequently the assignor became entitled to a legacy which
was attached by a creditor, who realized therefrom $2402.87.
It was held that such creditor was notwithstanding entitled
to a dividend out of the assigned estate on the full amount of
his claim at the time of the execution of the assignment. Mr.
Justice Strong, then a member of the state tribunal, said:
"By the deed of assignment, the equitable ownership of all
the assigned property passed to the creditors. They became
joint proprietors, and each creditor owned such a proportional
part of the whole as the debt due to him was of the aggregate
of the debts. The extent of his interest was fixed by the deed
of trust. It was, indeed, only equitable; but whatever it was,
he took it under the deed, and it was only as a part owner
that he had any standing in court when the distribution came
to be made. . . . It amounts to very little to argue that
Miller's recovery of the $2402.87 operated with precisely the
same effect as if a voluntary payment had been made by
the assignor after his assignment; that is, that it extinguished
the debt to the amount recovered. No doubt it did, but it is
not as a creditor that he is entitled to a distributive share of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the trust fund. His rights are those of an owner by virtue of
the deed of assignment. The amount of the debt due to
him is important only so far as it determines the extent of his
ownership. The reduction of that debt, therefore, after the
creation of the trust, and after his ownership had become
vested, it would seem, must be immaterial."
Differences in the language of voluntary assignments and
of statutory provisions naturally lead to particular differences
in decision, but the principle on which the third and fourth
rules rest is the same. In other words, those rules hold,
together with the first rule, that the creditor's right to dividends is based on the amount of his claims at the time his
interest in the assets vests by the statute, or deed of trust, or
rule of law, under which they are to be administered.
The first rule is commonly known as the bankruptcy rule,
because enforced by the bankruptcy courts in the exercise of
their peculiar jurisdiction, under the bankruptcy acts, over the
property of the bankrupt, in virtue of which creditors holding
mortgages or liens thereon might be required to realize on
their securities, to permit them to be sold, to take them on
valuation, or to surrender them altogether, as a condition of
proving against the general assets.
The fourth rule is that ordinarily laid down by the chancery
courts, to the effect that, as the trust created by the transfer
of the assets by operation of law or otherwise, is a trust for
all creditors, no creditor can equitably be compelled to surrender any other vested right he has in the assets of his debtor

in order to obtain his vested right under the trust. It is true
that, in equity, a creditor having a lien upon two funds may
be required to exhaust one of them in aid of creditors who can
only resort to the other, but this will not be done when it
trenches on the rights or operates to the prejudice of the party
entitled to the double fund. Story Eq. Jur. (13th ed.) § 633;
1n 9'e Bates, 118 Illinois, 524. And it is well established that
in marshalling assets, as respects creditors, no part of his security can be taken from a secured creditor until he is completely
satisfied. Leading Cases in Equity, White & Tudor, Vol. If,

Part 1, 4th Amer. ed., pp. 258, 322.

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 139
Opinion of the Court.

In Greenwood v. Taylor, 1 Russ. & -fyl. 185, Sir John Leach
applied the bankruptcy rule in the administration of a decedent's estate, and remarked that the rule was "not founded,
as has been argued, upon the peculiar jurisdiction in bankruptcy, but rests upon the general principles of a court of
equity in the administration of assets;" and referred to the
doctrine requiring a creditor having two funds as security, one
of which he shares with others, to resort to his sole. sbcurity
first. But Greenwood v. Taylor was in effect overruled by
Lord Cottenham in .fasom v. Bogg, 2 lvfyl. & Cr. 443, 488,
and expressly so by the Court of Appeal in Chancery in
lellock's case; and the application of the bankruptcy rule
rejected.
In I-ellock's case, Lord Justice W. -Page Wood, soon afterwards Lord Chancellor Hatherly, said:
"Now in the case of proceedings with reference to the
administration of the estates of deceased persons, Lord Cottenham put the point very clearly, and said: 'A mortgagee
has a double security. He has a right to proceed against both,
and to make the best he can of both: Why he should be deprived of this right because the debtor dies, and dies insolvent, it is not very easy to see.'
"Mr. De Gex, who argued this case very ably, says that
the whole case is altered by the insolvency. But where do
we find such a rule established, and on what. principle can
such a rule be founded, as that where a mortgagor is insolvent
the contract between, him and his mortgagee is to be treated
as altered in a way prejudicial to the mortgagee, and that the
mortgagee is bound to realize his security before proceeding
with his personal demand.
"It was strongly pressed upon us, and the argument succeeded before Sir J. Leach in Greenwood v. Taylor, that the
practice in bankruptcy furnishes a precedent which ought
to be followed. But the answer to that is, that this court is
not to depart from its own established practice, and vary the
nature of the contract between mortgagor and mortgagee by
analogy to a rule which has been adopted by a court having a
peculiar jurisdiction, established for administering the property

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

of traders unable to meet their engagements, which property
that court found it proper and right to distribute in a particular manner, different from the mode in which it would have
been dealt with in the Court of Chancery. . . . We are
asked to alter the contract between the parties by depriving
the secured creditor of one of his remedies, namely, the right
of standing upon his securities until they are redeemed."
And" it was the established rule in England prior to the
Judicature Act, 38 and 39 Victoria, c. 77, that in an adininistration suit a mortgagee might prove his whole debt and afterwards realize his security for the difference, and so as to
creditors with security, where a company was being wound
up under the Companies Act of 1862. 1 Daniel's Ch. Pr. 384;
-1n re lithiernsea Brick 1lrorks, L. R. 16 Ch. Div. 337.
Certainly the giving of collateral does not operate of itself
as a payment or satisfaction either of the debt or any part of
it, and the debtor, who has given collateral security, remains
debtor, notwithstanding to the full amount of the debt; and
so in 1ewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618, 623, it was ruled
that: "It is a settled principle of equity that a creditor holding collaterals is not bound to apply them before enforcing
his direct remedies against the debtor."
Doubtless the title to collaterals pledged for the security of
a debt vests in the pledgee so far as necessary to accomplish
that purpose, but the obligation to which the collaterals are
subsidiary remains the same. The creditor can sue, recover
judgment, and collect from the debtor's general property, and
apply the proceeds of the collateral to any balance which
may remain. Insolvency proceedings shift the creditor's remedy to the interest in the assets. As between debtor and
creditor, moneys received on collaterals are applicable by way
of payment, but as under the equity rule the creditor's rights
in the trust fund are established when the fund is created,
collections subsequently made from, or payments subsequently
made on, collateral, cannot operate to change the relations
between the creditor and his co-creditors in respect of their
rights in the fund.
As Judge Taft points out, it is because of the distinction

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 141
Opinion of the Court.

between the right inp ersonam and the right in rem that
interest is only added up to the date of insolvency, although
after the claims as allowed are paid in full, interest accruing
may then be paid before distribution to stockholders.
In short, the secured creditor is not to be cut off from his
right in the common fund because he has taken security
which his co-creditors have not. Of course, he cannot go
beyond payment, and surplus assets or so much of his dividends as are unnecessary to pay him must be applied to
the benefit of the other creditors. And while the unsecured creditors are entitled to be substituted as far as possible to the rights of secured creditors, the latter are entitled
to retain their securities until the indebtedness due them is
extinguished.
The contractual relations between borrower and lender,
pledging collaterals, remain, as is said by the New York
Court of Appeals in People v. Remington, 121 N. Y. 328, 336,
"unchanged when insolvency has brought thegeneral estate
of the debtor within the jurisdiction of a court of equity for
administration and settlement." The creditor looks to the
debtor to repay the money borrowed, and to the collateral to
accomplish this in whole or in part, and he cannot be deprived either of what his debtor's general ability to pay may
yield, or of the particular security he has taken.
We cannot concur in the view expressed by Chief Justice
Parker in Amory -. Francis, 16 Mass. 308, 311, (1820) that
"the property pledged is in fact security for no more of the
debt, than its value will amount to; and for all the rest,
the creditor relies upon the personal credit of his debtor, in
the same manner he would for the whole, if no security were
taken."
We think the collateral is security for the whole debt and
every part of it, and is as applicable to any balance that remains after payment from other sources as to the original
amount due; and that the assumption is unreasonable that
the creditor does not rely on the responsibility of his debtor
according to his promise.
The ruling in Arnory v. Francis was disapproved, shortly

OCTOBER TERM1,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

after it was made, by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire
in .ifoses v. Ranlet, 2 N. H. 488, (1822) Woodbury, J., afterwards Mr. Justice Woodbury of this court, delivering the
opinion, and is rejected by the preponderance of decisions in
this country, which sustain the conclusion that a creditor,
with collateral, is not on that account to be deprived of the
right to prove for his full claim against an insolvent estate.
Many of the cases are referred to in Bank v. Aq'mstrong, and
these and others given in the Encyclo. of Law and Eq. 2d ed.
vol. 3, p. 141.
Does the legislation in respect to the administration of
national banks require the application of the bankruptcy
rule? If not, we are of opinion that the equity rule was
properly applied in this case.
By section 5234 of the Revised Statutes, and section 1 of
the act of June 30, 1876, c. 156, 19 Stat. 63, the Comptroller
of the Currency is authorized to appoint a receiver to close up
the affairs of a national banking association when it has failed
to redeem its circulation notes, when presented for payment;
or has been dissolved and its charter forfeited; or has allowed
a judgment to remain against it unpaid for thirty days; or
whenever the Comptroller shall have become satisfied of its
insolvency after examining its affairs. Such receiver is to
take possession of its effects, liquidate its assets and pay
the money derived therefrom to the Treasurer of the United
States.
Section 5235 of the Revised Statutes requires the Comptroller, after appointing such receiver, to give notice by newspaper advertisement for three consecutive months, "calling
on all persons who may have claims against such association
to present the same, and to make legal proof thereof."
By section 5242, transfers of its property by a national
banking association after the commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, to prevent distribution of
its assets in the manner provided by the chapter of which
that section forms a part, or with a view to preferring any
creditor except in payment of its circulating notes, are declared to be null and void.

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 143
Opinion of the Court.

Section 5236 is as follows:
"From time to time, after full provision has first been made
for refunding to the United States any deficiency in redeeming the notes of such association, the Comptroller shall make
a ratable dividend of the money so paid over to him by such
receiver on all such claims as may have been proved to his
satisfaction, or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds of the assets of such association are
paid over to him, shall make further dividends on all claims
previously proved or adjudicated; and the remainder of the
proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the shareholders of
such association, or their legal representatives, in proportion
to the stock by them respectively held."
In Cook County National Bank v. United States, 107 U. S.
445, it was ruled that the statute furnishes a complete code
for the distribution of the -effects of an insolvent national
bank; that its provisions are not to be departed from; and
that the bankrupt law does not govern distribution thereunder.
The question now before us was not treated as involved and
was not decided, but the case is in harmony with Bank v.
Colby, 21 Wall. 609, and Scott v. .Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499,
which proceed on the view that all rights, legal or equitable,
existing at the time of the commission of the act of insolvency
which led to the appointment of the receiver, other than those
created by preference forbidden by section 5242, are preserved;
and that no additional right can thereafter be created, either
by voluntary or inloluntary proceedings. The distribution is
to be "ratable" on the claims as proved or adjudicated, that
is; on one rule of proportion applicable to all alike. In order
to be "ratable" the claims must manifestly be estimated as of
the same point of time, and that date has been adjudged to
be the date of the declaration of insolvency. White v. .kox,
111 U. S. 784. In that case it appeared that the Miners'
National Bank had been put in the hands of a receiver by the
Comptroller of the Currency, December 20, 1875. White presented a claim for $60,000, which the Comptroller refused to
allow. White then brought suit to have his claim adjudicated,
and on June 23, 1883, recovered judgment for $104,523.72, be7

OCTOBER TERMIf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the amount of his claim with interest to the date of the
judgment. 'eanwhile the Comptroller had paid the other
creditors ratable dividends, aggregating sixty-five per cent of
the amounts due them, respectively, as of the date when the
bank failed. When White's claim was adjudicated, the Comptroller calculated the amount due him according to the judgment as of the date of the failure, and paid him sixty-five per
cent on that amount. White admitted that he had received
all that was due him on the basis of distribution assumed by
the Comptroller, but claimed that he was entitled to have his
dividends calculated on the face of the judgment, which would
give him several thousand dollars more than he had received,
and he applied for a mandamus to compel the payment to him
of the additional sum. The writ was refused by the court
below and its judgment was affirmed. Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, speaking for the court, said: "Dividends are to be
paid to all creditors, ratably, that is to say, proportionally.
To be proportionate they must be made by some uniform rule.
They are to be paid on all claims against the bank previously
proved and adjudicated. All creditors are to be treated alike.
The claim against the bank, therefore, must necessarily be
made the basis of the apportionment. . . . The business
of the bank must stop when insolvency is declared. Rev. Stat.
§ 5228. No new debt can be made after that. The only claims
the Comptroller can recognize in the settlement of the affairs
of the bank are those which are shown by proof satisfactory
to him or by the adjudication of a competent court to have
had their origin in something done before the insolvency. It
is clearly his duty, therefore, in paying dividends, to take the
value of the claim at that time as the basis of distribution."
In Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499, 510, it was argued that
the ordinary equity rule of set-off in case of insolvency did
not apply to insolvent national banks in view of sections 52347,
5236 and 5242 of the Revised Statutes. It was urged "that
these sections by implication forbid this set-off because they
require that after the redemption of the circulating notes has
been fully provided for, the assets shall be ratably distributed
among the creditors, and that no preferences given or suffered,

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 145
Opinion of the Court.

in contemplation of or after committing the act of insolvency,
shall stand;" and "that the assets of the bank existing at the
time of the act of insolvency include all its property without
regard to any existing liens thereon or set-offs thereto." But
this court. said: "We do not regard this position as tenable.
Undoubtedly, any disposition by a national bank, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, of its choses in action,
securities or other assets, made to prevent their application to
the payment of its circulating notes, or to prefer one creditor
to another, is forbidden; but liens, equities or rights arising
by express agreement, or implied from the nature of the dealings between the parties, or by operation of law, prior to insolvency and not in contemplation thereof, are not invalidated.
The provisions of the act are not directed against all liens,
securities, plelges or equities, whereby one creditor may
obtain a greater payment than another, but against those
given or arising after or in contemplation of insolvency.
Where a set-off is otherwise valid, it is not perceived how its
allowance can be considered a preference, and it is clear that
it is only the balance, if any, after the set-off is deducted which
can justly be held to form part of the assets of the insolvent.
The requirement as to ratable dividends is to make them from
what belongs to the bank, and that which at the time of the
insolvency belongs of right to the debtor does not belong to
the bank."
The set-off took effect as of the date of the declaration of
insolvency, but outstanding collaterals are not payment, and
the statute does not make their surrender a condition to the
receipt by the creditor of his share in the assets.
The rule in bankruptcy went upon the principle of election;
that is to say, the secured creditor "was not allowed to prove his
whole debt, unless he gave up any security held by him on the
estate against which he sought to prove. He might realize his
security himself if he had power to do so, or he might apply
to have it realized by the Court of Bankruptcy, or by some
other court having competent jurisdiction, and might prove
for any deficiency of the proceeds to satisfy his demand; but
if he neglected to do this and proved for his whole debt, he
VOL. CLXXIII-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

was bound to give up his security." Robson, Law Bank. 336.
But it was only under bankrupt laws that such election could
be compelled. Tayloe v. Thompson, 5 Pet. 358, 369.
And we are unable to accept the suggestion that compulsion
under those laws was the result merely of the provision for
ratable distribution, which only operated to prevent preferences, and to make all kinds of estates, both real and personal, assets for the payment of debts, and to put specialty
and simple contract creditors on the same footing; and so
gave to all creditors the right to come upon the common
fund. Equality between them was equity, but that was not
inconsistent with the common law rule awarding to diligence,
prior to insolvency, its appropriate reward; or with conceding the validity of prior contract rights.
We repeat that it appears to us that the secuyed creditor is
a creditor to the full amount due him, when the insolvency is
declared, just as much as the unsecured creditor is, and cannot
be subjected to a different rule. And as the basis on which all
creditors are to draw dividends is the amount of their claims at
the time of the declaration of insolvency, it necessarily results,
for the purpose of fixing that basis, that it is immaterial what
collateral any particular creditor may have. The secured creditor cannot be charged with the estimated value of the collateral, or be compelled to exhaust it before enforcing his direct
remedies against the debtor, or to surrender it as a condition
thereto, though the receiver may redeem or be subrogated as
circumstances may require.
Whatever Congress may be authorized to enact by reason
of possessing the power to pass uniform laws on the subject of
bankruptcies, it is very clear that it did not intend to impinge
upon contracts existing between creditors and debtors, by anything prescribed in reference to the administration of the
assets of insolvent national banks. Yet it is obvious that the
bankruptcy rule converts what on its face gives the secured
creditor an equal right with other creditors into a preference
against him, and hence takes away a right which he already
had. This a court of equity should never do, unless required
by statute, at the time the indebtedness was created.

MEIERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 147
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

The requirement of equality of distribution among creditors by the national banking act involves no invasion of prior
contract rights of any such creditors, and ought not to be
construed as having, or being intended to have, such a resuit.
Our conclusion is that the claims of creditors are to be
determined as of the date of the declaration of insolvency,
irrespective of the question whether particular creditors have
security or not. When secured creditors have received payment in full, their right to dividends, and their right to retain
their securities cease, but collections therefrom are not otherwise material. Insolvency gives unsecured creditors no greater
rights than they had before, though through redemption or
subrogation or the realization of a surplus they may be benefited.
The case was rightly decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals;
its decree in No. 54: is
A.ffrmed, and the decree of the Circuit Court entered July
27, 1896, inyursuance of the mandate of that court, also
afilrmed, and the case remanded accordingly.
MR. JusTic. Wr rr, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and Mn. JUSTICE MoKENNA,

dissenting.

The court now decides: 1st. That on the failure of a
national bank a creditor thereof whose debt is secured by
pledge is entitled to be recognized and classed by the Comptroller of the Currency to the full amount of his debt, without in any way taking into account the collaterals by which
the debt is secured, and on the amount so recognized he is
entitled to be paid out of the general assets the sum of any
dividends which may be declared. 2d. That this right to be
classed for the full amount of the debt, without regard to the
value of the collaterals, is fixed by the date of the insolvency
and continues to the final distribution, whatever may be the
change in the debt thereafter brought about by the realization
of the securities, provided only that the sums received by the
creditor by way of dividends and from the amount collected

OCTOBER TERI, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

from the collaterals do not exceed the entire debt and therefore extinguish it.
I am constrained to dissent from these propositions, because,
in my opinion, their enforcement will produce inequality
among creditors and operate injustice, and, as a necessary
consequence, are inconsistent with the National Banking Act.
It cannot be doubted that the acts of Congress, which regulate the collection and distribution of the assets of an insolvent national bank, are controlling. It is clear that every
creditor who contracts with such bank does so subject to the
provisions directing the manner of distributing the assets of
such bank in case of its insolvency, and therefore that the
terms of the act enter into and form part of every contract
which such bank may make. Now, the act of Congress
makes it the duty of the receiver appointed by the Comptroller to liquidate the affairs of a failed national bank, to
take possession of and realize its assets, Rev. Stat. § 5234;
to call, by advertisement for ninety days, upon creditors,
to present and make legal proof of their claims, Rev. Stat.
§ 5235 ; and, from the proceeds of the assets, the Comptroller
is directed to make a "ratable dividend" on the recognized
claims, Rev. Stat. § 5236. To prevent preferences, the law,
moreover, directs that all contracts from which preferences
may arise, made after the commission of an act of insolvency
or in contemplation thereof, "shall be utterly null and void."
Rev. Stat. § 5242.
It seems to me superfluous to demonstrate that the rules
now upheld by which a creditor holding security is decided
to be entitled to disregard the value of his security and take
a dividend upon the whole amount of the debt from the general assets, violates the principle of equality and ratable distribution which the act of Congress establishes. Is it not
evident that if one creditor is allowed to reap the whole
benefit of his security, and at the same time take from the
general assets a dividend, on his whole claim, as if he had no
security, he thereby obtains an advantage over the other
general creditors, and that he gets more than his ratable
share of the general assets? Let me illustrate the unavoida-

IERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JAOKSONVILLE. 149
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

ble consequence of the doctrine now recognized. A loans a
national bank $5000, and takes as the evidence of such loan a
note of the bank for the sum named, without security. The
lender is thus a general or unsecured creditor for the sum of
$5000. B loans to the same bank $5000, without security.
He is applied to for a further loan, and agrees to loan another
$5000 on receiving collateral worth $5000, and requires that
a new note be executed for the amount of both loans, which
recites that it is secured by the collateral in question. While
theoretically, therefore, B is a secured creditor for $10,000,
he practically has no security for $5000 thereof. Insolvency
supervenes. The general assets received by the Comptroller
equal only fifty per cent of the claims. Now, under the rule
which the court establishes, A on his unsecured claim of
$5000 collects a dividend of but $2500, thereby losing $2500;
B, on the other hand, who proves $10,000, taking no account
whatever of his collateral, realizes by way of dividends
$5000, and by collections on collaterals a similar amount,
with the result that though as to $5000 he was, in effect, an
unsecured creditor, he loses nothing. B is thus in precisely
as good a situation as though he had originally demanded
and received from the borrowing bank collateral securities
equal in value to the full amount loaned. It is thus apparent
that the application of the rule would operate to enable B who, I repeat, virtually held no collateral security for $5000
of the sums loaned-to be paid his entire debt, though the
assets of the insolvent estate of the borrower paid but fifty
cents on the dollar, while another creditor holding an unsecured claim for $5000 fails to realize thereon more than
$2500. Is it not plain that this result is produced by practically a double payment to B, that is, by recognizing B as a
preferred creditor in the specific property, of the value of live
thousand dollars, pledged to him, withdrawing that property
from the general assets, and allowing B to solely appropriate
it, yet permitting him, when the secured part of his debt is
thus virtually satisfied, to again assert the same secured portion of the debt against other assets, by a claim upon the
general fund in the hands of the receiver for the full amount

OCTOBER TERM,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, 'McKenna, JJ.

loaned. The consequence of the receipt of this extra sum
upon account of the already fully secured portion of the
original loan is that B is enabled to offset it against the deficient dividend on the unsecured portion of the debt, one
equalling the other, thus closing the transaction without loss
to him.
Let us suppose also the case of a creditor of a national bank
who recovers a judgment for $100,000 and levies the same
upon real estate of the bank worth only $50,000. While the
legal title and possession is still in the bank a receiver is appointed and takes possession of the real estate. Certainly it
cannot be contended that this judgment lien holder is not in
equally as good a position as the holder of a mortgage lien or
other collateral security. The doctrine of the court, however,
if applied to the judgment lien holder, would authorize him to
demand that the receiver treat the real estate as not embraced
in the general assets, and that the creditor be allowed to enforce his whole claim against the other assets irrespective of
the value of the specific security acquired by his lien.
That the doctrine maintained by the court also tends to operate a discrimination as between secured creditors, in favor
of the one holding collateral securities not susceptible of
prompt realization, is, I think, demonstrable. Thus a secured
creditor who takes collaterals maturing on the same day with
the debt owing to himself, which collaterals consist of negotiable notes, the makers of which and endorsers upon which are
pecuniarily responsible, finds the collaterals promptlypaid when
deposited for collection, and if his debtor should become insolvent the day after payment the creditor could only claim for
the residue of the debt still unpaid. On the other hand, a
creditor of the same debtor, the debt to whom matures at the
same time as that owing the other creditor, and is secured by
collaterals also due contemporaneously, has the collaterals protested for non-payment, and when the debtor fails the collaterals have not been realized. While the first debtor, who had
received first class collateral, can collect dividends against the
estate of his insolvent debtor only for the unpaid portion of
the claim, losing a part of such residue by the inability of the

MVERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 151
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, 33.

estate to pay in full, the debtor who received poor collateral

collects dividends out of the general assets on his whole claim,
and if he eventually realizes on his securities may come out
of the transaction without the loss of one cent.

These illus-

trations, to my mind, adequately portray the inequality and
injustice which must arise from the application of the rules of
distribution now sanctioned by the court.
The fallacies which it strikes me are involved in the two

propositions sanctioned by the court are these: First: The
erroneous assumption that although the act of Congress contemplates that the dividend should be declared out of the general assets after the secured creditors have withdrawn the
amount of their security, it yet provides that the secured creditor who has withdrawn his security and thus been pro tanto
satisfied, can still assert his whole claim against the general
assets, just as if he had no security and had not been allowed
to withdraw the same. Second: The mistaken assumption
that the act confers upon -the secured creditor a new and substantial right, enabling him to obtain, as a consequence of the
failure of the bank, an advantage and preference which would
not have existed in his favor had the failure not supervened.
This arises from holding that the insolvency fixed the amount
of the claim which the secured creditor may assert, as of the
time of the insolvency; thereby enabling him to ignore any
collections which he may have realized from his securities
after the failure, and permitting him to assert as a claim, not
the amount due at the time of the proof, but, by relation, the
amount due at the date of the failure, the result being to cause
the insolvency of the bank to relieve the creditor holding
security from the obligation to impute any collections from
his collateral to his debt, so as to reduce it by the extent of
the collections, a duty which would have rested on him if
insolvency had not taken place. Third: By presupposing
that, because before failure a secured creditor had a legal
rigfit to ignore the collaterals held by him and resort forthe whole debt, in the first instance, against the general
estate of his debtor, it would impair the obligation of the
contract to require the secured creditor in case of insolvency

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

to take into account his collaterals and prevent him from
asserting his whole claim, for the purpose of a dividend,
against the general assets. But the preferential right arising
from the contract of pledge is in nowise impaired by compelling the creditor to first exercise his preference against the
security received from the debtor, and thus confine him to
the specific advantage derived from his contract. Further,
however, as the contract, construed in connection with the
law governing it, restricts the secured as well as the unsecured
creditor to a ratable dividend from the general assets, the
secured creditor is prevented from enhancing the advantage
obtained as a result of the contract for security, by proving
his claim as if no security existed, since to allow him to so do
would destroy the rule of ratable division, subject and subordinate to which the contract was made. A forcible statement
of the true doctrine on the foregoing subject was expressed in
the case of SocijtM Ggn rale de Parisv. Geen, 8 App. Cas. 606.
The question before the court arose upon the construction to
be given to a clause of the English bankrupt act of 1869, incidental to the requirement of a section, expressly embodied
for the first time in a bankrupt act, that the secured creditor
should in some form account for the collateral held by him in
proving his claim against the general estate. In considering
the restriction upon the remedy of a secured creditor produced
by the insolvency, and the consequent right of such creditor
to receive only a ratable dividend on the balance of the debt
after the deduction of the value of the collaterals, Lord Fitzgerald said (p. 620):
"Under ordinary circumstances each creditor is at liberty
to pursue at his discretion the remedies which the law gives
him; but when insolvency intervenes, and the debtor is unable to pay his debts, the position of all parties is alteredthe fund has become inadequate, and the policy of the law is
to lead to equality. In pursuing that policy the bankrupt law
endeavors to enforce an equal distribution, whilst it respects
the rights of those who have previously, by grant or otherwise, acquired some security or some preferable right."
To resort, however, to reasoning for the purpose of en-

MERRILL v. NATION-AL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 153
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, J.

deavoring to demonstrate that where a statute does not
allow preferences in case of insolvency, and commands a
ratable distribution of the assets, a secured creditor cannot
be allowed to disregard the value of his security and prove
for the whole debt, seems to me to be unnecessary, since that
he cannot be permitted to so do, under the circumstances
stated, has been the universal rule applied in bankruptcy in
England and in this country from the beginning.
In the earliest English bankrupt act, 34 & 35 Hen. VIII,
c. 4, the distribution of the general assets of the bankrupt
was directed to be made, "for true satisfaction and payment
of the said creditors; that is to say, to every of the said
creditors, a portion rate and rate alike, according to the quantity of their debts." In the statute of 13 Eliz., c. 7, (and which
was in force in this particular when the consolidated bankrupt
statute of 6 Geo. IV, c. 16, was adopted,) the distribution of
assets was directed in language similar to that just quoted
from the statute of Henry VIII. Under these statutes, from
the earliest times, it was held by the Lord Chancellors of England, having the supervision of the execution of the bankrupt
statutes, that a secured creditor could not retain his collateral
security and prove for his whole debt, but must have his
security sold, and prove for the rest of the debt only. Lord
Somers, in Wiseman v. Carbonell, (1695) 1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 312,
pl. 9; Lord Hardwicke, in Bowel, _etitioner, (1737) 7 Vin.
Ab. 101, pl. 13, and in Exe parte Grove, (1747) 1 Atk. 104;
Lord .Thurlow, in Ex parte Dickson, (1789) 2 Cox Oh. 194,
and in -Ex parte Coming, (1790) 2 Cox Oh. 225; Cooke's
Bankrupt Laws, (1st ed. 1786) 114, and (4th ed. 1799) 119.
In 1794, 4 Brown's Oh. Rep. star paging 550, the prevailing practice with respect to a sale of a mortgage security was
regulated by a general order formulated by Lord Chancellor
Loughborough, wherein, among other things, it was provided
that in case the proceeds of sale should be insufficient to pay
and satisfy what should be found due upon the mortgage, " that
such mortgagee or mortgagees be admitted a creditor or creditors under such commission for such deficiency, and to receive
a dividend or dividends thereon out of the bankrupt's estate or

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

effects, ratably and in proportion with the rest of the creditors
seeking relief under the said commission," etc.
Concerning the practice in bankruptcy, Lord Chancellor
Eldon, in 1813, in Ex parte Smith, 2 Rose, 63, said: "The practice has been long established in bankruptcy, not to suffer a
creditor holding a security to prove unless he will give up that
security, or the value has been ascertained by the sale of it.
The reason is obvious: Till his debt has been reduced by the
proceeds of that sale, it is impossible correctly to say what the
actual amount of it is. . . . It is, however, clearly within
the discretion of the court to relax this rule, and cases may
occur in which it would be for the benefit of the general
creditors to relax it."
The first two bankrupt statutes enacted in this country
(April 4, 1800, c. 19, 2 Stat. 19; August 4, 1841, c. 9, 5 Stat.
440) required a ratable distribution of the assets, and it was
conceded in argument that the universal practice enforced
under these acts was to require a creditor holding collateral
security to deduct the amount of his security and prove only
for the residue of the debt. This court, speaking through Mr.
Justice Story, in 1845, in ITn re Christy, 3 How. 292, declared
that under the act of 1841, "if creditors have a pledge or
mortgage for their debt they may apply to the court to have
the same sold, and the proceeds thereof applied towards the
payment of their debts i)ro tanto and to prove for the residue."
As the universal rule and practice in bankruptcy in England and in this country, up to and including the bankrupt
act of 1841, was solely the result of the statutory requirement
that the assets should be ratably distributed among the general creditors, my mind fails to discern why the requirement
for ratable distribution of the assets in the act for the liquidation of failed national banks, should not have the same meaning and produce the same result as the substantially similar
provisions had always meant and had always operated in
England for hundreds of years and in this country for many
years before the adoption by Congress of the act for the liquidation of national banks. Indeed, the fact that the requirement of ratable distribution had by a long course of practice

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 155
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

and judicial construction in England and in this country required the secured creditor to account for his security, before
proving against the general assets, gives rise to the application
of the elementary canon of construction that where words are
used in a statute, which words 'at the time had a settled and
well-understood meaning, their insertion into the statute carries
with them a legislative adoption of the previous and existing
meaning.
The reasoning by which it is maintained that the requirement
for ratable distribution should not be applied in the act providing for the liquidation of an insolvent national bank may
be thus summed up: True it is, that universally in bankruptcy
in England and in this country the rule was as above stated,
but outside of bankruptcy a different practice prevailed in
England, known as the chancery rule; and as the winding
up of an insolvent national bank does not present a case of
bankruptcy, its liquidation is governed by such chancery rule
and not by the bankruptcy rule. The bankruptcy rule, it is
said, is commonly so called because enforced by bankruptcy
courts in the exercise of their "peculiar" jurisdiction, and the
courts which refuse to apply the rule generally declare that it
arose from express provisions in bankrupt statutes requiring a
creditor to surrender his collaterals or deduct for their value
before proving against the estate.
Pretermitting for a moment an examination of this reasoning, it is to be remarked in passing that the argument, if
sound, rests upon the hypothesis that all the bankruptcy laws
from the beginning in England and in our own country, and
the universal course of decision thereon and the practice thereunder, have worked out inequality and injustice by depriving
a secured creditor of rights which it is now asserted belonged
to him and which could have been exercised by him without
producing inequality. This deduction follows, for it cannot
be that, if not to compel the creditor to deduct produces no
inequality or injustice, then to compel him to do so would
have precisely the same result. The two opposing and conflicting rules cannot both be enforced and yet in each instance
equality result. At best, then, the contention admits that by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, MeKenna, JJ.

the consensus of mankind not to compel the secured creditor
to deduct the value of his collaterals before proving produces
inequality, for of all statutes those relating to bankruptcy
have most for their object an equal distribution of the assets
of the insolvent among his creditors.
It is worthy also of notice, in passing, that the reasoning
to which we have referred rests upon the assumption that the
act of Congress providing for the liquidation of the affairs of
a national bank and a distribution of the assets thereof among
the creditors is not substantially a bankrupt statute. It certainly is a compulsory method provided by law for winding
up the concerns of an insolvent bank, for preventing preferences, and for securing an equal and ratable division of the
assets of the association among its creditors. And it assuredly can be safely assumed that Congress in adopting the rule
of ratable distribution in the National Banking Act did not
intend that the words embodying the rule should be so construed as to produce a result contrary to that which for hundreds of years had been recognized as necessarily implied by
the employment of similar language. It may also, I submit,
be likewise considered as certain that it was not intended, in
using the words "ratable distribution" in the statute, to bring
about an unequal instead of a ratable distribution of the general assets.
But, coming to the proposition itself, is there any foundation for the assertion that the rule or practice in bankruptcy
requiring the'secured creditor to account for his security was
the result of something peculiar in the jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts, other than the requirement contained in bankruptcy statutes that the assets should be distributed ratably
among creditors, and is there any merit in the contention
that the rule was the consequence of an express provision in
such laws imposing the obligation referred to on the secured
creditor?
A careful examination of every bankrupt statute in England,
from the first statute of 34 & 35 ilen. VIII, c. 4, down to and
including the Consolidated Bankrupt Act of 6 Geo. IV, c. 16,
fails to disclose any provision sustaining the statement that

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 157
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

the rule in bankruptcy depended upon express statutory requirement, and on the contrary shows that it was simply a
necessary outgrowth of the command of the statute that there
should be an equal distribution of the bankrupt's assets.
I submit that not only an examination of the English statutes makes clear the truth of the foregoing, but that its correctness is placed beyond question by the statement of Lord
Chancellor Eldon respecting proof in bankruptcy by a secured
creditor, already adverted to, that 1.till his debt has been reduced by the proceeds of that sale," (that is, of the security,)
"it is impossible correctly to say what the actual amount of
it is." And, as an authoritative declaration of the origin of
the rule, the opinion of Vice Chancellor Malins, in Ex parte
Alliance Bank, (1868) L. R. 3 Ch., note at page 773, is in
point. The Vice Chancellor said:
"This rule" (requiring a creditor to realize his security and
prove for the balance of the debt only) "does not depend
on any statutory enactment, but on a rule in bankruptcy,
established irrespective of express statutory enactment, and
under the statute of Elizabeth, which provides: 'Or otherwise to order the same (i.e. the assets) to be administered for
the due satisfaction and payment of the said creditors, that
is to say, for every of the said creditors a portion, rate and
rate alike, according to the quantity of his and their debts."
Indeed, not only was the obligation of the secured creditor
to account for his security derived from the provision as to
ratable distribution, but from that provision also originated
the equally well-settled rule causing interest to cease upon
the issuance of the commission of bankruptcy. As early as
1743, Lord Hardwicke, in Bromley v. Goodere, 1 Atkyns, 75,
79, in speaking of the suspension of interest'by the effect of
bankruptcy, said: "There is no direction in the act for that
purpose, and it has been used only as the best method of
settling the proportion among the creditors, that they may
have a rate-like satisfaction, and is founded upon the equitable
power given them by the act."
Whilst, generally, the claim that the bankruptcy rule was
the creature of an express provision of the bankruptcy acts,

OCTOBER TERtIr, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, J3.

other than the requirement as to a ratable distribution of
assets, rests upon a mere statement to that effect without
any reference to the specific text of the bankrupt act which
it was assumed made such requirement, in one instance, in the
brief of counsel in an early case in this country, Findlty v.
Hosmer, (1817) 2 Conn. 320, the statement is made in a
more specific form. A particular section of an English bankrupt statute is there referred to, as, in effect, expressly requiring a secured creditor to account for his collaterals in order
to prove against the general assets. The statute thus referred
to was section 9 of 21 Jac. I, c.19. But an examination of
the section relied on shows that it in nowise supports the
assertion.
The pertinent portion of the section reads as
follows:
. .
all and every creditor and creditors having security for his or their several debts, by judgment, statute, recognizance, specialty with penalty or without penalty, or other
security, or having no security, or having made attachments
in London, or any other place, by virtue of any custom there
used, of the goods and chattels of any such bankrupt, whereof
there is no execution or extent served and executed upon any
the lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chattels and other
estate of such bankrupts, before such time as he or she shall
or do become bankrupt, shall not be relieved upon any such
judgment, statute, recognizance, specialty, attachments or
other security for any more than a ratable part of their
just and due debts, with the other creditors of the said bankrupt, without respect to any such penalty or greater sum contained in any such judgment, statute, recognizance, specialty
with penalty, attachment or other security."
The securities other than attachment referred to in this
section were manifestly embraced in the class known at common law as "personal" security, as distinguished from "real"
security or security upon property. (Sweet's Dict'y English
Law, verbo Security.) In other words, the effect of the section was but to forbid preferences in favor of creditors which
at law would have resulted from the particular form in which
the debt was evidenced, and from which form a claim would

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 159
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

be raised to a higher rank than a simple contract debt. That
this is the significance of the word "security" as used in this
section is shown by the following excerpt from Cooke's
treatise on bankrupt laws, published in 1786. At page 114
he says:
"The aim of the legislature in all the statutes concerning
bankrupts, being, that the creditors should have an equal proportion of the bankrupt's effects, creditors of e.very degree
must come in equally; nor will the nature of their demands
make any difference, unless they have obtained actual execution, or taken some pledge or security before an act of bankruptcy committed. For when a creditor comes to prove his
debt he is obliged to swear whether he has a security or not;
and if he has, and insists upon proving, he must deliver it up
for the benefit of his creditors, unless it be a joint security
from the bankrupt and another person," etc.
The fact that the expression "security" contained in the section referred to had no reference to security on property, is
further demonstrated by the subsequent statute of 6 Geo. IV,
c. 9, § 103, which reenacted in an altered form the ninth
section of the statute of James; for the reenacted section,
although it referred in broad terms to securities generally,
yet especially excepted the case of a mortgage or pledge.
The section is as follows:
"SEC. 103. And be it enacted, That no creditor having
security for his debt, or having made any attachment in
London, or any other place by virtue of any custom there
used, of the goods and chattels of the bankrupt, shall receive
upon any such security or attachment more than a ratable
part of such debt, except in respect of any execution or extent
served and levied by seizure upon, or any mortgage of or lien
upon any part of the property of such bankrupt before the
bankruptcy."
Is it pretended anywhere that after the reenactment of
section 9 of the statute of James I, found in section 103,
c. 9, 6 Geo. IV, that the obligation of a secured creditor to
account for his collateral before he took a dividend out of
the general assets ceased to exist? Certainly, there is no such

OCTOBER TERMI,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, MeKenna, JJ.

contention. If, however, that duty of the general creditor
arose, not from the provision as to ratable distribution, but
from the provisions of section 9 of the act of James as
claimed, then necessarily such obligation on the part of the
general creditor would have ceased immediately on the enactment of the statute of 6 Geo. IV, which expressly excepted
the mortgage creditor from the operation of the particular
section which it is contended imposed the duty on the mortgage creditor to account. The continued enforcement of the
rule which required the mortgage creditor to deduct the value
of his security before proving against general assets after the
reenactment of section 9 of the statute of George referred to,
can lead to but one conclusion; that is, that the duty of the
mortgage creditor before existing arose from the provision for
ratable distribution and not from the terms of section 9 of
the statute of James, since that duty continued to be conipelled after the reenactment of that section in terms which
renders it impossible to contend that that section created the
duty.
A similar course of reasoning applies to bankrupt statutes
of this country.
Section 31 of our first bankrupt statute, act April 4, 1800,
c. 19, 2 Stat. 19, 30, was, in substance and effect, similar to the
provision in the act of James. The statute of 1800 issaid to
have been a consolidation of the provisions of previous English
bankrupt statutes, Tucker v. Oxley, 5 Cranch, 3-,42; Roosevelt
v. -Mlark, 6 Johns. Oh. 266, 285; and in Tucker v. Oxley, Chief
Justice Marshall declared that, for that reason, the decisions
of the English judges as to the effect of those acts might be
considered as adopted with the text that they expounded.
Section 31 reads as follows:
"SEC. 31. And be it further enacted, That in the distribution of the bankrupt's effects, there shall be paid to every
of the creditors a portion-rate, according to the amount of
their respective debts, so that every creditor having security
for his debt by judgment, statute, recognizance or specialty,
or having an attachment under any of the laws of the individual States, or of the United States, on the estate of such bank-

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 161
Dissenting Opinion: White, .Harlan, McKenna, JJ."

rupt, (provided, there be no execution executed upon any of
the real or personal estate of such bankrupt, before the time
he or she became bankrupts) shall not be relieved upon any
such judgment, statute, recognizance, specialty or attachment,
for more than a ratable part of his debt, with the other creditors of the bankrupt."
This provision of the act of 1800 was, however, omitted
from the bankrupt act of 1841, manifestly because it had become unnecessary. The later statute contained in the fifth
section a general provision forbidding all preferences except
in favor of two classes of delts, thus rendering it superfluous
to enumerate cases in which there should be no preference.
It was, however, under the act of 1841, which was drafted by
Mr. Justice Story, (2 Story's Life of Storyi 407,) that this
court, speaking through that learned justice, in In re Chtristy,
already cited, declared that a secured creditor mhust account
for his security when proving against the bankrupt estate.
How it can be now argued that the requirement that such
creditor should only so prove his claim was the result of a
provision not found in the act of 1841, and clearly shown by
all the antecedent legislation not to refer to a creditor holding property security, my mind fails to comprehend.
True it is, that both in our own act of 1867 and in the English bankrupt act of 1869, there were inserted express provisions requiring a secured creditor to account for his collaterals
before proving against the general assets. But this- was but
the incorporation into the statutes of.the rule which had arisen
as a consequence of the requirement for a ratable distribution
and which had existed for hundreds of years before the statutes of 1867 and 1869 were adopted. In other words, the express statutory requirement only embodied in the form of a
legislative enactment what theretofore from the earliest time
had beeifuxiiversally enforced, because of the provision for a
ratable distribution.,
The rule in bankruptcy imposing the duty upon the creditor to account'for his seburity before'proving being then the
result of the prorison of the bankrupt laws requiring ratable
distribution, I submit that the same requirements upon such
VOL. CLXxm-I I

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
I Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

creditor should be held to arise from a like provision contained
in the act of Congress under consideration.
But, coming to consider the chancery rule which it is contended lends support to the doctrines applied in the cases at
bar.
The foundation upon which the so called chancery rule rests
is the case of .Wason v. Bogg, 2 Myl. & Or. 443, decided in
1837, where Lord Chancellor Cottenham expressed his approval of the contention that a mortgage creditor, despite
the death and insolvency of his debtor, possessed the contract
right to assert his whole claim against general assets 'in the
course of administration in chancery, without regard to his
mortgage security. The question was not directly decided,
however, as to whether the creditor might prove in the administration for the whole amount of the debt, but was
reserved. As stated, however, the reasoning of the court
favored the existence of such right, upon the theory that a
court of chancery, when administering assets, in the absence
of a statute 'egulating the subject, could not deprive a secured
creditor of legal rights previously existing which he might
have asserted at law, although by permitting the exercise of
such rights preferences in the general assets would arise.
The next case in point of time in England, and indeed the
one upon which most reliance is placed by those favoring the
chancery rule, is J.elloclds case, reported in L. R. 3 Ch. '769,
involving two appeals, and argued before Sir W. Page Wood,
L. J., and Sir C. J. Selwyn, L. J. The cases arose in the winding up of companies by virtue of the statute of 25 & 26 Victoria, c. 89. The issue presented in each case was whether a
creditor having collateral security was entitled to dividends
upon the full amount of the debt without reference to the
value of collaterals; and in one of the cases the lower court
applied the doctrine supported by the reasoning in .Xfason v.
Bogg, while in the other the lower court decided the bankruptcy rule governed. The appellate court held that the
chancery practice should be followed. The claim was made
that the secured creditor ought not to be allowed to take a
dividend on the full amount of his claim, because, among

MERRILL v. 1N'ATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 163
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

other reasons, of. section 133 of the act, which provided as
follows:
"133. The following Consequences shall ensue upon the
voluntary Winding-up of a Compainy:
"(1.) The Property of the Company shall be applied in satisfaction of its Liabilitiesparipabssu, and, subject thereto, shall,
unless it be otherwise provided by the Regulations of the Company, be distributed amongst the Members according to their
Rights and Interests in the Company."
This contention, however, was answered by Lord Justice
Wood, who said (p. 778):
"There is a clause in the Companies Act of 1869 which
says that in a voluntary winding up equal distribution is to
be made among creditors; an expression similar to which, in
13 Eliz. c. 1, appears to have led to the establishment of the
rule in bankruptcy."
He then called attention to the fact that a voluntary winding up was not limited to cases of insolvent companies, but
might be resorted to on behalf of a solvent one; and he proceeded to comment upon the fact that in previous winding-up
acts, "when the legislature intended proceedings to be conducted according to the course in bankruptcy, it said so,"
concluding with the declaration that the omission to do so in
the case before the court indicated the purpose of Parliament
that the court should be governed by the chancery rule.
Lord Justice Selwyn, in a measure, also adopted this view,
saying (p. 782):
"I think, therefore, that the onus is clearly thrown on
those persons who come here and say that when the legislature, with a knowledge of the existence of the difference'
between the practice in bankruptcy and the practice in chancery, entrusted the winding up of the companies to the Court
of Chancery, and said in express terms that the practice of
the Court of Chancery was to prevail, they intended by some
implicati6n or inference to diminish, prejudice or affect the
rights of creditors. I can find no trace of any such intention.
I think, therefore, we are bound to follow the established practice of the Court of Chancery, especially when we find that

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

that practice has been followed ever since the passing of the
Winding-up Act, and so long as winding-up orders have been
made in the Court of Chancery."
The whole subject has been set at rest, however, in Great
Britain, by section 25 of the Judicature Act of August 5,
1873, c. 66, and by an amendment thereto adopted August 11,
1875, c. 77, which expressly required that in the administration in chancery of an insolvent estate of one deceased and
in proceedings in the winding up of an insolvent company
under the Companies Acts, "the same rule shall prevail and
be observed as to the respective rights of secured and unsecured creditors, and as to debts and liabilities provable,
as may be in force for the time being under the law
of bankruptcy, with respect to the estates of persons adjudged
bankrupt."
So that now, in Great Britain, in all proceedings involving
the distribution of an insolvent fund, a secured creditor can
only prove for the balance which may remain after deduction
of the proceeds or value of collateral security.
In view, therefore, of the English legislation in 1873 and
1875, which has rendered it impossible in cases of insolvency
to apply the doctrine of the Zellock case, we need not particularly notice decisions rendered in England subsequent to 1868,
when the Kfellook case was decided, particularly as the tribunals which rendered such decisions were subordinate to the
Court of Appeal and necessarily bound by its rulings.
Now, I submit, as the English Chancellors, from the date
of the enactment of the earliest English bankrupt law, felt
constrained to compel a secured creditor to account for his
security before proving against the general assets of the bankrupt estate, because Parliament had directed a ratable distribution of all such assets, it cannot in consonance with sound
reasoning be said that this court is to apply the chancery rule
to the distribution of the assets of an insolvent national bank
as to which Congress has directed a ratable distribution,
because in England a different rule was for a time applied
to an act of Parliament providing not solely for the liquidation of an insolvent estate, but equally to a solvent and

MERPRLL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 165
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

insolvent one, and which rule was so applied in England
because a particular statute was construed as requiring that
the practice pursued in chancery in administering upon estates should govern.
It is worthy of note that Ldrd Justice Wood, after stating
in his opinion in the Eellok case that the bankruptcy rule was
"adopted by a court having a peculiar jurisdiction, established for administering the property of traders unable to
meet their engagements," conceded- that the provision in the
statute of 13 Eliz. c. 7, requiring- equal distribution, "led to
the establishment of the rule in-bankruptcy." But the Lord
Justice took the cases then under consideration out of the
operation of the provision of the-statute of Elizabeth because
of provisions found in the Company Act which, in his opinion,
gave rise to a contrary view in cases governed by that act.
The distribution of the assets of a failed national 'bank under
the act of Congress, it is obvious, presents the "peculiar"
features which Lord Justice Wood had in mind, since the
requirement of ratable distribution is the exact equivalent
of the provision contained in the statute of Elizabeth. But
the reasoning now employed to cause the rule announced in
the'.Kellock case to apply so as to defeat the ratable distribution provided by the act of Congress, is made to rest upon
the assumption that the act of Congress does not contain the
peculiar requirement which was found in the bankruptcy acts,
from which the duty of the secured creditor to account for
his security before taking a dividend from the general assets
arose. it comes, then, to this: That the theory by which
the obsolete doctrine of the Ke~loc case is made to apply
rests upon an assumption which repudiates the reasoning
of that case; in other words, that the result of the .elloek
case is taken and applied to this case, whilst the reasoning
upon which the decision of the Kellock case was based is in
effect denied.
That to permit a secured creditor to retain his specific contract security and also to prove against the gefieral assets of
his insolvent debtor for the whole amount of the debt was
deemed to work out inequality is shown not only by the fact

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

that it was not applied in bankruptcy, but that in the administration of equitable, as contradistinguished from legal, assets, courts of equity, following the maxim Equitas est quasi
equalitas, would not permit claimants against equitable assets
to share in the distribution of such assets, until they had
accounted for any advantage gained by the assertion against
the general estate of the debtor of a preference permitted at
law. Morrice v. Bank of .England,Cases Temp. Talb. 218;
iSheppard v. Kent, 2 Vern.435 ; Deg v. Deg, 2 P. W. 412, 416 ;
Chapman v. Esgar, 1 Sm. & G. 575; Bain v. Sadler, L. R. 12
Eq. 570; Purdy v. Doyle, 1 Paige, 558; Bank of Louisville v.
Lockcridge, 92 Kentucky, 472; 1 Story Eq. Jur. 12th ed. p. 543;
Watson, 1 Comp. Ex. 2d rev. ed. ch. 11, p. 35.
It was undoubtedly from a consideration of this fundamental rule of equity, in construing the statutory requirement
for ratable division of general assets, that the bankruptcy
rule was formulated. That rule, however, in effect, declared
that secured creditors might retain their preferential contract
rights in particular portions of the estate of the insolvent
debtor, but that it was the purpose of Parliament, in cominanding ratable distribution, that general assets, that is,
assets disencumbered of liens, should be distributed only
among the general or unsecured creditors; the necessary
effect being that a secured creditor could not prove against
general assets without surrendering his security, thus becoming a general or unsecured creditor for the whole amount qf
the debt, or realizing upon the security or in some form accounting for its value, in which latter contingency he would
be general or unsecured creditor onlyfor the deficiency. That
the bankruptcy rule was deemed to be founded upon equitable principles, I think, is demonstrated by the statement of
Lord Hardwicke in a case already mentioned, Bromley v.
Goodere, 1 Atk. 77, where, after referring to the act of 13
Eliz. c. 7, he said:
"It is manifest that this act intended to give the commissioners an equitable jurisdiction as well as a legal one, for they
have full power and authority to take by their discretions such
order and direction as they shall think fit; and that this has

MERRILL v. NATIONA-L BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 167
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

been the construction ever since; and therefore when petitions have come before the Chancellor, he has always proceeded upon the same rules, as he would upon causes coming
before him upon the bill, The rules of equity."
The foregoing reasoning renders it unnecessary to review at
length the opinion delivered by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit in Chemical l ational Bank v..Armstrong, 16 U. S. App. 465, to which the court has referred, as
the conclusions announced by the Circuit Court of Appeals
were rested on the assumption that the bankruptcy rule was
the creature of an express statutory requirement, and that to
prevent a secured creditor from proving for his whole debt,
as of the time of the insolvency, without regard to his collaterals, would deprive him of a contract right, both of which
contentions have been fully considered in what I have already
said. Nor is the case of Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 619,
also referred to in the opinion of the court in the case at bar,
controlling upon the question here presented. True, it was
said in the Lewis case, in passing, and upon the admission of
counsel, that "It is a settled principle of equity that a creditor
holding collaterals is not bound to apply them before enforcing his direct remedies against the debtor," citing the Kellock case and two other English and two Pennsylvania cases
involving the question of the rights of a creditor having the
securities of distinct estates of separate debtors. But the controversy before the court in the Lewis case was of this latter
character, being between the United States, as creditor of a
partnership and holding collaterals belonging to the partnership, and the trustee in bankruptcy of the separate estates of
individual members of the partnership. The government was
seeking to assert against such separate estates a right of preference given to it by statute. - The court decided that as the
United States had a paramount lien upon all the assets of
every debtor for the full satisfaction of its claim, it was unaffected by the bankruptcy statutes, and therefore was not
controlled by any provision found therein for ratable distribution or otherwise. It is apparent, therefore, that the court,
by the quoted statement did not decide that a court of equity

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, AcKenna, JJ.

would apply the doctrine there set forth, where the rights of
the secured creditor were limited and controlled by statute.
If the secured creditor, who is allowed in the case now decided
to disregard his security and prove for the whole amount of
his claim had a paramount lien not only upon his collaterals,
but upon each and every asset of the insolvent bank, the rule
in the Lewis case would be apposite. But that is not the
character of the case now before the court, since here a
secured creditor has no paramount lien upon anything but his
collaterals, and is governed in his recourse against the general assets by the requirement that there should be a ratable
distribution.
As the case before us is to be controlled by the act of Congress, it would appear unnecessary to advert to state decisions
construing local statutes; but inasmuch as those decisions were
referred to and cited as authority, I will briefly notice them.
They are referred to in the margin and divide themselves into
four classes.: 1. Those which maintain that where ratable distribution is required, the creditor must account for his security
before proving.' 2. Those cases which, on the contrary, decide that to allow the creditor to prove for his whole claim
without deduction of security, is not incompatible with ratable distribution, and hold that the security need not be taken
into account.2 3. Those cases which, whilst seemingly deny'Amory v. Francis, (1820) 16 lass. 308; Farnum v. Boutelle, (1847) 13
Met. 159; Vanderveerv. Conover, (1838) 1 Harr. 487; Bell v. Fleming'sExecutors, (1858) 1 Bea~ley, (12 N. J. Eq.) 13, 25; Whittaker v. Amwell N"ational
Bank, (1894) 52 N. J. Eq. 400; .Fields v. Creditors of lWheatley, (1853) 1
Sneed, (Tenn.) 351; Winton v. Bldridge, (1859) 3 Head, (Tenn.) 361;
Wurtz v. Hart, (1862) 13 Iowa, 515; Searle, Ex'or, v. Brumback, Assignee,
(1862) 4 Western Law Monthly, (Ohio) 330; In re Frasch, (1892) 5 Wash.
344; National Union Bank v. National Miechanics Bank, (1895) 80 Maryland,
371; American National Bank v. Branch, (1896) 57 Kansas, 327; Investment
Co. v. Richmond National Bank, (1897) 58 Kansas, 414.
2 Findlay v. Hosmer, (1817) 2 Conn. 350; loses v. Ranlet, (1822) 2 N. IT.
488; West v. Bank of Rutland, (1847) 19 Vermont, 403; Walker v. Baxter,
(1854) 26 Vermont, 710, 714; In the matter of Bates, (1886) 118 Illinois, 524;
Furnessv. Union National Bank, (1893) 147 Illinois, 570; Levy v. Chicago
NMational Bank, (1895) 158 Illinois, 88; Allen v. Danielson, (1887) 15 R. 1.
480; Greene v. Jackson Bank, (1895) 18 R. I. 779; People v. Renington,

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 169
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

ing the obligation of the;secured creditor to account for his
security, yet, practically work out a contrary result by requiring deduction upon collaterals as collected, and affording remedies to compel prompt realization of collaterals. 1 4. Those
which originated in purely local statutes and which hold that
the secured creditor can prove for the whole amount without
reference to either the bankruptcy or the chancery rule.2 And
in the margin I supplement the compilation heretofore made
by a reference to some state statutes and decisions referring
to statutes which expressly provide that the claimants upon
an insolvent estate can only prove for the balance due, after
8
deduction of any security held.
Of course, for the purposes of this case, only the first two
classes of cases need be considered. The first class is well
represented by two Massachusetts cases: Amory-v. Francis,
16 Mass. 308, and Farnum v. Boztelle, 13 Met. 159. In the
first-named case Chief Justice Parker said (p. 311): "If it
were not so, the equality, intended to be produced by the
(1890) 121 N. Y. 328; Third National Bank of Detroit v. Hang, (1890) 82
.Michigan, 607; Ifellogg v. Miller, (1892) 22 Oregon, 406; Winston v. .Biggs,
(1895) 117 N. C: 206.
In re Estate of McCune, (1882) 76 lissouri, 200; State v. Nebraska
Savings Bank, (1894) 40 Nebraska, 342; Jamison v. Alder-Goldman Commission Co., (1894) 59 Arkansas, 548, 552; Philadelphia Warehouse Co. v. Anniston P pe Works, (1895) 106 Alabama, 357; Erle v. Lane, (1896) 22 Colorado,
273.
2 Shunk's and Freedley'sAppeals, (1845) 2 Penn. St. 304; 3.forris v. Olwine,
(1854) 22 Penn. St. 441, 442; Keim's Appeal, (1856) 27 Penn. St. 42; Mil7
ler's Appeal, (1860) 35 Penn. St. 481; Patten's Appeal, (1863) 45 Penn. St,
151. And see a reference to the cases in Pennsylvania, in .Boyer'sAppeal,
(1894) 163 Penn. St. 143.
3Indiana:- Combs v. Union Trust Co., 146 Ind. 688, 691; Kentucky:Statutes, 1894, (Barbour & Carrolls ed.) c. 7, sec. 74, p. 193; Bank of Lonisville v. Lockridge, 92 Kentucky, 472; Massachusetts: -Act of April :23,
1838, c. 163, sec. 3; General Statutes, 1860, ch. 118, sec.'27; Michigan : 2 How. St. sec. 8824, p. 2156; Minnesota: -By statute March 8, 1860, the
security is made the primary fund, to which resort must be had before a
personal judgment can be obtained against the debtor for a deficit, Swift v.
Fletcher, 6 Minn. 550; New Hampshire:-Laws 1862, ch. 2594; South
Carolina: - Piester v. Piester,22 S. C. 139; Wheat v. Dingle, 32 S. C. 473;
Texas:- Civil Stats. 1897, art. 83; Acts 1879, ch. 53, sec. 13; Willis v.
Holland, (1896) 36 S. W. Rep. 329.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

bankrupt laws, would be grossly violated, and the creditor
holding the pledge would, in fact, have a greater security
than that pledge was intended to give him. For originally it
would have been security only for a portion of the debt equal
to its value; whereas by proving the whole debt, and holding
the pledge for the balance, it becomes security for as much
more than its value, as is the dividend, which may be received upon the whole debt."
In the later case, Chief Justice Shaw announced the rule as
follows: 13 Met. 164:
"If the mortgage remained in force at the time of the decease of the debtor, then it is very clear, as well upon principle
as authority, that the creditors cannot prove their debt, without first waiving their mortgage, or, in some mode, applying
the amount thereof to the reduction of the debt, and then proving only for the balance. Amory v. Francis,16 Mass. 308."
The second class of cases may be typified by the case of
People v. Remington, 121 N. Y. 328, where the conclusion of
the court was placed upon the ground that the rule in bankruptcy originated in an express requirement in the bankrupt
acts other than that for a ratable distribution. The court,
speaking through Gray, J., said (p. 332):
"Some confusion of thought seems to be worked by the
reference of the decision of the question to the rules of law
governing the administration of estates in bankruptcy; but
there is no warrant for any such reference. The rules in
bankruptcy cases proceeded from the express provisions of the
statute, and they are not at all controlling upon a court administering, in equity, upon the estates of insolvent debtors.
The bankruptcy act requires the creditor to give up his
security, in order to be entitled to prove his whole debt; or,
if he retains it, he can only prove for the balance of the debt,
after deducting the value of the security held. The jurisdiction in bankruptcy is peculiar and special, and a particular
mode of administration is prescribed by the act."
Having thus eliminated the bankruptcy rule, the court
reviewed the decisions in fason v. Bogog and Ilellock's case,
and held those cases to be controlling. The Remington case,

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 171
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

therefore, as well as those of which it is a type, need not be
further reviewed, as the fundamental error upon which they
rest has been fully stated in what I have previously said.
It is necessary, however, to call attention to the fact that in
the cases which decline to apply the rule in bankruptcy and
refuse to enforce the provision for ratable distribution, there
is an entire want of harmony as to the time when the rights
of creditors are fixed with respect to the amount of the claim
which may be proved against general assets, some holding
that dividends are to be paid dn the amount due at the date
of insolvency, others on the amount due at the time of proof;
and others upon the sum due when dividends are declared.
This confusion is the necessary outcome of the erroneous
premise upon which the cases rest. A similar confusion,
moreover, I submit, is manifested by the rule now announced
by the court; since whilst it is avowedly rested upon the
defunct chancery rule exemplified in .Mason. v. Bogg and the
Kellock case, yet in effect it fails to follow the very rule upon
which the decision is based. This is clear when it is borne in
mind that the chancery rule was decided in both Mason v.
Bogg and the .Kellock ease to be that the amount of the claim
of the creditor was fixed by the date when proof was actually
made, and yet under the authority of the chancery rule and
the cases in question the court now decides that the rights of
the secured creditor are fixed by insolvency. Thus the chancery rule is applied and at the same time repudiated in an
important particular, for the grave difference between allowing a secured creditor to prove only for the amount due wheh
proof was made and therefore compelling him to account for
all collections realized on collaterals up to that time, and
allowing him long after insolvency to prove, by relation, as
of the date of the insolvency, and disregard the collections
actually made, is manifest. In this connection it may not be
amiss to call attention to the fact that if the bankruptcy rule
was applied in the proof of claims, the amount of the claim
would not vary, whether the date of insolvency or the time
when proof was made was held to be the date when the rights
of the creditor in the fund were fixed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

Moreover, I submit that the propositions now adopted, which
reject the bankruptcy rule, rest on reasoning which, if it be
logically applied, requires the enforcement of the bankruptcy
rule in its integrity. It seems to me it has been shown by
the doctrine announced by Lord Hardwicke, in 1743, Bromley
v. Goodere, supra, that the stoppage of interest on the claims
of all creditors was but an essential evolution of the principle
This stoppage of interest at the
of ratable distribution.
period named is now upheld by the rule sanctioned by this
court. This, then,*takes the provision of the bankruptcy rule
which favors the secured creditor and which arises alone from
ratable division, and gives him the benefit of it whilst at the
same time rejecting the obligation to account which arises
from and depends on the very principle of ratable distribution which is in part enforced. To repeat, it strikes my mind
that the conclusion now announced is this, that the obsolete
chancery rule both applies and does not apply, that the bankruptcy rule at the same time does not apply and does apply,
the result of this conflict being to so interpret the act of Congress as to strike from it the beneficent provision for equality
of distribution among general creditors.
AI.

JuSTicE GRAY

dissenting.

While also unable to concur in the opinion of the majority
of the court, I prefer to rest my dissent upon the effect of
the legislation of Congress, read in the light of the English
statutes and decisions before the American Revolution, and
of the judgments of the courts of the United States - without particularly considering the cases in England in recent
times, or the conflicting decisions made in the courts of the
several States under local statute or usage or upon general
theory. As the course of reasoning in support of this view
traverses part of the ground covered by the other dissenting
justices, I shall endeavor to state it as shortly as possible.
The English bankrupt acts in force at the time of the Declaration of Independence, so far as they touched the distribution of a bankrupt's estate among his creditors, were the

MERRILL v. NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 173
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

statute of 13 Eliz. (1511) c. 7,§ 2, which directed the estate
to be applied to the "true satisfaction and payment of the
said creditors, that is to say, to every of the said creditors a
portion, rate and rate like, according to the quantity of his
or their debts;" and the statute of 21 James I, (1623) c. 19,
§ 8 (or § 9), which made more specific provisions against
allowing any creditors, whether "having security" or not,
to prove "for any more than a ratable part of their just and
due debts with the other creditors of the said bankrupt." As
appears on .the face of this provision, the word "security"
was evidently there used, not as including a mortgage or
other instrument executed by the debtor by way of pledging
part of his property as collateral security for the payment of
a debt, but merely as designating a bond or writing which
was evidence of the debt itself as a direct personal obligation;
and the objects of the provision would appear to have been to
put all debts, whether by specialty or by simple contract, upon
an equal footing in the ratable distribution of a bankrupt's
estate, and to permit the real amount only of any debt, and
not, any larger sum named in a bond or other specialty, to be
proved in bankruptcy. 4 Statutes of the Realm, 539, 1228;
2 Cooke's Bankrupt Laws, (4th ed.) [18] [33] ; 1 Ib. 119; Bac.
Ab. Obligations, A; 3 BI. Com.439.
Neither of those statutes contained any provision whatever
for deducting the value of collateral security and proving the
rest of the debt. Yet, from the earliest period of which there
are.any reported cases, it was uniformly held-without vouching in any provision of the bankrupt acts, other than those
directing a ratable distribution among all the creditors-and
had long before the American Revolution become the settled
practice in the Court of Chancery, that a creditor could not
retain collateral security received by him from the bankrupt
and prove for his whole debt, but must have his collateral
security sold and prove for the rest of the debt only. The
authorities upon this point are collected in the opinion of Mr.
Justice White, ante, 153.
After the American Revolution, the provision of the statute of James I was thrice reenacted, with little modification.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

Stats. 5 Geo. IV, (1824) c. 98, § 103; 6 Geo. IV, (1825) c. 16,
§ 108; 12 & 13 Viet. (1849) c. 106, § 184. But the rule established by the decisions and practice of the Court of Chancery,
as to the proof of secured debts, was never expressly recognized in any of the English bankrupt acts until 1869, when
provisions to that effect were inserted in the statute of 32 &
33 Vict. c. 71, § 40. And there is no trace of a different rule
in England, in proceedings in equity for the distribution of the
estate of any insolvent debtor or corporation, until more than
sixty years after the Declaration of Independence. Amory v.
Francis,(1820) 16 Mass. 308, 311; Greenwood v. Taylor, (1830)
1 Russ. & M-yl. 185; .lason v. Bogg, (1837) 2 Myl. & Cr. 443.
In 186S, indeed, the Court of Chancery declined to apply the
bankruptcy rule to proceedings under the winding-up acts.
.Kellock's ease, L. R. 3 Ch. '69.
But Parliament, by the
Judicature Acts of 1873 and 1875, applied that rule to such
proceedings. Stats. 36 & 37 Vict. c. 66, § 25 (1); 38 & 39
Viet. c. 77, § 10. And Sir George Jessel, A. R., has pointed
out the absurdity of having different rules in the cases of living and of dead bankrupts. In re fopkins, (1881) 18 Ch. D.
370, 377.
The first bankrupt act of the United States, enacted in 1800,
was in great part copied from the earlier bankrupt acts of
England, and condensed the provisions, above mentioned, of
the statutes of Elizabeth and of James I, in this form : "In
the distribution of the bankrupt's effects, there shall be paid
to every of the creditors a portion-rate, according to the
amount of their respective debts, so that every creditor having security for his debt by judgment, statute, recognizance
or specialty, or having an attachment under any of the laws of
the individual States, or of the United States, on the estate
of such bankrupt, (provided there be no execution executed
upon any of the real or personal estate of such bankrupt, before
the time he or she became bankrupts,) shall not be relieved
upon any such judgment, statute, recognizance, specialty or
attachment, for more than a ratable part of his debt with the
other creditors of the bankrupt." Act of April 4, 1800, c. 19,
§ 31; 2 Stat. 30. That provision must have received the

MERRILL v. I'ATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 175
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

same construction that had been given by the English judges
to the statutes therein reenacted. Tcker v. Oxley, (1809) 5
Cranch, 34, 42; Scott v. Armstrong, (1892) 146 U. S. 493, 511.
The bankrupt act of 1841, which is well known to have
been drafted by Mr. Justice Story, omitted that section, and
made no specific provision whatever as to the proof of secured
debts; but simply provided that "all creditors coming in and
proving their debts under such bankruptcy, in the manner
hereinafter prescribed,, the same being bona ftde debts, shall
be entitled to share in the bankrupt's property and effects,
pro rata, without any priority or preference whatsoever, except only for debts due by such bankrupt to the United States,
and for all debts due by him to persons who, by the laws of
the United States, have a preference, in consequence of having paid moneys as his sureties, which shall be first paid out
of the assets." Act of August 19, 1841, c. 9, § 5; 5 Stat. 444.
Yet Mr. Justice Story, both in the Circuit Court and in this
court, laid it down, as an undoubted rule, that a secured creditor could prove only for the rest of the debt, after deducting
the value of the security given him by the bankrupt himself
of his own property. In re Babcock, 3 Story, (1844) 393, 399,
400; _n re O'risty, (1845) 3 How. 292, 315.
The omission by that eminent jurist, when framing the act
of 1841, of all specific provisions on the subject as unnecessary,
and his repeated judicial declarations, after he had been habitually.administering that act for three or four years, recognizing that rule as still in force, compel the inference that a
general enactment for the ratable distribution of the estate
of an insolvent among all the creditors had the effect of preventing any individual creditor, while retaining collateral
security on part of the estate, from proving for his whole
debt.
In 1864, Congress, in the first national bank act, after providing for the appointment of a receiver with power to convert the assets of any insolvent national bank into money and
pay it to the treasurer of the United States, subject to the
order of the comptroller of the currency, further provided that
"from time to time the comptroller, after full provision shall

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

have been first made for refunding to the United States any
such deficiency in redeeming the notes of such association as
is mentioned in this act, shall make a ratable dividend of the
money, so paid over to him by such receiver, on all such claims
as may have been proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated
in a court of competent jurisdiction." Act of June 3, 18641,
c. 106, § 50; 13 Stat. 115.
The words of this act, requiring "a ratable dividend" to be
paid "on all claims" proved or adjudicated, are equivalent to
the words of the last preceding bankrupt act, directing that
"all creditors coming in and proving their debts" "shall be
entitled to share" in the estate "2ro rata, without any
priority or preference whatsoever;" and, in view of the judicial construction which had been given to that act, may reasonably be considered as having been intended by Congress to
have the same effect of preventing a creditor, secured on part
of the estate, from proving his whole debt without relinquishing or applying the security, although neither act specifically
so provided.
If such was the rule under the national bank act of 1864, it
could not be affected, as to national banks, by the express
affirmance of the rule in the bankrupt act of 1867, or by the
reenactment of the provisions of each of these two acts in the
Revised Statutes. And the extension of the bankrupt act of
1867 to "moneyed business or commercial corporations and
joint stock companies" increases the improbability that Congress intended banking associations to be governed by a different rule from that governing other private corporations, as
well as natural persons, in regard to the effect which a creditor's holding collateral security should have upon the sum to
be proved by him against an insolvent estate. Act of March
2, 1867, c. 176, §§ 20, 37; 14 Stat. 526, 535 ; Rev. Stat. §§ 5075,
5236.
Reliance has been placed upon the remark of Mr. Justice
Swayne in lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618, 623, that "it
is a settled principle in equity that a creditor holding collaterals is not bound to apply them before enforcing his
direct remedies against the debtor." But he added, "This

MSIERRILL v. RATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE. 177
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.
is admitted," so that it is evident that the point was not
controverted by counsel, or much considered by the court.
Nor was it necessary to the decision, which had nothing to
do with the right of an individual creditor, holding security

upon the separate property of the debtor, to prove against
his estate in bankruptcy; but simply affirmed the right of
the United States, holding a debt against an English partnership, to prove the whole amount of the debt against one
of the partners, an American, in proceedings in bankruptcy
here under the act of 1867, without surrendering or accounting for collateral security given to the United States by
the partnership. The United States were not bound by
the bankrupt acts, nor subject to the rule of a ratable distribution, but were entitled to preference over all other
creditors. United States v. Fisher,2 Cranch, 358; Harrison
v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289; United States v. State Bank, 6 Pet.
29; United States v. EIerron, 20 Wall. 251. And, even as to
a private creditor, it has always been held that he is obliged
to account for such securities only as he holds from the debtor
against whose estate he seeks to prove; and that a creditor
proving against the estate of a partnership is not bound to
account for security given to him by one partner, nor a creditor proving against the estate of one partner to account for
security given him by the partnership. Ex
'arte
Peacock,
(1825) 2 Glyn & Jameson, 27; In re Plummer, (1841) 1 Phil.
Ch. 56; Rolfe v. Flbwer, (1866) L. R. 1 P. C. 27, 46;. In re
Babcock, 3 Story, 393, 400. To require a creditor, before
proving against the estate of one partner, to surrender to
the assignee of that estate security held from the partnership, would be to add to the separate estate property which
should go to the estate of the partnership.
The ground and the limits of the rule in bankruptcy were
clearly stated by Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst in Plummer's
case, above cited, in which a partnership creditor was allowed
to prove a partnership debt against the separate estate of each
partner, without surrendering or realizing security held by
him from the partnership. The Lord Chancellor said: "Now
what are the principles applicable to cases of this kind? If
VOL. cLxxni-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

a creditor of a bankrupt holds a security on part of the bankrupt's estate, he is not entitled to prove his debt under the
commission, without giving up or realizing his security. For
the principle of the bankrupt laws is, that all creditors are to
be put on an equal footing, and therefore, if a creditor chooses
to prove under the commission, he must sell or surrender
whatever property he holds belonging to the bankrupt; but
if he has a security on the estate of a third person, that principle does not apply; he is in that case entitled to prove for
the whole amount of his debt, and also to realize the security,
provided he does not altogether receive more than twenty
shillings in the pound. That is the ground on which the
principle is established; it is unnecessary to cite authorities
for it, as it is too clearly settled to be disputed ; but I may
mention Ex parte B nnet, 2 Atk. 527 ; Ex parte Parr,I
Rose, 76; and Ex~arte Goodman, 3 Maddock, 373; in which
it has been laid down. The next point is this. In administration under bankruptcy, the joint estate and the separate
estate are considered as distinct estates; and accordingly it
has been held that a joint creditor, having a security upon
the separate estate, is entitled to prove against the joint estate
without giving up his security; on the ground that it is a
different estate. That was the principle upon which Exparte
Peacock proceeded, and that case was decided first by Sir
John Leach and afterwards by Lord Eldon, and has since
been followed in .Ex parte Bowden, 1 Deacon & Ohitty, 135.
Now this case is merely the converse of that, and the same
principle applies to it." 1 Phil. Oh. 59, 60.
This court, under the existing national bank act, approving
and following the example of the English courts under the
statute of 13 Elizabeth, above cited, has allowed creditors to
set off, against their claims on the estate, debts due from
them to the debtor whose estate is in course of distribution,
although the statute in question in either case contained no
provision directing or permitting a set-off. Scott v. Armstrong,
146 U. S. 493, 511. In giving effect to a statute which simply
directs an equal and ratable distribution of a debtor's estate
among all creditors, without saying anything about either col-

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 179
Statement of the Case.

lateral security or set-off, there would seem to be quite as
much ground for requiring each creditor to account for his
collateral security, for the benefit of all the creditors, as for
allowing him the benefit of a set-off, to their detriment.
For the reasons thus indicated, I cannot avoid the conclusion that, under every act of Congress directing the ratable
distribution among all creditors of the estate of an insolvent
person or corporation, and making no special provision as to
secured creditors, an individual creditor, holding collateral
security from the debtor on part of the estate in cou'rse of
administration, is not entitled to a dividend upon the whole
of his debt, without releasing the security or deducting its
value; and that therefore the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals should be reversed.

GREEN BAY AND MISSISSIPPI CANAL COMPANY
v. PATTEN PAPER COMPANY.
PETITIONS FOR lREHEARING.
INo. 14.

Distributed January 16, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The petitions for rehearing rest upon a misapprehension of the decision in
this case, the purport of which was to preserve to the Canal Company
the use of the surplus waters created by the dam and the canal; but,
after they had flowed over the dam and through the sluices, and had
found their way into the unimproved bed of the stream, the rights and
disputes of the riparian owners must be determined by state courts.
While the state courts may legitimately take cognizance of controversies
between riparian owners concerning the use and apportionment of
waters flowing in the non-navigable parts of the stream, they cannot
interfere,by mandatory injunction or otherwise, with the control of the
surplus water power incidentally created by the dam and canal now
owned and operated by the United States.

Two petitions were filled on the same day for a rehearing
in this case, decided November 28, 1898, and reported 172
U. S. 58.
The first was signed by .Moses Hooper, Attorney, and George

