* TURNER v. WILKES COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

461

Opinion of the Court.

TURNER v. WILKES COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 642. Submitted February20, 1899.-Decided March 20, 1899.

On a writ of error to a state court this court cannot take jurisdiction under
the allegation that a contract has been impaired by a decision of that
court, when it appears that the state court has done nothing more than
construe its own constitution and statutes existing at the time when the
bonds.were issued, there being no subsequent legislation touching the
subject.
This court is bound by the decision of a state court in regard to the meaning
of the constitution and laws of its own State, and its decision upon such
a state of facts raises no Federal question; though other principles obtain when the writ of error is to a Federal court.

THIS was a motion to dismiss.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
-'.

A. C. Avery for the motion.

M'. Richard N. Hackett opposing.
MR. JUSTICE PECRHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced in the superior court of Wilkes
County in the State of North Carolina, by the Board of Commissioners of Wilkes County and C. C. Wright, against Clarence Call. Mr. Wright was a taxpayer of the county, while
the defendant Call was its treasurer. The action was brought
to test the validity of certain bonds issued by the county of
Wilkes in payment of its subscription to the stock of the
Northwestern North Carolina Railroad Company.
The defendants Turner and Wellborn were the owners of
some of the bonds, and after the bringing of this action they
were, on their own motion, brought in as parties defendant,
and they invited all other bondholders to come in and join
them in resisting the action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It was claimed by the holders of the bonds that authority
for their issue existed under an ordinance chartering the Northwestern North Carolina Railroad Company, which ordinance
was adopted by the constitutional convention of North Carolina, March 9, 1868, the constitution being itself ratified April
25, 1868. It was also insisted that the bonds were authorized
under sections 1996 to 2000 of the code of North Carolina, as
enacted in 1869, and subsequently ratified in 1883; also that
the charter of the railroad company, as amended in 1879, and
again in 1881, authorized the issuing of the bonds. The bonds
were in fact issued in 1890, and therefore subsequent to all the
legislation above referred to. The bonds recited on their face
that they were issued under the act of 1879.
As grounds for their contention that the bonds were invalid, the plaintiffs below asserted that neither the above mentioned act of 1879, nor the amended act of 1881, had been
constitutionally passed; that the bonds were not issued under
the ordinance adopted by the constitutional convention; and
that by the doctrine of estoppel the bondholders could not
claim that the bonds were issued under such ordinance or by
virtue of any other authority than that recited on their face,
viz., the act of 1879.
The Supreme Court of the State held that the bonds were
void because the acts under which they were issued were not
valid laws, not having been passed in the manner directed by
the constitution. The court further held that the bonds were
not authorized by the above sections of the code, and that as
they purported, by recitals on their face, to have been issued
under the act of 1879, the bondholders were estopped from
setting up any other authority for their issue, such as the ordinance of the constitutional convention above mentioned.
The bondholders have brought the case here, claiming that
by the decision below their contract has been impaired, because, as they allege, the Supreme Court of the State had decided before these bonds were issued that the acts under which
they were issued were valid laws and authorized their issue,
and that in holding the contrary after the issue of these bonds
the state court had impaired the obligation of the contract,

TURNER v. WILKES COUNTY COMiTISSIONERS.

463

Opinion of the Court.

and its decision raised a Federal question proper for review by
this court.
But in this case we have no power to examine the correctness of the decision of the Supreme Court of North Carolina,
because, this being a writ of error to a state court, we cannot
take jurisdiction under the allegation that a contract has been
impaired by a decision of that court, when it appears that the
state court has done nothing more than construe its own constitution and statutes existing at the time when the bonds
were issued, there being no subsequent legislation touching
the subject. We are therefore bound by the decision of the
state court in regard to the meaning of the constitution and
laws of its own State, and its decision upon such a state of
facts raises no Federal question. Other principles obtain when
the writ of error is to a Federal court.
The difference in the jurisdiction of this court upon writs of
error to a state as distinguished from a Federal court, in questions claimed to arise out of the contract clause of the constitution, is set forth in the opinion of the court in Central Land
Company v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, and from the opinion in
that case the following extract is taken (p. 111) :
"The distinction, as to the authority of this court, between
writs of error to a court of the United States and writs of
error to the highest court of a State, is well illustrated by two
of the earliest cases relating to municipal bonds, in both of
which the opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Swayne, and
in each of which the question presented was whether the
constitution of the State of Iowa permitted the legislature
to authorize municipal corporations to issue bonds in aid of
the construction of a railroad. The Supreme Court of the
State, by decisions made before the bonds in question were issued, had held that it did; but, by decisions made after they
had been issued, held that it did not. A judgment of the
District Court of the United States for the District of Iowa,
following the later decisions of the state court, was reviewed
on the merits and reversed by this court, for misconstruction
of the constitution of Iowa. Gelpem v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175,
206. But a writ of error to review one of those decisions of

OCTOBER TERI.,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

the Supreme Court of Iowa was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, because, admitting the constitution of the State to be a
law of the State, within the meaning of the provision of the
Constitution of the United States forbidding a State to pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts, the only question was of its construction by the state court. Railroad
Co. v. .2fClure, 10 Wall. 511, 515."
An example of the jurisdiction exercised by this court when
reviewing a decision of a Federal court with regard to the
same contract clause is found in the same volume. _Folsom, v.
Ninety-six, 159 U. S.611, 625.
This case is governed by the principles laid down in Central
Land Coinaany v. Laidley, supra, and the writ of error must,
therefore, be
.Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF cLAISIS.
No. 697. Submitted January 30, 1899.-

Decided March 20, 1599.

After the hearing of the former appeal in this case, 170 U. S. 1, and after
the decree of this court determining the rights of the parties, and remandingthe case to the Court of Claims with instructions to enter a new judgment for the net amount actually received by the Government for the
Kansas lands, without interest, less the amount of lands upon the basis of
which settlement was made with the Tonawandas, and other just deductions, etc., and after the Court of Claims had complied with this mandate,
in accordance with its terms, a motion on the part of the United States
to this court to direct the Court of Claims to find further facts comes too
late.
As the judgment of the Court of Claims now appealed from was in exact
accordance with the mandate of this court, the appeal from it is dismissed.

THis case arose from a motion by the Indians to dismiss the
appeal of the United States for want of jurisdiction, or, in the
alternative, to affirm the judgment of the Court of Claims,
upon the ground that the question involved is so frivolous as
not to need further argument ; and also from a counter motion
by the United States for an order upon the Court of Claims to
make a further finding of facts.

