NEW ORLEANS v. QUINLAN.
Opinion of the Court.

NEW ORLEANS 'v. QUINLAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR ThE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 48.

Submitted December 19, 1898.-Decided February 2T, 1899.

The Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana has jurisdiction of a suit brought in it by a citizen of New York to
recover from the city of New Orleans on a number of certificates, payable
to bearer, made by the city, although the petition contains no averment
that the suit could have been maintained by the assignors of the claims
or certificates sued upon.
Newgass v. New Orleans, 33 Fed. Rep. 196, approved in holding that "A
Circuit Court shall have no jurisdiction for the recovery of the contents
of promissory notes or other choses in action brought in favor of assignees or transferees except over, (1) suits upon foreign bills of exchange; (2) suits that might have been prosecuted in such court to
recover the said contents, if no assignment or transfer had been made;
(3) suits upon choses in action payable to bearer, and made by a corporation."

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Samuel L. Gilmore, XMfr. W. B. Sommerville and .fr.
Branch E. .filler for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Charles louque for defendant in error.

AlR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana by Mary
Quinlan, a citizen of the State of New York, against the city
of New Orleans, to recover on a number of certificates owned
by her, made by the city, and payable to bearer. Defendant
excepted to the jurisdiction because the petition contained
no averment th at the suit could have been maintained "by
the assignors of the claims or certificates sued upon." The

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court overruled the exception, and the cause subsequently went to judgment.
By the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, it
was expressly provided that the Circuit Courts could not take
cognizance of a suit to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless
a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases
of foreign bills of exchange. The act of March 3, 1875, 18
Stat. 470, c. 137, provided: "Nor shall any Circuit or District
Court have cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor
of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in
such court to recover thereon if no assignment had been made,
except in cases of promissory notes negotiable by the law
merchant and bills of exchange." The restriction was thus
removed as to "promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant," and jurisdiction in such suits made to depend on the
citizenship of the parties as in other cases. Tredway v. Sanger, 107 U. S. 323.
By the first section of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24
Stat. 552, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,
25 Stat. 433, the provision was made to read as follows: " or
shall any Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any
suit, except upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the
contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in
favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder, if such
instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover the said contents if no assignment or transfer
had been made."
These certificates were payable to bearer and made by a
corporation; they were transferable by delivery; they were
not negotiable under the law merchant, but that was immaterial; they were payable to any person holding them in good
faith, not by virtue of any assignment of the promisee, but by
an original and direct promise, moving from the maker to the
bearer. Thompson v. Perrine, 106 U. S. 589. They were,
therefore, not subject to the restriction, and the Circuit Court

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
Syllabus.

had jurisdiction. In Yew Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S.
411, where the question was somewhat considered, the instruments sued on were not payable to bearer.
In .Newgass v. New Orleans, 33 Fed. Rep. 196, District
Judge Billings construed the provision thus: "The Circuit
Court shall have no jurisdiction over suits for the recovery
of the contents of promissory notes or other choses in action
brought in favor of assignees or transferees except overFirst,suits upon foreign bills of exchange; Second, suits that
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents, if no assignment or transfer had been made; Third,
suits upon choses in action payable to bearer, and made by
a corporation." This decision was rendered several months
prior to the passage of the act of August 13, 1888, and has
been followed by the Circuit Courts in many subsequent cases.
The same conclusion was reached by Mr. Justice Miller in Wilson v. Knox County, 43 Fed. Rep. 481, and JAewgass v. .Hew
Orleans was cited with approval. We think the construction
obviously correct, and that the case before us was properly
disposed of.
It is true that the act of March 3, 18811, was evidently intended to restrict the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, but
the plain meaning of the provision cannot be disregarded because in this instance that intention may not have been carried
out.

Judgment afflrmed.

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No.122. Argued January 11, 12, 1899. -Decided

February 27, 1899.

A resident in and citizen of Chicago in Illinois, was the owner of certain
lots in Des Moines in Iowa, which were assessed by the municipal
authorities in that place to an amount beyond their value, for the purpose of paving the street upon which they abutted. The statutes of
Iowa authorized a personal judgment against the owner in such cases.
VOL. cTxxm-3

