SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

99

Syllabus.

exacted in the other. The power, however, to grant in the
one and deny in the other of necessity embraces the right, if
it be allowed in both, to impose upon the one a condition not
required in the other, for the lesser is necessarily contained
in the greater power. The misconception consists in conceding, on the bne hand, the power to classify residents and nonresidents, for the purpose of the writ of attachment, and then
from this concession, to argue that the power does not exist,
unless there be something in the cause of action, for which
the attachment is allowed to be issued, which justifies the
classification. As, however, the classification depends upon
residence and non-residence, and not upon the cause of action,
the attempted distinction is without merit.
The foregoing considerations dispose not only of the grounds
passed upon by the court below, but those pressed upon our
attention and which were subject to review in that court;
and as from them we conclude there was error in the judgment of the lower court, its judgment must be
Reversed, and the case remanded forfurther proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.

SIOUX CITY TERMINAL RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE COMPANY v. TRUST COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 192. Argued January 23, 24, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1S99.

The Supreme Court of Iowa having repeatedly decided that in that State
the fact that a corporation of Iowa contracts a debt in excess of its
charter or statutory limitation does not render the debt void, but, on
the contrary, such debt is merely voidable, and is enforceable against the
corporation and those holding under it, and gives rise only to a right of
action on the part of the State because of the violation of the statute, or
entails a liability on the officers of the corporation for the excessive

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
debts so contracted, this court holds itself bound by those decisions,
without determining whether as an independent question, it would decide that the issue of stock by a corporation, in excess of a statutory
inhibition, is not void, but merely voidable.

TE facts which are revelant to the controversy arising on
this record are as follows: The Sioux City Terminal Railroad and Warehouse Company (hereafter designated as the
Terminal Company) was, in 1889, incorporated under the
general laws of the State of Iowa with an authorized capital
of one million of dollars. In January, 1890, the corporation,
by authority of its board of directors, authorized by its stockholders, mortgaged in favor of the Trust Company of North
America its "grounds, franchises, liens, rights, privileges,
lines of railway, side tracks, warehouses, storage houses,
.
-within the
.
elevators and other terminal facilities
corporate limits of the city of Sioux City," all of which property was more fully described in the deed of mortgage. The
purpose of the mortgage was to secure an issue of negotiable
bonds with the interest to accrue thereon, the bonds being for
the face value of one million two hundred and fifty thousand
($1,250,000) dollars. The form of the bonds was described
in the deed, and they were numbered from 1 to 1250 inclusive. The deed contained a statement that the corporation
"has full power and authority under the laws of the State
of Iowa to create this present issue of bonds and to secure
the same by mortgage of all its property, leases and franchises." The bonds thus secured were negotiated to innocent
purchasers for value and the proceeds were applied to the
credit of the company.
In 1893 the Terminal Company also mortgaged in favor of
the Union Loan and Trust Company, an Iowa corporation,
the property previously mortgaged, as above stated, this
second mortgage being to secure one hundred and ninety
promissory notes, fifty whereof were for one thousand dollars
each and one hundred and forty -whereof were for five thousand dollars each, the total aggregating seven hundred and
fifty thousand ($750,000) dollars. All the notes referred to
in this mortgage bore the date of the deed, which contained

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

101

Statement of the Case.

the following covenant: "The said party of the first part
(that is, the mortgagor) hereby covenants that the said
premises are free from all incumbrances, excepting a deed
of trust made on the first day Qf January, A.D. 1890, by
said party of the first part to the Trust Company of iNorth
America of Philadelphia, to secure the sum of one million
two hundred and fifty thousand ($1,250,000) dollars of bonds,
and the said party of the first part will warrant and defend
the title unto the said party of the second part, its successors
and assignees, against all persons whomsoever claiming the
same, subject to the lien of the said prior deed of trust."
On the tenth day of October, 1893, in the United States
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Iowa, a bill was
filed by certain national banks, citizens of other States than
the State of Iowa, against the Terminal Company, E. H.
Hubbard, as assignee of-the Union Loan and Trust Company,
and others, having for its object the foreclosure of the second
mortgage above referred to. 'Without fully recapitulating
the averments of the bill, it suffices to say that it alleged
that the notes which were secured by the second mortgage
had been placed in the hands of the Union Loan and Trust
Company in part for the benefit of certain claims against the
Terminal Company held by the complainants; that the Union
Loan and Trust Company had, in April, 1893, made an assignment to E. H. Hubbard for the benefit of all its creditors, and
that Hubbard had succeeded to the rights and obligations of
the company of which he was assignee, and in which capacity
be held the notes secured by the second mortgage, and the
benefit of which the complainants were entitled to invoke for
the purpose of procuring the payment of their claims. A receiver was prayed for and was appointed.
On the 23d of December, 1893, the Terminal Company,
reciting the fact that the notes which were secured by the
second mortgage for $750,000 had been drawn, and the mortgage given for the benefit of certain outstanding creditors
whose claims amounted to $728,000, and that the notes covered by the second mortgage had been placed in the hands of
the Union Loan and Trust Company for the benefit of such

OCTOBER TER-1

1898.

Statement of the Case.

creditors; that the company had made an assignment to
Hubbard, assignee, and in that capacity he had received the
notes in question; that in a suit pending in the Northern
District of Iowa, to foreclose said second mortgage, a question
had arisen whether such creditors were entitled to avail themselves of the benefit of the second mortgage. Therefore, in
order to allay any such question and to give the creditors
intended to be covered by the second mortgage an undoubted
righAt to claim under it, the deed conveyed absolutely to Hubbard, trustee, the property covered by the mortgage, giving
to the trustee full power to realize and apply the property and
rights to the discharge of the debts secured or intended to be
secured as above stated. It suffices, for the purpose of this
case, to give this outline of the deed in question, without
stating all the various clauses found in it intended to acconplish the purpose which it had in view. The deed, however,
contained this declaration: "This conveyance is made, however, with full notice of the assertion of the following claims
against the said property, to wit, a certain mortgage or trust
deed to the Trust Company of North America, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as trustee, to secure certain bonds
for the sum of one million two hundred and fifty thousand
($1,250,000) dollars, and also certain mechanics' liens to the
amount of about $55,000, and also certain judgments to the
amount of about $20,000. Nor shall said first party (that
is, the transferrer) be understood to covenant that there
are not other claims than those hereinbefore expressly mentioned, none of which, however, are to be considered and
assumed by said second party, (Hubbard, trustee,) nor by
the acceptance of this deed is he in anywise held to admit the validity of said trust deed liens, judgments or of any
claims made or that may arise thereunder, nor shall this
deed be held in any manner to operate as the merger of said
mortgage to said Union Loan and Trust Company, but said
mortgage shall at all times be kept in full force until all
persons and corporations entitled and claiming benefits thereunder shall consent to its discharge, or so long as it may be
necessary to keep said mortgage in force for the protection

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

103

Statement of the Case.

of the title herein conveyed, or any interest claimed by virtue
hereof."
Default having taken place in the payment of the interest
on the bonds secured by the first mortgage, the Trust Company of North America, as the trustee, filed its bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Iowa for foreclosure. On the 20th of June, 1894, the
court ordered the two foreclosure suits, that is, the one previously brought by certain national banks in October, 1893,
and the one brought by the Trust Company of North America, to be consolidated, and appointed the same person who
had been made receiver under the first bill also the receiver
under the second. On July 23, 1895, the Credits Commutation Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the
State of Iowa, filed its suit against the Terminal Company in
the state court of Iowa in and for Woodbury County. It
was alleged that the Credits Commutation Company had become the holder and owner of a large number of the claims
against the Terminal Company which were intended to be
secured by the second mortgage and for whose benefit the
deed to Hubbard, trustee, had been made. The relief sought
was a judgment against the Terminal Company "without
prejudice to any rights or interests which the plaintiff (the
Credits Commutation Company) may have as a holder of said
notes in the said trust deed;" that is, the deed of trust to
Hubbard, trustee, for the benefit of the noteholders as already
On the day the suit was filed the Terminal
mentioned.
Company answered, admitting the correctness of the claim,
and judgment was then entered for $692,096.95 with interest,
the whole without prejudice to the rights of the parties under
the deed of trust as prayed for.
The Terminal Company in its answer to the suit for foreclosure brought by the Trust Company of North America
relied upon many defences, only one of which need be referred
to, that is, that the bonds and the mortgage in favor of the
said Trust Company of North America were ultra vires.
However, it may be observed that the Terminal Company by
its answer asserted that the rights of those entitled to claim

OCTOBER TER.M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

under the second mortgage or the conveyance, made for their
benefit to Hubbard, trustee, were paramount to the claims of
the Trust Company of North America, or the bondholders
under the first mortgage in favor of that company. The
Credits Commutation Company intervened in the foreclosure
proceedings, averring that the bonds secured by the deed in
favor of the Trust Company of North America were void,
because the Terminal Company at the time the bonds were
executed was without lawful power to issue them or to secure
them by mortgage. It was also claimed that in virtue of the
judgment rendered in the state court the Credits Commutation
Company was a creditor of the Terminal Company to the
amount of the judgment, and was entitled to avail itself of
the rights accruing to it from the deed of conveyance made
by the Terminal Company to Hubbard, trustee, and therefore
that the Credits Commutation Company was entitled to be
paid from the proceeds of the property sought to be foreclosed
before the holders of the bonds secured by the deed which
had been made in favor of the Trust Company of North
America.
The trial court decided in favor of the validity of the bonds
issued to the Trust Company of North America and of the
mortgage securing the same. 69 Fed. Rep. 441. On appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, the
judgment of the trial court was affirmed. 49 U. S. App. 523.
The case then, by the allowance of a writ of certiorari, was
brought to this court.
Mr. Henry J Taylor and r/.. Johl
road and Warehouse Company.

C. Coombs for the Rail-

M21r. Asa F. Call for the Trust Company.
Call was on his brief.

Mrt. Joseph IZ.

LAR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The errors assigned and the discussion at the bar confine

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

105

Opinion of the Court.

the question to be decided solely to the validity of the negotiable bonds of the Terminal Company which were issued to
the Trust Company of North America, and which were sold
in open market to innocent purchasers for value and the proceeds of which inured to the benefit of the Terminal Company.
The issue for decision is restricted to this question, since all
the errors assigned and the contentions based upon them depend on the assertion that the bonds issued to the Trust Company of North America, and the mortgage by which their
payment was secured, were wholly void. This complete want
of power. in the Terminal Company is predicated upon certain requirements of the law of the State of Iowa, existing at
the time of the incorporation of the Terminal Company, and
of a provision in the charter of that company, inserted therein
in compliance with the Iowa statute. The law of Iowa relied
on is section 1611 of the Iowa Code of 1897, contained in the
portion thereof relating to the organization of corporations,
and is as follows:
"Such articles must fix the highest amount of indebtedness
or liability to which the corporation is at any one time to be
subject, which in no case, except risks of insurance companies,
and liabilities of banks not in excess of their available assets,
not including their capital, shall exceed two thirds. of its capital stock. But the provisions of this section shall not apply
to the bonds or other railway or street railway securities, issued
or guaranteed by railway or street railway companies of the
State, in aid of the location, construction and equipment of
railways or street railways, to an amount not exceeding sixteen thousand dollars per mile of single track, standard gauge,
or eight thousand dollars per mile of single track, narrow
gauge, lines of road for each mile of railway or street railway
actually constructed and equipped. Nor shall the provisions
of this section apply to the debentures or bonds of any company incorporated under the provisions of this chapter, the
payment of which shall be secured by an actual transfer of
real estate securities for the benefit and protection of purchasers thereof; such securities to be at least equal in amount
to the par value of such bonds or debentures, and to be first

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

liens upon unencumbered real estate worth at least twice the
amount loaned thereon."
The part of the foregoing section commanding the insertion
in the charter of incorporated companies of the amount of
liability for which the corporation could at one time be subject, and limiting such amount to two thirds of the capital
stock, originated in the State of Iowa in the year 1851, and
was continuously in force from the time of its adoption in the
year in question up to the period when it was embodied in the
Code of 1897. Iowa Code, 1851, Title 10, c. 43, ยง 676; Iowa
Code, 1873, Title 9, ยง 1061. The subsequent portions of the
section creating exceptions as to certain classes of railway
bonds, and as to bonds secured by an actual transfer of real
estate securities, originated, the one March 30, 1884, and the
other March 30, in the year 1886, and continued in force until
they were also incorporated in the Iowa Code of 1897. 20
Iowa Laws, c. 22; 21 Ib.c. 54. And section 1622 of the
Iowa Code also contains the following cognate provision:
"
If the indebtedness of any corporation shall exceed
the amount of indebtedness permitted by law, the directors
and officers of such corporation knowingly consenting thereto
shall be personally and individually liable to the creditors of
such corporation for such excess."
The portion of the charter of the Terminal Company fixing,
in obedience to the statutory requirement, the amount of the
debt which could at any one time exist was as follows:
"The highest amount of indebtedness to which this (Terminal) company shall at any time subject itself shall not exceed
two thirds of the paid-up capital stock of said company, aside
from the indebtedness secured by mortgage upon the real
estate of the company."
As the sum of the bonds which were issued and secured by
the mortgage in favor of the Trust Company of INorth America exceeded the statutory limit and the amount stated in the
charter, the question which arises first for consideration is this :
Did this fact render them void; and, secondarily, was the issue
of bonds taken from out the operation of the general rule
laid down in the statute by the exceptions mentioned in the

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N'. A. TRUST CO.

107

Opinion of the Court.

latter portions thereof? As the claim that the bonds were
void is based on the statutory provisions above referred to, it
follows that we are compelled to primarily ascertain the meaning and operation of the state law. In making this inquiry
we are constrained in the first place to inquire what construction has been placed upon the Iowa statute by the Supreme
Court of that State, for it is an elementary principle that this
court in interpreting a state statute will construe and apply it
as settled by the court of last resort of the State, and will
hence only form an independent judgment, as to the meaning
of the state law, when there was no binding construction of
such state statute by the court of last resort of the State.
ifobles v. Georgia, 168 U. S. 398; Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis
County, 166 U. S. 440 ; i1forley v. Lake Shore and .Mich. South.
.Railway Co., 146 U. S. 102, 166, and authorities there cited.
The subject-matter of the creation by an Iowa corporation
of a debt in excess of the maximum amount fixed in its charter
in accordance with the requirement of the statute, and also in
excess of the sum limited by the state law, was considered by
the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa in Garrett v. Burlington Plough Co., (1886) '[0 Iowa, 697. The case was this:
An action was brought in chancery to foreclose a mortgage
executed by the Burlington Plough Company, an Iowa corporation, to the plaintiff as a trustee for certain. of its creditors
upon real estate and personal property. The authorized capital stock of the corporation was fifty thousand dollars. The
maximum limit imposed by the articles of incorporation was the
maximum imposed by the statute, that is, two thirds of the
amount of the capital stock. The corporation had contracted
an indebtedness in excess of the limitation fixed by the statute
and fixed by the charter; that is, with an authorized capital
stock of fifty thousand dollars it had contracted an indebtedness exceeding fifty thousand dollars, of which total indebtedness the sums pressed in the foreclosure suit were a part.
The defence to the suit was twofold: First, that the total debt
of the corporation, including that sued on, was in excess of the
two thirds limitation; and, second, that the mortgage was
void because it had been granted to protect certain directors

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the corporation to the prejudice of its general creditors.
The fact that the debt exceeded the two thirds allowed by
the charter and the statute was admitted on the face of the
record and stated by the court in its opinion to be unquestioned. The court said (p. 701):
"Do the facts alleged in the answer, that the holders of the
notes, as directors of the company, in the management of its
affairs, contracted indebtedness beyond the limit prescribed
by the articles of incorporation, and caused the mortgage to
be executed to secure the amount due them, defeat their
security, and give other creditors a right to share in the proceeds of the property mortgaged? We do not understand
counsel for defendants to claim that a debt of the corporation
beyond the prescribed limits of its indebtedness is invalid, and,
if held by a director of the corporation, cannot be enforced
for that reason alone. It may be that a director would be
answerable to stockholders or others for negligence or mismanagement of the affairs of a corporation whereby debts
were contracted in excess of the limitation prescribed in the
articles of incorporation ; but it cannot be claimed that such a
debt, for a consideration received by the corporation, cannot
be enforced against it."
Again referring to the same subject, the court said (p. '702):
"It is averred that the directors unlawfully contracted
indebtedness of the corporation in excess of the limit prescribed by its articles of incorporation. But this has nothing
to do with the directors' claims in controversy. As we have
before said, they may be liable to proper parties for their negligence or unlawful acts, but honest contracts made with them
are not defeated thereby."
In lMa)fiell v. .iarshall County Canning Co., (1887) 72
Iowa, 666, where a debt had been confessedly contracted by a
corporation in excess of its charter limitation, confining the
power of the corporation to create a debt to a sum not exceeding one half of the capital stock actually paid in, the court, in
considering the legal consequences of such excessive debt, said
(p. 672):
"The proposition is stated by counsel, but it is not, we

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

109

Opinion of the Court.

think, insisted upon, that the mortgage is ultra vires, because
the articles of incorporation provide ' that it shall be competent to mortgage the property of the company to the amount
of not exceeding one half of the capital stock actually paid in.'
The question was determined adversely to appellant in Garrett
v. Plough Co., before cited."
It follows, then, that at the time of the issue of the bonds
in favor of the Trust Company of North America, and of the
execution of the deed of mortgage by which such bonds were
secured, the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa had, in two
cases, declared the law of that State to be that a debt contracted in excess of the maximum limitation stated in the
charter, in virtue of the provisions of the statute requiring
that suQh maximum limit should be fixed, was not void,
although the consequence of contracting a debt beyond the
limitation might be to entail upon the officers of the corporation a personal liability for the amount thereof.
Light is thrown upon the condition of the law of the State
of Iowa, on the question now before us, by a decision of the
Supreme Court of that State, wherein it was called upon to
consider issues arising from the identical contracts which are
involved in this case. The cause was adjudged in the
Supreme Court of Iowa after the decision of the trial court
in this cause, and after that of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Without deciding that the construction given the statute by
the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa at the time and under the circumstances stated is necessarily controlling on this
court, such interpretation, conceding that it is not controlling,
is manifestly relevant for the purpose of elucidating the previous decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa, and as indicating what was the settled law of that State at the time the
contract in question was entered into and prior to the time
when the controversy which this case presents originated in
the courts of the United States. The decision in question is
Beach v. Wakeefield, (IS98) 76 N. W. Rep. 688, (not yet reported
in the official reports of the State of Iowa). The case as stated
in the report thereof was this: Beach, a sub-contractor, commenced proceedings to establish and foreclose a mechanic's

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

lien on a depot built by the Terminal Company. Wakefield
was the principal contractor for building the depot. ie
denied in part the claim of Beach, and sought also on his own
behalf to be recognized as having a mechanic's lien upon the
depot. The Terminal Company, the Trust Company of North
America and the Credits Commutation Company were parties
to the cause. The decree of the Supreme Court of Iowa
recognized in part a mechanic's lien on the depot building
paramount to the mortgage in favor of the Trust Company
of North America, but adjudged that the bonds issued to the
Trust Company of North America and the mortgage by
which they were secured were paramount to the claim of the
Credits Commutation Company and others holding junior
mortgage rights. In considering the legal result of the
creation of a debt in excess of the statutory limitation the
court said (p. 694):
"A distinction is to be taken between contracts like this
and those which, independent of statute, are in violation of
public policy. The creation of this indebtedness involved no
moral turpitude. The making of the mortgage did not disable the corporation from performing its duties to the public.
The Terminal Company had a right to incur a debt, and to
execute a mortgage to secure it. The only ground of complaint is that it went further than the law permitted. Of this
the State may complain, but the Terminal Company cannot;
nor can any person whose rights are derived through the Terminal Company, and who acquired such rights with knowledge
of the mortgage lien."
Again, in commenting on the same subject, the court said
(p. 695):
"We are aware that the security has been held invalid, and
a right of recovery thereon denied, in many cases where an
action has been permitted upon the common counts. But we
think these cases will be found to involve contracts which
were absolutely void and not, as in the case at bar, voidable
only. This distinction is clearly preserved in the cases. In
Garrett v. Plough Co., supra, the indebtedness exceeded the
charter limit of the corporation, and the creditors had notice

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

ill

Opinion of the Court.

thereof when the transaction took place; and yet a right of
recovery was allowed and the lien of the mortgage upheld."
Recurring to the legal consequence, .under the Iowa statute,
of contracting a debt in excess of the statutory limit, the court
said (p. 695):
"It is .said further that the plea of estoppel can be urged
only in favor of the innocent, and that the bondholders here
are not of that class, for they are held to notice of the corporate power of the Terminal Company. This rule has been
applied in cases where the act done was wholly void because
of an absolute want of power to sustain it and in cases where
considerations of public policy intervened. Here, as repeatedly said, the act is voidable only. The statute does not even
impose a penalty therefor."
The argument, then, reduces itself to this : Although it was
conclusively settled by the decisions of the State of Iowa at
the time the contract in question was entered into, that a debt
contracted by a corporation in excess of the statutory limitation was in no sense of the word void, but on the contrary was
merely voidable, that we nevertheless should, in enforcing the
state statute, disregard the construction affixed to it by the
Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, and hold that the act of
the corporation in exceeding the limit of debt imposed by the
statute or fixed in the charter in compliance with the statute
was absolutely void. But to so decide would violate the elementary rule previously referred to, under which this court
adopts and applies the meaning of a state statute as settled by
the court of last resort of the State. As then under the Iowa
law, the fact that the corporation contracted a debt in excess
of the charter or statutory limitation did not render the debt
void, but, on the contrary, such debt, by the settled rule in
Iowa, was merely voidable, and was enforceable against the
corporation and those holding under it, and gave rise only to
a right of action on the part of the State because of the violation of the statute, or entailed, it would seem, a liability on
the officers of the corporation for the excessive debt so contracted, it follows that the whole foundation upon which the
errors assigned in this court must rest is without support in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

respect of Federal law, and therefore the decrees below were
correctly rendered.
It is claimed, however, that this court is not obliged to follow the Iowa decisions interpreting the statute of that State,
because it is assumed that those decisions proceed alone upon
the principle of estoppel. Estoppel, it is argued, is a matter
of general and not of local law upon which this court must
form an independent conclusion, even although in doing so it
may disregard the rule established in the State of Iowa by
the Supreme Court of that State. Whatever, it is argued,
may be the rule in state courts, in this court it is settled that
a corporation cannot be estopped from asserting that it is not
bound by a corporate act which is absolutely void, citing,
among other cases, Pul nan's Palace Car Co. v. Central Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138; California Bank v. Kennedy,
167 U. S. 362; icCormick v. _3larket HVational Bank, 165
U. S. 538; Central T9ansportation Co. v. Pullman's Palace
Car Oo., 139 U. S. 21.
But we are not called upon, in the case before us, to decide
the question thus raised, since it rests upon an assumption
that the court of Iowa has decided that the corporation was
by estoppel prevented from complaining of a void act. But
the Supreme Court of Iowa has not so decided. On the contrary, whilst in the course of its opinions it has referred to
the doctrine of estoppel, it expressly, in the cases cited, made
the application of the doctrine depend upon the legal conclusion found by it, that the act of a corporation in contracting
a debt in excess of the statutory limit was not void but merely
voidable, and for this reason the corporation, or those holding
under it, could not be heard to assail the act in question. The
decisions of this court which are relied upon considered the
application of the doctrine of estoppel to corporate acts absolutely void, and not its relation to contracts which were merely
voidable. Whether, as an independent question, if we were
enforcing the Iowa statute, we would decide that the issue
of stock by a corporation in excess of a statutory inhibition
was not void but merely voidable, need not be considered,
since, as we have said, in applying an Iowa law, we follow

BAUSMAN v. DIXON.
Opinion of the Court.

the settled construction given to it by the Supreme Court of
that State.
It necessarily follows that the decrees of the Circuit Court

and of the Circuit Court of Appeals were correct, and both
are therefore

Affirmed.

BAUSMAN v. DIXON.
ERROR TO THE SUPd@ME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 191. Argued and submitted January 25, 1899. -Decided February 20,1599.

A receiver of a railroad in a State, appointed by a Circuit Court of the
United States, is not authorized by the fact of such appointment to bring
here for review a judgment in a court of the State against him, when no
other cause exists to give this court jurisdiction.

THE case is stated. in the opinion.

31r. .FrederickBausman for plaintiff in error.
.r. John E. Humph ries and Mr. Edward P. Jdseon for
defendant in error submitted on their brief, on which were
also -r. William E. Htumphrey, Mr. Harrison Bostwicek and
-Mr. C. E. Remsberg.
:MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
court.

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

Dixon brought an action in the Superior Court of King
County, Washington, against Bausman, receiver of the Ranier
Power and Railway Company, to recover damages for injuries
sustained by reason of defendant's negligence. The complaint
alleged that the Ranier Power and Railway Company was
a corporation organized under the laws of Washington, and
engaged in operating a certain street railway in the city of
Seattle; that June 13, 1893, one Backus was duly appointed
by the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Washington, receiver of the company, and qualified and served
VOL. CLXXI--8

