OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

act under which they were taken, and that the Supreme Court
of the Territory erred in affirming that judgment of dismissal,

and
We therefore reverse the judgment of the latter court and
remand the case with directions to that court to revers'e the
judgment of the district court, with directions to the district court to proceed to a hearing of the claims upon their
merits.
MR. JUsTICE HARLAN dissented.

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 2T.

Argued March 6,1899. - Decided April 3, 1599.

The Golden Rule, a Canadian topsail schooner with twelve sails, all of which
with a small exception she was carrying, was sailing off Nantucket Shoals
at a speed of seven knots an hour, in a fog so dense that the hull of another vessel could not be seen more than a few hundred feet off. The
Chattahoochee, an American steamer, came up at an angle in the opposite direction with a speed of ten or twelve knots an hour. The schooner
was sounding a foghorn, and the steamer a steam whistle. When the
steam whistle was heard on the schooner she kept on her way at full
speed. When the foghorn was heard on the steamer, order was given
and obeyed to stop and reverse, and the wheel was put hard-a-port.
Upon seeing the schooner the steamship engines were put at full speed
ahead, for the purpose of clearing it; but a collision took place, and the
schoondr sank almost immediately. The sunken vessel had a valuable
cargo on board. It was held below that both vessels were in fault for
immoderate speed, and the District Court, ruling that the damages should
be divided, made a decree respecting such division which was modified
by the Court of Appeals as hereafter stated. Held:
(1) That there can be no doubt as to the liability of the steamer, and,
as no appeal was taken on her part she is estopped from denying
that liability here;
(2) That the schooner, also, was proceeding at an immoderate speed,
and was properly condemned therefor; and the cases bearing

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
Statement of the Case.
upon the question of what is immoderate speed in a sailing vessel,
under such circumstances, are cited and reviewed;
(3) That the Court of Appeals did not err in deducting half the value of
the cargo from half the value of the sunken schooner, and in limiting a recovery to the difference between these values; and in reaching this conclusion the court cites and reviews several cases, in
deciding which the act known as the Harter Act has been considered and applied.

THIs was a libel for a collision which took place in the early
morning of July 20, 1894, southeast of Nantucket Shoals,
between the Canadian schooner Golden Rule and the American steamship Chattahoochee, resulting in the total loss of
the schooner and her cargo.
The Golden Rule was a topsail schooner hailing from Liverpool, Nova Scotia, of about 200 tons burden, and rigged with
twelve sails, including one double square sail on the foremast.
Her length over all was 110 feet. She was bound on a voyage from Porto Rico to Boston with a full cargo of sugar and
molasses, and, at the time of the collision, was sailing on her
port tack, upon a course north by east, one half east, with a
free and fresh wind five to six points abaft the beam. She
was under full sail, except one half of the square sail forward,
which was taken in about two hours before the collision. "Mer
speed was the main point in dispute. At the time of the collision the weather was foggy, the wind blowing in moderate
breezes from the southwest, and the mate was sounding a
mechanical foghorn forward.
The Chattahoochee was an iron screw steamship of 1887
tons burden, 300 feet in length, and running on a line between
Boston and Savannah. She left Boston in the afternoon of
the 19th, and when off Cape Cod, her master, owing to the
foggy weather, decided to take the outside passage by Nantucket, instead of her regular course through Vineyard Sound.
The outside course was much clearer of vessels. Before the
collision the steamship was eighteen miles off the South Shoal
Lightship, on a course southwest half west, proceeding at her
full speed of from ten to twelve knots an hour, and blowing
her whistle at the statntory intervals after 12.30 o'clock. The

OCTOBER TEEIN, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

master and the first officer with the quartermaster were in
the pilot-house, and a man was on the lookout forward.
From the above statement it will be seen that the two vessels were approaching upon courses which converged at an
angle of about three points.
The officers of the schooner heard the steamship's whistle
from two to four points off the starboard bow, a fact which
was duly reported to the officer of the deck. The whistles of
the steamship continued to be beard on the starboard bow
until she came in sight some four or five lengths off, the
schooner keeping her course and speed until the collision.
The master and lookout of the steamship heard the fog signal of the schooner about two minutes before the collision,
apparently a point off their port bow. The order was immediately given and obeyed to stop and afterwards to reverse,
and the wheel was put hard-a-port in order to locate the
sound. When they first saw the sails of the schooner they
bore one and one half points on the port bow of the steamer.
During this time the heln of the steamer was hard-a-port.
Upon seeing the schooner, the steamship, which was then
swinging to starboard under her port helm, ordered her
engines full speed ahead for the purpose of clearing the
schooner. The schooner kept her course and the vessels
came together at an angle of four points, the steamship
striking the schooner forward of the foremast on the starboard side, sinking her almost immediately. The collision
resulted in a total loss of the schooner with all her cargo and
property on board. The steamship was uninjured.
The District Court was of opinion that both vessels were
in fault for immoderate speed, and that the damages should
be divided.
Damages were awarded to the libellants, as bailees for the
owners of the cargo, to the amount of $17,215.17, and to the
libellants, as owners of the vessel and for the value of certain
personal effects of the crew, in one half the total amount of
their loss, namely, $9205.45; and it was further ordered that
the owners of the steamship might recoup from the said
amount of $9205.45 the sum $8607.58, being one half of the

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

total damages to the cargo. An execution was ordered against
the claimants of the steamship and its stipulators for the sum
of $597.87, this being the difference between half the value of
the schooner and the personal effects of the crew and half the
value of the cargo for which the schooner was thus held responsible.
Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, that court affirmed the decree of the District Court upon the merits; but
modified the same with reference to the distribution between
the owners and master of the Golden Rule on the one side and
her mate and crew on the other, finding that, as neither the
mate nor her crew were responsible f6r any fault in her navigation, the several sums awarded the mate and crew should
have priority over the amounts awarded the owners and master.
33 U. S. App. 510.
Whereupon an application was made to this court by the
libellants for a writ of certiorari, which was granted.
.Mr.Eugene P. Carver for the Golden Rule and her owners.
.Mr. Edward E. Blodgett was on his brief.
.M. Arthur H. Russell for the Chattahoochee and her owners.
.Xr. Charles Theodore Russell was on his brief.
MR. JusmE BRoWN delivered the opinion of the court.

There can be no doubt whatever of the liability of the
steamer, and as she did not appeal, of course she is estopped
to deny such liability in this court.
1. Whether the Golden. Rule was also liable for excessive
speed is a question of more difficulty. She was a topsail
schooner, rigged with twelve sails, all of which she was carrying, except one half her double square sail on the foremast,
which had been taken in. She was sailing on her port tack
with the wind well abaft the beam, through a fog which did
not admit of the hull of a vessel being seen more than a few
hundred feet distant. It appears to have been.a surface fog,
as the crew of the schooner are confident they saw the masts

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the steamer some 2000 feet away. The District Court was
of opinion that as she was sailing free, with a fresh wind, her
speed could not have been less than seven or eight knots an
hour. The Court of Appeals found only that she was making
substantially all the speed of which she was capable. Her
master admits that she was -making from five to six knots;
but as her log, which was taken in at 4 o'clock, registered
twenty-eight miles for four hours, we think her speed may be
safely estimated to have been seven miles an hour. While the
commerce in this locality was not as great as it was in Vineyard Sound, it was not unlikely that they would encounter
other vessels coming down the coast. Was seven miles a moderate rate of speed under the circumstances of this case?
Although the reports of the admiralty courts are extremely
fertile of cases turning upon the proper speed of steamers in
foggy weather, there is a singular paucity of such as deal with
the speed of sailing vessels. Such as there are, however, point
to a uniformity of regulation applicable to the two classes.
The earliest of these cases is that of The Virgil, (1843) 2 W.
IRob. 201. This was a collision between two sailing vessels
in a dark and hazy night, although there does not seem to
have been a fog. As it appeared that the Virgil had the
wind free, and was sailing under a full press of canvas, she was
held in fault for too great speed. Her actual speed is not
given. In the case of The Vijctoria, 3 W. Rob. 49, a vessel
running before the wind on a dark and cloudy night at the
rate of from five to six knots an hour off the English coast,
was held to have been in fault for proceeding at that rate of
speed.
Upon the other hand, in the case of The Morning Light, 2
Wall. 550, a brig running through Buzzard's Bay in a dark and
rainy night, was held not to have been in fault for not shortening sail. The court, commenting on the case of The 'Firgil,
observed: "But such a restriction," as was laid down in that
case, "can hardly be applied to sailing vessels proceeding on
their voyage in an open sea. On the contrary, the general
rule is that they may proceed on their voyage although it is
dark, observing all the ordinary rules of navigation, and with

THE CHATTAHOOHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

such additional care and precaution as experienced and prudent navigators usually employ under similar circumstances.
They should never, under such circumstances, hazard an extraordinary press of sail, and in case of unusual darkness, it
may be reasonable to require them, when navigating in a narrow pathway where they are liable to meet other vessels, to
shorten sail if the wind and weather will permit." The actual speed of the Morning Light is not given, although the
wind seems to have been blowing a five to six-knot breeze,
which would indicate a somewhat lower rate of speed than in
this case. In the case of The Itinerant, 2 W. Rob. 236, decided in 1844, Dr. Lushington was of opinion that it was the
duty of the shipmaster, whether in a dense fog or great darkness, to exercise the greatest vigilance and to put his vessel under command, although such precautions might occasion delay
in the prosecution of the voyage. "It may be," said he, "that
for such a purpose it would be his duty to take in his studding
sails; but such is the constantly varying combination of circumstances arising from locality, wind, tide, number of vessels
in the track and other considerations, that the court cannot
venture to lay down any general rule which would absolutely
apply in all cases." So, too, in The Pepperell, Swabey, 12,
Dr. Lushington held a ship proceeding in the North Sea at
the rate of six and one-half knots an hour during a night so
dark that vessels could only be seen at a distance of 100 to
200 yards, was in fault if she knew, or ought to have known,
that she was crossing a fishing ground. See, also, The Lord
Saumarez, 6 Notes of Cases, 600; The Juliet Erskine, Ibid.
633.
These cases were all decided before the new steering and sailing rules, which were first adopted in 1863 by a British Order in
Council, and in 1864: by an act of Congress. The twenty-first
of these rules, as they appear in the Revised Statutes, section
4233, requires that "every steam vessel shall, when in a fog,
go at a moderate speed." No mention is made in this rule of
sailing vessels, but the courts, both in England and America,
so far as they have spoken upon the subject, have adhered to
the rule laid down in the earlier cases above cited -that rates
VOL. CLXxI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of speed which would be considered immoderate for steamers
are open to like condemnation in the case of sailing vessels.
See discussion in The Chancellor, 4 Ben. 153, 160. In T/1w
Thomas J3fartin, 3 Blatchford, 517, a schooner was condemned
by Mr. Justice Nelson for racing on a night which was not
unusually dark, yet was so overcast and cloudy that a vessel
without lights could not be seen at a distance exceeding a
half mile. The schooner had all her sails set, with a pretty
fresh wind, and was running at a rate of speed that, under
the circumstances, he thought could not well be justified considering the character of the night.
In the case of The Johns Hopkins, 13 Fed. IRep. 185, it was
held by ir. Justice ilarlan and Judge Lowell that, in case of
a fog and in a place much frequented by vessels, it was as
much the duty of a sailing vessel to go at a moderate rate of
speed as it was the duty of a steamer. In this case a brig,
sailing with the wind nearly aft and making eight to nine
knots through the water, with a current of two knots in her
favor, off the coast of Cape Cod, was held to have been in
fault for a collision with a steamer in a dense fog. So in The
TWyanoke, 40 Fed. Rep. '702, it was held by Judge Brown, of
the Southern District of New York, that a schooner having
nearly all her canvas set and running in a dense fog off Cape
DMay at a speed of six knots an hour, was not going at the
moderate speed required by law. In The Attila, Cook's Cas.
196, the Vice Admiralty Court at Quebec condemned a sailing vessel for running at a speed of six or seven miles an hour,
in a dense fog in the fairway from the Atlantic Ocean, between
Cape Ray and St. Paul's Island into the Gulf and the lower
waters of the St. Lawrence River, although there was abundance of evidence that this was the customary rate of speed
during a fog in this locality.
In 1879 a new code was adopted in England, and in 1885 in
this country, article 13' of which provides that "every ship,
whether a sailingship or steamship shall, in a fog, mist or falling snow, go at a moderate speed."
In the case of Tle Elysia,4 Asp. Mar. Law Cas. (N. S.) 540,
544, it was held by the Admiralty Court and by the Court of

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

Appeal in England, that a speed of five knots in the case of a
sailing ship out in the Atlantic Ocean in a fog, is a moderate
speed, although at the time she was under all plain sail and
going as fast as she could with the wind on her quarter. Lord
Justice Brett was of opinion that a moderate speed was not
absolutely the same with regard to a steamer as to a sailing
vessel. "If yon were to say that three knots were a moderate
speed for a steamer in which to turn from one point to another
when out in the ocean, that does not presume that that would
be a moderate speed for a sailing vessel, because a steamer can
reduce her speed to a knot and a half. It would, however, bevery dangerous for a sailing vessel, under all circumstances, to,
reduce her speed to anything like three knots, because such as
speed would, in certain circumstances, place her entirely out
of command."
In The Zadok, L. R. 9 P. D. 114, which was a collision between a steamship and a barque in the English Channel, it
was held to have been the duty of the barque to reduce her
speed so far as she could consistently with keeping steerageway, and as it was shown that she was carrying nearly all
her canvas and proceeding at a speed of more than four knots
an hour, she was held to be in fault and the steamer exonerated. A like ruling was made by the Master of Rolls, speaking for the Court of Appeal in The Beta, L. R. 9 P. D. 134.
The collision took place in a dense fog in the Bristol Channel,
and it was held that a vessel must not go faster than would
enable her to be kept under command.
In the case of The I. Strong, (1892) L. R. P. D. 105, which
was a collision in the English Channel, it was held that a sailing vessel which was making about four knots an hour in a
fog, was not proceeding at a rate of speed beyond what was
necessary to keep her well under command.
The cases in the American courts are of the same purport.
In The Rhode _Island, 17 Fed. Rep. 554, it was held by Judge
Brown of the Southern District of New York, that a speed of
seven knots an hour in a foggy evening in Long Island Sound
was not a moderate rate of speed, although the twenty-first
rule did not apply in terms to sailing vessels.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

No absolute rule can be extracted from these cases. So
much depends upon the density of fog and the chance of
meeting other vessels in the neighborhood, that it is impossible to say what ought to be considered moderate speed under
all circumstances. It has been said by this court, in respect
to steamers, that they are bound to reduce their speed to such
a rate as will enable them to stop in time to avoid a collision
,after an approaching vessel comes in sight, provided such
approaching vessel is herself going at the moderate speed
required by law. It is not perceived why the considerations
which demand a slackening of speed on the part of steamers
in foggy weather are not equally persuasive in the case of
sailing vessels. The principal reason for such reduction of
speed is that it will give vessels time to avoid a collision after
coming in sight of each other. If two steam vessels are approaching upon converging courses at a combined rate of
speed of thirty miles an hour, and are only able to see each
other three or four lengths off, it would be practically impossible to avert a collision; whereas, if each were going at the
lowest rate of speed consistent with good steerageway, a collision might easily be avoided by stopping and reversing their
engines, or by a quick turn of the wheel and an order to go
ahead at full speed. While sailing vessels have the right of
way as against steamers, they are bound not to embarrass the
latter, either by changing their course or by such a rate of
speed as will prevent the latter from avoiding them. There
is also the contingency that a schooner sailing with the wind
free, as in this case, may meet a vessel closehauled, in which
case the latter has the right of way, and the former is bound
to avoid her. Beyond this, however, a steamer usually relies
for her keeping clear of a sailing vessel in a fog upon her
ability to stop and reverse her engines; whereas, it is impossible for a sailing vessel to reduce her speed or stop her headway without manceuvres which would be utterly impossible
after the two vessels come in sight of each other. Indeed she
can do practically nothing beyond putting her helm up or
down to "ease the blow" after the danger of collision has
become imminent. The very fact that a sailing vessel can do

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

so little by manceuvring is a strong reason for so moderating
her speed as to furnish effective aid to an approaching steamer
charged with the duty of avoiding her.
In this case the Golden iRule, though not pursuing the most
frequented path of coastwise commerce, was sailing through
waters where other vessels were frequently met, and not far
from the usual track of transatlantic steamers. Her foghorn
was heard by the steamer but once, or possibly twice, while
if the vessels had been proceeding at the speed required by
law, their signals would have been exchanged so many times
that the locality and course of each would have been clearly
made known to the other.

In, other words, sufficient time

would have been given for the steamer to have taken the
proper steps to avoid the schooner. Upon the whole, we are
of opinion that the courts below were right in condemning
the schooner for immoderate speed.
2. An important question of damages remains to be considered. Libellants, as bailees for the owners of the cargo,
proceeded against and were held entitled to recover of the
steamship the entire value of the cargo, but the latter was
allowed to recoup one half of this amount from one half the
amount of damages suffered by the schooner. This appears
to have been done upon the authority of TLe .YortA Star,
106 U. S. 17, in which it was held that, where a collision
occurred through the mutual fault of two vessels, one of which
was sunk and the other of which was damaged, the owners of
the sunken vessel were not entitled under the Limited Liability Act to an entire exoneration from liability, but that the
damage done to both vessels should have been added together
in one sum, and equally divided, and a decree should have
been pronounced in favor of the vessel which suffered most
against the one which suffered least, for half the difference
between the amounts of their respective losses. A similar
ruling was made in The -Manitoba,122 U. S. 97, and in The
Stoomvaart _Yaatsckavpy Nederland v. Pen. & Or. Steam
Nay. Co., 7 App. Cas. '795.
But libellants insist in this connection that the act of February 13, 1893, known as the Harter Act, has modified the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

previous existing relations between the vessel and her cargo,
and has an important bearing upon this branch of the case.
By the third section of that act, the owner of a seaworthy
vessel (and, in the absence of proof to the contrary, a vessel
will be presumed to be seaworthy) is no longer responsible to
the cargo for damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in
navigation or management. This section is made applicable
to "any vessel transporting merchandise or property to or
from any port in the United States;" and we know of no
reason why a foreign vessel like the Golden Rule, engaged
in carrying a cargo from a foreign port to Boston, is not entitled to the benefit of this provision. Had the cargo of the
schooner arrived at Boston in a damaged condition, it is clear
that the vessel might have pleaded the statute in exoneration
of her liability, if the damage had occurred through a fault
or error in navigation, such, for instance, as a collision due
wholly or partly to her own fault. So, if a vessel and cargo
be totally lost by such fault, we know of no reason why the
owner of the vessel is not entitled to the benefit of this section, as well as to his exemption under the Limited Liability
Act.
The reasons which influenced this court to hold in the case
of The Scotland, 105 U. S.24, that the Limited Liability Act
applied to owners of foreign as well as domestic vessels, and
to acts done on the high seas, as well as in the waters of the
United States, apply with even greater cogency to this act.
"In administering justice," said Mr. Justice Bradley, p. 29,
"between parties, it is essential to know by what law, or
code, or system of laws, their mutual rights are to be determined. When they arise in a particular country or State,
they are generally to be determined by the law of that State.
Those laws pervade all transactions which take place where
they prevail, and give them their color and legal effect.
But, if a collision occurs on the high seas, where the
law of no particular State has exclusive force, but all are
equal, any forum called upon to settle the rights of the parties would prima facie determine them by its own law, as
presumptively expressing the rules of justice;

if it

THE CHATTAHOOCIIEE.
Opinion of the Court.

be the legislative will that any particular privilege should be
enjoyed by its own citizens alone, express provision will be
made to that effect.

.

.

.

But the great mass of the laws

are, or are intended to be, expressive of the rules of justice,
and are applicable alike to all.

.

.

.

But there is no de-

mand for such a narrow construction of our statute," (as was
given by the English courts to their Limited Liability Act,)
"at least to that part of it which prescribes the general rule
of limited responsibility of shipowners. And public policy,
in our view, requires that the rules of maritime law as ac.cepted by the United States should apply to all alike, as.far
as it can properly be done. If there are any specific provisions of our law which cannot be applied to foreigners, or
foreign ships, they are not such as interfere with the operation of the general rule of limited responsibility. That rule
and the mode of enforcing it are equally applicable to all.
They are not restricted by the terms of the statute to any
nationality or domicil. We think they should not be restricted by construction." It will be observed that the language of the Harter Act is more specific in its definition of
the vessels to which it is applicable, than the Limited Liability Act, which simply uses the words "any vessel," whereas,
by the third section of the Harter Act, it is confined to "any
vessel transporting merchandise or property to or from any
port in the United States." Where Congress has thus defined
the vessels to which the act shall apply, we have no right to
narrow the definition. It may work injustice in particular
cases where the exemptions are accorded to vessels of foreign
nations which have no corresponding law, but this is not a
matter within the purview of the courts. It is not improbable that similar provisions may ultimately be incorporated in
.the general law maritime. Indeed, the act has been already
held by this court applicable to foreign as well as to domestic
vessels. The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462. See also The Etona, 64
Fed. Rep. 880; Te Silvia, 68 Fed. Rep. 230.
Assuming then that the Harter Act applies to foreign
vessels, we are next to inquire into its effect upon the division of damages in this case. It was held by this court in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

case of The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302, that an innocent owner of a
cargo is not bound to pursue both colliding vessels, though
both may be in fault, but is entitled to a decree against one
alone for the entire amount of his damages. It was held by
the courts below that, while the action by the owner of the
cargo would lie against the steamer for the whole amount of
damage done, the owners of such steamer were entitled to
recoup one half of this amount against one-half of the amount
awarded to the owners of the schooner for the loss of their
vessel, upon the theory that, under the Limited Liability Act,
they were liable for one half this amount, not exceeding the
value of the schooner. But libellants insist that as the third
section of the Harter Act declares that the owners of a seaworthy vessel shall not be liable in any amount for damage or
loss resulting from a fault or error in navigation, the owners
of the schooner are entitled to this exoneration, whether the
action be directly against the vessel by the owner of the cargo,
or by a third party, who is claiming the rights to which he is
entitled, and who for that purpose is standing in his shoes.
That the exemptions of the act are not intended for the benefit of the steamship or any other vessel, by whose negligence
a collision has occurred, but for the benefit of the carrying
vessel alone; and if she be held liable in this indirect manner
for a moiety of the damages suffered by the cargo, the act is
to that extent disregarded and nullified. That the amount
which is paid by recoupment from the just claim of the
schooner against the steamship is paid as effectually as it
would be by a direct action by the owners of the cargo
against the schooner; and while in this case it works an
apparent hardship upon the steamer, (a hardship more apparent than real, owing to the greater fault of the steamer,)
it does not in reality extend her liability, but merely prevents
her taking advantage of a deduction to which without the act
she might have been entitled.
But the majority of the court are of opinion that the principles announced by us in The -ANorth Star, 106 U. S. 17; The
fanitoha, 122 U. S. 97; The .Delaware,161 U. S. 459; and
The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S. 187, are equally applicable here.

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

The case of the Yorth Star is especially pertinent. That case
arose from a collision between two steamships, one of which,
the Ella arley, went to the bottom, while the other was considerably damaged. The suit was tried upon libel and crosslibel, both vessels found in fault, and the damages ordered to
be divided. No question arose with regard to the cargo, but the
owners of the Ella Warley raised a question as to the amount
of their recovery under the Limited Liability Act, which
provides (Rev. Stat. ยง 4283) that "the liability of the owner
of any vessel
collision . .

.
.

. for any loss, damage or injury by
occasioned, or incurred, without the privity,
.

or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed
the amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel, and her freight then pending." It seems that, if the vessel
be totally lost, the liability of her owner is thereby extinguished. .No2wicA Company v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104. The
owners of the Ella Warley sought to apply this rule to a
case of mutual fault, and contended that, as their vessel was
a total loss, the owners were not liable to the North Star at
all, not even to have the balance of damage struck between
the two vessels; but that half of their damage must be paid
in full without deduction of half the damage sustained by the
.North Star. But the court held "that where both vessels are
in fault, they must bear the damage in equal parts; the one
suffering the least being decreed to pay to the other the
amount necessary to make them equal, which amount, of
course, is one half of the difference between the respective
losses sustained. When this resulting liability of one party
to the other has been ascertained, then, and not before, would
seem to be the proper time to apply the rule of limited responsibility, if the party decreed to pay is entitled to it. It will
enable him to avoid paymentyro tanto of the balance found
against him. In this case the duty of payment fell upon the
.NorthStar, the owners of which have not set up any claim to
a limit of responsibility. This, as it seems to us, ends the
matter. There is no room for the operation of the rule. The
contrary view is based on the idea that, theoretically, (supposing both vessels in fault,) the owners of the one are liable to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the owners of the other for one half of the damage sustained
by the latter; and, vice versa, that the owners of the latter
are liable to those of the former for one half of the damage
sustained by her. This, it seems to us, is not a true account
of the legal relations of the parties. It is never so expressed
in the books on maritime law. . . . These authorities conclusively show that, according to the general maritime law, in
cases of collision occurring by the fault of both parties, the
entire damage to both ships is added together in one common
mass and equally divided between them, and thereupon arises
a liability of one party to pay the other such sum as is necessary to equalize the burden. This is the rule of mutual liability between the parties."
In delivering the opinion Mr. Justice Bradley cited and disapproved of the case of Ciapman v. Royal Netherlands N avigation Co., L. R. 4 P. D. 157, which was much relied upon by
counsel for the Ella Warley. It is interesting to note that this
case was overruled by the House of Lords three months before
the opinion in the North Star was delivered, in the case of the
ltoomvart .Maatschappy Nederland v. The Peninsular and
OrientalSteam Yavigation Co., L. IR. 7 App. Oas. 795, and the
rule laid down in the North Star adopted. The same rule was
subsequently applied in The .Manitoba,122 U. S. 9.7.
The other cases are not directly in point, but their tendency
is in the same direction. In that of The Delaware, 161 U. S.
459, it was said that the whole object of the Harter Act was
to modify the relations previously existing between the vessel
and her cargo, and that it had no application to a collision
between two vessels. In The -rrawaddy,171 U. S. 187, it was
held that, if a vessel be stranded by the negligence of her master, the owner had not the right, under the Harter Act, to a
general average contribution for sacrifices made and suffered
by him subsequent to the stranding, in successful efforts to
save the vessel, freight and cargo.
But if the doctrine of the NYorth Star be a sound one, that
in cases of mutual fault the owner of a vessel which has been
totally lost by collision is not entitled to the benefit of an act
limiting his liability to the other vessel until after the balance

COOPER v. IEWELL.
Syllabus.

of damage has been struck, it would seem to follow that the
:sunken vessel is not entitled to the benefit of any statute tending to lessen its liability to the other vessel, or to an increase
of the burden of such other vessel, until the amount of such
liability has been fixed upon the principle of an equal division
of damages. This is in effect extending the doctrine of the
Delaware case, wherein the question of liability for the loss of
the cargo was not in issue, to one where the vessel suffering
the greater injury is also the carrier of a cargo -in other
words, if the Harter Act was not intended to increase the liability of one vessel toward the other in a collision case, the
relations of the two colliding vessels to each other remain
unaffected by this abt, notwithstanding one or both of such
vessels be laden with a cargo.
We are therefore of opinion that the Court of Appeals did
not err in deducting half the value of the cargo from half the
value of the sunken schooner, and in limiting a recovery to the
,difference between these values. The decree is
Affirmed.
The

C=F

JUsTICE and MR. JusTicE PEcKAM dissented.

COOPER v. NEWELL.
CERTI0IATE FROM" THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 184. Argued January 12,13, 1899. -Decided

April 3, 1899.

In 1850 McGrael, a resident citizen in Brazoria County, Texas, brought an
action against Newell, who was alleged to be a citizen and resident in
that county, to recover several parcels of land. Swett, an attorney at
law, appeared for Newell and a verdict was rendered that McGrael recover the tracts, upon which verdict judgment was rendered in his,.
favor, and he went into possession. At the time when that action was
brought Newell had ceased to be a citizen of Texas, and had become a
citizen of Pennsylvania, from whence he soon removed to the city of
New York, and became a citizen of that State, and spent the remainder
of his life there and died there. He was never served with process in

