COLLIER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

of special agents or other officers and other papers now on file
or of record in the departments of Congress shall be considered by the court, and such value awarded thereto as in its
judgment is right and proper."
The contention of the United States depends on the meaning of the words in the act, "for the depredations committed
by others." Exactly the same words are used in article 10 of
the treaty, and the Secretary of the Interior, exercising his
duty, reported claims for depredations, by both Indians and
white men, to Congress for its action. They were, therefore,
claims for depredations "reported to Congress under the tenth
article of the treaty of August 7, 1868." But it is argued, and
ably so, that claims for depredations by other Indians were
improperly reported.
We do not think it necessary to review the argument in
detail. It is sufficient to say that Congress had before it when
it legislated all the claims, and did not discriminate between
them. If the meaning of the treaty was doubtful, it was competent for Congress to resolve the doubt and accept responsibility for all claims. It was natural enough for it to adopt
the interpretation of the Interior Department. At any rate,
it did not distinguish between the claims. Its language covers
those which came from the acts of Indians as well as those
-which came from the acts of white men.
Judgment afflirmed.

COLLIER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
No. 252. Submitted January 9,1899.-Decided February 20, 1S99.
rule that the
There is nothing in this case to take it out of the settled
all matters
determine
law
at
action
an
in
Claims
of
Court
the
of
findings
of fact.
a
Marks v. United States, 164 U. S. 297, followed to the point that when
was
depredation
a
that
alleges
Claims,
petition, filed in the Court of
with the
committed by an Indian or Indians belonging to a tribe in amity

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
United States it becomes the duty of that court to inquire as to the truth
of that allegation; and if it appears that the tribe, as a tribe, was engaged
in actual hostilities with the United States, the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be that the allegation of the petition is not sustained, and
that the claim is not one within its province to adjudicate.
It was the manifest purpose of Congress, in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 538,
to empower the Court of Claims to receive and consider any document
on file in the Departments of the Government or in the courts having a
bearing upon any material question arising in the consideration of any
particular claim for compensation for Indian depredation, the court to
allow the documents such weight as they were entitled to have.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.MXr. A. I. Garlanc and -21r. Rleber J. .May for appellant.
.X1. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for appellees.
MR. JUsTICE WHrTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal brings up for review a judgment of the Court of
Claims, dismissing, for want of jurisdiction, a claim originally
filed in that court by one Ranck, since deceased, to recover
for damages alleged to have been sustained on March 2, 1869,
by the destruction of property of the claimant by Indians
near the line of Texas and Mexico.
The finding of the court is that "The alleged depredation
was committed on or about the 2d day of March, 1869, in the
southeastern part of the Territory of New Mexico, by Mescalero Apache Indians, who at the time and place were not
in amity with the United States." Upon its finding of the
ultimate facts thus stated, the court below rested the legal
conclusion that it was without jurisdiction of the cause. This
court accepts the findings of ultimate fact made by the court
below and cannot review them. 3llaltaa v. United States, 14
Wall. 109; Stone v. United States, 161 U. S. 380. Applying
the law to the facts, it is clear that as the Indians by whom
the depredation was committed were not in amity, the court

correctly decided that it was without jurisdiction. JItarlcs v.
United States, 161 U. S. 297, followed in Leighton v. United
States, 161 U. S. 291; Valko v. United States, 168 U. S. 703.
This legal conclusion was not disputed in the argument at bar;

COLLIER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

but it was contended that this court will, as a matter of law,
where the record enables it to do so, determine for itself
whether the ultimate facts found below are supported by any
evidence whatever, and that it also will determine whether
the ultimate facts were solely deduced by the court below
from evidence which was wholly illegal. And upon the foregoing legal proposition it is asserted, first, that it is disclosed
by the record that there was no evidence whatever tending to
show that the depredation was committed by the Mescalero
Apache Indians; and, second, that the record also discloses
that the conclusion of fact that the Indians committing the
depredation were not in amity was solely rested by the
court upon certain official reports and documents which were
inadmissible. The rule by which these contentions are to be
measured is thus stated in United States v. Clarke, 96 U. S.
37, 40, as follows:
"But w6 are of opinion that when that court [the Court of
Claims] has presented, as part of their findings, what they
show to be all the testimony on which they base one of the
essential, ultimate facts, which they have also found, and on
which their judgment rests, we must, if that testimony is not
competent evidence of that fact, reverse the judgment for that
reason. For here is, in the very findings of the court, made to
support its judgment the evidence that in law that judgment
is wrong. And this not on the weight or balance of testimony, nor on any partial view of whether a particular piece
of testimony is admissible, but whether, upon the whole of the
testimony as presented by the court itself, there is not evidence to support its verdict; that is, its finding of the ultimate
fact in question." See also Stone v. United States, supra, 383.
Whether the record before us is in such a state as to support either of the contentions above stated, is the question for
decision. In so far as the question of the tribe of Indians by
whom the depredation was committed, it obviously is not,
since there is not therein contained any reference whatever
to the evidence upon which the court based its conclusion on
this subject. The portion of the record which is relied upon
to establish the contrary is the following statement:
VOL. CLxix-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"The court determines that the Mescalero Indians were
not in amity at the time of the depredation from the following official reports, documents and facts deduced from the
testimony of witnesses which are set forth in the findings."
But the matter thus certified clearly purports only to relate
to the evidence from which the court drew its conclusions as
to amity, and not to that upon which it based its finding as to
the tribe by whom the depredation was committed. It follows, then, that the argument is simply this: That we are to
determine that there was no evidence supporting the finding
as to the particular tribe committing the depredation, when
the record does not disclose and the court has not certified
the proof from which its conclusion was drawn. The claim
that the record discloses that the finding as to amity rested
solely upon certain official reports and documents, finds also
its only support in the excerpt from the record just above
stated. Whilst it is true the statement certifies that certain
reports and official documents were considered by the court
in reaching its Iinding as to the want of amity, it does not
state that it was alone based upon these reports, for it says
that the determination that the Indians were not in amity at
the time of the depredation was likewise drawn from "facts
deduced from the testimony of witnesses which are set forth
in the findings." Now, whilst the findings contain certain
reports and official documents, presumably those referred to
in the statement, they do not contain the testimony of any
of the witnesses. After reproducing the reports and documents, the record concludes with a mere recapitulation of the
result of the testimony of certain witnesses as to the number
of Indians by whom the depredation was committed and the
circumstances surrounding, that is, the nature of the attack
made by the Indians and the conflict which ensued when it
was made. It follows that even if the reports and official
documents to which the findings refer were legally inadmissible to show want of amity, we could not hold that there
was no legal evidence supporting the conclusion that amity
did not exist, since all the evidence which the court states is
considered on this subject is not in the record. -But the

COLLIER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

official reports in question were legally competent on the
issue of amity. It is conceded that if competent they were
relevant, since it is admitted they tended to establish that the
tribe was not in amity when the depredation was committed.
The act of March 3, 1891, c.'538, for the adjudication and
payment of claims arising from Indian depredations, 26 Stat.
851, provides in the fourth and eleventh sections as follows:
"In considering the merits of claims presented to the court,
any testimony, affidavits, reports of special agents or other
officers, and such other papers as are now on file in the
departments or in the courts, relating to any such claims,
shall be considered by the court as competent evidence, and
such weight given thereto as in its judgment is right and
proper."
"SEc. 11. That all papers, reports, evidence, records and
proceedings now on file or of record in any of the departments, or the office of the secretary of the Senate, or the
office of the clerk of the House of Representatives, or certified
copies of the same, relating to any claims authorized to be
prosecuted under this act, shall be furnished to the court upon
its order, or at the request of the Attorney General."
These provisions express the manifest purpose of Congress
to empower the Court of Claims to receive and consider any
document on file in the Departments of the Government or
in the courts, having a bearing upon any material question
arising in the consideration of any particular claim for compensation for Indian. depredation, the court to allow the documents such weight as they were entitled to have.
There is no merit in the contention that, although documents, within the description of the statute, were relevant to
the question of amity, they were nevertheless incompetent,
as they did not refer to the particular depredation in question, because the statute only authorizes the consideration of
reports, documents, etc., "relating to any such claim." . As
amity was made by law an essential prerequisite to recover, it
follows that evidence bearing on such subject was necessarily
evidence relating to the claim under consideration.
-Affig-med.

