OCTOBER TERMT,

1898.

Syllabus.

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST COMPANY v. CAMPBELL COMMISSION COMPANY.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
RITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 145. Argued and submitted January 17, 1S99. -Decided

TER-

February 20, 1S99.

court
The plaintiff in error, a Texas corporation, commenced an action, in a
and
of Oklahoma, against the defendant in error, a Missouri corporation,
caused a writ of attachment to be issued and levied upon five thousand
head of cattle, claimed to be the property of the Missouri corporation.
the
After such levy, service was made upon one Pierce as garnishee of
or
to
indebted
was
he
that
denying
answered,
Pierce
Missouri corporation.
held property of that company, and further set up an agreement under
company
tie provisions of which he had shipped to the pastures of that
full paya large number of cattle, the ownership to remain in him until
Ie
number.
this
of
were
upon
levied
cattle
The
cattle.
the
for
ment
also set up a notice from one Stoddard of an assignment to him of the
contract by the Missouri company. He further set up that he was entitled to the possession of the cattle, and asked that they should be returned to him with damages. With the consent of both sides Pierce was
appointed receiver of the cattle, and then service was made upon the
MIissouri corporation by publication, had in compliance with requirements of law. Stoddard then filed an interplen, setting up rights of
other parties. This was demurred to, but no action was had on the demurrer. Tie receiver sold the cattle, paid himself in full and reported
to the court that he had a balance in his hands, subject to its order.
Then the Missouri company filed pleas to the jurisdiction of the court,
and other pleas were filed, setting up claims to the balance in the receiver's hands. The Missouri company also set up that Pierce, by becoming receiver, had abandoned his claim to the ownership of the
cattle. The trial court held that the territorial act, authorizing the probate judge, as to debts not yet due, to order an attachment in the absence
of the district judge, was unconstitutional and void, and ordered tle
action dismissed. The Supreme Court of the Territory held that the
court below was wrong in this respect, but affirmed its judgment on
the ground that an actual levy was necessary in order to give the court
The case being brought here,
jurisdiction, and there had been none.
was without jurisdiction,
court
this
that
up
set
corporation
the Missouri
because the intervenors in the trial court had not been made parties to
Held:
That it was not necessary to make the intervenors parties;
That property of the Missouri company had been levied on under

the appeal.
(1)
(2)

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAMPBELL.

85

Statement of the Case.
the writ of attachment, and that the decision of the Supreme
Court of the Territory to the contrary was wrong;
(3) That the Oklahoma statute, requiring an affidavit in its support, as
a prerequisite to the issuance of a writ of attachment, does not
involve the discharge of a judicial function, but is the performance of a ministerial duty;
(4) That the court acquired jurisdiction of the defendant corporation
by constructive service, by foreign attachment, without its consent;
(5) That the territorial statute, authorizing the issue of awrit of attach,nent against tileproperty of a non-resident defendant, is not
repugnaut to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.

THIs action was commenced on July 2, 1895, in the district
court of Noble County, Oklahoma, by the Central Loan and
Trust Company, a Texas corporation, against the Campbell
Commission Company, a Missouri corporation, to recover upon
certain promissory notes not then due. Upon affidavit a writ
of attachment issued, and was levied upon five thousand head
of cattle, as the property of the Campbell Company. After
such levy, a summons in garnishment was served upon one
A. I. Pierce, who answered that he was not indebted to and
held no property owned by or in which the Campbell Company had an interest. As "a further and special answer"
Pierce set out a written agreement entered into between himself and the Campbell Company for the sale and shipment by
him, to that company, of a specified number of cattle. This
agreement provided that Pierce was to deliver at Pierce Station, Texas, a designated number of cattle, which the company
agreed to ship.to its pastures in the Indian Territory "at its
own risk and pay all freight and other expenses," the expenses
to embrace the wages of a man to be put by Pierce with the
cattle, "to represent his interest in said cattle." It was recited
in the contract that five thousand dollars had been paid at the
signing of the agreement "as part of the purchase price;"
and the company further agreed to pay to Pierce interest at
the rate of ten per cent per annum on all unpaid amounts from
the date of shipment of the cattle until full and final payment
in accordance with the contract. The company also agreed
to ship the cattle to market during the summer or fall of 1895,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

for account of Pierce, and to apply the proceeds of sale to
payment for the cattle until fully paid for at the rate of fifteen
dollars per head; and it was also stipulated that title and
ownership of the cattle should be and remain in Pierce until
such payment.
In said "further and special answer" it was also alleged
that the cattle, upon which the writ of attachment had been
levied, formed part of the number covered by the contract
above referred to, and had been shipped by Pierce to the
pastures of the Campbell Company, but that they had never
ceased to continue in the possession of Pierce; it being further
claimed that the cattle were subject to a charge for unpaid
purchase money, expenses for their care and keeping, etc.
The answer further stated that notice had been received by
Pierce from one T. A. Stoddard, trustee, that an assignment
had been made of said contract to him by the Campbell Company, and a copy of the alleged assignment was annexed. It
purported to "sell and assign all the title and interest in and
to" the contract between Pierce and the Campbell Company,
any profit which might be derived by Stoddard from carrying
the contract into final execution, to be applied by him as trustee
to the payment, pro rata, of certain described notes. The
garnishee also declared that on July 12, 1895, receivers had
been appointed of the assets of the Campbell Company, and
the answer concluded with asking that Pierce might be discharged as garnishee.
With the answer to the garnishment there was also filed by
Pierce what was termed an interplea. It was therein, in substance, averred that the cattle which had been levied upon
were wrongfully detained from Pierce; that he was entitled
to their immediate possession; and he prayed that on the
hearing of the interplea judgment might be awarded for the
return of the cattle, with damages for their alleged wrongful
seizure and detention. A motion was also filed, on behalf
of Pierce, "as garnishee and interpleader," to discharge the
attachment, substantially on the ground that the cattle belonged to Pierce, and that the latter was not indebted to the
Campbell Company, and held none of its property.

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAIEPBELL.

87

Statement of the Case..

On the date when this motion came on for hearing the
plaintiff filed an application for the appointment of Pierce as
receiver, "to take charge of the property attached in this
action and sell the same in accordance with a certain written
contract" attached as an exhibit, being the contract referred
to in the answer of Pierce to the garnishment. The service
of the writ of attachment was averred, and it was stated that
the cattle which had been levied upon bad been "under the
care, custody and control of the sheriff of Noble County since
the third day of July, 1895, when said attachment was levied ;" and it was further averred: "That said A. H. Pierce
claims no interest in said property or this suit except as set
forth in said contract hereto attached, and is entirely friendly
to all parties concerned in said action, and, as plaintiff and its
attorneys are informed and believe, the *appointment of said
A. H. Pierce as receiver herein would be entirely satisfactory
to the defendant and all other parties in said action."
The pecuniary responsibility of Pierce and his large experience as a dealer and raiser and shipper of cattle, and other
circumstances, were set forth as warranting his appointment
without bond to sell the cattle in the usual commercial way,
instead of at public sale, and the application concluded as
follows:
"That it would be to the interest of all parties concerned
to have A. I. Pierce appointed receiver to take charge of said
steers and sell the same to the best advantage, accounting to
the court for all sales, and, after satisfying his claim under
said contract, hold the money remaining in his hands subject
to the final order of this court.
"That said A. H. Pierce has already shipped from five
thousand head of steers so seized in attachment about three
hundred and sixty head and sold the same in market, and now
holds the proceeds t hereof, which should be accounted for by
said A. H. Pierce along with other accounts of shipments."
An order appointing the receiver was thereupon made, the
consent of the attorneys both of Pierce and the plaintiff being
noted thereon, and Pierce qualified as receiver.
A summons which had been issued having been returned

OCTOBER TER-Mf, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"defendant not found," publication was had in compliance
with the legal requirements.
Subsequently Stoddard, trustee, filed an interplea. Therein
it was averred that the contract between Pierce and the
Campbell Company had been made by that company for
account of a firm styled George W. Miller & Son, and had
been entered into in the name of the Campbell Company in
order to secure that company for advances which had been
made by it to Miller & Son; that under an assignment by the
Campbell Company to Stoddard he was entitled to the proceeds of the sale of the cattle in the bands of the receiver
after the claim of Pierce had been paid. Plaintiff demurred
to this interplea on November 5, 1895, but no action was ever
had thereon.
A report was filed by the receiver, showing that he had
sold the cattle, and from the proceeds had satisfied in full
his claim under the contract of September, 1894, and that a
balance was in his hands subject to the order of the court.
Thereafter the Campbell Company filed a "plea to the jurisdiction," and subsequently filed an amended plea, which stated
seven grounds why the court was without jurisdiction, all of
which will be hereafter referred to.
After this George W. Miller and J_. C. Miller filed an interplea in the action, claiming that they were the real contractors with Pierce in the agreement of September 8, 1894, and
averred their ownership of the cattle, and that if the contract
had been assigned to Stoddard, it was done without their
authority, and was void. It was prayed that the proceeds
of the cattle be paid to them after the payment to Pierce of
the amount of his claim. No issue was taken on this interplea.
On the same date that the Miller interplea was filed the
plaintiff filed an answer to the interplea of A. H. Pierce,
averring among other things that Pierce, as a result of the
receivership proceedings, had waived and abandoned all his
claim in and to the ownership of the cattle levied on under
the attachment. On December 16, 1895, the plea of the
Campbell Company to the jurisdiction was beard, upon the

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAMPBELL.

89

Opinion of the Court.

record, over objection and exception by plaintiff. The court
overruled all the grounds assigned in the plea except the
second, which asserted that there was a want of power in
the probate judge to issue an order for attachment. As to
such ground it held that the act of the territorial assembly
of Oklahoma, conferring power upon the probate judge, as to
debts not yet due, to order an attachment in the absence of
the district judge from the county, was unconstitutional and
void. It thereupon concluded that all the proceedings were
void, the attachment was quashed, and the suit dismissed for
want of jurisdiction, without prejudice to the Campbell Company. The Campbell Company excepted to the action of
the court in overruling all the grounds of its plea to the jurisdiction but that referring to the power of the probate judge,
and the plaintiff excepted to the action of the court holding
that there was a want of power in the probate judge.
Error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the Territory. That court, whilst concluding that the lower court was
wrong in deciding that the probate judge was without anthority to allow the attachment, yet affirmed the judgment
below on the ground that as an actual levy on the property
of the defendant Campbell Company was necessary to give
the lower court jurisdiction to determine the cause, and as
there had been in law no such levy, therefore the court below
was without jurisdiction, and had correctly dismissed the suit.
The reasoning of the court, in effect, sustained the third ground
of the motion to quash the attachment made by the Campbell
Company. A petition for rehearing having been overruled,
the cause was brought to this court.
.Xr. William D. Williams, for plaintiff in error and appellant, submitted on his brief.
.1r'.John TV. S artel for defendant in error and appellee.
MR. JUsTicE WHrrE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERMVf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

On the threshold it is necessary to dispose of a suggestion
of want of jurisdiction made by the appellee. It is based on
the proposition that as the intervenors in the trial court are
not made parties to this appeal, we are without jurisdiction,
since the judgment to be rendered may materially prejudice
their rights. But the intervenors did not except to the action
of the trial court in vacating the attachment and dismissing
the action. They were not made parties to the proceedings
in error prosecuted from the judgment of the trial court to
the Supreme Court of the Territory. In that court the cause
was determined without any suggZestion, so far as the record
discloses, that the questions arising on the record could not
be decided in the absence of the intervenors, and the Supreme
Court of the Territory manifestly assumed that the intervenors
were not essential parties to a determination of the controversy
before it, since it passed on the case as presented without their
presence. If their absence was treated by the parties to the
proceedings in the Supreme Court of the Territory as not
affecting the right to a review of the judgment of the trial
court, there can be no reason why we should now hold that
the presence of such intervenors is necessary on this appeal,
which has solely for its object a review of the judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of the Territory. Considering
the facts just stated, and the further fact that it is obvious
that the rights of the intervenors cannot be prejudiced by a
review of the action of the Supreme Court of the Territory
in dismissing the cause for want of jurisdiction, the motion
to dismiss is overruled.
The third ground stated in the plea of the defendant, the
Campbell Company, to the jurisdiction of the court, was the
one which the Supreme Court of the Territory found to be
well taken, and upon which it based its affirmance of the judgment quashing the attachment and dismissing the action for
want of jurisdiction. The reasoning by which the court
reached its conclusion was in substance as follows:
The garnishee Pierce answered that he bad nothing subject to garnishment. After doing this, he further answered,
setting out an alleged contract between himself and the de-

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAMPBELL.

91

Opinion of the Court.

fendant, by which he had agreed to sell and ship to the pastures of the defendant a certain number of cattle, which agreement had been carried into execution, the cattle seized under
the attachment being a portion of those shipped in carrying
out the contract. The answer then stated that although the
cattle had been thus shipped, by the terms of the contract,
the right to their possession remained in the garnishee Pierce,
to whom there was a large amount due under the contract for
purchase money and expenses. -The answer further stated
that the garnishee had been notified of an assignment by the
defendant of its rights under the contract, the date of this assigment as (iven being prior in time to the levy of the attachment. Considering that there had been no traverse by the
plaintiff to the answer of the garnishee, within twenty days,
as required by the Oklahoma statute, the court concluded
that all the facts and averments and the inferences deducible
therefrom, stated in the answer, were to be taken as true, not
only as between the garnishee and the plaintiff, but also between the plaintiff and the defendant, in determining whether
property of the defendant had been levied upon, under the
attachment. Upon this assumption, finding that the answer
of the garnishee established that no property of the defendant
had been levied upon under the attachment, it thereupon
dissolved the attachment and dismissed the suit. But this
reasoning was fallacious, since it assumed that because the
failure to traverse the answer of the garnishee was conclusive
of his non-liability, in the garnishment proceedings, it was
therefore equally so, as between the plaintiff and defendant,
in determining whether the property which had been levied
upon under the attachment belonged to the defendant. But
the two considerations, the liability of the garnishee under
the proceedings in garnishment and the validity of the levy
previously made under the attachment, were distinct and different issues. The section of the Oklahoma statute to which
the court referred (Oklahoma Stat. 1893, sec. 4085) provides
that the answer of the garnishee "shall in all cases be conclusive of the truth of the facts therein stated, unless the plaintiff shall within twenty days serve upon the garnishee a notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in writing that he elects to take issue on his answer." It,
however, can in reason be construed only as importing that
the facts stated in the answer, unless traversed, should be conclusive, for the purpose of determining whether the garnishee
was liable under the process issued against him and to which
process his answer was directed.
Indeed, all the facts stated in the "further" answer of the
garnishee were, in legal effect, substantially irrelevant to the
issue between the plaintiff and the garnishee, since they referred not to the garnishee's liability to the defendant, but
propounded a distinct and independent claim which the garnishee asserted existed in his favor as against the defendant,
as a basis on his part for claiming property which was already
in the possession of the court under the attachment, and held
as the property of the defendant in attachment. This was
the view taken by the garnishee of his rights on the subject,
for the answer in the garnishment concluded simply by asking
that the garnishee be discharged from the proceedings. And
on the same day he intervened in the main action and filed
his interplea asserting in his behalf a right of possession to
the cattle seized and demanding damages for their detention.
The judgment below, then, not alone caused the failure to
traverse the answer to conclude the plaintiff as to the issues
which could legally arise on the garnishment, that is, the liability of the garnishee thereunder, but it also made the failure
to traverse operate as a summary and conclusive findihg in
favor of the garnishee on his interplea in the action, which
was a wholly independent and distinct proceeding from the
garnishment itself. The reasoning necessarily went further
than this, since by relation it caused the answer of the garnishee to become conclusive between the plaintiff and the
defendant, thereby setting aside the seizure made before the
garnishment issued, falsifying and destroying the return of
the sheriff that he had levied upon the property of the defendant, and in effect decided the case in favor of the defendant
without proof and without a hearing.
Nor can a different conclusion be reached by considering
that in the further answer of the garnishee it was stated that

CENTR.AL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAMPBELL.

93

Opinion of the Court.

he had been notified of an assignment of the rights of the
defendant Campbell Company under the contract, purporting
to have been made prior to the levy of the attachment. This
was not pertinent to the question of the liability of the garnishee under the garnishment proceedings, and could not operate to conclusively establish as between the plaintiff and the
defendant, or as between the plaintiff and the alleged assignee, either the verity or the legal sufficiency of the alleged
assignment.
Aside, however, from the foregoing consideration, the record
established a condition of facts which relieved the plaintiff
from the necessity of traversing the answer of the garnishee,
in so far as that answer referred to the independent facts substantiating the intended claim of the garnishee to the right of
possession of the property already under seizure, and which,
moreover, estopped the garnishee, and, therefore, the defendant, from asserting any right of possession by reason of the
facts alleged in the further answer. Before the time for
traverse had expired, and at the date when a motion filed by
Pierce, as garnishee and interpleader, to discharge the attachinent on'the ground-of his assumed right of possession under
the contract, had been Voticed for hearing, the court, by the
consent of plaintiff and the garnishee, (the only parties who
had up to that time appeared in the cause,) appointed the
garnishee Pierce receiver, to dispose at private sale of the
cattle, which had been levied upon, to pay from the proceeds
the claim of Pierce, by virtue of his contract, and to hold the
balance subject to the final order of the court. Obviously,
this order, and the rights which Pierce took under *itwere
wholly incompatible with the assumption that he was entitled
to the possession of the property levied upon as the owner
thereof. By the effect of the order, he was to be paid the full
purchase price of the cattle. He could not take the price
and keep the cattle. The situation was this: At the time the
Campbell Company made its motion to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction, the garnishee had taken substantial rights which
had for their inevitable legal effect to render unnecessary any
traverse of so much of his answer as referred to his rights

OCTOBER TER21,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

under the supposed contract, and which also disposed of his
interplea and claim of individual right to the possession of the
property levied on under the attachment; yet the result of
the judgment rendered below was to dismiss the action at the
instance of the defendant on the ground of supposed rights
vested in the garnishee, when the garnishee himself had disclaimed or had abandoned the assertion of such presumed
rights.
As the foregoing reasons dispose of the view of the case
taken by the lower court, we confine ourselves to them. Because, however, we do so, we must not be understood as intimating that the defendant had the right to assail the jurisdiction of the court, or question the right of the court to
order the giving of notice by publication, on the ground that
it was not the owner of the property actually levied upon,
and that the affidavit for publication was untrue in stating
that the defendant had property within the jurisdiction, when
if it were not such owner no prejudice could come to it, as
the judgment of the court, from the nature of the proceeding
before it, could necessarily only operate upon the property
levied on. Nor, moreover, must we be considered as assenting to the construction given by the court to the contract
between the Campbell Company and Pierce, the court, in its
recital of the facts, stating that under the contract Pierce had
a vendor's lien for the amount of the purchase price upon the
cattle which had been levied upon, but in the opinion construing the contract as not divesting Pierce of the title to the
cattle.
Although the court below based its conclusion only upon
one of the grounds taken in the plea of the defendant to the
jurisdiction, it nevertheless in the course of its opinion stated
that the whole plea was before it, and that all the grounds
therein stated were open for its consideration. We, therefore,
shall briefly consider such of the remaining grounds stated in
the plea to jurisdiction as have been urged in argument upon
our attention.
I. It is contended that the attachment proceedings were
void and that the court consequently was without jurisdiction,

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAMPBELL.

95.

Opinion of the Court.

because the order for attachment was signed by the prbbate
judge, acting in the absence of the district judge, conformably
to a power to that effect given by the territorial statute.
The claim is that the statute conferring such power upon the
probate judge was repugnant to the organic act and void, for
the following reason: The organic act authorized the establishment of a Supreme Court and district courts to be vested
with "chancery as well as common law jurisdiction and authority for redress of all wrongs committed against the Constitution or laws of the United States or of the Territory affecting
persons or property." The grant of common law jurisdiction, it is argued, embraced authority to issue attachments.
Being then within the jurisdiction expressly vested in the courts
named, it was incompetent for the territorial legislature to delegate to the piobate courts, which the organic act authorized
to be established, or to a judge of such a court, any jurisdiction
in the premises, even although the organic act empowered the
legislature to define and limit the jurisdiction to be exercised
by probate courts.
A review of this contention is rendered unnecessary, because
of the mistaken premise upon which it rests. On the face of
the Oklahoma statute it is apparent that it is required as a
prerequisite to the issuance of an attachment that the affidavit,
in support thereof, shall simply state the particular ground
for attachment mentioned in the act, and therefore that the
granting of an order for attachment does not involve the discharge of a judicial function, but merely the performance of a,
ministerial duty, that is, the comparison of the language of
the affidavit with the terms of the statute. The text of the
statute is stated in the margin.' This statute is a reproduc1 SC. 4120. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed or otherwise disposed of
his property with the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors, or'
to hinder or delay the collection of their debts, or is about to make such sale
or conveyance or disposition of his property, with such fraudulent intent,
or is about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, with the
intent or to the effect of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering them or delaying them in the collection of their debts, a creditor may
bring an action on his claim before it is due and have an attachment against
the property of the same debtor.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of a statute of Kansas; and, in 1884, before the organization of the Territorv of Oklahoma, the Supreme Court of
Kansas, in Buck v. IPanabaker,32 Kansas, 466, had recognized
the power of a probate judge to grant a writ of attachment in
cases provided by law, while it had early held, in Reyb urn v.
Braccett, 2 Kansas, 227, under a statute containing requirements as to the statements to be made in the affidavit for
an attachment like unto those embodied in the statute or
Oklahoma now under consideration, that the authority vested
in an official to grant the writ imposed a duty simply ministerial in its nature. It is elementary that where the ground
of attachment may be alleged in the language of the statute,
the authority to allow the writ need not be exercised by the
judge of the court, but may be delegated by the legislature to
an official, such as the clerk of the court. ReybVrn v. Brackett,
2 Kansas, 227; IV/teeler v. -Farmer,38 California, 203; flarrison
v. King, 9 Ohio St. 388; Drake on Attachments, 7th ed. p. 92.
The cases cited and relied upon by counsel as holding to the
contrary do not sustain what is claimed for them. In some
of them, Reyburn v. Brackett, 2 Kansas, 227; Simon. v. Stetter,
25 Ohio St. 388; and Ia?rriso v. Efing, 9 Ohio St. 3SS, the
rule we have stated is upheld ; in others, Morrison v. Lovqjoy,
6 Minnesota, 183, and Guerin v. Hunt, 8 Minnesota, 477, 4S7,
the particular statute under consideration was construed as
requiring, on the part of the officer allowing the writ, a
weighing and determination of the sufficiency of the proof;
whilst, again, in others, Seidentopf v. Annabil, 6 Nebraska,
524, and liowell v. Circuit Jitdge, 88 Michigan, 369, the
statute expressly required that the writ should be allowed by
a judge, and hence the clerk of the court was held incompeSEC. 4121. The attachment authorized by the last section may be
granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by the judge thereof,
or in his absence from the county by the probate judge of the county in
which the action is brought; but, before such action shall be brought or
such attachment shall be granted the plaintiff, or his agent or attorney, shall
make an oath in writing showing the nature and amount of the plaintiff's
claim, that it is just, when the same will become due, and the existence of
some oue of the grounds for an attachment enumerated in the preceding
section.

CENTRAL LOAN & TRUST CO. v. CAMPBELL.

97

Opinion of the Court.

tent to issue the writ without the previous authbrization of
the order by the court.
Nor does section 3 of the act of Congress of December
21, 1893, c. 5, 28 Stat. 20, empowering the Supreme Court of
the Territory or its Chief Justice to designate any judge to
"try" a particular case in any district where the regular
judge is for any reason unable to hold court, constitute an
implied prohibition against the conferring by the legislature
of authority upon one not a judge of the court in which the
main action is pending to perform a ministerial act like that
here considered.
I. It is insisted that "under the organic act of the Territory, the court could not acquire jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant by constructive service by foreign attachment
without its consent."
The section of the organic act referred to requires that all
civil actions shall be brought in the county where a defendant
resides or can be found. In a proceeding by attachment of
property, which is in the nature of an action in 9.em, it is
elementary that the defendant is found, to the extent of the
property levied upon, where the property is attached. It
would be an extremely strained construction of the language
of the act to hold that Congress intended to prohibit a
remedy universally pursued, that of proceeding against the
property of non-residents in the place in the territory where
the property of such non-resident is found.
III. The only remaining contention to be considered is the
claim that the territorial statute authorizing the issue of an
attachment against the property of a non-resident defendant
in the case of an alleged fraudulent disposition of property
is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and in conflict with the Civil
Rights Act. The law of the Territory, it is said, in case of
an attachment; for the cause stated, against a resident of the
Territory requires the giving of a bond by, the plaintiff in
attachment as a condition for the issue of the writ, whilst it
has been construed to make no such requirement in the case
of an attachment against a non-resident. This, it is argued,
VOL. cL-Txni-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

is a discrimination against a non-resident, does not afford due
process of law, and denies the equal protection of the laws.
The elementary doctrine is not denied that for the purposes
of the remedy by attachment, the legislative authority of a
State or Territory may classify residents in one class and
non-residents in another, but it is insisted that where nonresidents "are not capable of separate identification from
residents by any facts or circumstances other than that they
are non-residents -that is, when the fact of non-residence is
their only distinguishing feature- the laws of a State or
Territory cannot treat them to their prejudice upon that fact
as a basis of classification."
When the exception, thus stated, is put in juxtaposition
with the concession that there is such a .difference between
the residents of a State or Territory and non-residents, as to
justify their being placed into distinct classes for the purpose
of the process of attachment, it becomes at once clear that
the exception to the rule, which the argument attempts to
make, is but a denial, by indirection, of the legislative power
to classify which it is avowed the exception does not question.
The argument in substance is that where a bond is required
as a prerequisite to the issue of an attachment against a
resident, an unlawful discrimination is produced by permitting process of attachment against a non-resident without
giving a like bond. But the difference between exacting a
bond in the one case and not in the other is nothing like
as great as that which arises from allowing processes of
attachment against a non-resident and not permitting such
process against a resident in any case. That the distinction
between a resident and a non-resident is so broad as to
authorize a classification in accordance with the suggestion
just made is conceded, and, if it were not, is obvious. The
reasoning then is, that, although the difference between the
two classes is adequate to support the all6wance of the
remedy in one case and its absolute denial in the other,
yet that the distinction between the two is not wide enough
to justify allowing the remedy in both cases, but accompanying it in one instance by a more onerous prerequisite than is

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. N. A. TRUST CO.

99

Syllabus.

exacted in the other. The power, however, to grant in the
one and deny in the other of necessity embraces the right, if
it be allowed in both, to impose upon the one a condition not
required in the other, for the lesser is necessarily contained
in the greater power. The misconception consists in conceding, on the bne hand, the power to classify residents and nonresidents, for the purpose of the writ of attachment, and then
from this concession, to argue that the power does not exist,
unless there be something in the cause of action, for which
the attachment is allowed to be issued, which justifies the
classification. As, however, the classification depends upon
residence and non-residence, and not upon the cause of action,
the attempted distinction is without merit.
The foregoing considerations dispose not only of the grounds
passed upon by the court below, but those pressed upon our
attention and which were subject to review in that court;
and as from them we conclude there was error in the judgment of the lower court, its judgment must be
Reversed, and the case remanded forfurther proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.

SIOUX CITY TERMINAL RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE COMPANY v. TRUST COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 192. Argued January 23, 24, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1S99.

The Supreme Court of Iowa having repeatedly decided that in that State
the fact that a corporation of Iowa contracts a debt in excess of its
charter or statutory limitation does not render the debt void, but, on
the contrary, such debt is merely voidable, and is enforceable against the
corporation and those holding under it, and gives rise only to a right of
action on the part of the State because of the violation of the statute, or
entails a liability on the officers of the corporation for the excessive

