OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

statute arbitrarily singles out one class of debtors and punishes
it for a failure to perform certain duties -duties which are
equally obligatory upon all debtors; a punishment not visited
by reason of the failure to comply with any proper police regulations, or for the protection of the laboring classes, or to prevent litigation about trifling matters, or in consequence of any
special corporate privileges bestowed by the State." The conclusion was that the subjection of railroad companies only, to
the penalty, was purely arbitrary, not justifiable on any reasonable theory of classification, and that the statute denied
the equal protection of the law demanded by the Fourteenth
Amendment. In this case the act was passed "for the protection of servants and employ~s of railroads," and was upheld
as an amendment of railroad charters, such exercise of the
power reserved being justified on public considerations, and a
duty was specially imposed for the failure to discharge which
the penalty was inflicted. The penalty was sustained because
the requirement was valid.
J-udgmaent adffirmed.

PRICE v. FORREST.
ERROR TO THE COURT

OF ERRORS

AND

APPEALS

OF

THE STATE

OF N1EW JERSEY.

No. 105. Argued January 3, 4, 1899. -Decided March 6, 1S99.
In 1850 Price, a purser in the Navy and fiscal agent for that Department,
advanced $75,000 to the Government, from his private fortune, to meet
emergencies. His right to receive it back was questioned, and was not
settled until 1891, when Congress passed an act directing the Secretary
of the Treasury to adjust his account " on principles of equity and jus;
tice," and to pay to him ' or to his heirs" the sum found due him on such
adjustment. It was adjusted by the Secretary, and in August, 1892, it was
decided that there was due to Price from the United States $76,204.08.
Meanwhile Forrest had recovered in the courts of New Jersey, of which
Price was a citizen and resident, a judgment against him for $17,000.
Forrest died in 1860 without having collected the amount of this judgment. *In 1874 his widow, having been appointed administratrix of his

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.
estate, caused the judgment to be revived by writ of scire facias and
asked for the appointment of a receiver. Price appeared and answered, and then the cause slept until August, 1892, when Mrs. Forrest
filed a petition, stating that money was about to be paid to Price by the
United States on his claim, and asking for the appointment of a receiver
of the Treasury draft, and that Price be ordered to endorse it to the receiver, to the end that the amqunt might be received by him as an officer
of the court and disposed of according to law. A receiver was appointed,
gave bond and entered on his duties. Price died in 1894. He left no
will. No letters of administration were granted, but the New Jersey
court appointed an administrator adprosequendun. The bill in this case
was then filed. The relief sought was, the revival of the bill of 1874,
that the administrator ad prosequendum be made a party, and that the
other parties be enjoined from receiving the money from the Treasury,
and that the receiver be authorized to receive and dispose of it under
the orders of the court. The heirs of Price set up their claims to it.
The court held that the plaintiffs were entitled to the moneys in the
Treasury and its judgment was affirmed by the highest court in the State.
Held, that the receiver, and not the heir, was the person entitled to recover the money from the United States; and that the case did not come
within the prohibitory provisions against assignments of claims against
the United States, contained in Rev. Stat. ยง 3477.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

2'. eJohn C. Fay and Mr. Flavel
error.

e Ghee for plaintiffs in

_11'. Cortlandt Parker and .2M9. R. Wayne Parker for defendants in error. .M9. Fank TVfHackett was on their brief.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The ultimate question in this case is whether the plaintiffs
in error, as heirs of Rodman M. Price, are entitled to receive
from the United States the amount standing to the credit of
the deceased on the books of the Treasury, and which represents the balance of a sum found in his lifetime under -the
authority of a special act of Congress to be due him upon an
adjustment of his accounts as a purser in the Navy.
The facts out of which arise the questions of law discussed
by counsel are as follows:
In the year 1848 the decedent was assigned to duty on the
Pacific Coast in California as purser and fiscal agent of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

United States for the Department of the Navy. Hle acted
in that capacity until about December, 1849, or January,
1850, when he was detached from such service and ordered to
transfer all public money and property remaining in his
hands to his successor, or to such other disbursing officer of
the Navy as might be designated by the commanding officer
at the naval station at California, and immediately after such
transfer to report at the city of Washington for the purpose
of settling his accounts.
A. Al. Van Nostrand was his successor, in California, as
acting purser in the Navy.
About December 31, 1849, Commodore Jones of the Navy,
commanding the United States squadron at San Francisco,
directed Van Nostrand to receive from Price all books,
papers, office furniture and funds on hand belonging to the
purser's department at that city. Thereupon Price turned
over to Van Nostrand as acting purser of the Navy at San
Francisco, forty-five thousand dollars, that being all the public money remaining in his hands.
Subsequently on the 14th day of January, 1850, and out of
his private funds alone, Price advanced to Van Nostrand
seventy-five thousand dollars, taking a receipt therefor as
follows: "San Francisco, January 14, 1850. Received from
Rodman M. Price, purser U. S. Navy, seventy-five thousand
dollars, for which I hold myself responsible to the United
States Treasury Department, $75,000. (Duplicate.) A. M.
Van Nostrand, acting purser." This money was so advanced
without the approval and signature of Commodore Jones.
Van Nostrand never returned the $75,000 or any part of it
to Price, nor did he account for it to the Government.
Price insisted that the United States should reimburse him
for the amount so advanced by him, but the officers of the
Government denied its liability to him on that account. In
an elaborate opinion, given March 12, 1854, Attorney General
Cushing held that, while the appointment of Van Nostrand
as acting purser was lawful and valid under the circumstances, the Government could not be charged with the
private funds paid to him by Price, although the latter be-

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

lieved at the time that his advance of money to the former
was an accommodation to the Government in the then unsettled condition of California. 6 Opin. Atty. Gen. 357.
Finally, by an act approved February 23, 1891, c. 279, 26
Stat. 1371, entitled "An act for the relief of Rodman M.
Price," the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
was "authorized and directed to adjust upon principles of
equity and justice the accounts of Rodman M. Price, late
purser in the United States Navy and acting navy agent at
San Francisco, California, crediting him with the sum paid
over to and receipted for by his successor, A. M[. Van Nostrand, acting purser, January 14, 1850, and pay to said Rodman M[. Price, or his heirs, out of any money in the Treasury.
not otherwise appropriated, any sum that may be found due
him upon such adjustment."
Under the authority conferred by that act the Secretary of
the Treasury, in August, 1892, adjusted the accounts of Price;
and in that adjustment he was credited with the sum advanced
to Van Nostrand, leaving due to him from the Government
the sum of $76,204.08, which of course included the above
sum of $75,000.
In order that the precise questions to be determined upon
this writ of error may be clearly apprehended we must now
refer to certain matters occurring in the courts of New Jersey
both prior to and shortly after the passage of the above act
of February 23, 1891.
In the year 1857 Samuel Forrest recovered in the Supreme
Court of New Jersey a judgment against Rodman Mvi. Price
for the sum of $17,000 and costs. Execution upon that judgment was returned unsatisfied. Forrest died in 1860 intestate.
In 1874: his wife, one of the present defendants in error, was
appointed and qualified as administratrix of his estate. In
the same year she sued out a writ of soirefaoiasto revive the
above judgment, and it was revived. In the bill seeking a
revivor of the judgment she alleged facts tending to show
that Price had an interest in certain lands, and also that he
had equitable things in action or other property to the amount
of many thousand dollars, exclusive of all claims thereon and

OCTOBER TERM,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

of all exemptions allowed by law, which she had been unable
to reach by execution on the above judgment. By that bill
the administratrix also prayed discovery from Price of all
property, real or personal, whether in possession or action,
belonging to him, with full particulars in relation thereto,
and that the same under the order of court be appropriated
in satisfaction of such judgment; further, that a receiver be
appointed in the cause to collect and take charge of the property, money or things in action found to belong to Price, or
to which he was in any way entitled, either in law or equity,
with power to convert the same into money, and with such
other powers as were usually granted to receivers in similar
cases; and that Price be enjoined from assigning, transferring or making any other disposition of the real estate and
personal property to which he was in anywise entitled and
from receiving any moneys then due or to become due to him,
except where the same were held in trust or the funds held
in trust proceeded from other persons than himself.
The defendants to that bill were Price and his wife and son,
the latter being alleged to claim some interest in the property
described in the bill. They appeared and filed an answer,
Price denying that any part of the properties mentioned in
the bill belonged to him, or that he had any interest in them.
After the filing of that answer the cause slept until August
9, 1892, when M rs. Forrest, as administratrix of the estate of
her husband, filed a petition stating that since the filing of
her bill of complaint in that cause no payment had been made
on the judgment against Price, and that neither she nor her
solicitors had been able to find any personalty or real estate
belonging to Price by levy upon and sale of which any part
of the amount due on the judgment could be obtained; that
it had lately come to her knowledge that about $45,000 was
about to be paid to Price by officers of the Treasury of the
United States as the sum found to be due him by an accounting then lately had between him and the Government; that
that sum was to be paid by the delivery to Price or to his
attorneys of a draft of the Treasurer of the United States or
some other negotiable security made or issued by its financial

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

officers and drawn payable to his order, the rules of the Department forbidding that it be made payable to the order of
any other person or that said sum should be paid in any other
way, and that said draft or negotiable security was to be made
and the transaction closed on the 15th day of August thereafter; and that if Price obtained said money from the United
States he would, unless restrained, put the same beyond the
reach of the petitioner. The prayer of the petition was that
a receiver of the draft or other negotiable security be appointed, and that Price be ordered and directed immediately
on the receipt of such draft or security to endorse the same
to the receiver, to the end that the amount thereof might be
received by him as an ofioer of the court and disposed of aceording to law.
On the presentation of the petition with affidavits in its
support, the Chancellor on the 8th day of August, 1892, issued
a rule returnable at chancery chambers September 12, following, that Price show cause why the prayer of the petition
should not be granted, and an injunction issue, and a receiver
appointed pursuant to that prayer, which rule further directed
that Price should be and was thereby restrained and enjoined
from making any indorsement of the draft referred to in the
petition.
A duly certified copy of that order, pursuant to directions
therein, was served upon Price on the 10th day of August,
1892. Nevertheless, after that date Price received from the
Assistant Treasurer of the United States at Washington and
without permission of the court collected four several drafts
signed by that officer for the respective sums of $2701.08,
$13,500, $20,000 and $9000, in all the sum of $45,201.08, leaving in the hands of the United States of the amount due on the
settlement of Price's accounts the sum of about $31,000.
On the 10th day of October, 1892, Charles Borcherling was
appointed by the Chancery Court receiver in said cause of the
property and things in action belonging or due to or held in
trust for Price at the time of issuing said executions, or at
any time afterwards, and especially of said four drafts, with
authority to possess, receive and sue for such property and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

things in action and the evidence thereof; and it was made
the duty of the receiver to hold such drafts subject to the further order of the couit. The receiver was required to give
bond in the sum of $40,000, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties. At the same time Price was ordered to
convey and deliver to the receiver all such property and things
in action and the evidence thereof, and especially forthwith
to endorse and deliver the drafts to him, and he and all agents
or attorneys appointed by him were enjoined and restrained
from intermeddling with the receiver in regard to said drafts,
and ordered, if in possession or control thereof, to deliver
them to the receiver with an indorsement to that officer or to
the clerk of the court for deposit; provided, the order should
be void if the drafts other than the one for $9000 were delivered with Price's indorsement to the clerk, the proceeds to be
deposited to the credit of the cause. Price was expressly enjoined from making any indorsement or appropriation of the
drafts other than to the receiver or the clerk for deposit.
The receiver gave the required bond, and having entered
upon the duties of his office, he caused a copy of the above
order to be served upon Price, and demanded compliance with
its provisions.
In 1892, the particular day not being stated, the Chancery
Court issued an attachment against Price for contempt of
court in disobeying the order of August 8, 1892. By an order
made Mlay 18, 1894, the court held him to be guilty of such
contempt and he was directed to pay to the receiver the sum
of $31,704.08 and a fine of $50 and costs, and in default of
obedience to that order to be imprisoned in the county jail
until it was complied with. 7 Dickinson, (52 1N. J. Eq.) 16, 31.
Upon appeal to the Court of Errors and Appeals the order
of the Chancery Court was affirmed. 8 Dickinson, (53 N. J.
Eq.) 693.
It is stated that the balance due on the settlement of
Price's accounts, about $31,000, was withheld by the officers
of the Government in the belief that there was a counterclaim against Price. But it having been determined to pay
such balance, the Chancery Court made another order on the

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

18th day of May, 1894, by which Price was directed to execute two instruments in writing, which he had been previously required by the court to sign, seal and deliver, one
of them consenting that the balance from the Government
should be paid to the receiver, such consent to be filed with
the Treasurer of the United States, and by the other assigning all his property, real and personal, and all his rights and
credits.
These last two orders were served upon Price while he was
sick, and he died June 8, 1894, without complying with either
of them. So far as was known, he left no will, and no application had been made for the appointment of an administrator of his estate, as in case of intestacy. But letters of
administration ad prosequendum were granted by the Prerogative Court of New Jersey to Allen L. McDermott.
The present bill was filed in the Chancery Court July 5,
1894, in the name of the administratrix of Samuel Forrest and
of the receiver Borcherling. The principal defendants are the
children and heirs of Rodman M. Price. The other defendants
are John C. Fay and McDermott, the latter as administrator
ad.prosequendum.
That bill alleged that on the 9th day of June, 1894, the
defendants executed powers of attorney to the defendant Fay,
who was one of the attorneys in the litigation respecting
the drafts, authorizing him to apply to the Secretary of the
Treasury to pay to them the balance to the credit of Price
under the act of February 23, 1891, - they claiming that such
balance belongs to his heis, and not to the receiver. It appears from the bill that in addition to the above four drafts,
the United States paid to Price and his attorndys the further
sum of $9000, reducing the balance apparently on the books
of the Treasury under the above settlement to the sum of
about $23,000. It was further alleged that the officers of the
Treasury Department were desirous of doing right and justice
in the premises ; that demand had been made by the receiver
upon the Treasurer of the United States for the payment to
him of said balance of money, and that the Treasurer neither
consented nor refused to do so, but awaited the determination
VOL. cLx

-27

418

OCTOBER TERMV, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

by some lawful tribunal of the right of the receiver in the
premises.
The relief asked was: 1. That the cause commenced by the
bill of 187: be revived, and the administrator ad prosequendum be adjudged a proper party thereto. 2. That the defendants, the children and heirs of Rodman M. Price, together
with Fay, be perpetually enjoined from making any demand
upon or application to the United States or from receiving
any part of the money awarded to the deceased then remaining in the Treasury of the United States. 3. That the parties
above named be decreed to pay to the plaintiff Borcherling,
receiver, to be by him disposed of under the orders of the
court, any part of the money they might have respectively
received or might receive. 4. That the administrator ad
executor or administrator of Price
2 rosequend,m, or any
in the cause, deliver to the
defendant
thereafter admitted as
whether in possession
deceased,
the
receiver all the property of
hands.
their
to
come
might
or action, which
The heirs of Price filed pleas asserting their right to the
benefit of the act of February 23, 1891. The case was heard
upon the bill and pleas, and the pleas were overruled by Chanto
cellor McGill. The defendants were thereupon ordered
answer the bill.
Upon appeal to the Court of Errors and Appeals, the order
reof the Chancery Court was affirmed, and the cause was
accordtherein
mitted to that court with directions to proceed
ing to law. Price v. Forrest,9 Dickinson, (54 N. J. Eq.) 669.
The heirs then filed an answer, in which they denied that
there was any jurisdiction in the Chancery Court to sequester
the moneys in dispute in the Treasury of the United States,
and insisted that whatever amount remained in the Treasury
of
as the balance due on the adjustment of the accounts
Rodman M. Price belonged under the act of Congress to the
defendants as his heirs.
The case was heard upon bill and answer, and the Chancery
the
Court was of opinion that the plaintiffs were entitled to
defendthe
by
collection
the
to
relief asked so far as it related
still
ants of the moneys mentioned in the bill of complaint and

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

in the Treasury of the United States. It was therefore "ordered and decreed, that the said defendants and each of them
be and they are hereby perpetually enjoined and restrained from
making any demand upon or application to the Government
of the United States, or the Secretary of the Treasury of the
United States or any officer of the said Treasury, or from receiving from the United States, or its said Secretary of the Treasury or any officer thereof, any part of the money remaining in
the Treasury of the United States at the time of filing said bill
of complaint, and which was awarded to IRodman M. Price, deceased, as in the said bill stated, or now there remaining." This
judgment was affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals of
New Jersey, 56 N. J. Eq.; and the judgment of affirmance is
here for review.
1. The first proposition of the plaintiffs in error is that consistently with the statutes of the United States the defendants
in error cannot take anything under the orders adjudging
that Borcherling, the receiver appointed by the state court,
was entitled as between him and the heirs of Price to receive
the money remaining to his credit on the books of the Treasury.
This contention is based upon section 3477 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, providing that "all transfers and
assignments made of any claim upon the United States, or of
any part or share thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration
therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders or other authorities
for receiving payment of any such claim, or of any part or share
thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless they are freely
made and executed in the presence of at least two attesting
witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the
payment thereof. Such transfers, assignments and powers of
attorney must recite the warrant for payment, and must be
acknowledged by the person making them, before an officer
having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall
be certified by the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that the officer, at the time of the acknowledgment, read

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and fully explained the transfer, assignment or warrant of
attorney to the person acknowledging the same."
It is insisted that the orders in the state court assume to
transfer or assign Price's claim against the United States in
violation of, or without regard to the requirements of the
statute, in that no assignment of the claim has ever been
freely made; that no warrant for the payment thereof had
been issued when those orders were made; and that the
indorsement or assignment that Price was ordered to make
did not fall within any of the established exceptions under
section 3477, such as assignments in bankruptcy and insolvency, and assignments by operation of law.
Are these propositions supported by the decisions of this
court in which it has been found necessary to construe that
section?
In United SBtates v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407, 416, the question
was as to the validity of a voluntary transfer of the legal
title to a claim under the Abandoned and Captured Property
Act of March 12, 1863, for the proceeds of certain cotton
seized by the military forces of the United States. The suit
was brought by the transferee in the Court of Claims which
found in his favor. By this court it was adjudged that he
could not maintain the action. While holding that the act
of February 26, 1853, c. 81, 10 Stat. 170, from which section
3477 was taken, was of universal application and covered all
claims against the United States in every tribunal in which
they might be asserted, this court stated that "there are
devolutions of title by force of law, without any act of
parties, or involuntary assignments compelled by law," to
which the statute did not apply.
In Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, 397, which was
also an action to recover the proceeds of certain cotton captured by the military forces of the United States, it appeared
that the original claimant became a bankrupt, and assigned
his property to an assignee in bankruptcy. One of the questions was whether the claim for these proceeds, even if it
constituted a demand against the Government, was capable
of assignment under the above statute. This court said:

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

"The act of Congress of February 26, 1853, to prevent frauds
upon the Treasury of the United States, which was the subject
of consideration in the Gillis case, applies only to cases of voluntary assignment of demands against the Government. It
does not embrace cases where there has been a transfer of title
by operation of law. The passing of claims to heirs, devisees
or assignees in bankruptcy are not within the evil at which
the statute aimed; nor does the construction given by this court
deny to such parties a standing in the Court of Claims."
In Goodman v. .Niblack, 102 U. S. 556, 560, where the question was whether the above statute embraced voluntary
assignments for the benefit of creditors, this court, referring
to Eirwin v. United States, said: "The language of the statute,
'all transfers and assignments of any claim upon the United
States, or of any part thereof, or any interest therein,' is
broad enough (if such were the purpose of Congress) to include transfers by operation of law, or by will. Yet we held
it did not include a transfer by operation of law, or in bankruptcy, and we said it did not include one by will. The
obvious reason of this is that there can be no purpose in such
cases to harass the Government by multiplying the number
of persons with whom it has to deal, nor any danger of enlisting improper influences in advocacy of the claim, and that
the exigencies of the party who held it justified and required
the transfer that was made. In what respect does the voluntary assignment for the benefit of his creditors, which is
made by an insolvent debtor of all his effects, which must,
if it be honest, include a claim against the Government, differ
from the assignment which is made in bankruptcy? There
can here be no intent to bring improper means to bear in
establishing the claim, and it is not perceived how the Government can be embarrassed by such an assignment. The
claim isnot specifically mentioned, and is obviously included
only for the just and proper purpose of appropriating the
whole of his effects to the payment of all his debts. We cannot believe that such a meritorious act as this comes within
the evil which Congress sought to suppress by the act of
1853."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The doctrine of these cases has not been modified by any
subsequent decision. Nor, as the argument at the bar implied, is that doctrine inconsistent with the decision subsequently rendered in St. Paul & Duluth Railroad v. United
States, 112 U. S. 733. Nothing more was adjudged in that
case than that a voluntary transfer by way of mortgage of
a claim against the United States for the security of a debt,
and finally completed and made absolute by a judicial sale,
was within the purview of the prohibition contained in section 34:77, and could not be made the basis of an action against
the Government in the Court of Claims. Such a voluntary assignment to secure a specific debt was held to be within the
mischiefs which that section was intended to remedy. To
the same class belongs Ball v. EIalsell, 161 U. S. 72, 79,
which was the case of a voluntary transfer of part of a claim
against the United States on account of the depredations of
certain Indians on the property of the claimant.
While the present case differs from any former case in its
facts, we think that the principle announced in Erwin v.
United States and Goodman v. Niblac justified the conclusion reached by the state court. That court held that it had
jurisdiction under the laws of the State, and as between the
parties before it, to put into the hands of its receiver any
chose in action of whatever nature belonging to Price and of
which he had possession or control. The receiver did not
obtain from Price in his.lifetime an assignment of his claim
against the United States. But having full jurisdiction over
him, the court adjudged that as between Price and the plaintiffs who sued him the claim should not be disposed of by him
to the injury of his creditors, but should be placed in the
hands of its receiver subject to such disposition as the court
might determine as between the parties before it and as was
consistent with law. The suit in which the receiver was appointed was of course primarily for the purpose of securing
the payment of the judgment obtained by Samuel Forrest in
his lifetime against Rodman Al. Price. But that fact does
not distinguish the case in principle from Goodman v. Ni
black; for the transfer in question to the receiver was the act

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

of the law, and whatever remained, whether of property or
money, in his hands after satisfying the judgment and the
taxes, costs or expenses of the receivership as might be ordered by the court, would be held by him as trustee for those
entitled thereto, and his duty would be to pay such balance
into court to the credit of the cause "to be there disposed of
according to law." Revision of N. J. Laws, 1877, sec. 26,
p. 394.
As this court has said, the object of Congress by section
3477 was to protect the Government, and not the claimant,
and to prevent frauds upon the Treasury. Bailey v. United
States, 109 U. S. 432; Hobbs v. J]XcLean, 117 U. S. 567;
Freedman's Savings Co. v. Skepherd, 127 U. S. 494, 506.
There was no purpose to aid those who had claims for money
against the United States in disregarding the just demands of
their creditors. We perceive nothing in the words or object
of the statute that prevents any court of competent jurisdiction as to subject-matter and parties from making such orders
as may be necessary or appropriate to prevent one who has a
claim for money against the Government from withdrawing
the proceeds of such claim from the reach of his creditors;
provided such orders do not interfere with the examination
and allowance or rejection of such claim by the proper officers
of the Government, nor in anywise obstruct any action that
such officers may legally take under the statutes relating to
the allowance or payment of claims against the United States.
If a court, in an action against such claimant by one of his
creditors, should, for the protection of the creditor, forbid the
claimant from collecting his demand except through a receiver
who should hold the proceeds subject to be disposed of according to law under the order of court, we are unable to say that
such action would be inconsistent with section 3477. It may
be that the officers charged with the duty of allowing or disallowing claims against the Government are not required to
recognize a receiver of a claim appointed by a court, and may,
if -the claim be allowed, refuse to make payment except as
provided in section 3477. Upon this subject, the Second
Comptroller of the Treasury, in his opinion, rendered July

OCTOBER TERMT,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

11, 1894-, construing the act of February 23, 1891, and in
which he held that Price was entitled to receive in his lifetime, whatever sum was found to be due him on the adjustment of his accounts, but if he died before such adjustment
was made his heirs would take, not by virtue of the act of
Congress, but according to the laws of descent at the domicil
of the deceased, said: "I do not presume for a moment that
the Chancery Court of New Jersey could issue an execution
and compel payment of this money, nor could any of its
powers be brought to bear to compel, without at least additional legislation by Congress, the Comptroller to pay its
judgment; but while that is true, yet on the other hand the
Comptroller, so far having awaited the adjudication of that
Chancery Court, ought to abide by the result of that litigation, and await a final adjudication and certification of the
amount, as to who are entitled under the laws of that State.
This comes more from comity, and from a disposition on the
part of the Treasury officers to obey the laws of the land, and
to help to enforce the decrees of the courts that have jurisdiction over matters in litigation of this kind, than from any
actual authority that a court may have over the Comptroller
to compel him to make payment. In conclusion, then, the
Comptroller will not at this time act in this matter, but will
say to the gentlemen, that they must fight it out in the courts
of New Jersey, and that this court will follow the final decision that may be rendered there. . . . Hence this matter
will be suspended until such time as the Comptroller may be
put into possession of the final decree, either of the New
Jersey Chancery Court, or such court as may have appellate
jurisdiction therefrom." Even if it be true that the final
order of the state court in relation to the money in question
would not impose any legal duty upon the officers of the
Treasury, it does not follow that the order of court appointing
the receiver would be null and void, as between those who
are parties to the cause and who are before the court.
It only remains to say touching this part of the case that
if section 3477 does not embrace the passing or transfer of
claims to heirs, devisees or assignees in bankruptcy, as held

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

in EF.win v. United States, nor a voluntary assignment by a
debtor of his effects for the benefit of his creditors, as held in
Goodman v. _ANiblack, it is difficult to see how an order of a
judicial tribunal having jurisdiction of the parties appointing
a receiver of a claim against the Government and ordering
the claimant to assign the same to such receiver to be held
subject to the order of court for the benefit of those entitled
thereto, can be regarded as prohibited by that section.
2. Were the heirs of Rodman M. Price entitled upon his
death, by virtue of the act of February 23, 1891, to such balance as then remained to his credit in the Treasury of the
United States on the adjustment made of his accounts under
that act? If they were so entitled, then the final judgment
of the Court of Errors and Appeals affirming the judgment
of the Chancery Court denied to the plaintiffs in error a right
specially set up and claimed by them under the above act;
and therefore the jurisdiction of this court to reexamine that
final judgment cannot be doubted. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
The plaintiffs in error insist that -Emerson v. Hall, 13
Pet. 409, 413, 414, is decisive in their favor. Although this
contention is not without some force, we are of opinion that
the judgment in that case does not control the determination
of the present case. Emerson, surveyor, Chew, collector,
and Lorrain, naval officer, at the port of New Orleans, having seized a brig for a violation of the laws prohibiting the
importation of slaves, instituted proceedings that resulted in
the condemnation of such vessel and slaves. It had been
previously decided in The Josefa Segunda, 10 Wheat. 312,
that the proceeds could not be paid to the custom-house
officers, but vested in the United States. Emerson and Lorrain having died, Congress, on the 3d day of March, 1831,
passed an act entitled "An act for the relief of Beverly Chew,
the heirs of William Emerson, deceased, and the heirs of Edward Lorrain, deceased." That act directed the proceeds in
court to be paid over to the said Beverly Chew and "the
legal representatives" of Emerson and Lorrain, respectively.
The question was whether the Emerson part of the proceeds
belonged to his heirs, or were assets primarily liable for his

OCTOBER TERAM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

debts. This court, after observing that Emerson had not acted
under any law, nor by virtue of any authority, and that his
acts imposed no obligation, legal or equitable, on the Government to compensate him for his services, said: "Had Emerson become insolvent and made an assignment, would this
claim, if it may be called a claim, have passed to his assignees?
We think, clearly, it would not. Under such an assignment,
what could have passed? The claim is a nonentity. Neither
in law nor in equity has it any existence. A benefit was voluntarily conferred on the Government; but this was not done
at the request of any officer of the Government, or under the
sanction of any law or authority, express or implied. And
under such circumstances, can a claim be raised against the
Government, which shall pass by a legal assignment, or go
into the hands of an administrator as assets? . . . A claim
having no foundation in law, but depending entirely on the
generosity of the Government, constitutes no basis for the
action of any legal principle. It cannot be assigned. It does
not go to the administrator as assets. It does not descend to
the heir. And if the Government, from motives of public
policy, or any other considerations, shall think proper, under
such circumstances, to make a grant of money to the heirs of
the claimant, they receive it as a gift or pure donation -a
donation made it is true in reference to some meritorious act
of their ancestor, but which did not constitute a matter of
right against the Government. In the present case, the Government might have directed the money to be paid to the
creditors of Emerson, or to any part of his heirs. Being the
donor it could, in the exercise of its discretion, make such
distribution or application of its bounty as circumstances
might require. And it has, under the title of an act, ' for the
relief of the heirs of Emerson,' directed, in the body of the
act, the money to be paid to his legal representatives. That
the heirs were intended by this designation is clear; and we
think the payment which has been made to them under this
act has been rightfully made, and that the fund cannot be
considered as assets in their hands for the payment of
debts."

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, it is said that the grounds upon which in Enerson v.
Hall the claim of the heirs was sustained, exist in the present
case; that Price did not act under any law, nor in virtue of
any authority, and that his acts imposed no obligation in law
or equity upon the Government that could have been enforced
even if suit could have been maintained against it. And the
conclusion sought to be drawn is t hat Congress must have
intended by the act of 1891, as it was held to have intended
by the act in Emerson's case, to legislate for the benefit of
the heirs or next of kin of the decedent and not for his
personal representatives. But there were other facts in the
Emerson case which placed that case upon peculiar grounds.
Emerson and Lorrain were both dead when the act of March
3, 1831, was passed, and therefore Congress must have had in
mind the question whether the Emerson and Lorrain portions
of the money on deposit in court should be given to their
respective heirs or not. And the question was solved as indicated by the preamble to that act. The preamble distinctly
shows that Congress had in view the heirs, and not those who
would administer the estate of the two persons whose meritorious services were recognized. Although a preamble has
been said to be a key to open the understanding of a statute,
we must not be understood as adjudging that a statute, clear
and unambiguous in its enacting parts, may be so controlled
by its preamble as to justify a construction plainly inconsistent
with the words used in the body of the statute. We mean
only to hold that the preamble may be referred to in order
to assist in ascertaining the intent and meaning of a statute
fairly susceptible of different constructions. United States v.
Fisher,2 Cranch, 358, 386; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat.
610, 631; Beard v. Rowan, 9 Pet. 301, 317; fHoly Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 462; Coosaw Xfining

Co. v. South Carolina,144 U. S. 550.

In Emerson's case the

decision was placed partly on the ground that the title of
the act of 1831 indicated that Congress, in using the words
"legal representatives " in the body of the act, had in mind
the heirs of Emerson and Lorrain, and not technically their
personal representatives. It is a fact not without significance

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that the money awarded by the above act of 1831 did not
replace any moneys taken by Emerson and Lorrain from their
respective estates for the benefit of the Government. They
had only rendered meritorious personal services for the public upon which no claim of creditors could be based, but
which services Congress chose to recognize by making a gift
to the heirs. This was substantially the view taken of the
case of Emerson v. ilall in the recent case of Blagge v. Balch,
162 U. S. 439, 458.
The case before us differs from the Emerson case by reason
of circumstances which we must suppose were not overlooked
by Congress when it passed the act of 1891. By advancing
to Van INostrand seventy-five thousand dollars to be used for
the Government, Price's ability to meet his obligations to
creditors was to that extent diminished. As he had acted in
good faith, and in the belief that he was promoting the best
interests of the Government, the purpose of Congress was to
make him whole in respect of the amount he had in good
faith advanced to his successor for public use. He was then
alive, and there was no occasion for Congress to think of
making any provision for those who might be his heirs. We
think that the legislation in question had reference to his
financial condition, and there is no reason to suppose that
Congress intended that the amount if any found due him
upon the adjustment of his accounts should not constitute a
part of his absolute personal estate, to be received and applied
in the event of his death by his personal representative as
required by law.
We concur with the state court in the view that the act of
1891 was not intended to confer a mere gratuity upon Price,
but was a recognition of a moral and equitable, if not legal,
obligation upon the part of the Government to restore to him
moneys advanced in the belief at the time that they would
be repaid to him in the settlement of his accounts as a disbursing officer; and that the use of the words "or his heirs"
in the act was not to make a gift to the heirs of such sum as
upon the required adjustment of his accounts was found to
be due their ancestor, and thereby exclude his creditors from

PRICE v. FORREST.
Opinion of the Court.

all interest in that sum, but to provide against the contingency
of death occurring before the adjustment was consummated,
and thus to make it certain that the right to have his accounts
credited with the amount paid to Van Nostrand, upon principles of "equity and justice," should not be lost by reason of
such death. Under this interpretation of the act, the words
"or his heirs" must be held to mean the same thing as personal representatives. We do not perceive either in the words
of the act, or in the circumstances attending its passage, anything to justify the belief that Congress had any purpose in
the event of the death of Price to defeat the just demands of
creditors.
Reference was made in argument to the recent case of
Briggs v. Walker, 171 U. S. 466, 473, 474. It differs in some
respects from both the Emerson case and the present case,
but the decision is in accord with the views herein expressed.
It arose under "an act for the relief of the estate of- C. M.
Briggs, deceased," and the principal question was whether the
right given by the act to Briggs' "legal representatives" was
for the benefit of his next of kin to the exclusion of his creditors. This court said: "The act of Congress nowhere mentions heirs at law, or next of kin. Its manifest purpose is not
to confer a bounty or gratuity upon any one; but to provide
for the ascertainment and payment of a debt due from the
United States to a loyal citizen for property of his, taken by
the United States; and to enable his executor to recover, as
part of his estate, proceeds received by the United States
from the sale of that property. The act is 'for the relief of
the estate' of Charles Mv[. Briggs, and the only matter referred
to the Court of Claims is the claim of his 'legal representatives.' The executor was the proper person to represent the
estate of Briggs, and was his legal representative; and as such
he brought suit in the Court of Claims, and recovered the
fund now in question, and consequently held it as assets of
the estate, and subject to the debts and liabilities of his testator to the defendants in error." It is to be observed that
the court in that case looked both to the body of the act and
the preamble in order to ascertain the intention of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

It results that the plaintiffs in error, as heirs of Rodman
M. Price, were not denied by the final judgment of the state
court any right secured to them by the act of 1891.
Something was said in argument which implied that Price
had wrongly resisted the collection of the Forrest claim and
judgment. It is proper to say that so far as the record speaks
on that subject, the course of the deceased was induced by
the belief on his part that it was a claim which he was not
bound in law or justice to pay. Our conclusion does not rest
in any degree upon the character of that claim, but entirely
upon questions of law arising out of matters that were concluded, so far as this court is concerned, by the action of the
state court, and which we have no jurisdiction to review.
We find in the record no error of law in respect of the
Federal questions presented for consideration, and therefore
the decree below must be
Affrrned.

SMITH v. BURNETT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No.112. Argued January 6,9,1899.-Decided March 13, 1899.

Undoubtedly there was jurisdiction in admiralty in this case, in the courts
below.
Although a wharfinger does not guarantee the safety of vessels coming to
his wharves, he is bound to exercise reasonable diligence in ascertaining
the conditions of the berths thereat, and, if there is any dangerous obstruction, to remove it, or to give due notice of its existence to vessels
about to use the berths; at the same time the master is bound to use
ordinary care, and cannot carelessly run into danger.
This court is unable to decide that the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia was not justified in holding, on the evidence, that appellants
were liable for negligence and want of reasonable care, and that the
master was free from contributory negligence, and therefore affirms
the decree of the Court of Appeals which agreed with the trial court on
the facts.

