BAUSMAN v. DIXON.
Opinion of the Court.

the settled construction given to it by the Supreme Court of
that State.
It necessarily follows that the decrees of the Circuit Court

and of the Circuit Court of Appeals were correct, and both
are therefore

Affirmed.

BAUSMAN v. DIXON.
ERROR TO THE SUPd@ME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 191. Argued and submitted January 25, 1899. -Decided February 20,1599.

A receiver of a railroad in a State, appointed by a Circuit Court of the
United States, is not authorized by the fact of such appointment to bring
here for review a judgment in a court of the State against him, when no
other cause exists to give this court jurisdiction.

THE case is stated. in the opinion.

31r. .FrederickBausman for plaintiff in error.
.r. John E. Humph ries and Mr. Edward P. Jdseon for
defendant in error submitted on their brief, on which were
also -r. William E. Htumphrey, Mr. Harrison Bostwicek and
-Mr. C. E. Remsberg.
:MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
court.

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

Dixon brought an action in the Superior Court of King
County, Washington, against Bausman, receiver of the Ranier
Power and Railway Company, to recover damages for injuries
sustained by reason of defendant's negligence. The complaint
alleged that the Ranier Power and Railway Company was
a corporation organized under the laws of Washington, and
engaged in operating a certain street railway in the city of
Seattle; that June 13, 1893, one Backus was duly appointed
by the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Washington, receiver of the company, and qualified and served
VOL. CLXXI--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

as such until February 11, 1895, when he was succeeded by
Bausman; and that the injury of which plaintiff complained
was inflicted in the course of the operation of the railway, on
June 15, 1893. The answer denied that Bausman's predecessor in office had employed Dixon; and that Dixon's injuries were caused by negligence; and set up contributory
negligence as an affirmative defence. The action was tried
by a jury and a verdict rendered in favor of Dixon, the jury
also returning answers to certain questions of fact specially
propounded. A motion for new trial was overruled and judgment entered on the verdict, and the cause was carried to the
Supreme Court of Washington, which affirmed the judgment,
(17 Washington, 304,) whereupon this writ of error was
allowed.
We are unable to find adequate ground on which to maintain jurisdiction. The contention of plaintiff in error seems
to be that because of his appointment as receiver the judgment against him amounts to a denial of the validity of an
authority exercised under the United States or of a right or
immunity specially set up or claimed under a statute of the
United States. It is true that the receiver was an officer of
the Circuit Court, but the validity of his authority as such
was not drawn in question, and there was no suggestion in
the pleadings, or during the trial, or, so far as appears, in the
state Supreme Court, that any right the receiver possessed as
receiver was contested, although on the merits the employment of plaintiff was denied, and defendant contended that
plaintiff had assumed the risk which resulted in the injury,
and had also been guilty of contributory negligence. The
mere order of the Circuit Court appointing a receiver did not
create a Federal question under section 709 of the Revised
Statutes, and the receiver did not set up any right derived
from that order, which he asserted was abridged or taken
away by the decision of the state court. The liability to
Dixon depended on principles of general law applicable to the
facts, and not in any way on the terms of the order.
We have just held in Capital -NationalBank of Lincoln v.
The First IN-ational Bank of Cadiz, 172 U. S. 425, that where

BAUSMAN v. DIXON.
-Opinion of the Court.

the receiver of a national bank was a party defendant in the
state courts, contested the issues on a general denial, and set
up no claim of a right under Federal statutes withdrawing
the case from the application of general law, this court had
no jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the highest court of
the State resting thereon; and, certainly, an officer of the
Circuit Court stands on no higher ground than an officer of
the United States.
Defendant did not deny that he was amenable to suit in the
state courts; he did not claim immunity as receiver from suit
without previous leave of the Circuit Court, and could not have
done so in view of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24: Stat.
552; all the questions involved were questions of general law,
including the inquiry whether one person holding the office of
receiver could be held responsible for the acts of his predecessor in the same office; and the judgment specifically prescribed that the "said amount and judgment is payable out
of the funds held by said Bausman, as receiver of said company, which come into the hands of said receiver and are held
by him as receiver, and funds belonging to the receivership
which are applicable for that purpose which may hereafter
come into the receiver's hands, or under direction of the
court appointing such receiver."
Section three of the act of March 3, 1887, provides that:
"Every receiver or manager of any property appointed by
any court of the United States may be sued in respect of
any act or transaction of his in carrying on the business
connected with such property, without the previous leave of
the court in which such receiver or manager was appointed;
but such suit shall be subject to the general equity jurisdiction of the court in which such receiver or manager was appointed, so far as the same shall be necessary to the ends of
justice." It is not denied that this action was prosecuted and
this judgment rendered in accordance therewith.
The writ of error is
.Diasmissed.

