DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
Syllabus.

had jurisdiction. In Yew Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S.
411, where the question was somewhat considered, the instruments sued on were not payable to bearer.
In .Newgass v. New Orleans, 33 Fed. Rep. 196, District
Judge Billings construed the provision thus: "The Circuit
Court shall have no jurisdiction over suits for the recovery
of the contents of promissory notes or other choses in action
brought in favor of assignees or transferees except overFirst,suits upon foreign bills of exchange; Second, suits that
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents, if no assignment or transfer had been made; Third,
suits upon choses in action payable to bearer, and made by
a corporation." This decision was rendered several months
prior to the passage of the act of August 13, 1888, and has
been followed by the Circuit Courts in many subsequent cases.
The same conclusion was reached by Mr. Justice Miller in Wilson v. Knox County, 43 Fed. Rep. 481, and JAewgass v. .Hew
Orleans was cited with approval. We think the construction
obviously correct, and that the case before us was properly
disposed of.
It is true that the act of March 3, 18811, was evidently intended to restrict the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, but
the plain meaning of the provision cannot be disregarded because in this instance that intention may not have been carried
out.

Judgment afflrmed.

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No.122. Argued January 11, 12, 1899. -Decided

February 27, 1899.

A resident in and citizen of Chicago in Illinois, was the owner of certain
lots in Des Moines in Iowa, which were assessed by the municipal
authorities in that place to an amount beyond their value, for the purpose of paving the street upon which they abutted. The statutes of
Iowa authorized a personal judgment against the owner in such cases.
VOL. cTxxm-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
He filed a petition to have the assessment set aside; to obtain an injunction against further proceedings for the sale of the property; and to
obtain a judgment that there was no personal liability against him for
the excess. This petition contained no allegation attacking the validity
of the assessment by reason of any violation of the Federal Constitution,
and there was nothing in the record to raise such Federal right or claim
beyond the mere allegation in the petition that "the amount of said tax
is greater than the reasonable market value of said lots, whether considered singly or together; the assessment against each particular lot being
greater in amount than the value of such particular lot, and the aggregate
assessment being greater in amount than the reasonable market value of
all of said lots taken together; and that said defendants are seeking to enforce as against plaintiff not merely a sale of said lots but also to compel
plaintiff to pay the full amount of said tax regardless of whatever sum said
lots may be sold for, and regardless of the actual value of the same." The
contractor for the pavement set up his right to a judgment on certificates
given him for the work which had been done, which were made a lien upon
the abutting lots. The trial court dismissed the petition, and gave judgment in favor of the contract. In the Supreme Court of the State it was
assigned as error that "the court erred in holding and deciding that plaintiff was personally liable to said Des Moines Brick Manufacturing Company for so much of said special tax or assessment as could not or would
not be realized by a sale of the sixty lots in question on special execution,
and in ordering and adjudging that a general execution should issue
against plaintiff and in favor of said Des Moines Brick Manufacturing
Company for the balance of such tax or assessment; and further that,
as plaintiff was at all times a non-resident of the State of Iowa and had
no personal notice or knowledge of the assessment proceedings, that the
imposition of a personal liability against him, in excess of the value of
all the lots, was not due process of law and was in contravention of
the provisions on that subject of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, as well as in contravention of the
provisions of the constitution of the State of Iowa on the same subject."
feld that this court was confined to the consideration of the question
as to the validity of the personal judgment against the plaintiff in error,
and that, without deciding what the effect of the proceedings would have
been, if the plaintiff had been a resident in Iowa, the State had no power
to enact a statute authorizing an assessment upon real estate for a local
improvement, and imposing upon its owner, a non-resident of the State,
a personal liability to pay such assessment.

TnE petition in this case was filed by the plaintiff in error
to set aside certain assessments upon his lots in Des Moines, in
the State of Iowa, which had been imposed thereon for the
purpose of paying for the paving of the street upon which
the lots abutted, and to obtain a judgment enjoining pro-

DEWEY v. DES AMOINES.
Statement of the Case.

ceedings towards their sale, and adjudging that there was no
personal liability to pay the excess of the assessment above
the amount realized upon the sale of the lots.
The petition alleged that the petitioner was at all times
during the proceedings mentioned a resident of Chicago, in
the State of Illinois, and that he had no actual notice of any.
of the proceedings looking towards the paving of the street
upon which his lots abutted; that the street was paved under
the direction of the common council, which decided upon its
necessity, and the .expense was, by the provisions of the Iowa
statute, assessed upon the abutting property, and the lot owner
made personally liable for its payment; that the expense
of the improvement was greater than the value of the lots
assessed, and the common council knew it would be greater
when the paving was ordered.
Various other facts were set up touching the invalidity of
the assessment upon the lots, but no allegation was made
attacking its validity by reason of any violation of the Federal Constitution. Under stipulation of the parties various
allegations of fraud upon the part of the members of the
common council, which had been included in the petition,
were withdrawn, and the allegations of the petition as thus
amended were not denied.
The contractor who did the work of paving the street was
made a party to this proceeding, and he set up a counterclaim
asking that the certificates given him by the city in payment
for his services, and which by statute were made a lien upon
the lots abutting upon the street, might be foreclosed and the
lots sold, and a personal judgment pursuant to the same statute rendered against the plaintiff in error.
By stipulation certain motions, which were made to strike
out allegations in the petition were treated as demurrers to
the petition, and the case was thus placed, at issue.
Upon the trial the district court of Polk County gave judg-,
ment dismissing the petition with costs, and in favor of the
contractor on his counterclaim, foreclosing the-lien of the latter and ordering the sale of the lots, and the judgment also
provided for the issue of. a personal or general execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

against the plaintiff in error to collect any balance remaining
unpaid after sale of the lots.
Plaintiff took the case to the state Supreme Court and there
made an assignment of errors, one of which is as follows:
"The court erred in holding and deciding that plaintiff was
personally liable to said Des Moines Brick Manufacturing
Company for so much of said special tax or assessment as
could not or would not be realized by a sale of the sixty lots
in question on special execution, and in ordering and adjudging that a general execution should issue against plaintiff and
in favor of said Des Moines Brick Manufacturing Company
for the balance of such tax or assessment; and further that,
as plaintiff was at all times a non-resident of the State of
Iowa, and bad no personal notice or knowledge of the assessment proceedings, that the imposition of a personal liability
against him, in excess of the value of all the lots, was not due
process of law, and was in contravention of the provisions on
that subject of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, as well as in contravention of the
provisions of the constitution of the State of Iowa on the same
subject."
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the district
court., and plaintiff brought the case here by writ of error.
.Mr.Andrew -E. llctvwey for plaintiff in error.
Cobb was on his brief.

.r. Amasca

Xfr. V. I. Guernsey for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE PECxnAM,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only one of the assignments of error made in the
state Supreme Court which has reference to any Federal
question is the one set forth in the statement of facts, and
it will be seen that such assignment relates solely to the
validity of the provision for the personal liability imposed
upon plaintiff in error by the judgment of the district court.

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
Opinion of the Court.

None of the other assignments of error involves any Federal
question.
In the brief for plaintiff in error in this court it is said that
the "counsel for plaintiff in error in the state court seem to
have relied upon one single proposition only as involving
i Federal question, to wit: As plaintiff was at all times
a non-resident of the State of Iowa and had no personal
notice or knowledge of the assessment proceedings, the imposition of the personal liability against him in excess of the
value of all the lots was not due process of law, and was in
contravention of the provisions upon that subject of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States."
The counsel, however, does not confine himself in this
court solely to a discussion of the Federal question which was
contained in the assignment of error above set forth, and
which was argued in the court below, regarding the validity
of a personal judgment; but counsel claims the further right
to attack the validity of the assessment upon the lots themselves, because as he asserts it was laid without regard to any
question of benefits, and that it exceeds the actual value
of the property assessed, and that even if permitted by the
statute of Iowa, such an assessment constitutes a taking;
under the guise of taxation, of private property for public
use without just compensation, and is therefore void under
the Federal Constitution as amounting to a taking of property
without due process of law.
This is a very different question from that embraced in the
assignment of errors and argued in the Supreme Court of the
State.
It is objected on the part of the defendant in error that as
this is a review of a judgment of a state court, this second
question cannot be raised here, because it was not raised in
the courts below and was not decided by either of them. ,
Reference to the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
State shows that it was not therein discussed or decided. If
the question were only an enlargement of the one mentioned
in the assignment of errors, or if it were so connected with

OCTOBER TERMV, 1898.
ppinion of the Court.

it in substance as to form but another ground or reason for
alleging the invalidity of the personal judgment, we should
have no hesitation in holding the assignment sufficient topermit the question to be now raised and argued.
Parties are not confined here to the same arguments which
were advanced in the courts below upon a Federal question
there discussed. Having, however, raised only one Federal
question in the court below, can a party come into this court
from a state court and argue the question thus raised, and also
another not connected with it and which was not raised in
any of the courts below and does not necessarily arise on the
record, although an inspection of the record shows the existence of facts upon which the question might have been raised?
The two questions, the one as to the invalidity of the personal judgment and the other as to the invalidity of the assessment upon the lots, are not in anywise necessarily connected
any more than that they both arise out of the proceedings
in paving the street and in levying the assessment. The assessment upon the lots might be valid, while the provision for
a personal judgment might be void, each depending upon
different principles, and the question as to the invalidity of
the personal judgment might, as in this case, be raised and
argued without in any manner touching the question as to the
invalidity of the assessment upon the lots.
In Oxley Stave Company v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648,
it was held that the Federal question must be specially taken
or claimed in the state court; that the party must have the
intent to invoke, for the protection of his rights, the Constitution or some statute or treaty of the United States, and that
such intention must be declared in some unmistakable manner, and unless he do so this court is without jurisdiction to
reexamine the final judgment of the state court upon that
matter. See also Levy v. Sitperior Court of San Francisco,
167 U. S. 175; E ipley v. Illinois, 170 U. S. 182. In other
words, the court must be able to see clearly from the whole
record that a provision of the Constitution or act of Congress
is relied upon by the party who brings the writ of error, and
that the right thus claimed by him was denied. Bridge Pro-

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.

199

Opinion of the Court.

prietors v. Hloboken Company, 1 Wall. 116, 143. In the case
at bar no claim was made in the state court that the assessment upon the lots was invalid as in violation of any provision
of the Federal Constitution.
Nor does the record herein show by clear and necessary
intendment that the Federal question must have been directly
involved so that the state court could not have given judgment without deciding it. In such case it has been held that
the Federal question sufficiently appears. Green Bay &c.
(ompany v. Patten Paper Company, 172 U. S. 58, 68, and cases
cited. In substance, the validity of the statute or the right
under the Constitution must have been drawn in question.
Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433; Sayward v.
Denny, 158 U. S. 180. The latest decision to this effect is
Capital National Bank of Lincoln v. First National Bank
of Cadiz, 172 U. S.425.
Although no particular form of Words is necessary .to be
used in order that the Federal question may be said to be
involved, within the meaning of the cases on this subject,
there yet must be something in the case before the state court
which at least would call its attention to the Federal question
as one that was relied on by the party, and then, if the decision of the court, while not noticing the question, was such
that the judgment was by its necessary effect a denial of the
right claimed or referred to, it would be sufficient. It must
appear from the record that the right set up or claimed was
denied by the judgment or that such was its necessary effect
in law. Roby v. Colehour, 146 U. S. 153, 159; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 231; Green
Bay &c. Company v. Patten Paper Company; and Bank of
.incol v. Bank of Cadiz, supra.
In all these cases it did appear from the record that the
rights were set up or claimed in such a way as to bring the
subject to the attention of the state court.
It is not enough
that there may be somewhere hidden in the record a question
which, if raised, would be of a Federal nature. Hamilton
Company v. Massachusetts,6 Wall. 639. In order to be available in this court some claim or right must have been asserted

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in the court below by which it would appear that the party
asserting the right founded it in some degree upon the Constitution or laws or treaties of the United States. In such
case, if the court below denied the right claimed, it would be
enough; or if it did not in terms deny such right, if the necessary effect of its judgment was to deny it, then it would be
enough. But the denial, whether expressed or implied, must
be of some right or claim founded upon the Constitution or
the laws or treaties of the United States which had in some
manner been brought to the attention of the court below.
The record shows nothing of the kind in this case.
A claim or right which has never been made or asserted
cannot be said to have been denied by a judgment which does
not refer to it. Jalnilton Comyauq,' v. Jfassachusetts,supra.
A point that was never raised cannot be said to have been
decided adversely to a party, who never set it up or in any
way alluded to it. Nor can it be said that the necessary effect
in law of a judgment, which is silent upon the question, is the
denial of a claim or right which might have been involved
therein, but which in fact was never in any way set up or
spoken of.
No question of a Federal nature claimed under the Constitution of the United States can be said to have been made
by the mere allegation "that the amount of said tax is greater
than the reasonable market value of said lots, whether considered singly or together; the assessment against each particular lot being greater in amount than the value of such
particular lot, and the aggregate assessment being greater in
amount than the reasonable market value of all of said lots
taken together; and that said defendants are seeking to enforce as against plaintiff not merely a sale of said lots, but
also to compel plaintiff to pay the full amount of said tax
regardless of whatever sum said lots may be sold for and
regardless of the actual value of the same." There is nothing
else in the record which can be said to raise this Federal right
or claim.
Upon these facts we are compelled to hold that we are confined to a discussion of the only Federal question which this

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
Opinion of the Court.

record presents, viz.: The validity of the personal judgment
against the plaintiff in error. The assignment of error above
set out is broad enough to raise the question not only as to
the sufficiency of notice, but as to the validity of such a judgment against a non-resident.
It is asserted in the petition that the defendant Dillworth,
the treasurer of Holt County, is attempting to enforce the
assessment levied by the common council, and that he claims
plaintiff in error is personally liable for the taxes and interest,
and will enforce payment thereof unless restrained, and that
plaintiff's personal property is liable to be illegally seized for
the payment of the tax. These allegations are substantially
admitted by the answers of .the defendants, except as to the
illegality of the possible seizure of plaintiff's personal property. By filing the counterclaim the contractor makes a
direct attempt to enforce, not only the lien upon the lots, but
the personal liability of the lot owner. Thus a non-resident,
simply because he was the owner of property on a street in a
city in the State of Iowa, finds himself by the provisions of
the state statute, and without the service of any process upon
him, laid under a personal obligation to pay a tax assessed by
the common council, or by the board of public works and city
engineer under the statute, upon his property abutting upon
the street, for the purpose of paying the expenses incurred in
paving the street, which expenses are greater than the benefit
the lots have received by virtue of the improvement. The
plaintiff, prior to the imposition of that assessment, had never
submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the State of Iowa, and
the only jurisdiction that State had in the assessment proceedings was over the real property belonging to him and abutting on the street to be improved. An assessment upon lots,
for a local improvement, is in the nature of a judgment.
It is said that the statute (Code of Iowa, sec. 478) provides
for the personal liability of the owner of lots in a city in the
State of Iowa, to pay the whole tax or assessment levied to
pay the cost of a local improvement, and that the same statute
provides that the assessment shall also be a lien upon the respective lots from the time of the assessment. It is also said

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that the statute has been held to be valid by the Iowa Supreme
Court. This seems to be true. Burlington v. Quick, 47 Iowa,
222, 226; Farwell v. Des _Yoines Brick Manufacturing Co.,
97 Iowa, 286. The same thing is also held in the opinion of
the state court delivered in the case now before us.
In this case no question arises with regard to the validity
of a personal judgment like the one herein against a resident
of the State of Iowa, and we therefore express no opinion
upon that subject. This plaintiff was at all times a nonresident of that State, and we think that a statute authorizing
an assessment to be levied upon property for a local improvement, and imposing upon the lot owner, who is a non-resident
of the State, a personal liability to pay such assessment, is a
statute which the State has no power to enact, and which
cannot therefore furnish any foundation for a personal claim
against such non-resident. There is no course of reasoning
as to the character of an assessment upon lots for a local
improvement by which it can be shown that any jurisdiction
to collect the assessment personally from a non-resident can
exist. The State may provide for the sale of the property
upon which the assessment is laid, but it cannot under any
guise or pretence proceed farther and impose a personal liability upon a non-resident to pay the assessment or any part
of it. To enforce an assessment of such a nature against a
non-resident, so far as his personal liability is concerned,
would amount to the taking of property without due process
of law, and would be a violation of the Federal Constitution.
In this proceeding of the lot owner to have the assessment
set aside and the statutory liability of plaintiff adjudged invalid the court was not justified in dismissing the petition and
giving the contractor, not only judgment on his counterclaim
foreclosing his lien, but also inserting in that judgment a provision for a personal liability against the plaintiff and for a
general execution against him. Such a provision against a
non-resident, although a litigant in the courts of the State,
was not only erroneous but it was so far erroneous as to constitute, if enforced, a violation of the Federal Constitution for
the reason already mentioned. By resorting to the state court

DEWEY v. DES MOINES.
Opinion of the Court.

to obtain relief from the assessment and from any personal
liability provided for by the statute, the plaintiff did not
thereby in any manner consent, or render himself liable, to
a judgment against him providing for any personal liability.
Nor did the counterclaim made by the defendant contractor
give any such authority.
The principle which renders void a statute providing for the
personal liability of a non-resident to pay a tax of this nature
is the same which prevents a State from taking jurisdiction
through its courts, by virtue of any statute, over a non-resident
not served with process within the State, to enforce a mere
personal liability, and where no property of the non-resident
has been seized or brought under the control of the court.
This principle has been frequently decided in this court. One
of the leading cases is Pennoyer v. fe, 95 U. S. 74, and
many other cases therein cited. -Mexican Central Railway
v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, 209.
The lot owner never voluntarily or otherwise appeared in
any of the proceedings leading up to the levying of the assessment. He gave no consent which amounted to an acknowledgment of the jurisdiction of the city or common council
over his person.
A judgment without personal service against a non-resident
is only good so far as it affects the property which is taken or
brought under the control of the court or other tribunal in
an ordinary action to enforce a personal liability, and no jurisdiction is thereby acquired over the person of a non-resident further than respects the property so taken. This is
as true in the case of an assessment against a non-resident
of such a nature as this one as in the case of a more formal
judgment.
The jurisdiction to tax exists only in regard to persons and
property or upon the business done within the State, and such
jurisdiction cannot be enlarged by reason of a statute which
assumes to make a non-resident personally liable to pay a tax
of the nature of the one in question. All subjects over which
the sovereign power of the State extends are objects of taxation. Cooley on Taxation, 1st ed. pp. 3, 4; Burroughs on

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Taxation, see. 6. The power of the State to tax extends to all
objects within the sovereignty of the State. (Per Mr. Justice
Clifford, in IIarmilton Co2mpany v. .Massaclusetts, 6 Wall. 632,
at 638.) The power to tax is however limited to persons,
property and business within the State, and it cannot reach the
person of a non-resident. State Tax on Foreign-held Bonds,
15 Wall. 300, 319. In Cooley on Taxation, 1st ed. p. 121,
it is said that "a State can no more subject to its power a
single person or a single article of property whose residence
or legal situs is in another State, than it can subject all the
citizens or all the property of such other State to its power."
These are elementary propositions, but they are referred to
only for the purpose of pointing out that a statute imposing a
personal liability upon a non-resident to pay such an assessment as this oversteps the sovereign power of a State.
In this case the contractor, by filing his counterclaim herein,
has commenced the enforcement of an assessment and a personal liability imposed by virtue of just such a statute, and
the judgment under review gives him the right to do so. The
lot owner is called upon to make such defence as he can to
the claim of personal liability or else be forever barred from
setting it up. He does claim that as a non-resident he did not
have such notice, and the State or city did not obtain such
jurisdiction over him, with regard to the original assessment
as would authorize the establishment of any personal liability
on his part to pay such assessment.
The contractor nevertheless has obtained a judgment, not
alone for a foreclosure of his lien, but also for the personal
liability of the lot owner, and unless he can in this proceeding
have the provision in the judgment, for a personal liability,
stricken out, the lot owner cannot thereafter resist it, even
when the lots fail (if they should fail) to bring enough on
their sale to satisfy the judgment.
The case of Davidson v. NPew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, has been
cited as authority for the proposition that the rendering of a
personal judgment for the amount of an assessment for a local
improvement is a matter in which the state authorities cannot be controlled by the Federal Constitution. It does not

NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v. CHAPMAN.

205

Statement of the Case.

appear in that case that the complaining party, in regard to
the state statute, was a non-resident of the State, but on the
contrary it would seem that she was a resident thereof. That
fact is a most material one, and renders the case so unlike the
one at bar as to make it unnecessary to further refer to it.
The statute, upon which the right to enter this personal
judgment depends, being as to the non-resident lot owner an
illegal enactment, it follows that the judgment should and
must be amended by striking out the provision for such personal liability. For that purpose the judgment is
Reversed and the cause remanded to the Supreme Oourt of
Iowa,for furtherroceedingstherein,not inconsistentwith
this opinion.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WELLINGTON v.
CHAPMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 13.

Argued January 13, 16, 1899. -Decided

February 2T, 1899.

The system of taxation adopted in Ohio was not intended to be unfriendly
to, or to discriminate against owners of shares in national banks, and, in
its practical operation it does not materially do so; and there is nothing
upon the face of these statutes which shows such discrimination.
The term "moneyed capital" in the act of Congress fixing limits to state
taxation on investments in national banks, Rev. Stat. ยง 5219, does not
include capital which does not come into competition with the business
of national banks, and exemptions from taxation, made for reasons of
public policy, and not as an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national bank shares, cannot be regarded as forbidden by those
statutes.

THIS action was brought to restrain the collection of taxes,
through or by means of the bank, by the defendant in error,
levied under a statute of Ohio, upon certain individual shareholders in the bank, on the ground, as alleged, that the assessments upon such specified shareholders were illegal, as having
been made without regard to the debts of such individual

