COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
Syllabus.

right of action depends upon the law of West Virginia, where
the action was brought and the administrator appointed. Rev.
Stat. § 721; Renshaw v. -Mfiller, 17 How. 212."
It is scarcely necessary to say that the determination of the
question, of the right to revive this action in the name of
Hervey's personal representative is not affected in any degree
by the fact that the deceased received his injuries in the State
of Indiana. The action for such injuries was transitory in its
nature, and the jurisdiction of the Ohio court to take cognizance of it upon personal service or on the appearance of the
defendant to the action cannot be doubted. Still less can it
be doubted that the question of the revivor of actions brought
in the courts of Ohio for personal injuries is governed by the
laws of that. State, rather than by the law of the State in
which the injuries occurred.
The question propounded to this court must be answered in
the negative. It will be so certified to the Circuit Court
of Apvpals.

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUOKY.
No. 152. Submitted January 18, 1899. -Decided

February 20,1899.

This court is bound by the construction put by the highest court of the
State of Kentucky upon its statutes, referred to in the opinion of the
court, relating to exemptions from taxation of property used for " public purposes," however much it may doubt the soundness of the interpretation.
The provision in the act of the legislature of Kentucky of May 1, 1886,
c. 897, that "the said reservoir or reservoirs, machinery, pipes, mains
and appurtenances, with the land on which they are situated," which the
city of Covington was, by that act, authorized to acquire and construct,
"shall be and remain forever exempt from state, county and city tax,"
did not, in view of the provision in the act of February 14, 1856, that "all
charters and grants of or to corporations, or amendments thereof, and
all other statutes, shall be subject to amendment or repeal at the will
of the legislature, unless a contrary intent shall be therein plainly ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
pressed," which was in force at the time of the passage of the act of
May 1, 1886, tie the hands of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so that
it could not, by legislation, withdraw such exemption, and subject the
property to taxation.
Before a statute - particularly one relating to taxation - should be held to
be irrepealable, or not subject to amendment, an intent not to repeal or
amend must be so directly and unmistakably expressed as to leave no
room for doubt; and it is not so expressed when the existence of the
intent arises only from inference or conjecture.
A municipal corporation is a public instrumentality, established to aid in the
administration of the affairs of the State, and neither its charters, nor
any legislative act regulating the use of property held by it for governmental or public purposes, is a contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States: and if the legislature choose to subject
to taxation property held by a municipal corporation of the State for
public purposes, the validity of such legislation, so far as the National
Constitution is concerned, cannot be questioned.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

M9. William, Goebel and .Mr. W. S. P'yor for plaintiff in
error.
3'. TV. S. Taylor, Attorney General of Kentucky, and ilb'.
Ramsey Washingtoa for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, a municipal corporation of Kentucky,
insists that by the final judgment of the Court of Appeals of
that Commonwealth sustaining the validity of certain taxation of its water-works property, it has been deprived of rights
secured by that clause of the Constitution of the United
States which prohibits any State from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts. That is the only question
which this court has jurisdiction to determine upon this writ
of error. Rev. Stat. § 709.
By an act of the general assembly of Kentucky approved
May 1, 1886, the city of Covington was authorized to build a
water reservoir or reservoirs within or outside its corporate
limits, either in the county of Kenton or in any county adjacent thereto, and acquire by purchase or condemnation in fee

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

simple the lands necessary for such reservoirs, and connect the
same with the water-pipe system then existing in the city; to
build a pumping house near or adjacent to the Ohio River,
and provide the same with all necessary machinery and appliances, together with such lands as might be needed for the
pumping house, and for connecting it with said reservoir or
reservoirs. § 21.
The declared object of that legislation was that the city and
its citizens might be provided with an ample supply of pure
water for all purposes. To that end the city was authorized
and empowered, by its board of trustees, to issue and sell
bonds to an amount not exceeding $600,000, payable in not
more than forty years after date, with interest at a rate not
exceeding five per cent per annum-such bonds not, however, to be issued until the question of issuing them and the
question of the location of the reservoir or reservoirs, whether
above or below the city, should first be submitted to the qualified voters of the corporation at an election held for that
purpose and approved by a majority of the votes cast.
By section 31 of that act it was provided that "said reservoir or reservoirs, machinery, pipes, mains and appurtenances,
with the land upon which they are situated, shall be and
remain forever exempt from state, county and city tax." Ky.
Acts, 1885-6, c. 897, p. 317.
A subsequent act, approved February 15, 1888, authorized
the city, in execution of the provisions of the act of 1886, to
issue and sell bonds to the additional amount of $400,000.
Ky. Acts, 1887-8, c. 137, p. 221.
The scheme outlined in these acts received the approval of
the majority of the votes cast at an election held in the city,
and thereafter bonds to the amount of $600,000 and $400,000
were issued in the name of the city and disposed of.
The proceeds of the bonds were duly applied by the city
in building water reservoirs, in constructing the requisite approaches, pipes and mains, in acquiring the lands necessary for
the reservoirs and for its approaches and connections, in erecting a pumping house and providing it with necessary machinery and appliances, and in buying land for a pumping house

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and the connection thereof by pipes and mains with the reservoirs.
The entire works upon their completion passed under the
control of the city which managed the same until M-larch 19,
1894, by the Commissioners of Water Works, under the act
of March 31, 1879, c. 121, Ky. Acts, 1879, p. 93; and since
March 19, 1894, they have been controlled under the act of
that date, c. 100, by a board, subject to such regulations as
the city by ordinance might provide. Ky. Acts, 1894, p. 278.
By the latter act it was also provided that the net revenue
derived from its water works by any city of the second class
- to which class the city of Covington belongs -should be
applied exclusively to the improvement or reconstruction of
its streets and other public ways.
When the above act of May 1, 1886, was passed there was
in force a general statute of Kentucky, passed February 14,
1856, which provided, as to all charters and acts of incorporation granted after that date, that "all charters and grants of
or to corporations, or amendments thereof, and all other statutes, shall be subject to amendment or repeal at the will of
the legislature, unless a contrary intent be therein plainly
expressed: Provided, That whilst privileges and franchises
so granted may be changed or repealed, no amendment or
repeal shall impair other rights previously vested;" and that
"when any corporation shall expire or be dissolved, or its
corporate rights and privileges shall cease by reason of a
repeal of its charter or otherwise, and no different provision
is made by law, all its works and property, and all debts
payable to it shall be subject to the payment of debts owing
by it, and then to distribution among the members according to their respective interests; and such corporation may
sue and be sued as before, for the purpose of settlement and
distribution as aforesaid." 2 Rev. Stat. Ky. 121.
This statute was not modified by the general revenue statute
of May 17, 1886, which took effect September 14, 1886, and
became part of Chapter 68 of the General Statutes of 1888.
It constitutes § 1987 of the Revision known as the Kentucky
Statutes of 1894. Nor has it been changed by any subsequent
legislation in Kentucky.

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.

"235

Opinion of the Court.

The present constitution of Kentucky, adopted in 1891,
contains the following provisions:
"§ 170. There shall be exempt from taxation public property used for public purposes.
"§ 171. The General Assembly shall provide by law an
annual tax, which, with other resources, shall be sufficient to
defray the estimated expenses of the Commonwealth for each
fiscal year. Taxes shall be levied and collected for public purposes only. They shall be uniform upon all property subject
to taxation within the territorial limits of the authority levying the tax; and all taxes shall be levied and collected by
general laws.
"§ 172. All property, not exempted from taxation by this
constitution, shall be assessed for taxation at its fair cash
value, estimated at the price it would bring at a fair voluntary
sale; and any officer, or other person authorized to assess
values for taxation, who shall commit any wilful error in the
performance of his duty, shall be deemed guilty of misfeasance,
and upon conviction thereof shall forfeit his office, and be
otherwise punished as may be provided by law."
By the Kentucky Statutes of 1894 it is provided:
"§ 4020. All real and personal estate within this State, and
all personal estate of persons residing in this State, and of
all corporations organized under the laws of this State,
whether the property be in or out of this State, including
intangible property, which shall be considered and estimated
in fixing the value of corporate franchises as hereinafter provided, shall be subject to taxation, unless the same be exempt
from taxation by the constitution, and shall be assessed at its
fair cash value, estimated at the price it would bring at a fair
voluntary sale."
"§ 4022. For the purposes of taxation, real estate shall include all lands within this State and improvements thereon;
and personal estate shall include every other species and
character of property - that which is tangible as well as that
which is intangible."
"§ 4026. The following property is exempt from taxation:
Public property used for public purposes.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Cour.

This act repealed all acts and parts of acts in conflict with
its provisions except the act of June 4, 1892, providing additional funds for the ordinary expenses of the state government, and the act amendatory thereof approved July 6, 1892.
In the year 1895 certain lands acquired under the above act
of May 1, 1886, and constituting a part of the Covington
Water Works, were assessed for state and county taxation,
pursuant to the statutes enacted after the passage of that act,
and conformably as well to the constitution of Kentucky if
that instrument did not exempt them from taxatioi. The
taxes so assessed not having been paid, those lands after due
notice were sold at public outcry by the sheriff, (who by law
was the collector of state and county revenue,) and no other
bidder appearing, the Commonwealth of Kentucky purchased
them for $2187.24, the amount of the taxes, penalty, commission and cost of advertising.
The present action was brought by the Commonwealth to
recover possession of the property so purchased.

v

The principal defence is that the provision in the act of
May 1, 1886, that the reservoir or reservoirs, pumping house,
machinery, pipes, mains and appurtenances, with the land
upon which they are situated, "shall be and remain forever
exempt from state, county and city taxes," constituted, in
respect of the lands in question, a contract between the city
of Coviugton and the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the obligation of which was impaired by the subsequent legislation to
which reference has been made.
Referring to section 170 of the present constitution of
Kentucky declaring that "there shall be exempt from taxation public property used for public purposes," the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, in this case, said : "It was followed by
necessary statutory enactments, which, however, could neither
curtail nor enlarge exemption from taxation as prescribed by
the constitution; and accordingly, in section 4020, Kentucky
Statutes, adopted for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of section 170, is the identical language we have quoted. As
it was manifestly intended by both the constitution and stat-

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

ute to make subject to taxation all property not thereby in
express terms exempted, it results that, unless the water-works
property of the city of Covington be, in the language or meaning of section 170, 'public property used for public purposes,'
it must be held, like similar property in other cities, subject to
taxation, and the special act of May 1, 1886, stands repealed.
Assuming, as a reasonable and beneficial rule of construction
requires us to do, that the phrase ' for public purposes' was
intended. to be construed and understood according to previous
judicial interpretation and usage, there can be no doubt of the
proper meaning and application of it, for in the cases cited and
others, where the question of subjecting particular property
of cities to taxation arose, the words ' for public purposes' had
been held by this court to mean in that connection the same as
the words ' for governmental purposes,' and so property used
by a city for public or governmental purposes was held to be
exempt, while that adapted and used for profit or convenience
of the citizens, individually or collectively, was held to be subject to taxation; and, recognizing and applying that distinction, water-works property of a city has been invariably treated
by this court as belonging to the latter class, and consequently
subject to the state and county taxation. In our opinion, the
property in question is under the constitution subject to taxation, and the statute enacted in pursuance of it operated to
repeal the special act of May 1, 1886."
However much we may doubt the soundness of any interpretation of the state constitution implying that lands and
buildings are not public property used for public purposes
when owned and used under legislative authority by a municipal corporation one of the instrumentalities or agencies of
the State, for the purpose, and only for the purpdse, of supplying that corporation and its people with water, and when
the net revenue from such property must be applied in the
improvement of public ways, we must assume, in conformity
with the judgment of the highest court of Kentucky, that
section 170 of the constitution of that Commonwealth cannot
be construed as exempting the lands in question from taxation. In other words, we must assume that the phrase "pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

lie purposes" in that section means "governmental purposes,"
and that the property here taxed is not held by the city of
Covington for such purposes but only for the "profit or convenience" of its inhabitants and is liable to taxation at the
will of the legislature unless at the time of the adoption of
the constitution of Kentucky it was exempt from taxation
in virtue of some contract the obligation of which is protected
by the Constitution of the United States.
The fundamental question in the case then is whether at
the time of the adoption of that constitution the city of Covington had, in respect of the lands in question, any contract
with the State the obligation of which could not be impaired
by any subsequent statute or by the present constitution of
Kentucky adopted in 1891. If the exemption found in the
act of 1886 was such a contract, then it could not be affected
by that constitution any more than by a legislative enactment.
We are of opinion that the exemption from taxation
embodied in that act did not tie the hands of the Commonwealth of Kentucky so that it could not, by legislation, withdraw such exemption and subject the property in question to
taxation. The act of 1886 was passed subject to the provision
in a general statute of Kentucky, above referred to, that all
statutes "shall be subject to amendment or repeal at the will
of the legislature, unless a contrary intent be therein plainly
expressed." If that act in any sense constituted a contract
between the city and the Commonwealth, the reservation in
an existing general statute of the right to amend or repeal it
was itself a part of that contract. Grifi v. .entucky ins.
Co., 3 Bush, 592. The city accepted the act of 1886 and acquired under it the property taxed subject to that reservation.
There was in the act no "plainly expressed" intent never to
amend or to repeal it. It is true that the legislature said that
,,the reservoirs, machinery, pipes, mains and appurtenances,
with the land upon which they were situated, should be forever exempt from state, county and city taxes. But such
a provision falls short of a plain expression by the legislature that at no time would it exercise the reserved power of

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

amending or repealing the act under which the property was
acquired. The utmost that can be said is that it may be
inferred from the terms in which the exemption was declared
that the legislature had no purpose at the time the act of 1886
was passed to withdraw the exemption from taxation; not
that the power reserved would never be exerted, so far as
taxation was concerned, if in the judgment of the legislature
the public interests required that to be done. The power
expressly reserved to amend or repeal a statute should not
be frittered away by any construction of subsequent statutes
based upon mere inference. Before a statute -particularly
one relating to taxation-should be held to be irrepealable,
or not subject to amendment, an intent not to repeal or amend
must be so directly and unmistakably expressed as to leave
no room for doubt; otherwise, the intent is not plainly expressed. It is not so expressed .when the existence of the
intent arises only from inference or conjecture.
The views we have expressed as to the power of the legislature under a reservation made by general statute of the right
to amend or repeal are supported by many adjudged cases.
Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454, 458; Railroad Co. v.
faine, 96 U. S. 499, 510; Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S.
359, 365 ; -Hoge v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 348, 353 ; Sinking
Fund cases, 99 U. S. 700, 720; Greenwood v. ffreight Co., 105
U. S. 13, 21; Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466, 476;
Spring Valley Water Works Co. v. Shottler, 110 U. S. 347,
352; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683,
696; Gibbs v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 408; Sioux
City Street Railway v. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98, 108; -Louisville Water Co. v. Clark, 143 U. S.1, 12. In Tomlinson v.
Jessup, above cited, referring to the reserved power to amend
and repeal, this court said: "The object of the reservation,
and of similar reservations in other charters, is to prevent a
grant of corporate rights and privileges in a form which will
preclude legislative interference with their exercise if' the
public interest should at any time require such interference.
It is a provision intended to preserve to the State control over
its contract with the corporators, which, without that provi-

OCTOBER TERlle,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

sion, would be irrepealable and protected from any measures
affecting its obligation. There is no subject over which it is
of greater moment for the State to preserve its power than
that of taxation. . . . Immunity from taxation, constituting in these cases a part of the contract with the government,
is, by the reservation of power such as is contained in the law
of 1841, subject to be revoked equally with any other provision of the charter whenever the legislature may deem it
expedient for the public interests that the revocation shall be
made. The reservation affects the entire relation between the
State and the corporation, and places under legislative control
all rights, privileges and immunities derived by its charter
directly from the State." So in Railroad Co. v.. Maine, above
cited: " By the reservation in the law of 1831, which is to be
considered as if embodied in that act, [one subsequently
passed,] the State retained t.he power to alter it in all particulars constituting the grant to the new company, formed under
it, of corporate rights, privileges and immunities. The existence of the corporation and its franchises and immunities,
derived directly from the State, were thus kept under its
control."
In our consideration of the question of contract we have
assumed, in harmony with the judgment of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, that the property in question was held
by the city only for the profit or convenience of its people
collectively, that is, in its proprietary, as distinguished from
its governmental, character. There are cases adjudging that
the extent of legislative power over the property of municipal
corporations, such as incorporated towns and cities, may depend upon the character in which such property is held. Mr.
Dillon, in his work on Municipal Corporations, says: "In its
governmental or _ublic character,the corporation is made, by
the State, one of its instruments, or the local depositary of
certain limited and prescribed political powers, to be exercised
for the public good on behalf of the State rather than for
itself. In this respect it is assimilated, in its nature and functions, to a county corporation, which, as we have seen, is
purely part of the governmental machinery of the sovereignty

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

which creates it. Over all its civil, political or governmental
powers, the authority of the legislature is, in the nature of
things, supreme and without limitation, unless the limitation
is found in the Constitution of the particular State. But in its
.proprietalryor privatce character,the theory is that the powers
are supposed iot to be *conferred, primarily or chiefly, from
considerations connected with the government of the State at
large, but for the private advantage of the compact community which is incorporated as a distinct legal personalityor corporate individual; and as to such powers, and to property
acquired thereunder, and contracts made with reference thereto, the corporation is to be regarded quo ad hoc as a private
corporation, or at least not public in the sense that the power
of the legislature over it or the rights represented by it is
omnipotent." 1 Dillon's Munic. Corp. 4th ed. pp. 107, 108,
§ 66, and authorities cited.
If however the property in question be regarded as in some
sense held by the city in its governmental or public character,
and therefore as public property devoted to public purposes
which is the interpretation of the state constitution for
which the city contends -there would still be no ground for
holding that the city had in the act of 1886 a contract within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States. A
municipal corporation is a public instrumentality established
to aid in the administration of the affairs of the State. Neither
its charter nor any legislative act regulating the use of property held by it for governmental or public purposes, is a contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States. If the legislature choose to subject to taxation public property held by a municipal corporation of the State for
public purposes, the validity of such legislation, so far as the
national Constitution is concerned, could not be questioned.
In New Orleansv. New Orleans Mater Works Co., 142 U. S.
79, 91, after referring to previous adjudications, this court
said that the authorities were full and conclusive to the point,
that a municipal corporation, being a mere agent of the State,.
"stands in its governmental or public character in no contract
relations with its sovereign, at whose pleasure its charter may
VOL. CLXxn-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

be amended, changed or revoked, without the impairment ot
any constitutional obligation, while with respect to its private
or proprietary rights and interests it may be entitled to the
constitutional protection." Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, says: "In respect to public or municipal corporations,
which exist only for public purposes, as counties, cities and
towns, the legislature, under proper limitations, has a right to
change, modify, enlarge, restrain or destroy them; securing,
however, the property for the uses of those for whom it was
purchased. A public corporation, instituted for purposes connected with the administration of the government, may be
controlled by the legislature, because such a corporation is
not a contract within the purview of the Constitution of the
United States. In those public corporations there is, in reality, but one party, and the trustees or governors of the corporation are merely trustees for the public." 2 Kent's Com.
12th ed. p. *306. Dillon says: "Public including municipal
corporations are called into being at the pleasure of the State
and while the State may, and in the case of municipal corporations usually does, it need not, obtain the consent of the
people of the locality to be affected. The charter or incorporating act of a municipal corporation is in no sense a contract
between the State and the corporation, although, as we shall
presently see, vested rights in favor of third persons, if not
indeed in favor of the corporation or rather the community
which is incorporated, may arise under it. Public corporations within the meaning of this rule are such as are established for public purposes exclusively -that is, for purposes
connected with the administration of civil or of local government - and corporations are public only when, in the language of Chief Justice Marshall, 'the whole interests and
franchises are the exclusive property and domain of the government itself,' such as quasi corporations (so called), counties
and towns or cities upon which are conferred the powers
of local administration. Subject to constitutional limitations
presently to be noticed, the power of the legislature over
such corporations is supreme and transcendent; it may,
where there is no constitutional inhibition, erect, change,

LAKE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. DUDLEY.

243

Counsel for Parties.

divide and even abolish them, at pleasure, as it deems the
public good to require." I Dillon's Munic. Cor. 4th ed. p. 93,

§54.

In any view of the case there is no escape from the conclusion that the city of Covington has no contract with
the State exempting the property in question from taxation
which is protected by the contract clause of the National
Constitution.
Perceiving no error in the record of which this court may
take cognizance, the judgment is affirmed.

LAKE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. DUDLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No.177. Argued December 14, 15, 1898. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The instruments sued on in this case being payable to bearer, and having
been made by a corporation, are expressly excepted by the Judiciary Act
of August 13, 1888, c. 866, from the general rule prescribed in it that an
assignee or subsequent holder of a promissory note or chose in action
could not sue in a Circuit or District Court of the United States, unless
his assignor or transferrer could have sued in such court.
From the evidence of Dudley himself, the plaintiff below, it is clear that he
does not own any of the coupons sued on, and that his name is being
used with his own consent, to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court to
render judgment for persons who could not have invoked the jurisdiction of a Federal court, and the trial court, on its own motion, should
have dismissed the case, without considering the merits.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
'. George -.Elder for the Lake County Commissioners.
-Mr. C. S. Thomas, Mrb. W. H. Bryant and Mr. - H. Lee
were on his brief.
XJfr. John F. Dillon and Xr. Edmund F. Richardson for
Dillon
Dudley. , .Mr. Harry Hubbard and .Mr. John -

