THIRD ST. & SUBURBAN RAILWAY v. LEWIS.

451

Statement of the Case.

THIRD STREET AND SUBURBAN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. LEWIS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT

OF

APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 212. Submitted March 10, 1899.
-Decided

March 20, 1899.

Under the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, a Circuit Court of the United States
has no jurisdiction, either original, or by removal from a state court,
of a suit as one arising -under the Constitution, laws or treaties, of the
United States, unless that appears by the plaintiffs statement to be a
necessary part of his claim.
If it does not appear at the outset that a suit is one of which the Circuit
Court, at the time its jurisdiction is invoked, could properly take cognizance, the suit must be dismissed; and lack of jurisdiction cannot be supplied by anything set up by way of defence.
When jurisdiction originally depends upon diverse citizenship the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is final, though another ground of jurisdiction may be developed in the course of the proceedings.

THIS was a supplemental bill of complaint filed October 9,
1895, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington. The original bill does not appear in the
record, but the supplemental bill alleged "Meyer Lewis, a citizen of the city and county of San
Francisco in the State of California, with leave of court first
had and obtained, brings this, his supplemental bill, against
the Third Street and Suburban Railway Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State
of Washington, defendant, with its principal place of business
in the city of Seattle, in said State; the original bill herein
being brought by this plaintiff against Western Mill Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
the State of Washington, with its principal place of business
in Seattle, in said State, John Leary and J. W. Edwards, citizens of Washington and residents of Seattle, James Oldfield,
citizen of Washington and a resident of Seattle, Malcolm
McDonald, a citizen of Washington and a resident of Fort
Blakeley, in said State, the city of Seattle, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

State of Washington, Washington Savings Bank, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Washington, with its principal place of business in Seattle, in said
State, and other defendants, against whom decrees pro confesso have been entered in the above-entitled cause prior to,
the bringing of this supplemental bill."
And set forth in paragraph one:
"That at all times hereinafter mentioned the defendant,
Third Street and Suburban Railway Company, was and it
now is a corporation, duly organized and existing under and
by virtue of the laws of the State of Washington, with
its principal place of business in the city of Seattle, in said
State."
The supplemental bill then stated that the Western Mill
Company, in May, 1884, and certain other defendants as sureties, made and delivered to plaintiff their note, to secure the
payment of which, and the interest thereon and attorneys'
fees, it executed a certain mortgage, which plaintiff sought by
his bill to foreclose.
The eighth paragraph was as follows:
"That on or about the 14th day of October, 1891, the
defendant, Western Mill Company, mortgagor herein, by its
certain deed of sale, sold said mortgaged premises and every
part thereof to the Ranier Power and Railway Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Washington, and
having its principal place of business in Seattle; that thereafter, and on or about the 13th day of February, 1895, in the
cause of A. P. Fuller v. The Ranier Power & Railway Company, No. -, then pending before this honorable court, Eben
Smith, Esq., the duly appointed, qualified and acting master
in chancery in said cause, made, executed and delivered to
A. Al. Brookes, Angus McIntosh and Frederick Bausman,
purchasers of said premises, at a sale theretofore had, to satisfy a decree in said cause theretofore rendered by this court,
a deed of sale to said mortgaged premises and each and every
part thereof; that thereafter, on the 12th day of February,
1895, for a valuable consideration, said Angus McIntosh, A.
M. Brookes and Frederick Bausman duly bargained and sold

THIRD ST. & SUBURBAN RAILWAY v. LEWIS.

459

Opinion of the Court.

by their deed of sale, their right, title and interest in and
to said premises, and every part thereof to the Third Street
and Suburban Railway Company, defendant herein, who now
claims some interest in or lien upon said mortgaged premises through said deed of purchase, so made subsequent to the
commencement of plaintiff's action, but that said interest in or
lien upon said property is subsequent, subject and inferior to
the lien of plaintiff's mortgage."
Thereupon plaintiff prayed judgment against the parties to
the note for the sum alleged to be due with interest and
attorneys' fees; that a decree for the sale of the mortgaged
premises be entered, the proceeds to be applied in payment
of the amount found due on the note and mortgage; that the
railway company, and all persons claiming under it, be barred
and foreclosed from setting up any claim or equity therein
thereafter; and that plaintiff have judgment over for any
deficiency on the sale. The defendant, the railway cofipany,
answered'; a demurrer was sustained to its answer; and a
decree was entered against the parties to the note for the
amount due thereon and for the sale of the premises mortgaged, with judgment against them for any deficiency; and
also for the distribution of any surplus that might remain after
the application on the mortgage of the proceeds from the sale.
The case was carried on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and the decree below was by that
court affirmed. 48 U. S. App. 273. And from its decree this
appeal was allowed.
.21b. Frederick Bausman for appellant.
Mr.J. 1V. Blackburn, Jr., and Mr.George E. Hamilton for
appellee.
M

.CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Although the record does not contain the original bill, it
is apparent that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was
invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

interest of appellants in the mortgaged premises was acquired
after the commencement of the action.
This supplemental bill made appellant a party defendant
as claiming an interest, but the jurisdiction still rested on
diversity of citizenship. The decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was, therefore, made final by the statute, and the
appeal cannot be sustained.
But it is said that because plaintiff saw fit to set forth the
manner in which appellant obtained its interest, and it appeared that appellant claimed under a conveyance from the
purchasers at a sale made pursuant to a decree of the Circuit
Court, the jurisdiction was not entirely dependent on the citizenship of the parties. The averments, however, in respect
to the acquisition of its interest by appellant, were no part of
plaintiff's case, and if there had been no allegation of diverse
citizenship the bill unquestionably could not have been retained. The mere reference to the sale and foreclosure could
not have been laid hold of to maintain jurisdiction on the
theory that plaintiff's cause of action was based on some right
derived from the Constitution or laws of the United States.
It is thoroughly settled that under the act of August 13,
1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 434, the Circuit Court of the United
States has no jurisdiction, either original or by removal from
a state court, of a suit as one arising under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by
the plaintiff's statement to be a necessary part of his claim.
Tennessee v. Union and Planters'Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Metealf v. TMatertown, 128 U. S. 5S6, 589; Colorado Central .Xin-

ing Co. v. Turok, 150 U. S. 138. If it does not appear at the
outset that the suit is one of which the Circuit Court at
the time its jurisdiction is invoked could properly take cognizance, the suit must be dismissed; and lack of jurisdiction
cannot be supplied by anything set up by way of defence.
And so when jurisdiction originally depends on diverse citizenship the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final,
though another ground of jurisdiction may be developed in the
course of the proceedings. Exparte Jones, 164 U. S. 691.
Appeal dismissed.

