OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

same principles have been maintained in other cases in this
court. If a State may tax the property of one of its corporations, engaged in the service of the United States, such property being within its limits, there is no sound reason why
the bridge property in question, although erected with the
consent of Congress over one of the navigable waters of the
United States, should be withdrawn from the taxing power
of the State which created the corporation owning it and
within whose limits it is permanently located.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is

Afirined.

Error to
Argued
31.
No.
Kentucky.
of
State
the
of
the Court of Appeals
and decided with No. 32.
M . JUSTICE HARLAN: This was an action by the city of Henderson to recover taxes (with interest and penalties) assessed by
it upon the property of the Henderson Bridge Company within
the limits of that city for the years 1890, 1891, 1892 and 1893.
The case presents substantially the same questions that are disposed of in the opinion just delivered in case No. 32 between the
same parties for taxes for the years 1888 and 1889. For the reasons stated in that opinion the judgment of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky in the present case must be
Affirmed.
HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY V. HENDERSON CITY.

SECURITY TRUST COMPANY v. DODD, MEAD & CO.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 188. Argued and submitted January 23, 1899. -Decided April 11, 1899.

With regard to the operation of a voluntary or common law assignment
of his property by an insolvent debtor for the benefit of his creditors
upon property situated in other States, there is a general consensus of
opinion that it will be respected, except so far as it comes in conflict
with the rights of local creditors, or with the laws or public policy of
the State in which it is sought to be enforced.

SECURITY TRUST

O0..v. DODD, MEAD & CO.

625

Statement of the Case.
With respect to statutory assignments of the property of an insolvent
debtor, the prevailing American doctrine is, that a conveyance under
a state insolvent law operates only upon property within the territory
of that State, and with respect to property in another State it is given
only such effect as the laws of that State permit, and in general must
give way to claims of creditors pursuing their remedies there.
The execution and delivery by Merrill & Company to the Security and
Trust Company in Minnesota of an assignment of their property for the
benefit of their creditors, made under the insolvent laws of that State,
and the acceptance thereof by the assignee and its qualification thereunder, and the notice thereof to Iudge & Sons in Massachusetts, who
held personal property belonging to the said assignors, did not vest in
the assignee such a title to that property that it could not, after such
notice, be lawfully seized by attachment in an action instituted in
Massachusetts by creditors of the insolvents who were citizens of New
York, and who had notice of the assignment, but had not proved their
claims against the assigned estate, nor filed a release thereof.

THIS was an action originally instituted in the district court
for the second judicial district of Minnesota, by the Security
Trust Company, as assignee of the D. D. Merrill Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Minnesota, against
the firm of Dodd, Mead & Company, a partnership resident
in New York, to recover the value of certain stereotyped and
eiectrotyped plates for printing books, upon the ground that
the defendants had unlawfully converted the same to their
own use. The suit was duly removed from the state court
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Minnesota, and was there tried. Upon such trial the following facts appeared:
The D. D. Merrill Company having become insolvent and
unable to pay its debts in the usual course of business, on
September 23, 1893, executed to the Security Trust Company,
the plaintiff in error, an assignment under and pursuant to
the provisions of chapter 148 of the laws of 1881 of the State
of Minnesota, which assignment was properly filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court. The Trust Company
accepted the same, qualified as assignee, took possession of
such of the property as was found in Minnesota, and disposed
of the same for the benefit of creditors, the firm of Dodd,
Mead & Company having full knowledge of the execution
and filing of such assignment.
VOL. CLXXIII-40

OCTOBER TERMV, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

At the date of this assignment, the D. D. Merrill Company
was indebted to Dodd, Mead & Company of New York in
the sum of $1249.98, and also to Alfred Mudge & Sons, a
Boston copartnership, in the sum of $126.80, which they duly
assigned and transferred to Dodd, Mead & Company, making
the total indebtedness to them $1376.78.
Prior to the assignment, the D. D. Merrill Company was
the owner of the personal property for the value of which
this suit was brought. This property was in the custody and
possession of Alfred Mudge & Sons at Boston, Massachusetts,
until the same was attached by the sheriff of Suffolk County,
as hereinafter stated.
The firm of Alfred Mudge & Sons was, prior to March 8,
1894, informed of the assignment by the Merrill Company,
and at about the date of such assignment a notice was served
upon them by George E. Merrill to the effect that he, Merrill,
took possession of the property in their custody for and in
behalf of the Security Trust Company, assignee aforesaid.
On March 8, 1894, Dodd, Mead & Company commenced
an action against the D. D. Merrill Company in the superior court of the county of Suffolk, upon their indebtedness,
caused a writ of attachment to be issued, and the property
in possession of Mudge & Sons seized upon such writ. A
summons was served by publication in the manner prescribed
by the Massachusetts statutes, although there was no personal
service upon the Merrill Company. The Security Trust Company, its assignee, was informed of the bringing and pendency
of this suit and the seizure of the property, prior to the entering of a judgment in said action, which judgment was duly
rendered August 6, 1894, execution issued, and on September
27, 1894, the attached property was sold at public auction to
Dodd, Mead & Company, the execution creditors, for the sum
of $1000.
Upon this state of facts, the Circuit Court of Appeals certified to this court the following questions:
"First. Did the execution and delivery of the aforesaid
deed of assignment by the D. D. Merrill Company to the
Security Trust Company and the acceptance of the same by

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. DODD, MIEAD & CO.

627

Opinion of the Court.

the latter company and its qualification as assignee thereunder, vest said assignee with the title to the personal property aforesaid, then located in the State of Massachusetts,
and in the custody and possession of said Alfred Mudge &
Sons?
"Second. Did the execution and delivery of said assignment and the acceptance thereof by the assignee and its
qualification thereunder, in the manner aforesaid, together
with the notice of such assignment which was given, as
aforesaid, to Alfred Mudge & Sons prior to March 8, 1894,
vest the Security Trust Company with such a title to the personal property aforesaid on said March 8, 1894, that it could
not on said day be lawfully seized by attachment under
process issued by the superior court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts, in a suit instituted therein by creditors of the
D. D. Merrill Company, who were residents and citizens of
the State of New York, and who had notice of the assignment but had not proven their claim against the assigned
estate nor filed a release of their claim?"
.Mr.Edmwnd S. Durment, for the Security Trust Company,
submitted on his brief.
_M. James E. [arkham for Dodd, Mead & Co. Mr. Albert
1?. _Moore and .M'. George T. _farkham were on his brief.
MR. JUsTICE BROW, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case raises the question whether an assignee of an
insolvent Minnesota corporation can maintain an action in
the courts of Minnesota for the conversion of property
formerly belonging to the insolvent corporation, which certain New York creditors had attached in Massachusetts, and
sold upon execution against such corporation. The question
was also raised upon the argument how far an assignment,
executed in Minnesota, pursuant to the general assignment
law of that State, by a corporation there resident, is available

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to pass personal property situated in Massachusetts as against
parties resident in New York, who, subsequent to the assignment, had seized such property upon an attachment against
the insolvent corporation.
The assignment was executed under a statute of Minnesota,
the material provisions of which are hereinafter set forth.
The instrument makes it the duty of the assignee "to pay
and discharge, in the order and precedence provided by law,
all the debts and liabilities now due or to become due from
said party of the first part, together with all interest due and
to become due thereon, to all its creditors who shall file
releases of their debts and claims against said party of the
first part, according to chapter 148 of the General Laws of
the State of Minnesota for the year 1881, and the several
laws amendatory and supplementary thereof, and if the residue of said proceeds shall not be sufficient to pay said debts
and liabilities and interest in full, then to apply the same so
far as they will extend to the payment of said debts and
liabilities and interest, proportionately on their respective
amounts, according to law and the statute in such case made
and provided; and if, after the payment of all the costs,
charges and expenses attending the execution of said trust,
and the payment and discharge in full of all the said debts
of the party of the first part, there shall be any surplus of
the said proceeds remaining in the hands of the party of the
second part, then, Third, repay such surplus to the party of
the first part, its successors and assigns."
The operation of voluntary or common law assignments upon
property situated in other States has been the subject of frequent discussion in the courts, and there is a general consensus
of opinion to the effect that such assignments will be respected,
except so far as they come in conflict with the rights of local
creditors, or with the laws or public policy of the State in
which the assignment is sought to be enforced. The cases in
this court are not numerous, but they are all consonant with
the above general principle. Black v. Zacharie, 3 How. 483;
.Livermorev. Jenckes, 21 lHov. 126; Green v. Jan Buskirk, 5
Wall. 307; Hlervey v. 1?. I Locomotive lforks, 93 U. S. 664;

SEOURITY TRUST CO. v. DODD, MEAD & CO.

629

Opinion of the Court.

Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107; Barnett v. Kinney, 147
U. S. 476.
But the rule with respect to statutory assignments is somewhat different. While the authorities are not altogether
harmonious, the prevailing American doctrine is that a conveyance under a state insolvent law operates only upon property within the territory of that State, and that with respect
to property in other States it is given only such effect as the
laws of such State permit; and that, in general, it must give
way to claims of creditors pursuing their remedies there. It
passes no title to real estate situated in another State. Nor,
as to personal property, will the title acquired by it prevail
against the rights of attaching creditors under the laws of the
State where the property is actually situated. Harrison v.
Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289, 302; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat.
213; Booth v. Clark, 17 flow. 322; Blake v. Williams, 6 Pick.
286; Osborn v. Adams, 18 Pick. 245; Zipcey v. Thompson, 1
Gray, 243; Abraham v. Plestoro, 3 Wend. 538, overruling
Hfolmes v. Remsen, 4 Johns. Ch. 460; Johnson v. Hunt, 23
Wend. 87; Hoyt v. Thompson, 5 N. Y. 320 ; Ifillitts v. Waite,
25 N. Y. 577; Kelly v. Crapo,45 N. Y. 86; Barth v. Backus,
140 N. Y. 230; Weider v. Jlfaddox, 66 Tex. 372; 1?hawn v.
Pearce, 110 Illinois, 350; Catlin v. Wilcox Silver Plate Co.,
123 Indiana, 477. As was said by Mr. Justice McLean in
Oakey v. Bennett, 11 How. 33, 44, "A statutable conveyance
of property cannot strictly operate beyond the local jurisdiction. Any effect which may be given to it beyond this does
not depend upon international law, but the principle of comits ; and national comity does not require any government to
give effect to such assignment when it shall impair the remedies or lessen the securities of its own citizens. And this is the
prevailing doctrine in this country. A proceeding in rein
against the property of a foreign bankrupt, under our local
laws, may be maintained by creditors, notwithstanding the
foreign assignment." Similar language is used by Mr. Justice Story in his Conflict of Laws, ยง 414.
The statute of Minnesota, under which this assignment was
made, provides in its first section that any insolvent debtor

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"may make an assignment of all his unexempt property for
the equal benefit of all his bona fide creditors, who shall file
releases of their demands against such debtor, as herein provided." That such assignments shall be acknowledged and
filed, and if made within ten days after the assignor's property has been garnished or levied upon, shall operate to vacate
such garnishment or levy at the option of the assignee, with certain exceptions. The second section provides for putting an
insolvent debtor into involuntary bankruptcy on petition of
his creditors, upon his committing certain acts of insolvency,
and for the appointment by the court of a.receiver with power
to take possession of all his property, not exempt, and distribute it among his creditors. Under either section only those
creditors receive a benefit from the act who file releases to the
debtor of all their demands against him. This statute was
held not to conflict with the Federal Constitution in Denny v.
Bennett, 128 U. S. 489.
The construction given to this act by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota has not been altogether uniform. In Wendell v.
Lebon, 30 Minnesota, 234, the act was held to be constitutional.
It was said that "the act in its essential features is a bankrupt
law;" but it was intimated that it included all the debtor's
property wherever situated; "and while other jurisdictions
might, on grounds of policy, give preference to domestic attaching creditors over foreign assignees or receivers in bankruptcy, yet, subject to this exception, they would, on principles
of comity, recognize the rights of such assignees or receivers
to the possession of the property of the insolvent debtor."
In In re ,3lann, 32 Minnesota, 60, the act was, in effect, again
pronounced "a bankrupt law, providing for voluntary bankruptcy by the debtor's assignment;" and in this respect differing from a previous assignment law. See also Simon v. lann,
33 Minnesota, 412, 414.
In Jenlks v. Ludden, 34: Minnesota, 482, it was held that the
courts of that State had no right to enjoin the defendant, who
was a citizen of Minnesota, from enforcing an attachment lien
on certain real property in Wisconsin owned by the insolvent
debtors, although the execution of the assignment might, under

SECUIITY TRUST CO. v. DODD, MEAD & CO.

631

Opinion of the Court.

in
the Minnesota statute, have dissolved such an attachment
that State; and that, even if they had the power to do so,
where
they ought not to exercise their discretion in that case,
to
creditors
non-resident
enable
to
be
the only effect might
recourt
The
property.
attached
the
step in and appropriate
a
peated the doctrine of the former case, that the act was
the
of
officer
an
effect
in
being
bankrupt act; the assignee
and
court, and the assigned property being in custodia legis,
court
The
direction.
its
administered by the court or under
added: "We may also take it as settled that the question
whether property situated in Wisconsin is subject to attachment or levy by creditors, notwithstanding any assignment
made in another State, is to be determined exclusively by the
laws of Wisconsin." To the same effect see Daniels v. Palmer,
35 Minnesota, 347; Warner v. Jafray, 96 N. Y. 248.
Upon the other hand, in Covey v. Cutler, 55 Minnesota, 18,
this
an insolvent debtor who had made an assignment under
the
statute, had a certain amount of salt in Wisconsin, which
was
salt
The
court.
Wisconsin
a
in
defendants had attached
in
sold upon the judgment, bid in by them, and the assignee
salt.
the
of
value
the
recover
to
Minnesota brought an action
took
Defendants answered, claiming that the assignee never
was
assignment
possession of the salt, and that the Minnesota
as
Wisconsin
in
ineffectual to transfer the title to property
entitled
held
was
against attaching creditors there. Plaintiff
of
to judgment upon the ground that a voluntary conveyance
title
passed
personal property, valid by the law of the place,
transwherever the property may be situated, and that such
effectfers, upon principles of comity, would be recognized as
policy or
ual in other States when not opposed to public
this with
repugnant to their laws. It is difficult to reconcile
7
Buskirk,
'Fan
v.
Green
of
that
the previous cases, or with
vola
as
treated
apparently
Wall. 139. The assignment was
repeated
untary or common law assignment. This ruling was
assignan
which
in
339,
in Hawkins v. Ireland, 6d: Minnesota,
but
involuntary
be
to
ment under this statute was said not
and
to,
power
the
voluntary, and that a court of equity had
jurisdicwould, restrain one of its own citizens, of whom it had

OCTOBER TERAT, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, from prosecuting an action in a foreign State or jurisdiction, whenever the facts of the case made it necessary to do so,
to enable the court to do justice and prevent one of its citizens
from taking an inequitable advantage of another. This accords
with Dehon v. Foster,4 Allen, 545, and Cunninghamv. Butler,
142 Mass. 47 ; S. C., sub nom. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.
107.
The earlier opinions of the Supreme Court of Minnesota to
the effect that the statute in question was a bankrupt act,
were followed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in leClu'e
v. Campbell, 71 Wisconsin, 350, in which it was held that the
assignment could have no legal operation out of the State in
which the proceedings were had, and that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Minnesota that the act of 1881 was a bankrupt act was binding. The contest was between the assignee
of the insolvent debtor and a creditor who had attached the
property of the insolvent in Wisconsin. The court held that
the plaintiff, the assignee, took no title to such property, and
was not entitled to its proceeds. In delivering the opinion the
court said: "We think the question is not affected by the fact
that the property, when seized, was in the possession of the
assignee, or that the attaching creditor is a resident of the
State in which the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings were
had. . . . While some of them" (the cases) "may, under
especial circumstances, extend the rule of comity to such a
case, and thus give an extraterritorial effect to somewhat
similar assignments, we are satisfied that the great weight
of authority is the other way. The rule in this country is,
we think, that assignments by operation of law in bankruptcy
or insolvency proceedings, under which debts may be coipulsorily discharged without full payment thereof, can have no
legal operation out of the State in which such proceedings
were had."
In Franzen v. flutohinson, 94 Iowa, 95; 62 N. W. Rep. 698,
the Supreme Court of Iowa had this statute of Minnesota
under consideration, and held that as the creditors received no
benefit under the assignment, unless they first filed a release
of all claims other than such as might be paid under the

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. DODD, MEAD & CO.

633

Opinion of the Court.

assignment, it would not be enforced in Iowa. It was said
that the assignment, which was that of an insurance company,
was invalid, and that in an action by the assignee for premiums
collected by the defendants, who were agents of the company,
the latter could offset claims for unearned premiums held by
policy holders at the time of the assignment and by them
assigned to defendants after the assignment to plaintiffs.
Notwithstanding the two later cases in Minnesota above
cited, we are satisfied that the Supreme Court of that State
did not intend to overrule the prior decisions to the effect
that the act was substantially a bankrupt or insolvent law.
It is true that in these cases a broader effect was given to
this act with respect to property in other States than is
ordinarily given to statutory assignments, though voluntary
in form. But the court was speaking of its power over its
own citizens, who had sought to obtain an advantage over the
general creditors of the insolvent by seizing his property in
another State. There was no intimation that the prior cases
were intended to be overruled, nor did the decisions of the
later cases require that they should be.
So far as the courts of other States have passed upon the
question, they have generally held that any state law upon
the subject of assignments, which limits the distribution of
the debtor's property to such of his creditors as shall file
releases of their demands, is to all intents and purposes an
insolvent law; that a title to personal property acquired
under such laws will not be recognized in another State, when
it comes in conflict with the rights of creditors pursuing their
remedy there against the property of the debtor, though the
proceedings were instituted subsequent to and with notice of
the assignment in insolvency. The provision of the statute
in question requiring a release from the creditors in order to
participate in the distribution of the estate, operates as a discharge of the insolvent from his debts to such creditors -a
discharge as complete as is possible under a bankrupt law.
An assignment containing a provision of this kind would
have been in many, perhaps in most, of the States void at
common law. Grover v. JMakeman, 11 Wend. 1871; ]ngrcaham

OCTOBER TERIM,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Wheeler, 6 Conn. 277; Atkinson v. Jordan, 5 Hammond,
293; Burrill on Assignments, 232 to 256.
As was said in
Conkling v. Carson, 11 Il. 503: "A debtor in failing circumstances has an undoubted right to prefer one creditor to
another, and to provide for a preference by assigning his
effects; but he is not permitted to say to any of his creditors
that they shall not participate in his present estate, unless
they release all right to satisfy the residue of their debts out
of his future acquisitions." In B rastear v. West, 7 Pet. 608,
an assignment containing a provision of this kind was upheld
with apparent reluctance solely upon the ground that in Pennsylvania, wher the assignment was made, it had been treated
as valid. If the assignment contain this feature, the fact that
it is executed voluntarily and not in invitum is not a controlling circumstance. In some States a foreign assignee under a
statutory assignment, good by the law of the State where
made, may be permitted to come into such State and take
possession of the property of the assignor there found, and
withdraw it from the jurisdiction of that State in the absence
of any objection thereto by the local creditors of the assignor;
but in such case the assignee takes the property subject to
the equity of attaching creditors, and to the remedies provided by the law of the State where such property is found.
A somewhat similar statute of Wisconsin was held to be
an insolvent law in Barth v. Backus, 140 N. Y. 230, and an
assignment under such statute treated as ineffectual to transfer the title of the insolvent to property in New York, as
against an attaching creditor there, though such creditor was
a resident of Wisconsin. A like construction was given to
the same statute of Wisconsin in Townsend v. Coxe, 151 Illinois, 62. It was said of this statute, (and the same may be
said of the statute under consideration,) "it is manifest from
these provisions that a creditor of an insolvent debtor in Wisconsin, who makes a voluntary assignment, valid under the
laws of that State, can only avoid a final discharge of the
debtor from all liability on his debt, by declining to participate
in any way in the assignment proceedings. He is, therefore,
compelled to consent to a discharge as to so much of his debt

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. DODD, MEAD & CO.

635

Opinion of the Court.

as is not paid by dividends in the insolvent proceedings or
the
take the hopeless chance of recovering out of the assets of
been
have
allowed
claims
all
after
assigned estate remaining
paid." To the same effect are Upton v. Hubbard, 28 Conn.
274; Paine v. Lester, 44 Conn. 196; Weider v. Afaddox, 66
Texas, 372; Catlin v. Wilcox Sliver Plate Co., 123 Indiana,
477; Boese v. Zing, 78 N. Y. 471.
In Taylor v. Columbia Insu~rance Co., 14 Allen, 353, it is
broadly stated that "when, upon the insolvency of a debtor,
the law of the State in which he resides assumes to take
his property out of his control, and to assign it by judicial
proceedings, without his consent, to trustees for distribution
among his creditors, such an assignment will not be allowed
by the courts of another State to prevail against any remedy
which the laws of the latter afford to its own citizens against
property within its jurisdiction." But the weight of authority is, as already stated, that it makes no difference whether
the estate of the insolvent is vested in the foreign assignee
under proceedings instituted against the insolvent or upon the
voluntary application of the insolvent himself. The assignee
is still the agent of the law, and derives from it his authority.
Upton v. Hubbard, 28 Conn. 274.
While it may be true that the assignment in question is
good as between the assignor and the assignee, and as to
assenting creditors, to pass title to property both within and
without the State, and, in the absence of objections by nonassenting creditors, may authorize the assignee to take possession of the assignor's property wherever found, it cannot
be supported as to creditors who have not assented, and who
are at liberty.to pursue their remedies against such property
of the assignor as they may find in other States. Bradford
v. Tavpan, 11 Pick. 76; TFillitts v. Waite, 25 N. Y. 577;
Catlin v. Wilcox Silver Plate Co., 123 Indiana, 477, and cases
above cited.
We are therefore of opinion that the statute of Minnesota
was in substance and effect an insolvent law; was operative
as to property in Massachusetts only so far as the courts of
that State chose to respect it, and that so far as the plaintiff,

OCTOBER TERMT,

1898.

Syllabus.

as assignee of the D. D. Mferrill Company, took title to such
property, he took it subservient to the defendants' attachment. It results that the property of the D. D. MNerrill Company found in Massachusetts was liable to attachment there
by these defendants, and that the courts of Minnesota are
bound to respect the title so acquired by them.
The second question must therefore be answered in the
negative, and as this disposes of the case, no answer to the
first question is necessary.

CITIZENS'

SAVINGS

BANK

OF OWENSBORO v.

OWENSBORO.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Eo. 669.

Argued February 27, 28,

1899. -Decided

April 3, 1S99.

The questions raised by the eighth and ninth assignments of error, relating
to alleged violations of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, are not presented by the record, and do not result
by necessary intendment therefrom, and aie therefore not considered
by the court, under the well-settled rules that the attempt to raise a
Federal question for the first time after a decision by the court of last
resort of a State is too late ; and that where it is disclosed that an
asserted Federal question was not presented to the state court, or called
in any way to its attention, and where it is not necessarily involved in
the decision of the state court, such question will not be considered
by this court.
The mere grant for a designated time of an immunity from taxation does
not take it out of the rule subjecting such grant to the general law retaining the power to amend or repeal, unless the granting act contain
an express provision to that effect.
Thie act of the legislature of Kentucky of February 14, 1856, and the act
of May 12, 1884, c. 1412, incorporating the Citizens' Savings Bank of
Owensboro, and the act of May 17, 1886, commonly known as the Hewitt
Act, and other acts referred to, did not create an irrevocable contract on
the part of the State, protecting the bank from other taxation, and therefore the taxing law of Kentucky of November 11, 1892, c. 108, did not
violate the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
THE case was argued with Nos. 148, 149, 150 and 151,
the reports of which follow it.

