OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

GUTHRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTHRIE.
ERROR TO AND AXPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 133.

Submitted January 13, 1899.-Decided April 3, 1899.

In ascertaining the jurisdictional amount on an appeal to this court, it is
proper to compute interest as part of the claim.
Whether a general law can be made applicable to the subject-matter, in regard to which a special law is enacted by a territorial legislature, is a
matter which rests in the judgment of the legislature itself.
The statute in question in this case creates a special tribunal for hearing
and deciding upon claims against a municipal corporation, which have no
legal obligation, but which the legislature thinks have sufficient equity to
make it proper to provide for their investigation, and payment when
found proper, and it does not in any way regulate the practice in courts
of justice, and it is indisputably within the power of the territorial legislature to pass it, and it does not infringe upon the Seventh Amendment
to the Constitution.
The court has the power in the absence of statutory provisions for notice
to parties, to make rules regarding it.

THE President of the United States by proclamation dated
March 23, 1889, 26 Stat. 1544, declared that the Territory of
Oklahoma would be open for settlement on April 22, 1889,
subject to the restrictions of the act, approved March 2, 1889,
c. 412, 25 Stat. 980, 1004. By that act the lands were to be
disposed of to actual settlers under the homestead laws only,
and until the lands were open for settlement under the proclamation of the President no person was permitted to enter upon
or occupy the same.
By the act, approved May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, Congress provided a temporary government for the Territory, and
by the act, approved May 14, 1890, c. 207, 26 Stat. 109, provision was made for townsite entries.
From the opening of the Territory, under the proclamation
of the President, down to the passage of the act of May 2, 1890,
Congress failed to establish any government for it. During
that period settlers had come into the Territory and a number

GUTHRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTHRIE.

529

Statement of the Case.

of townsites had been located and settled upon by them.
Many persons located and took up their residence upon the
land contained in the present boundaries of the city of Guthrie.
The lands were surveyed into streets, alleys, squares, blocks
and lots, and what were known as provisional municipal governments were formed. By the general consent of these
residents four distinct provisional municipal corporations or
villages, denominated Guthrie, East Guthr ie, Oapitol Hill and
West Guthrie, comprising some 320 acres each, were created.
They were all without any law governing them, although officers were selected by the people occupying the lands, and a
form of government was carried on by a kind of mutual understanding. The persons chosen as officers incurred indebtedness
in administering the affairs of the municipalities, but there was
no authority to raise the necessary revenues by taxation or
otherwise to pay the same. These officers exercised in fact
the powers usually delegated to municipal corporations. Public improvements, such as grading streets, constructing bridges,
and erecting buildings were made, laws and ordinances were
adopted, and offenders were punished. Schools were maintained, and the right of possession of the various claimants to
town lots within their respective boundaries was regulated and
certificates were issued by the local tribunals constituted by the
municipal authorities for determining the rights of settlers and
occupants of the various lots within the limits of the municipal governments, and the certificates thus issued were by the
second section of the townsite act, above mentioned, 26 Stat.
109, to be taken as evidence of the occupancy of the holder
thereof of the lot or lots therein described, except that where
there was an adverse claim to the property the certificate was
to be only jrim facie evidence of the claim or occupancy of
the holder.
The claims mentioned in the act of the territorial legislature
hereafter spoken of arose out of these circumstances and represented the expenditures of the provisional governments for
some or all of the objects above enumerated.
In December, 1890, a code of laws for the permanent government of. the Territory was enacted by the territorial
VOL. CLX=-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

legislature, and these provisional village governments, lying
adjacent to one another, were incorporated under that authority into the regularly organized village of Guthrie, and on
April '1, 1893, the city of Guthrie became the successor of the
village of that name.
On December 25, 1890, the territorial legislature passed
an act, chapter 14, of the laws of that year, for the purpose
of providing a method by which to raise the necessary funds
to pay the indebtedness incurred by the provisional governments of the four villages above named. The act is set forth
in the margin. I
1 Chapter 14. - CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
An Act for the purpose of providing for the allowance and payment of
the indebtedness heretofore created by the people and cities of Guthrie,
East Guthrie, West Guthrie and Capitol Hill, now consolidated into the
village of Guthrie.
EAST GUTtIRIE, WEST GUTIRa AND CAPITOL HILL.
Article I.- GUTIIR,
SEc. 1. That the district judge of Logan County is hereby empowered
to appoint three disinterested persons to act as a commission or referees
to inquire into and pass upon all claims and demands of every character
heretofore issued by the city governments mentioned in the caption of this
act, for all purposes.
SEc. 2. That the owners and holders of any kind of scrip, warrants or
other evidence of indebtedness heretofore issued by the city governments
of Guthrie, East Guthrie, West Guthrie and Capitol Hill, shall present
their claims to the commissioners or referees, to be appointed by the district judge, under oath, stating that the same is a bona fide claim, that they
performed the labor or advanced the money or furnished the materials or
purchased same for a valuable consideration, and that they believe the city,
issuing the same, did so for necessary expenses incurred in running the
city government, and said master shall hear further evidence if he deem
necessary before allowing the same.
SEC. 3. The commission or referees shall keep a record of all claims
filed with them for allowance and keep their office open during the hours of
nine o'clock in the morning and four o'clock P.m., and shall be allowed
sixty days to hear and determine all claims, or longer if the district judge
so orders. Said commission or referees shall immediately after this appointment extend ten days' notice in some newspaper published in the
village of Guthrie, notifying all parties holding or owning any claims
mentioned in this act to present the same to them for allowance; and all
persons who fail to present their claims within thirty days from date of
publication mentioned in this section shall be forever precluded from so
doing hereafter.

GUTHRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTHRIE.

531

Statement of the Case.

Pursuant to the provisions of that act the district judge
duly appointed the commission, which proceeded to hear the
cases, and on September 1, 1891, it filed in the district court
of Logan County its final report. That report contained,
among other things, a reference to the various claims which
were therein said to be owned by the Guthrie National Bank,
and it showed the allowance of such claims, separately and in
detail, and that they were all based upon warrants which had
been issued by the provisional governments. The report alsoshowed that the city attorney of the city of Guthrie appeared
at the hearing and allowance of the claims and defended for-

the city. The amount allowed against the city in favor of
the bank was $4315.22. Other claims in favor of other parties were allowed and many were disallowed by the commission. On the coming in of this report the case was docketed
as a pending case in the district court, and was continued from
time to time until March 11, 1893, when the bank made a
motion to approve the findings of the commission as regards
the claims held by it, which motion was not then decided.
On April '7, 1893, the city filed exceptions to the report of
the commission. Nothing further was done until March 28,
1896, at which time the city attorney filed a motion in the
Src. 4. That after the commission or referees shall have passed upon
and allowed any and all claims mentioned in this act, they shall make a report to the district court of same showing the names and amounts allowed
by them and also all claims and the names of persons and amounts disallowed by them, for approval or disapproval of the district judge. And
all claims allowed and approved by the district judge shall be certified to
the mayor and council of the village of Guthrie, who are hereby authorized and directed to issue warrants upon the village and payable by the
village to the holders and owners, payable in instalments each of the
amounts to be in one, two, three, four and five years, to bear interest at
the rate of six per cent per annum from the date of the allowance by the
commission or referees, and said mayor and council of the village of Guthrie shall levy a tax upon the property of the residents of said village to
pay the warrants herein referred to, levying same upon each subdivision
heretofore constituting Guthrie, East Guthrie, West Guthrie and Capitol
Hill according to the amount of indebtedness created by the city councils,
the mayors and school boards, heretofore acting for and in behalf of the
people resident of said cities. Each of said cities to be liable for and
taxable under this act for the amount of indebtedness created by them.

OCTOBER TERV, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

district court to dismiss the proceedings by the bank and all
other proceedings based upon the act of the territorial legislature creating the commission, for the reason, as stated, that
the act and all proceedings under it were void. On April 2,
1896, the matter came on for hearing upon the motion of the
bank to confirm the report of the commission and the motion
of the city to dismiss the proceedings, and on the last-named
day the court sustained the motion of the city and dismissed
the proceedings upon the ground that the act under which
the commission was appointed was wholly void. This decision of the court was excepted to by the bank, and thereupon
it prosecuted a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the
Territory to reverse such decision. On June 11, 1897, that
court affirmed the decision of the district court, and rendered
judgment against the bank for costs. To reverse this judgment an appeal has been taken to and a writ of error sued
out from this court.
.AM. Henry E. Asp and Mr. John TF. Sha'rtel for plaintiff in
error and appellant.
XA,. John Ef. Richards,.Mr. John I. Zott, -Mr. W. J. Hughes
and Mr. D. R. Widmer for defendant in error and appellee.
AIR.

JusTc

PEcnnx, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A motion is made in this case to dismiss the appeal and
writ of error on the ground that the sum involved is not sufficient to give jurisdiction to this court. Act of May 2, 1890,
c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, ยง 9. It is claimed that the amount is less
than $5000, and that this fact appears from the report of the
commission, which allowed but $4315.22 as the amount due
from the city to the bank.
Section 4 of the act of the territorial legislature, under
which the commission acted, provides that claims which are
allowed and approved by the district judge are to be certified
to the mayor and council of the village of Guthrie, who are
directed to issue warrants upon the village for the amounts,

GUTHRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTIHRIE.

533

Opinion of the Court.

which bear interest at the rate of 6 per cent from the date
of the allowance by the commission, and a tax is to be levied
as therein provided for the payment of the warrants.
On March 28, 1896, when the city of Guthrie filed its motion
in the district court to dismiss the proceeding by the bank, over
four years and six months' interest had accrued upon the claim
reported by the commission, and as by the terms of the act
interest was to be allowed from the filing of that report up
to the time of the issuing of the warrAnt, which could not
issue until after the report had been approved by the district
court, it is plain that more interest had then accrued than was
necessary to bring the amount then in issue beyond the sum
of $5000. It is proper to compute interest as part of the claim.
Woodward v. Jewell, 140 U. S. 247. We think this is an answer
to the motion to dismiss.
Other objections are made to the act by the representatives
of the city which will be noticed.
It is claimed that it violates the act of Congress, approved
July 30, 1886, c. 818, 24 Stat. 170, prohibiting the passage
of local or special laws in the Territories. That act, among
other things, provides that where a general law can be made
applicable, no special law shall be enacted in any of the Territories of the United States by the territorial legislatures
thereof, and it also provides that the territorial legislatures
shall not pass local or special laws in any of the cases therein
enumerated, among which is a law to regulate the practice in
courts of justice. Both of these provisions are said to have
been violated in the passage of the act in question.
Whether a general law can be made applicable to the subject-matter in regard to which a special law is enacted by a
territorial legislature, is a matter which we think rests in the
judgment of the legislature itself. State ex -'el. v. Rtitchoock,
1 Kansas, 178, 184. That body is specially prohibited from
passing any local or special law in regard to-certain subjects
enumerated in the act. Outside and beyond that limitation
is the provision above mentioned, and whether or not a general law can be made applicable to the subject is a matter
which is confided to the judgment of the legislature.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Neither does the act in this case regulate the practice in
courts of justice. The prohibition of the statute of Congress
relates to the passing of a law by the territorial legislature,
local or special in its nature, which does in effect regulate the
mode of procedure in a court of justice in some particular
locality or in some special case, thus altering in such locality
or for such case the ordinary course of practice in the courts.
The statute here in question is of an entirely different nature. It creates a special tribunal for hearing and deciding
upon claims against a municipal corporation, which have no
legal obligation, and which therefore could not be enforced
in a court, but which the legislature thinks have sufficient
equity and are based upon a sufficiently strong moral obligation to make it proper for it to provide for their investigation
and for the payment of such as are decided to be proper, by
taxation upon the property situated in the city. Such an act
does not in any way regulate the practice in courts of justice.
The important question in this case is whether the territorial legislature, by virtue of the grant to it of legislative powers, had authority to create this commission and to provide for
the payment of claims of the nature mentioned in the act.
By section 6 of the above-mentioned act of Congress of
May 2, 1890, c. 182, 24 Stat. 81, the legislative power of the
Territory extends to all rightful subjects of legislation not
inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United
States. Some other limitations are mentioned, not material
to be here considered. The same power is also granted to all
the Territories by section 1851, Revised Statutes of the United
States.
This territorial act was passed by the legislature with reference to the circumstances set forth in the statement of facts.
It was said by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in GutArie
v. The Territory,1 Oklahoma, 188, 194, that "These provisional
governments grew out of a necessity made by the absence of
legal authority. They were aggregations of people associated
together for the purpose of mutual benefit and protection.
Without any statute law, they became a law unto themselves
and adopted the forms of law and government common among

GUTHRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTHRIE.

535

Opinion of the Court.

civilized people, and enforced their authority by the power of
public sentiment. They had no legal existence; they were
nonentities; they could not bind themselves by contracts or
bind any one else."
The services performed for and the materials furnished
these provisional governments under the circumstances stated
would certainly be regarded as proper and as beneficial, probably as absolutely necessary, for the well-being of the people
living there. The villages which were subsequently incorporated under the law of the Territory succeeded to and enjoyed these benefits, and passed them on to their successor,
the city of Guthrie, the present defendant in error and appellee. These facts give great force and strength to the moral
consideration supporting claims of the nature here existing.
Though they could not be enforced at law, the question is,
whether the territorial legislature was unequal to the task
of providing for their payment by the city which has received
the benefit as above described.
This territorial act shows that only claims of a municipal
character and of a bona fide nature could be allowed. It is
also plain that the use of the words "district judge" therein
does not- mean to distinguish between the judge and the
court. There being but one judge of that court the words are
seemingly used interchangeably with the district court, and
to mean the same as the latter expression.
We regard the power of the territorial legislature to pass
this act as indisputable. It comes within the grant to that
legislature contained in the act of Congress and in the Revised
Statutes above cited.
In United States v. Realty Company, 163 U. S. 427, 439,
the power of Congress to recognize a moral obligation on the
part of the nation and to pay claims which, while they were
not of a legal character, were nevertheless meritorious and
equitable in their nature, was affirmed. The territorial legislature at least had the same authority as that possessed by
Congress to recognize claims of the nature described. It is
a legislative power, and it was granted to the territorial
legislature by the acts already referred to. A city is a mu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

nicipal corporation and a political subdivision of the State,
and what the State could do itself it has the power to direct
its agent, the municipality, to do.
In Yew Orleans v. Clark, 95 U. S. 64, Mr. Justice Field,
in delivering the opinion of the court, and speaking of municipal corporations, at page 653, said: "The books are full of
cases where claims, just in themselves, but which, from some
irregularity or omission in the proceedings by which they
were created, could not be enforced in the courts of law, have
been thus recognized and their payment secured." And on
page 654: "A city is only a political subdivision of the State,
made for the convenient administration of the government.
It is an instrumentality, with powers more .or less enlarged,
according to the requirements of the public, and which may
be increased or repealed at the will of the legislature. In
directing, therefore, a particular tax by such corporation, and
the appropriation of the proceeds to some special municipal
purpose, the legislature only exercises a power through its
subordinate agent which it could exercise directly; and it
does this only in another way when it directs such a corporation to assume and pay a particular claim not legally binding
for want of some formality in its creation, but for *hich the
corporation has received an equivalent;" citing The People
v. Burr, 13 California, 343; Town of Guilford v. SuTeiso.s
&c., 13 N. Y. 143. In the latter case the legislature passed
an act directing commissioners to determine and award the
amount paid and expended by certain highway commissioners, and directing the board of supervisors of the county
to assess the amount thus awarded upon the taxable property
of the town and to cause it to be paid in satisfaction of the
claim. This was held to be a valid act, although the claim
had been rejected in a suit brought to obtain its payment, and
a previous legislature had passed an act directing the claim
to be submitted to the electors at a town meeting, and declaring their decision should be final and conclusive, and upon
such submission the claim had been rejected. It was said
that the legislature of the State had power to levy a tax
upon the taxable property of the town and appropriate the

GUTHIRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTHRIE.

537

Opinion of the Court.

same to the payment of the claim made by an individual
against the town, even though the claim, to satisfy which the
tax was levied, was not recoverable by action against the
town; and it was held that the State could recognize claims
founded in equity and justice in the larger sense of these
terms or in gratitude or charity.
It is not necessary to s'y in this case that the legislature
had the power to donate the funds of the municipality for
purposes of charity alone. The facts show plain moral grounds
for the act, a consideration existing in the benefits received
and enjoyed by the city or by its predecessors from whom it
took such benefits. The legislature might have decided the
facts for itself, but instead of that it appointed this tribunal.
In Read v. Plattsmouth, 107 U. S. 568, the words of Mr.
Justice Field in .lew Orleans v. Clark, 95 U. S. 644, were
quoted with approval. In the exercise of this jurisdiction
over municipal corporations by the state or by the territorial
legislature, no constitutional principle is violated. It is a jurisdiction which has been customarily exercised ever since the
foundation of the Government, and is based upon the power
of the State as sovereign to itself recognize or to compel any
of its political subdivisions to recognize those obligations which,
while not cognizable in any court of law, are yet based upon
considerations so thoroughly equitable and moral as to deserve
and compel legislative recognition.
There is no force to the objection that in ascertaining the
facts provision must be made for a trial by jury, if demanded,
or else that the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States is violated, which provides that "in suits
at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved."
This act does not infringe upon that amendment. The proceeding under it is not in the nature of a suit at common law,
and the cases already cited show the power of the legislature
to provide for payment by taxation of claims of the nature of
those involved herein.
The cases of Bank of Hamilton, v. Dudley's Lessee, 2 Pet.

OCTOBER TERMS, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

492; American Publishing Company v. .Fisher,166 U. S. 464,
and Salt Lake City v. Tucker, 166 U. S. '7O7, were cases of
suits at common law, and Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343,
was a criminal case. Those cases therefore do not apply here.
It is also stated that these claims were not incurred by
officers of either a de jure or de facto government, and that
hence there was no power in the legislature to compel the
city of Guthrie to pay claims which it never agreed to pay
either as a corporation dejure or defacto. But the cases above
cited were cases where there was no legal obligation to pay
the claims, and the acts in effect compelled their payment.
The city here was under a plain moral duty to provide payment for honest and proper claims of this nature, and it seems
as if it ought to be entirely ready to pay them. If any claims
were without merit or fraudulent, there was opportunity to
show such fact before the commission and also before the
district court upon the hearing provided for by the act. The
defendants in error say that there is by the act no opportunity
provided for any investigation of these claims by the district
court after the commission has reported the claims to that
court, because the act does not give the court power to make
any investigation for itself. We do not see that this is material even if true. We are of opinion, however, that the district
court has such power. The statute provides in section 4 that
the commission shall make a report to the district court, showing the names of the claimants and the amounts allowed by
the commission, and also all the claims and the names of persons and amounts disallowed by them, and this report the statute directs shall be made "for the approval or disapproval of
the district court."
The report need contain nothing but
what has just been stated, and it is obvious that on such a
report alone the district court would be entirely without
means of determining whether to approve or disapprove the
decision of the commission in any particular claim. But as
the report of the commission is to be made to the district
court for its approval or disapproval, it follows as of necessity
that the court has power to investigate for itself the facts upon
which the claims were founded in order that it may intelli-

GUTHRIE NATIONAL BANK v. GUTHRIE.
Opinion of the Court.

gently approve or disapprove of the decisions of the commission. It is not to be supposed that the provision in the act
for making a report to the district court and for its approval
or disapproval was a purely formal matter, and that the court
might arbitrarily, unreasonably or improperly approve or disapprove any claim. If not, then the court must have power,
in the necessary discharge of its duty to approve or disapprove,
to ascertain the facts necessary to an intelligent discharge of
that duty. These facts may be found by the court without a
jury. As the statute does not provide for a report of the facts
found by the commission upon which it based the allowance
or disallowance of the claims or any of them, the court must
itself find them, in order to approve or disapprove.
Although the act makes no provision for notice to the parties
interested as to the time or manner in which the district court
will proceed to investigate the character of the claims, yet in
the absence of any such provision the court having the duty
to investigate would have power to regulate the time of the
hearing and provide for reasonable notice by its rules, so as to
prevent surprise. This, in substance, was held in United States
v. .Ritchie, 17 How. 525, 533, where a similar lack of provision
for notice in a certain section of the act was referred to and
the power of the court to make rules in regard to it was
asserted.
Whether the act is to be construed as making the decision
of the district court upon the merits of any claim final, it is
not now necessary to decide. The district court has refused
to exercise any jurisdiction under the act, because it decided
the act was invalid. Upon such a judgment we think a writ
of error was properly sued out from the' territorial Supreme
Court under the ninth section of the act, c. 182, 26 Stat. 85,
and under the same section a writ of error from this court to
the latter court may properly issue.
The other questions set forth in the brief of counsel for the
defendant in error, relating to parties and matters of procedure,
we have examined, and regard them as without merit.
We are of opinion that the district court erred in dismissing these proceedings on the ground of the invalidity of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

act under which they were taken, and that the Supreme Court
of the Territory erred in affirming that judgment of dismissal,

and
We therefore reverse the judgment of the latter court and
remand the case with directions to that court to revers'e the
judgment of the district court, with directions to the district court to proceed to a hearing of the claims upon their
merits.
MR. JUsTICE HARLAN dissented.

THE CHATTAHOOCHEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 2T.

Argued March 6,1899. - Decided April 3, 1599.

The Golden Rule, a Canadian topsail schooner with twelve sails, all of which
with a small exception she was carrying, was sailing off Nantucket Shoals
at a speed of seven knots an hour, in a fog so dense that the hull of another vessel could not be seen more than a few hundred feet off. The
Chattahoochee, an American steamer, came up at an angle in the opposite direction with a speed of ten or twelve knots an hour. The schooner
was sounding a foghorn, and the steamer a steam whistle. When the
steam whistle was heard on the schooner she kept on her way at full
speed. When the foghorn was heard on the steamer, order was given
and obeyed to stop and reverse, and the wheel was put hard-a-port.
Upon seeing the schooner the steamship engines were put at full speed
ahead, for the purpose of clearing it; but a collision took place, and the
schoondr sank almost immediately. The sunken vessel had a valuable
cargo on board. It was held below that both vessels were in fault for
immoderate speed, and the District Court, ruling that the damages should
be divided, made a decree respecting such division which was modified
by the Court of Appeals as hereafter stated. Held:
(1) That there can be no doubt as to the liability of the steamer, and,
as no appeal was taken on her part she is estopped from denying
that liability here;
(2) That the schooner, also, was proceeding at an immoderate speed,
and was properly condemned therefor; and the cases bearing

