POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBA NY &c. RAILWAY.

573

Statement of the Case.

pearance had or waived as required, or that the jurisdiction
of the court in fact so attached as to authorize the court to
render the judgment. Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350.
It follows that the question propounded must be
Answered in the aflrmative.

POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBANY & CHICAGO
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 803. Submitted January 30, 1899. -Decided April 3, 1899.
When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States depends on
diverse citizenship, its decree is made final by the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
When an action or suit is commenced by a receiver, appointed by a Circts
Court, to accomplish the ends sought and directed by the suit in whic
the appointment was made, such action or suit is regarded as ancillary
so far as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as a court of the United
States, is concerned; and where the jurisdiction of the main suit is
predicated on diversity of citizenship, and the decree therein in the
Circuit Court of Appeals therefore becomes final, the judgment and
decrees in the ancillary litigation are also final.
The suits in which this receiver was appointed were in the nature of
creditors' bills, and the only ground of Federal jurisdiction set up in
them was diversity of citizenship; and as, if the decrees therein had
been passed upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals, its decision would
have been final, the same finality attaches to the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in this suit.

BAT.L and Pettit filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern District of Illinois alleging
that Ball was a citizen of Indiana and that Pettit was a citizen of Wisconsin, and that defendants were citizens of Indiana and Illinois, which suit was discontinued as to Ball,
leaving Pettit, a citizen of Wisconsin, the sole complainant.
Pope was appointed, in substitution for one Fish, receiver of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad Company of Illinois, the
order containing, among other things, the following:
"And it is further ordered that the defendant, the said Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad Company, or whoever may
have possession thereof, do assign, transfer and deliver over to
such receiver under the direction of Henry W. Bishop, a master in chancery of this court, all the property, real and personal, wheresoever found in this district, and all contracts for
the purchase of land, and all other equitable interests, things
in action, and other effects which belonged to, or were held
in trust for, said defendant railroad company, or in which it
had any beneficial interest, including the stock books of said
railroad company, in the same condition they were at the
time of exhibiting the said bill of complaint in this cause,
except as far as necessarily changed in the proper management of said road, or in which it now has any such interest,
and that said defendant, Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad
Company, deliver over, in like manner all books, vouchers,
bills, notes, contracts and other evidences relating thereto,
and also the stock books of said railroad company.
" And it is further ordered that the said receiver have full
power and authority to inquire after, receive and take possession of all such property, debts, equitable interests, things in
action, and other effects, and for that purpose to examine said
defendant, its officers and such other persons as he may deem
necessary on oath before said master from time to time."
Afterwards a further order was entered, nuno pro tune, as
follows:
"And now comes the receiver, Charles E. Pope, of said Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad Company, and on his application it is ordered and directed that said receiver have full
power and authority to bring and prosecute any and all necessary suits for the collection of any claims, choses in action
and enforcement of any and every kind and nature, and to
defend all suits and actions touching the rights or interests of
the property or effects of any kind in his possession or under
his control as receiver. This order to be entered now as of the
date of his appointment and qualification as receiver."

POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBANIY &c. RAILWAY. 575
Statement of the Case.

Soon after, Pettit filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Indiana, averring that he was
a citizen of the State of Wisconsin, against "the said Chicago
and South Atlantic Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Indiana and State of Illinois, by the consolidation of an Illinois corporation of the
same name of defendant herein, and an Indiana corporation
known as ' the Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad Company
of Indiana.' 1Pope was appointed receiver on that bill, the
order being similar in its terms to that entered in the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Illinois. After such appointment, and on July 12, 1881, Pope, as receiver, filed his
bill of complaint in the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana, seeking to recover certain property and property rights
held and claimed by certain of the defendants, which appellant
claimed belonged to the Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad
Company and to the ownership of or right to which he had
succeeded as such receiver.
The amended bill on which the cause was heard stated that
"Your orator, Charles E. Pope, who is receiver of the Chicago and South Atlantic Railroad Company, and who is a
citizen of the State of Illinois, brings this his amended bill of
complaint-leave therefor having been granted by this honorable court - against " certain companies and individuals,
severally citizens of the States of Indiana, Ohio, New York
and Kentucky; that he was appointed receiver of the Atlantic
Company by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, and also receiver by the Circuit
Court of Indiana; and that he was authorized by the express
orders of both courts, appointing him receiver, "to bring all
suits necessary and proper to be brought to recover possession
of said estate and effects and to enforce all claims," etc.
The cause went to hearing, and a money decree was rendered by the Circuit Court in favor of Pope, receiver, against
appellee, which appellee was adjudged by that decree to pay.
An appeal having been prosecuted to the Circuit Court of _
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, a motion was made to d i's
miss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, and the motion ov

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ruled. On final hearing the decree of the Circuit Court was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, with instructions to
dismiss the amended bill. The opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was filed June 12, 1897. 53 U. S. App. 332. Thereafter a petition for a rehearing was filed and denied. Subse-

quently Pope, receiver, applied to this court for a writ of
certiorari, which application was denied March 7, 1898. 169
U. S. 737. Oi March 23 Pope moved the Circuit Court of
Appeals for leave to file a second petition for rehearing, and
the motion was overruled. Pope then applied to the Circuit

Court of Appeals for an appeal to this court, which was
granted, and the appeal having been docketed, this motion
to dismiss was made and duly submitted.

.M'. -Henry Wf. Blodgett, -Mr. G. IF. .Hetzinger and -Mr.
E. C. ield for the motion.
_31r. John S. Xller opposing.

MUR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
If the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was made
final by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, this
appeal must be dismissed; and it was so made final if the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended entirely on diverse
citizenship.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have original jurisdiction of suits of a civil nature, at law or in equity, by reason
of the citizenship of the parties, in cases between citizens of
different States, or between citizens of a State and aliens;
and, by reason of the cause of action, "in cases arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties
made or which shall be made under their authority," as for
instance suits arising under the patent or copyright laws of
the United States. P'ess Publishing Company v. Mfonroe,
164 U. S. 105.
Diversity of citizenship confers jurisdiction, irrespective of
-he cause of action. But if the cause of action arises under

POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBANY &c. RAILWAY.

577

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution, or laws, or treaties, of the United States,
then the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court may be maintained
irrespective of citizenship.
The Circuit Court undoubtedly had jurisdiction of this suit
on the ground of diversity of citizenship, not only because
that fact existed in respect of complainant and defendants, but
because the suit was ancillary to those in which the receiver
was appointed. When an action or suit is commenced by a
receiver, app9inted by a Circuit Court, to accomplish the ends
sought and. directed by the suit in which the appointment was
made, such action or suit is regarded as ancillary so far as
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a court of the United
States is concerned; and we have repeatedly held that jurisdiction of these subordinate actions or suits is to be attributed
to the jurisdiction on which the main suit rested; and hence
that where jurisdiction of the main suit is predicated on diversity of citizenship, and the decree therein is, therefore, made
final in the Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgments and
decrees in the ancillary litigation are also final. Rouse v.
Letcher, 156 U. S. 47; Gregory v. Van Fe, 160 U. S. 643;
Carey v. Bouston & Texas Railway Co., 161 U. S. 115. It
is true that Rouse v. Letcher and Gregory v. 'Fan Fe were
proceedings on intervention, but Carey v. Houston & Texas
Railway Co. arose on an original bill in the nature of a bill
of review. In that case we took occasion to quote from
the opinion of Mr. Justice Miller in .finnesota Company v.
St. Paul Company, 2 Wall. 609, in which the distinction is
pointed out between supplemental and ancillary, and independent and original, proceedings, in the sense of the rules
of equity pleading, and such proceedings "in the sense which
this court has sanctioned with reference to the line which
divides the jurisdiction of the Federal courts from that of the
state courts." Eripyendo f v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276; Pacific
Railroad v. .issouri Pacific Railway, 111 U. S. 505, and
other cases were cited; the bill held to be ancillary to the suit
the decree in which was attacked; and the rule laid down in
Rouse v. Letcher and Gregory v. Van Be applied.
The suits in which this receiver was appointed were in the
VOL. CLXXIii-37

OCTOBER TERAJ, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

nature of creditors' bills alleging an indebtedness due from
the Atlantic Company; the insolvency of that company; that
certain corporations had in their possession assets of the
Atlantic Company; and praying for the appointment of a
receiver; the marshalling of assets; the winding up of the
Atlantic Company, and the application of its assets to the
payment of its debts. The only ground of Federal jurisdiction set up in the bills was diversity of citizenship, and if the
decrees therein had been passed on by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the decision of that court would have been final
under the statute. And as this suit was in effect merely in
collection of alleged assets of the Atlantic Company, it must
be regarded as auxiliary, and the same finality attaches to the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, therein.
And this is true although another ground of jurisdiction
might be developed in the course of the proceedings, as it
must appear at the outset that the suit is one of that character of which the Circuit Court could properly take cognizance at the time its jurisdiction is invoked. Colorado Central
.Xining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138; In 'e Jones, 164 U. S.
691, 693; Thiird t. & Suburban Railway Co. v. Lewis, ante,
456.
Some further observations may be usefully added, although
what has been said necessarily disposes of the motion.
The receiver based his right of recovery on the alleged seizure by one of the defendant companies of certain rights of
way, and grading done thereon by the Atlantic Company
under two specified contracts, which seizure and appropriation
were alleged to have been fraudulently and forcibly made;
and it was averred that appellee, the Louisville, New Albany
and Chicago Railroad Company, acquired title thereto and
possession thereof through its consolidation with another of
the defendant companies, which had acquired its title and
possession through the foreclosure of a mortgage given by the
company which had made the seizure. The bill nowhere
asserted a right under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, but proceeded on common law rights of action. We
cannot accept the suggestion that the mere order of a Federal

POPE v. LOUISVILLE, NqEW ALBANY &c. RAILWAY.

579

Opinion of the Court.

court, sitting in chancery, appointing a receiver on a creditor's
bill, not only enables the receiver to invoke Federal jurisdiction, but to do this independently of the ground of jurisdiction
of the suit in which the order was entered, and thereby affect
the finality of decrees in the Circuit Court of Appeals in proceedings taken by him. The validity of the order of appointment of the receiver in this instance depended on the jurisdiction of the court that entered it, and that jurisdiction, as
we have seen, depended exclusively upon the diverse citizenship
of the parties to the suits in which the appointment was made.
The order, as such, created no liability against defendants,
nor did it tend in any degree to establish the receiver's right
to a money decree, nor to any other remedy prayed for in
the amended bill. The liability of defendants arose under
general law, and was neither created nor arose under the
Constitution or laws of the United States.
In Bausman v. .Dixon,173 U. S. 113, we have ruled that
a judgment against a receiver appointed by a Circuit Court of
the United States, rendered in due course in a state court,
does not per se involve the denial of the validity of an
authority exercised under the United States, or of a right or
immunity specially set up and claimed under a statute of the
United States. That was an action to recover damages for
injuries sustained by reason of the receiver's negligence in
operating a railroad company of the State of Washington,
though the receiver was the officer of the Circuit Court, and
we said: "It is true that the receiver was an officer of the
Circuit Court, but the validity of his authority as such was
not drawn in question, and there was no suggestion in the
pleadings, or during the trial, or, so far as appears, in the
state Supreme Court, that any right the receiver possessed
as receiver was contested, although on the merits the employment of plaintiff was denied, and defendant contended that
plaintiff had assumed the risk which resulted in the injury,
and had also been guilty of contributory negligence. The
mere order of the Circuit Court appointing a receiver did not
create a Federal question under section 709 of the Revised
Statutes, and the receiver did not set up any right derived

OCTOBER TERM[, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

from that order, which he asserted was abridged or taken
away by the decision of the state court. The liability to
Dixon depended on principles of general law applicable to the
facts, and not in any way on the terms of the order." That
was indeed a writ of error to a state court, but the reasoning
is applicable here. Pope was appointed receiver by an interlocutory order of the Circuit Court in the exercise of its
general equity powers. He did not occupy the position of a
receiver of a corporation created under Federal law as in
Texas and Pacific lRailway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593; or of a
marshal of the United States as in Feibelman v. Packard,
109 U. S. 421 ; or of a receiver of a national bank as in Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498. Nor did his cause of action
originate or depend on the order of appointment, or assignments made to him by the Atlantic Company pursuant to that
order. Nor was any right claimed by him by virtue of his
order of appointment or of his deeds of assignment denied
or alleged to have been denied. The decrees of the Circuit
Court and of the Circuit Court of Appeals dealt solely with
the alleged rights of the Atlantic Company as against certain
Indiana corporations. It is impossible to hold that these
orders of appointment were equivalent to laws of the United
States within the meaning of the Constitution.
We agree with counsel for appellee that ProvidentSavings
Society v. Ford, 114 U. S.635, 641, is in point in this aspect
of the case. There it was ruled that "the fact that a judgment was recovered in a court of the United States does not,
in a suit upon that judgment, raise a question under the laws
of the United States within the meaning of the act of March
3, 1875." That was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of New York to review a judgment of that court
denying a motion for the removal of the cause to the United
Mr. Justice Bradley delivered the
States Circuit Court.
opinion, and, after pointing out that the alleged grounds of
removal were insufficient, remarked: "It is suggested, however, that a suit on a judgment recovered in a United States
court is necessarily a suit arising under the laws of the United
States, as much so as if the plaintiff or defendant were a cor-

OPE v. LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBA-NY &c. RAILWAY. 581
Opinion of the Court.

poration of the United States; and hence that such a suit is
removable under the act of March 3, 1875. It is observable
that the removal of the cause was not claimed on any such
broad ground as this; but, so far as the character of the case
was concerned, only on the ground that the defendant had a
defence under Rev. Stat. ยง 739, specifying what the defence
was; and we have already shown that that ground of removal, as stated in the petition, was insufficient. But conceding that the defendant is now entitled to take its position
on the broader ground referred to, is it tenable and sufficient
for the purpose? What is a judgment, but a security of record
showing a debt due from one person to another? It is as
much a mere security as a Treasury note, or a bond of the
United States. If A brings an action against B, trover or
otherwise, for the withholding of such securities, it is not
therefore a case arising under the laws of the United States,
although the whole value of the securities depends upon the
fact of their being the obligations of the United States. So
if A have title to land by patent of the United States and
brings an action against B for trespass or waste, committed
by cutting timber, or by mining and carrying away precious
ores, or the like, it is not therefore a case arising under the
laws of the United States. It is simply the case of an ordinary
right of property sought to be enforced. A suit on a judgment is nothing more, unless some question is raised in the
case (as might be raised in any of the cases specified), distinctly involving the laws of the United States - such a
question, for example, as was ineffectually attempted to be
raised by the defendant in this case. If such a question were
raised then it is conceded it would be a case arising under the
Without pursuing the
laws of the United States. .
subject further, we conclude with expressing our opinion that
this last ground of removal, like those already considered,
was insufficient."
In Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375, jurisdiction was sustained
on the ground that the plaintiff's title was derived through
the enforcement of a lien, the validity of which depended on
the laws of the United States and the rules of the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Court, and their construction and application were directly
involved.
Appeal dismissed.
MVR. JUSTICE BROWN took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this motion.

,UARANTEE COMPANY v. M ECHANICS' SAVINGS
BANK AND TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 224. Argued March 16,1899.-Decided April 3,1899.

A Circuit Court of Appeals is without jurisdiction to review a decree of a
Circuit Court when that decree, as in this case, was not a final one.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
ffi. TMilliamrL. Granbery for the Guarantee Company.
.21&. Albert D. fa2'ks was on his brief.
JXr. Eward B. East for Savings Bank & Trust Co.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in this suit - originally brought in the Chancery Court at Nashville, Tennessee, and subsequently removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of Tennessee -is the Mechanics' Savings Bank and Trust
Company, a Tennessee corporation suing to the use of James
J. Prior, assignee, under a general assignment of all the assets,
rights and credits of that company in trust for the benefit of
creditors.
The principal defendant is the Guarantee Company of North
America, a corporation created under the laws of the Dominion of Canada.
From January 16, 1888, to January 1, 1893, Schardt was

