GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 179
Statement of the Case.

lateral security or set-off, there would seem to be quite as
much ground for requiring each creditor to account for his
collateral security, for the benefit of all the creditors, as for
allowing him the benefit of a set-off, to their detriment.
For the reasons thus indicated, I cannot avoid the conclusion that, under every act of Congress directing the ratable
distribution among all creditors of the estate of an insolvent
person or corporation, and making no special provision as to
secured creditors, an individual creditor, holding collateral
security from the debtor on part of the estate in cou'rse of
administration, is not entitled to a dividend upon the whole
of his debt, without releasing the security or deducting its
value; and that therefore the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals should be reversed.

GREEN BAY AND MISSISSIPPI CANAL COMPANY
v. PATTEN PAPER COMPANY.
PETITIONS FOR lREHEARING.
INo. 14.

Distributed January 16, 1899. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The petitions for rehearing rest upon a misapprehension of the decision in
this case, the purport of which was to preserve to the Canal Company
the use of the surplus waters created by the dam and the canal; but,
after they had flowed over the dam and through the sluices, and had
found their way into the unimproved bed of the stream, the rights and
disputes of the riparian owners must be determined by state courts.
While the state courts may legitimately take cognizance of controversies
between riparian owners concerning the use and apportionment of
waters flowing in the non-navigable parts of the stream, they cannot
interfere,by mandatory injunction or otherwise, with the control of the
surplus water power incidentally created by the dam and canal now
owned and operated by the United States.

Two petitions were filled on the same day for a rehearing
in this case, decided November 28, 1898, and reported 172
U. S. 58.
The first was signed by .Moses Hooper, Attorney, and George

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

G. Greene of counsel for the Patten Paper Company, and,
omitting notes and citations of authorities, was in substance
as follows.
The opinion herein shows that the plaintiffs below, defendants in error, did not make the leading facts respecting their
water power plain. Hence they respectfully petition this honorable court for a rehearing upon the following grounds, being
matters of fact only.
I. The claim of the original plaintiffs seems to have been
lost sight of. This court says: "It is apparent from the conceded facts that the water power in question did not exist
while the stream was in its natural condition, nor was it
created by the erection of a dam by private persons for that
sole purpose."
Plaintiffs below, defendants in error, should have made it
appear, as the fact is, that the water power about which they
are contending is created by a dam built by private persons,
.1athewJ. Mead and N. M. Edwards, riparian owners, in 1SS0,
for the sole purpose of water power.
This dam furnishes a head.of 12 to IS feet. The mills on
this power cost about seventy thousand dollars ($70,000).
Under very like conditions mills have been built by riparian
owners at the Grand Chute, costing over half a million dollars,
and at Grand Chute Island, costing at least a million dollars,
and at Kaukauna, below the improvements of the tenants
of the Canal Company, costing over one hundred thousand
dollars. All these investments are seriously threatened by
the decision herein unless modified.
This private dam was across an unnavigable channel between
islands three and four. Its legality cannot be questioned
herein.
If its legality could be questioned by other parties, it cannot by the Canal Company, because, as complaint recites:
On August 1, 1881, it, as a riparian owner, leased to the
Union Pulp Company, one of the plaintiffs below, a constant
flow of about 20,000 cubic feet of water per minute, parcel of
and to be drawn from said 'Mead & Edwards water power, for

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. ISI
Statement of the Case.

hydraulic power, for a term of ten years, renewable for one
hundred years, which leasehold interest said Union Pulp Company still holds. Said Union Pulp Company has erected on
said lot a pulp mill worth about forty thousand dollars ($40,000)
and now operates same, running same. by said water power.
Original defendant Kelso, for whom Reese Pulp Company
was afterwards substituted, stands in the same relation to the
Canal Company.
An examination of the printed record will show that in
many other respects the original plaintiffs, defendants in error,
have failed to make the facts in this case apparent to this
court.
II. This court seems to us to have held in 142 U. S. 254-,
at 269, 270, that it was necessary that there should be notice
of taking while compensation could be had. No other view
seems admissible.
The notice of taking held sufficient in 142 U. S. was given
to the Kaukauna Water Power Company only. There is no
pretence of notice of taking as against the original plaintiffs
herein, or any of the owners on tlhe Mead & Edwards power
or middle channel. None of them were parties to that suit.
Speaking of this notice, Justice Brown said (p. 270): "Until
this time there had been no active interference with any
claim or riparian rights belonging to the Water Power Company."
Herein the original plaintiffs were, when action was commenced, ever since have been, and still are using their water
power between islands three and four to run their mills. One
of them, Union Pulp Company, is lessee of the Canal Company as riparian owner of part of this mill power.
The Canal Company united as riparian owner with the
Patten Paper Company in leasing land and 1000 cubic feet
of water per minute parcel of this Mead & Edwards, or middle
power to Kelso (now Reese Pulp Company). Not only had
Canal Company not given notice of taking, but it had recognized the title of the riparian owners on this middle power
by leasing to Union Pulp Company, original plaintiff, parcel
of such power, as riparian owner, and uniting with original

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff Patten Paper Company as riparian owner in lease of
parcel of this power to Kelso.
Compensation act of 1875 (18 Stat. 508) was repealed in
1888 (25 Stat. 4, 21). Hence, any notice of taking after 1888
is fruitless. There was no claim made by Canal Company to
this middle power otherwise than as riparian owner, until
filing of cross bill in 1890.
III. This mill power can be preserved without interfering
with the use of all the water of the river, by the Canal Company, on its appurtenant lots from one to two thousand feet
below the dam represented on sheet marked "Kaukauna" on
Canal Company's maps. Such middle power may be supplied
by the spent water of the upper mills mentioned on page 3, of
printed copy of opinion. But if the Canal Company changes
its plans and draws the water from the canal at lower points
than now and heretofore, the water will be diverted from this
middle power and the mills on it become valueless.
The judgment should provide that 6 of the flow of the
river, its proportion as partitioned, should, after being used
by the Canal Company, be permitted to flow into the middle
channel to feed the mills of riparian owners on that power,
including lessees of the Canal Company.
If the judgment should follow the opinion unmodified, it
might be construed to permit the Canal Company to violate
its own leases to Union Pulp Company, original plaintiff,
and George F. Kelso (now Reese Pulp Company), original
defendant.
We cannot think the court would so determine in view of
the facts evidently not sufficiently presented.
IV. We failed to make clear to the court another matter of
fact. The court says: "It was found by the trial court that
the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company has leased all
of the water power created by the dam and canal, or arm of
the dam, to be used over the water lots abutting on the canal."
We have not seen such finding of the trial court. The trial
court did find that the Canal Company had leased all of the
water power which it could find customers for, not that it had
leased all the water power created by the dam and canal. The

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 183
,Statement of the Case.
Canal Company filed a schedule of its leases existing at the
time of trial. This schedule, the company's own statement,
shows leases of water to be used over the water lots abutting
on the canal of only 860 horse power out of the 2500 horse
power reserved. It also shows leases from the pond at the middle power below the dam, whereon are the mills of the original
plaintiffs and whereon the canal company is a riparian owner
of 900 horse power.
V. This power is one of those referred to by Colonel Houston
in his report to the Secretary of War, accompanying arbitrators' report, wherein he says: "There is an immense water
power in the lower Fox entirely independent of the works of
improvement, part of which has been made available by works
of private parties." This was not charged to the Canal Company by the United States.
We respectfully certify to this honorable court our full belief that the grounds assigned for the foregoing petition for
rehearing are meritorious and well founded in law."
The second petition was signed by John . Fish and Ayfred
1. Cary, as counsel for the Kaukauna Water Power Company
and others; and by .oses looper and George G. Gireene as
counsel for original plaintiffs, defendants in error, and, with
like omissions, was in substance as follows:
The defendants in error respectfully petition this honorable
court for a rehearing herein, upon the following grounds:
I. There is no controversy respecting the ownership or
control of the navigation of the Fox River by the United
States. All the parties throughout the whole litigation have
at all times and in all places conceded such ownership and
control to be absolute and paramount. The judgment under
review expressly recognized such ownership and control. In
its first subdivision it only partitioned such of the waters of
the river as were not required for the purposes of navigation.
In its third subdivision it expressly limited the right of the
defendants in error, as to the use of water below the dam, to
such as was not or might not be necessary for navigation.

OCTOBER TERAI,

1898.

Statement of the Case.

Neither the parties nor the state Supreme Court have sought
to invade the empire of the United States over the navigation
or commerce of this river.
II. The opinion states that "the decisive question in this
case" is whether the water power

.

.

is subject to con-

.

trol and appropriation by the United States owning and operating those public works, or by the State of Wisconsin, within
whose limits Fox River lies.
We do not understand that any question arises respecting
the control of the water power by the State of Wisconsin.
The State does not claim any control over or interest in it.
-The question in controversy seems to us to be, -Was the
property of the riparian owners under United States patent
to 12,600 horse power of water created by the fall of Fox
River below the dam, taken away from such riparian owners
without compensation by section 16, act of Wisconsin of August 8, 1848, saving, "Whenever a water power shall be created by reason of any dam erected, or other improvements
made, on any of said rivers, such water power shall belong to
the State, subject to the future action of the legislature" ?
This is state legislation; it is the only foundation of the
claim of the Canal Company.
The Canal Company makes no claim by virtue of any grant
from the United States. It alleges that the dam and canal
were constructed

.

.

.

under the act

.

.

.

approved

August 8, 1848, and acts of the legislature subsequent thereto,
other than which there was no authority for building and
maintaining the same.
The controversy over the construction of this act arises
between citizens of Wisconsin. Is not the construction of a
local statute, in a controversy between its own citizens, a state
question aid not a Federal question? The State's construction
of its own legislation between its own citizens is binding on
this court.
We are not now questioning the jurisdiction of the court
over this case, but only the power of the court to determine
certain questions which are state and not Federal.
III. (a) On error to the state court in chancery casds

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 185
Statement of the Case.

this court is concluded by the findings of fact by the court
below.
(b) The opinions of the Wisconsin Supreme Court are a part
of the record, made such by section 2410, Wisconsin Statutes
of 1898, in force since 1870.
Such opinions must therefore be examined by this court as
a part of the record to ascertain what the court below found
as facts.
(c) On appeals in equitable actions the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin retries the case upon the merits, so that its findings of fact are the ultimate findings in the case.
(d) When the Supreme Court of Wisconsin retried this case
on appeal it had before it a full record of all the proceedings
in the lower court, including all the evidence, findings, requests for findings, refusals and exceptions.
Some of the facts found by the Wisconsin Supreme Court
are as follows:
First. Such court found that the State never took any of
the water powers below the dam, and never granted any such
water powers to the Improvement Company, or to the Canal
Company.
This finding that the State did not take or own real estate
below its dams, except what was taken for and occupied by
the canal, really covers the whole question of fact as to its
taking water powers below the dam. If it did not take any
real estate below the dam, it took no water powers, for such
water powers are part and parcel of the land itself.
The state Supreme Court found as a fact that the water
power created by the dam at Kaukauna was about 2700 horse
power, and that on the rapids below the dam there was 12,600
horse power. These findings, together with the report of
Major Houston, show it to be a conclusive fact that the State
never took any of the water powers below the dam, and that
the Canal Company, at the time of the arbitration for the sale
of the improvement to the United States, only claimed to own
at Kaukauna 2500 horse power, which is a little less than that
found by the state Supreme Court to be created by the dam.
From that finding and the evidence supporting it, it is clear

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

that the water powers below the dam were never taken by
the State, and were never treated by the State, the Canal
Company or the United States, as the source of a fund expended, or to be expended, in the completion and maintenance
of the public improvement.
IV. The water powers reserved to the Canal Company in
its deed to the United States were only those which the arbitrators had valued at $140,000 and the title to which was
already in said company.
All water powers reserved in the deed were granted to the
Canal Company by the State, through state legislation, presenting only state questions, which we respectfully submit are
not reviewable by this court upon this writ of error.
V. If we may be permitted to do so, we desire to suggest
that the conclusion expressed in the following language of the
opinion, viz., "It is apparent from the conceded facts that the
water power in question did not exist while the stream was
in its natural condition," is not strictly accurate. While it is
true that in the natural condition of the stream the water
power in question (being that below the dam) did not exist in
its most available form, yet that it did exist in its most essential and valuable feature as a property right, viz., in the natural fall of 42 feet from the head to the foot of the rapids,
is too clear for controversy. Were it not for this natural fall
there would be no water power; with it a power exists, which
can be fully developed for use at small cost. It also exists in
that part of the stream which the state Supreme Court found,
as a fact, had never been navigable, and recognized the right of
the riparian owner to place structures to make available the
natural power, so long as such structures do not materially or
unreasonably interfere with the public right.
VI. We failed to make clear to the court another matter
of fact. The court says: "It was found by the trial court
that the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company has leased
all of the water power created by the dam and canal, or arm
of the dam, to be used over the water lots abutting on the
canal." This is only true in the sense that the Canal Company had leased all of the water power which it could find

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 187
Statement of the Case.

customers for, not that it had leased all the water power
"created by the dam and canal." The Canal Company filed
a schedule of its leases existing at the time of the trial of this
cause. This schedule, the company's own statement, shows
leases of water "to be used over the water lots abutting on the
canal" of only 860 horse power out of the 2500 horse power
reserved. It also shows leases from the pond at the middle
power below the dam, whereon are the mills of the original
plaintiffs and whereon the Canal Company is a riparian owner,
of 900 horse power.
On and prior to October 1, 1880, the Canal Company had
leased only 230 horse power to be used over the water lots
abutting on the canal.
VII. This court says: "It is apparent from the conceded
facts that the water power in question did not exist while the
stream was in its natural condition, nor was it created by the
erection of a dam by private persons for that sole purpose."
It should have been made to appear that a part of the water
power involved in this contention is created by a dam built
by private persons, Mkathew J. Mead and N. M. Edwards,
riparian owners, in 1880, for the sole purpose of a water
power. The Kaukauna Water Power Company, principal
defendant herein, is a riparian owner of part of this power,
being the owner of. three fourths of the residue after the
separation therefrom of certain parcels leased to one of the
original plaintiffs, the Union Pulp Company, and to one of
the defendants.
VIII. This court held, in 142 U. S. 254, at 269-70, that it
was necessary that there should be notice of taking while
compensation could be had.
The notice of taking held sufficient in that case only related
to the withdrawing of water from the pond held by the government dam and not to the use of water on the various channels of the river below the dam.
Speaking of this notice, M r. Justice Brown said: "Until
this time there had been no active interference with any claim
or riparian rights belonging to the Water Power Company."
This notice did not in any way relate to the water power

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

here in contention, which is that created by the fall of the
river below the government dam. As to that water power,
there has been no notice of taking; on the contrary, the
Canal Company has recognized the riparian ownership by
acting as a riparian owner itself and by uniting as a riparian
owner with other riparian owners in leases of power created
by the Mead and Edwards' dam above referred to.
IX. The case of Kaukauna Co. v. Gr een, Bay &o. Canal Co.,
142 U. S. 254, between some of the parties to this suit, and
relating to water power and other rights on this river at
IKaukauna, settles so many questions applicable to the case at
bar that we take the liberty of calling attention to it. Many
of the rights of the defendants in error are there clearly
defined and settled. Among these are the following:
(1) The state Supreme Court found as a fact that the river
between the dam and slack water below is rapids and had
never been navigable. As to this part of the river the rights
of the riparian owners to the use of the water for hydraulic
purposes, and to erect structures in the bed of the stream
to develop such uses, is fully recognized by the above decision.
(2) The state Supreme Court found as facts that the ordinary flow of the river is 300,000 cubic feet a minute, and that
a flow of only 1000 cubic feet of water a minute is required
for the use of the canal for the purposes of navigation
during the season of navigation. The diversion of the
remaining 299,000 cubic feet of flow of water per minute
from the riparian owners below the dam for hydraulic
power would seem to be for the express or apparent purpose of obtaining water power to lease to private individuals, and not as an incident to the public improvement below
the dam, viz., the canal.
(3) The taking by the State of the 12,600 horse power,
found by the state Supreme Court to exist upon the rapids
below the dam, would seem to be for private purposes only,
and not as an incident to the public improvement, and to be
thoroughly condemned by the decision which we have just
quoted.

GREEN BAY &c. CANAL CO. v. PATTEN PAPER CO. 1S9
Opinion of the Court.

X. This decision goes very far towards overruling all former
decisions respecting riparian rights upon public rivers. It
practically denies the existence of such right, as against the
claim of the State, to take the waters of the public rivers for
private purposes, hydraulic power.
The decision may also work a public calamity to the cities
of the Fox River valley. Its effect may embrace the water
powers upon the whole line of the improvement, extending
from Lake Winnebago to Green Bay, many of which have
heretofore been possessed and enjoyed by parties other than
the Canal Company under a supposed ownership. The decision may be so construed as to give all of the water powers
throughout the whole line of the improvement to the Canal
Company and place all of the industries of the Fox River
valley depending upon water powers (and there are many)
under contribution to that company.
We most respectfully submit this petition to this honorable
court and ask it to grant a rehearing herein, and certify that
in our judgment the grounds assigned therefor are meritorious and well founded in law and in fact.
MRfn. JUSTIcE SmIAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition, by the defendants in error, for a rehearing of the case of G'een Bay and -J.ississippicanal Co. v.
Patten Paper Co. and others, decided at the present term,
and reported in 172 U. S. 58.
The reasons set forth in the petition and accompanying
brief seem to go upon a misapprehension of the scope and
meaning of the decision of this court.
Thus it is made matter of complaint that this court did not
deal with questions concerning the division of the waters of
Fox River after they had spent the force or head given them
by the dam and canal, and had passed into a non-navigable
portion of the stream below the improvement; and it is suggested that we overlooked the fact that a private dam had
been constructed between islands three and four.
But those are questions to which the jurisdiction of this

OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

court does not extend, and hence could not be considered by
us. The purport of our decision was to preserve to the Green
Bay and Mississippi Canal Company the use of the surplus
waters created by the dam and canal. After such waters
had flowed over the dam and through the sluices, and had
found their way into the unimproved bed of the stream, the
rights and disputes of the riparian owners must be determined
by the state courts.
Again, apprehensions are expressed lest the decision in the
present case may be construed so as to injure parties using
water powers at other places in the river, and who are not
represented in the present controversy.
We are not ready to presume that the authorities of the
United States will either permit or make changes in the places
where the surplus waters are to be used by the Green Bay and
Mississippi Canal Company, so as to deprive other parties of
the water powers they have been using for so many years,
unless such changes are found to be necessary and proper
in the regulation and delivery of the surplus waters created
by the public improvement. But such questions are not now
before us.

While the courts of the State may legitimately take cognizance of controversies between the riparian owners, concerning the use and apportionment of the waters flowing in the
non-navigable parts of the stream, they cannot interfere by
mandatory injunction or otherwise with the control of the
surplus water power incidentally created by the dam and
canal now owned and operated by the United States.
The petition for a rehearing is
.Denied.

