OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

CALHOUN v. VIOLET.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
NO. 180.

Submitted January 20, 1S99. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The provisions in the act of March 2, 1889, c. 412, 25 Stat. 980, 1005, with
regard to honorably discharged Union soldiers and sailors were intended
only to give them an equal right with others to acquire a homestead within
the territory described by the act, but did not operate to relieve them

from the general restriction as to going into the territory imposed upon
all persons by the provisions of the act.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.'.

Calvin A. Calhoun in person for appellant.

No appearance for appellee.
?NfR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff sued to recover a described piece of land upon
the assumption that the defendant held it in trust for him.
The prayer of the petition was that the trust be recognized
and the defendant be decreed to make conveyance of the
land. A demurrer was interposed, which was sustained by
the trial court, and the suit was thereupon dismissed. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, the action of
the trial court was affirmed. The present appeal was then
taken, and the issue which arises is this: Did the court below
err in deciding that the petition of the plaintiff did not state
a cause of action ?
The facts alleged in the petition and shown by the exhibits
which were annexed to it are as follows: The plaintiff Calhoun, an honorably discharged soldier, who was in all general
respects qualified to claim a homestead under the law, Rev.
Stat. §§ 2304 et seq., seeking to avail himself of his right,
entered, on April 23, 1889, at the United States land office at

CALHOUN v. VIOLET.
Opinion of the Court.

Guthrie, Oklahoma, "lots 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of section.3, township 11 north, range 3 west, in the aforesaid land district."
The petition alleged that Calhoun had performed all the subsequent acts required by law to make the entry valid. On
May 21, 1889, Theodore W. Echelberger contested the entry
on the ground that Calhoun had come into the Territory of
Oklahoma before the time when by law he had a right to do
so, in violation of the statute of the United States and of the
proclamation of the President issued in pursuance thereof.
25 Stat. 980, 1004; Payne v. Robertson, 169 U. S.323; Smith
v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 490. On the 27th of iMay, 1890,
James McCornack also filed a contest against both Calhoun
and Echelberger, alleging that they were both disqualified
because they had during the prohibited period entered the
On June 29, 1890, contest was also filed by
Territory.
Thomas J. Bailey, charging the illegality of the claims of
Calhoun, Echelberger and McCoinack, averring that he,
Bailey, was the first legal settler on the land and entitled
to it. On January 25, 1890, one Linthicum filed a contest
against lot No. 10, embraced in the entry made by Calhoun,
on the ground that that lot was on a different side of the
Canadian iRiver from the balance of the land embraced in
the entry, and as the Canadian River was a meandering
stream, the entry could not lawfully cover land situated on
both sides thereof, hence lot 10 had been illegally included
in the Calhoun entry.
In February, 1890, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office instructed the local land office to suspend, among others,
the entry made by Calhoun, because the land covered by it
was on both sides of a meandering stream, and hence entry
thereof had been improperly allowed. The instruction transmitted to the local officer concluded as follows: "You will
notify the claimant of this fact" (that is, of the suspension of
his entry) "and allow him thirty days from receipt of notice
in which to elect which portion of his claim he will relinquish,
so that the land remaining will be confined to one side of
such stream. Should any of th6 parties desire to do so, he
may relinquish his entire entry; in which event an applica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion to make a second entry of a specific tract will receive
due consideration. If any of the entrymen fail or refuse to
take action within the time specified, his entry will be held
for cancellation. Notify the parties in accordance with circular of October 28, 1886, (5 L. D. 204,) and in due time
transmit the evidence of such notice with the report of your
action to this office." Conforming to this notice, Calhoun, on
the 17th of March, 1890, filed in the local office a formal
relinquishment of "all that portion of land on the right
bank of the North Canadian River known and designated
as lot No. 10 (ten) in the N. W. quarter of section 3, township 11 N., range 3 west, Guthrie land district, the same
having been embraced within my original entry No. 19,
dated April 23,

A.D

1889."

On the 30th of October, 1890, all the contests above referred to were duly heard before the register and receiver of
the local office, and it was decided that both the plaintiff
and Echelberger were disqualified from taking the land because they had gone into the Territory before the time fixed
by law, and that McCornack was entitled to enter the land.
The claims of Bailey and Linthicurn were rejected. From
this decision the contests were carried to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, by whom the action of the local
officers was affirmed, and thereupon an appeal was prosecuted
to the Secretary of the Interior, with a like result. Subsequently, in 1894, on a petition for review by Calhoun and
another of the parties, the Secretary of the Interior reiterated
the previous ruling, affirming the action of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office in rejecting the claims of Calhoun
and others on the ground that they had been made in violation
of law. Pending the appeals and decisions thereon as above
stated, Calhoun filed with the Commissioner of the General
Land Office an application complaining of the order which
had compelled him to elect to which side of the river he would
confine his entry, asserting that the action of the Department
was illegal, as the stream was not a meandering one, and asking a revocation of the order.

The petition filed in the court below moreover contained an

CALHOUN v: VIOLET.
Opinion of the Court.

averment that the rulings of the local land officers, of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office and of the Secretary of the Interior, above stated, were null and void, because
all these officers had misconceived the evidence and disregarded its weight, and was in violation of law, because the section of the act of 1889, forbidding going into the Territory
before a named date of persons desirous of taking land therein,
had no application to honorably discharged soldiers entitled
as such to make a homestead entry. The land as to which it
was averred the trust existed and a conveyance of which was
sought was lot 10, as to which the relinquishment had been
filed, under the circumstances above mentioned. It was
charged that, despite the protest of Calhoun, a final certificate
for this lot had been issued to the defendant, with full knowledge on his part of the claim of Calhoun, hence it was asserted the trust arose and the obligation to convey resulted.
The court below held that it was bound by the action of
the Land Department in so far as that department had decided
as a matter of fact that Calhoun had made entry of his land
by going into the Territory contrary to the restrictions imposed by the act of Congress, and that in so far as the ruling
of the Land Department rested upon a matter of law, it had
been correctly decided that Calhoun, as a discharged soldier,
was-not entitled to go into the Territory contrary to law, and
thereby acquire a priority over other citizens.
The first of these rulings was manifestly correct. It is elementary that, although this court will determine for itself the
correctness of legal propositions upon which the Land Department of the government may have rested its decisions, it will
not, in the absence of fraud, reexamine a question of pure
fact, but will consider itself bound by the facts as decided by
the Land Department in the due course of regular proceedings,
had in the lawful administration of the public lands. United
States v. .inor, 114 U. S. 233 ; Lee v. JoAnson, 116 U. S. 48;
Sanford v. Sanford, 139 U. S. 647.
The fact that the plaintiff had entered the Territory prior
to the time fixed by the statute and the proclamation of the
President, having been conclusively determined, it follows in-

OCTOBER' TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

evitably, as a legal result, that an entry of land made under
such circumstances was void and that the ruling by the Land
Department so holding was correct. This leaves only open for
our consideration the legal question whether Calhoun, because
he was an honorably discharged soldier, was entitled to go into
the Territory before the designated time and make a valid
entry of a homestead therein. The claim that he was authorized to do so is based on a proviso contained in section 12 of
the act of March 2, 1889, c. 412, § 13, 25 Stat. 980, 1005, which
is as follows:
"And provided further, that the rights of honorably discharged Union soldiers and sailors in the late civil war as defined and described in sections 2304 and 2305 of the Revised
Statutes shall not be abridged."
The sections of the Revised Statutes to which this proviso
relates simply invest honorably discharged soldiers with the
right to enter a homestead.
The proviso in question is immediately succeeded by the
following:
"And provided further, that each entry shall be in square
form as nearly as practicable, and no person be permitted to
enter more than one quarter section thereof, but until said
lands are open for settlement by proclamation of the President, no person shall be permitted to enter upon and occupy
the same, and no person violating this provision shall ever be
permitted to enter any of said lands or acquire any right
thereto."
It is manifest from the context of the act that the proviso
relied upon was intended only to give to honorably discharged
soldiers and sailors an equal right with others to acquire a
homestead'within the territory described by the act, and the
proviso was thus intended simply to exclude any implication
that they were, in consequence of the prior provisions of the
act, not entitled to avail themselves of its benefits. The proviso therefore in no way operated in favor of honorably discharged soldiers and sailors to relieve them from the general
restriction as to going into the territory imposed upon all
persons by the subsequent provisions of the law. To hold the

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

contrary would compel to the conclusion that the law, whilst
allowing honorably discharged soldiers and sailors to take
advantage of its provisions, had at the same time conferred
upon them the power to violate its inhibitions. The purpose
of Congress in allowing those named in the proviso to reap
the benefits of the law-was not to confer the power to do the
very thing which the act in the most express terms sedulously
sought to prevent.
fflrmed.

________

DUNLAP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 218. Argued November 29, 30, 1898. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

The act of August 28, 1894, c. 349, does not grant a right in prcsenti to all
persons who may, after the passage of the law, use alcohol in the arts, or
in any medicinal or other like compounds, to a rebate or repayment of
the tax paid on such alcohol, but the grant was conditioned on use, in
compliance with regulations to be prescribed, in the absence of which
regulations the right did not so vest as to create a cause of action by
reason of the unregulated use.
DUNLAP was, and had been for many years, "engaged in
the manufacture of a product of the arts known and described
as ' stiff hats,"' in Brooklyn, New York. Between August 28,
1894, and April 241, 1895, he used 7060.95 proof gallons of
domestic alcohol to dissolve the shellac required to stiffen
hats made at his factory. An internal revenue tax of ninety
cents per proof gallon had been paid upon 2604.17 gallons
before August 28, 1894, making $2344.40, and a tax of one
dollar and ten cents per proof gallon had been paid upon the
remainiatg 4456.78 gallons after Augrust 28, 1894, making
$4900.81, or $7245.21 in all. In October, 1894, Dunlap notified the Collector of Internal Revenue of the First District of
New York that he was using domestic alcohol at his factory,
and that under section 61 of the act of August 28, 1894, c. 349,
28 Stat. 509, 567, he claimed a rebate of the internal revenue
VOL. cLxxIII-5

