OCTOBER TERMT,

1898.

Syllabus.

as assignee of the D. D. Mferrill Company, took title to such
property, he took it subservient to the defendants' attachment. It results that the property of the D. D. MNerrill Company found in Massachusetts was liable to attachment there
by these defendants, and that the courts of Minnesota are
bound to respect the title so acquired by them.
The second question must therefore be answered in the
negative, and as this disposes of the case, no answer to the
first question is necessary.

CITIZENS'

SAVINGS

BANK

OF OWENSBORO v.

OWENSBORO.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Eo. 669.

Argued February 27, 28,

1899. -Decided

April 3, 1S99.

The questions raised by the eighth and ninth assignments of error, relating
to alleged violations of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, are not presented by the record, and do not result
by necessary intendment therefrom, and aie therefore not considered
by the court, under the well-settled rules that the attempt to raise a
Federal question for the first time after a decision by the court of last
resort of a State is too late ; and that where it is disclosed that an
asserted Federal question was not presented to the state court, or called
in any way to its attention, and where it is not necessarily involved in
the decision of the state court, such question will not be considered
by this court.
The mere grant for a designated time of an immunity from taxation does
not take it out of the rule subjecting such grant to the general law retaining the power to amend or repeal, unless the granting act contain
an express provision to that effect.
Thie act of the legislature of Kentucky of February 14, 1856, and the act
of May 12, 1884, c. 1412, incorporating the Citizens' Savings Bank of
Owensboro, and the act of May 17, 1886, commonly known as the Hewitt
Act, and other acts referred to, did not create an irrevocable contract on
the part of the State, protecting the bank from other taxation, and therefore the taxing law of Kentucky of November 11, 1892, c. 108, did not
violate the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
THE case was argued with Nos. 148, 149, 150 and 151,
the reports of which follow it.

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

637

Opinion of the Court.

Xi.

. T. Ellis for plaintiff in error.

.M'.J. A. Dean

filed a brief for same.
Xl. Chapeze IMat14en and XM. J. D. Atchison for defendants
inerror.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, the Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro, Kentucky, was created, by an act of the general assembly of the State of Kentucky, approved May 12, 1884, with
authority to do a general banking business. The legislative
charter provided that the corporation should exist for a period
of thirty years from the date of the act, and in section 7 it
was provided that on the first day of January in each year
the bank should pay "into the state treasury, for the benefit
of revenue proper, fifty cents on each one hundred dollars of
stock held and paid for in said bank, whicl shall be in full
of all tax and bonus thereon of every kind."
At the time this charter was granted there existed on the
statute books of Kentucky a law, enacted February 14, 1856,
2 Rev. Stat. Ky. 121, providing as follows:
"SEc. 1. That all charters and grants of or to corporations,
or amendments thereof, and all other statutes, shall be subject
to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless a
contrary intent be therein plainly expressed: P'rovided,That
whilst privileges and franchises so granted may be changed
or repealed, no amendment or repeal shall impair other rights
previously vested.
"SEc. 3. That the provisions of this act shall only apply to
charters and acts of incorporation to be granted hereafter;
and that this act shall take effect from its passage."
It would seem that from the date of its creation until the
year 1886 the bank was called upon to pay only the taxes
provided in the seventh section of its charter. In 1886 (Session Acts of Kentucky, 1885-6, pp. 140, 144 to 147, 201) the
legislature of Kentucky adopted what is designated in the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

briefs of counsel as the Hewitt Act, containing the following
provisions as to the taxation of banks:
"SEc. 1. That shares of stock in state and national banks,
and other institutions of loan or discount, and in all corporations required by law to be taxed on their capital stock, shall
be taxed 75 cents on each share thereof, equal to 8100, or on
each $100 of stock therein owned by individuals, corporations
or societies, and said banks, institutions and corporations shall,
in addition, pay upon each $100 of so much of their surplus,
undivided surplus, undivided profits or undivided accumulations as exceeds an amount equal to 10 per cent of their capital stock, which shall be in full of all tax, state, county and
municipal.
"Sxc. 4. That each of said banks, institutions and corporations, by its corporate authority, with the consent of a majority in interest of a quorum of its stockholders, at a regular or
called meeting thereof, may give its consent to the levying of
said tax, and agree to pay the same as herein provided, and
to waive and release all right under the act of Congress, or
under the charters of the state banks, to a different mode or
smaller rate of taxation, which consent or agreement to and
with the State of Kentucky shall be evidenced by writing
under the seal of such bank and delivered to the Governor of
this Commonwealth; and upon such agreement and consent
being delivered, and in consideration thereof, such bank and
its shares of stock shall be exempt from all other taxation
whatsoever so long as said tax shall be paid during the corporate existence of such banks.
"SEC. 5. The said bank may take the proceeding authorized
by section 4 of this act at any time until the meeting of the
next general assembly: Pi'ovided, They pay the tax provided in section 1 from the passage of this act.
"SEc. 6. This act shall be subject to the provisions of section eight (8), chapter sixty-eight (68), of the general statutes.
"SEC. 7. If any bank, state or national, shall fail or refuse
to pay the tax imposed by this act, or shall fail or refuse to

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

639

Opinion of the Court.

make the consent and agreement as prescribed in section 4,
the shares of stock of such bank, institution or corporation,
and its surplus, undivided accumulations and undivided
profits, shall be assessed as directed by section 2 of this act,
and the taxes- state, county and municipal- shall be imposed, levied and collected upon the assessed shares, surplus,
undivided profits, undivided accumulations, as is imposed on
the assessed taxable property in the hands of individuals:
Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed
as exempting from taxation for county or municipal purposes
any real estate or building owned and used by said banks
or corporations for conducting their business, but the same
may be taxed for county and municipal purposes as other real
estate is taxed."
The Citizens' Savings Bank accepted the Hewitt Act in the
mode pr ovided, and thereafter paid the tax specified therein.
In 1891 Kentucky adopted a new constitution, which contained the following:
" SEc. 174. All property, whether owned by natural persons
or corporations, shall be taxed in proportion to its value, unless
exempted by this constitution; and all corporate property
shall pay the same rate of taxation paid by individual
property. Nothing in this constitution shall be construed to
prevent the general assembly from providing for taxation
based on income, licenses or franchises."
The State of Kentucky, in 1892, enacted a law providing,
among other things, for the assessment and taxation by the
State, counties and municipalities, of banking and other corporations. This law was in absolute conflict with the Hewitt
Act, and by special provision as well as by necessary legal
intendment operated, if the constitution had not already done
so, to repeal the system of bank taxation established by the
Hewitt Act. Without detailing the scheme of taxation
created by the law of 1892, it suffices to say that it organized
a State board whose duty it was to ascertain and fix the
value of what was termed the franchises of banks and other
corporations, referred to in the law, and upon the amount so
fixed the general state tax was levied. It was besides made

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the duty of the board to certify its valuation of the property
or franchises to the proper county or municipality in which
the corporation was located, so that the sum of this assessment might become the basis upon which the local taxes
should be laid. The city of Owensboro, where the Citizens'
Savings Bank was located, established by ordinances the rate
of municipal taxes for the years 1893 and 1894, and the sum
so fixed was assessed upon the valuation of the franchises or
property of the bank which had been certified by the state
board in claimed conformity to the statute of 1892. The bank
refused to pay these taxes, and a levy was made by the tax
collector upon some of its property, and garnishment process
was also issued against several of its debtors. Thereupon
this suit was commenced by a petition, on behalf of the bank,
to enjoin the city of Owensboro and its tax collector from
enforcing the taxes in question.
The averments of the petition, and of the amendments
thereto-for it was twice amended-assailed the validity
of the tax on several grounds, all of which are, substantially,
included in the following summary:
First. That the board of state valuation had no power
under the constitution and laws of the State to make an
assessment for local taxation, and, if it had such power, had
not exercised it lawfully, because the method of valuation
pursued by it was so arbitrary as to cause its action to be
void. Second. That no notice of the assessment had been
given the officials, as required by the state law. Third. That
the taxes violated the equality clause of the state constitution,
because, by the method adopted in making the assessment, the
property of the bank had been valued by a rule which caused
it to be assessed at proportionately one third more than the
sum assessed against other property in the city of 0 wensboro,
and by one half more than the valuation at which the property of other taxpayers throughout the State was assessed.
Fourth. That the taxes violated the state law and constitution,
because based upon an assessment made by the state board,
and not on an assessment made by the city, and that they
were likewise illegal, because the levy of the tax predicated

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

641

Opinion of the Court.

-uponthe assessment, by the state board, was dehors the powers
of the city of Owensboro under the state laws. Fifth. That
the taxes moreover violated the equality clause of the state
constitution, because as there were certain national banks
doing business in the city of Owensboro, against whom the
franchise tax provided by the state law could not be enforced,
without a violation of the law of the United States, therefore
these banks could not be taxed for the franchise tax, and not
to tax them, whilst taxing the petitioner, would bring about
inequality of taxation, and hence be a violation of the state
constitution. Sixth. The taxes were expressly and particularly attacked on the ground that the Hewitt Act, and the
acceptance of the terms thereof, constituted an irrevocable
contract, between the State and the bank, exempting it from
all taxation other than as specified in the Hewitt Act, and
therefore that the revenue act of 1892 and the levy of the
taxes in question by the city of Owensboro violated the contract rights of the bank, which were protected from impairment by the Oonstitution of the United States.
In further support of this ground the petition charged that
at the time the Hewitt Act was passed the bank had an irrevocable contract arising from section 7 of its charter limiting
taxation to the sum there specified, which right the bank had
surrendered in consequence of the contract embodied in the
Hewitt Act. It was averred that this surrender of its contract
right to enjoy the limited taxation, conferred by its charter,
was a valid consideration moving between the bank and the
State, operating to cause the Hewitt Act to become a contract
upon adequate consideration.
A preliminary injunction restraining the collection of the
taxes was allowed. The city of Owensboro demurred to the
petition and to the various amendments thereof, and, reserving its demurrers, answered traversing the averments of the
original petition and the amendments thereto. Motions were
made to dissolve the injunction. On these motions testimony
was taken and the case was heard on the motions to dissolve,
and on the demurrers. The trial court dissolved the injunction,
sustained the demurrers, and dismissed the suit. On appeal to
VOL. cxf-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Appeals of Kentucky the decree of the trial court
was affirmed. 39 S. W. Rep. 1030.
The opinion of the Kentucky Court of Appeals contained
not only the reasons applicable to the case we are now considering, bui also such as were by it considered relevant to
several other cases which, it would seem, were either heard
by that court at the same time or were deemed by the court
to present so many cognate questions as to enable it to embrace the several cases in one opinion. In so far as it related
to this cause, the opinion fully examined and disposed of the
question of contract and the issues consequent thereon. An
application on behalf of the appellant was thereafter filed,
styled "Petition for extension of opinion and reversal." This
application, whilst declaring that the appellant could not assent
to the conclusion of the court on the question of the existence
of an irrevocable contract, protected from impairment by the
Constitution of the United States, asked no rehearing on that
subject. The grounds for rehearing, which were elaborately
pressed, related solely to certain questions of law which it
was argued the record presented, and which it was claimed
depended on the state law and constitution. There was no
contention that these issues involved the Constitution or laws
of the United States.
All the assignments of error but the eighth and ninth relate
to errors charged to have been committed by the court below
in holding that there was no contract protected from impairment by the Constitution of the United States. The eighth
assignment asserts that there was error in allowing a penalty
for the non-payment of the taxes, because such penalty was
by the state law imposed only upon corporations and not on
other taxpayers, and therefore the state law violated the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The ninth assignment charges that there was error in holding the taxes to be valid because the property or franchise of
the bank, on which the tax was levied, was assessed at its full
value, whilst other taxpayers in the State were assessed at not
more than seventy per cent of the value of their property, thus
creating an inequality of taxation, equivalent to a denial of

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

643

Opinion of the Court.

the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
We at the outset dispose of the eighth and ninth assignments
just referred to. The questions which they raise are not properly here for consideration. They are not presented by the
record nor do they result by necessary intendment therefrom.
Indeed they were excluded from the cause, as Federal questions, by the implications resulting from the pleadings. Whilst
it was charged that the penalties were unlawful, there was no
allegation that their enforcement would violate any Federal
right. On the contrary, the petition and the amendments to
it clearly placed the objection to the penalties on the ground
that their enforcement would violate the state law and the
state constitution. The distinction between the state right
thus asserted and the Federal right was clearly made when
the only Federal issue which was relied on, the impairment of
the obligation of the contract, was alleged, for then it was
plainly stated to depend upon a violation of the Constitution
of the United States. Even after the opinion of the Court of
Appeals was announced there was not a suggestion made in
the petition for rehearing that a single Federal question was
considered by the parties as arising except the one which the
court had fully decided, and as to which it was expressly declared a rehearing was not prayed. The assignments of error
in question therefore simply attempt to inject into the record
a Federal question not lawfully therein found, never called to
the attention of the state court by pleading or otherwise, and
not necessarily arising for consideration in reviewing the judgment of the state court to which the writ of error is directed.
But after a decision by the court of last resort of a State the
attempt to raise a Federal question for the first time is too late.
XLiller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535; Loeber v. Schroeder, 149 U. S.
580. It is also clear that where it is disclosed that an asserted
Federal question was not presented to the state court or called
in any way to its attention, and where it is not necessarily involved in the decision of the state court, such question will not
be considered by this court. Louisville & Nashville Railroad
v. Louisville, 166 U. S. 709; Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County,

OCTOBER TERlif, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

166 U. S. 648; K'ipley v. Illinois, 170 U. S. 182; Green Bay &
3fississi2pi Canal Co. v. PattenPcper Co., 172 U. S. 58; Cayital Bank v. Cacdiz Bank, 172 U. S. 425. We therefore decline
to review the errors alleged in the eighth and ninth assignments, and passing their consideration are brought to the real
Federal controversy which arises on the record - that is, the
question of irrevocable contract.
The claim is that the Hewitt Act and its acceptance by the
banks constituted an irrevocable contract, although at the
time that act was passed there was a general statute of Kentucky reserving the right to repeal, alter or amend "all
charters or grants of or to corporations or amendments thereof and all statutes" passed subsequent thereto, and although
this general statute was expressly made a part of the Hewitt
Act by the sixth section thereof. The wording of the sixth
section accomplishing this result is: "This act shall be subject to the provisions of section 8, chapter 68, of the general
statutes," the provision thus referred to being the general
law of 1856, reserving the power to repeal, alter or amend as
above. When the proposition relied upon is plainly stated
and its import clearly apprehended, no reasoning is required
to demonstrate its unsoundness. In effect, it is that the
contract was not subject to repeal, although the contract
itself in express terms declares that it should be so subject
at the will of the legislative authority. The elementary rule
is that if at the time a corporation is chartered and given
either a commutation or exemption from taxation, there exists
a general statute reserving the legislative power to repeal,
alter or amend, the exemption or commutation from taxation
may be revoked without impairing the obligations of the
contract, because the reserved power deprives the contract
of its irrevocable character and submits it to legislative control. The foundation of this rule is that a general statute
reserving the power to repeal, alter or amend is by implication read into a subsequent charter and prevents it from becoming irrevocable. In a case like the one now considered,
where not only was there a general statute reserving the
power, but where such general law was made by unambiguous

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

645

Opinion of the Court.

language one of the provisions of the contract, of course the
legislative power to repeal or amend is more patently obvious
to the extent that that which is plainly expressed is always
more evident than that which is to be deduced by a legal
implication. In Tomlinson v. Jessu2 , 15 Wall. 454, in speaking of a contract exemption from taxation arising from a
charter, and of the right to repeal the same springing from a
general law, reserving the power to alter or amend, which
existed at the time the charter was conferred, the court,
through Mr. Justice Field, said (p. 459):
"Immunity from taxation, constituting in these cases a
part of the contract with the Government, is, by the reservation of power such as is contained in the law of 1841, subject
to be revoked equally with any other provision of the charter
whenever the legislature may deem it expedient for the public
interests that the revocation shall be made. The reservation
affects the entire relation between the State and the corporation and places under legislative control all rights, privileges
and immunities derived by its charter directly from the
State."
In Railroad Co. v. .Maine, 96 U. S. 499, 510, the question
was as to the liability to taxation of a consolidated corporation which came into existence while a general statute was in
force, providing that any act of incorporation subsequently
passed might be amended, altered or repealed at the pleasure
of the legislature, in the same manner as if an express provision to that effect were therein contained, unless there was
in the act of incorporation an express limitation or provision
to the contrary. The court said: "There was no limitation
in the act authorizing the consolidation, which was the act of
incorporation of the new company, upon the legislative power
of amendment and alteration, and, of course, there was none
upon the extent or mode of taxation which might be subsequently adopted. By the reservation in the law of 1831,
which is to be considered as if embodied in that act, the
State retained the power to alter it in all particulars constituting the grant to the new company formed finder it, of corporate rights, privileges and immunities. The existence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the corporation and its franchises and immunities, derived
directly from the State, were thus kept under its control."
In _Louisville M]ater Company v. Clark, 143 _U. S. 1, 12, the
corporation claimed that it had acquired under an act of the
legislature of the State of Kentucky an exemption from taxation which could not be withdrawn by subsequent legislation
without its consent. As the act granting the exemption was
passed subsequent to the adoption by the general assembly of
Kentucky of the act of 1856, (the general law which was in
being when the Hewitt Act was adopted, and which was expressly made a part of alleged contract,) it was held that the
exemption from taxation could be repealed without impairing
the obligation of the contract. The court, through Mr. Justice
Harlan, said: "In short, the immunity from taxation granted
by the act of 1882 was accompanied with the conditionexpressed in the act of 1856 and made part of every subsequent statute, when not otherwise expressly declared -that,
by amendment or repeal of the former act, such immunity
could be withdrawn. Any other interpretation of the act of
1856 would render it inoperative for the purposes for which,
manifestly, it was enacted."
Again, in Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231, 238, considering the same subject in a case which involved the application of the power reserved by the State of Kentucky, in the
act of 1856, to repeal, alter or amend all grants or contracts
made subsequent to that act, the court said, through Mr. Justice Harlan:
"There was in that act [that is, the one making the grant]
no ' plainly expressed' intent never to amend or repeal it. It
is true that the legislature said that the reservoirs, machinery,
pipes, mains and appurtenances, with the land upon which
they were situated, should be forever exempt from state,
county and city taxes. But such a provision falls short of a
plain expression by the legislature that at no time would it
exercise the reserved power of amending or repealing the act
under which the property was acquired. The utmost that can
be said is that it may be inferred from the terms in which the
exemption was declared that the legislature had no purpose

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

64:7

Opinion of the Court.

at the time the act of 1886 was passed to withdraw the exemption from taxation; not that the power reserved would
never be exerted, so far as taxation was concerned, if in the
judgment of the legislature the public interest required that
to be done. The power expressly reserved to amend or repeal a statute should not be frittered away by any construction
of subsequent statutes based upon mere inference. Before a
statute -

particularly one relating to taxation

-

should be

held to be irrepealable, or not subject to amendment, an intent not to repeal or amend must be so directly and unmistakably expressed as to leave no room for doubt; otherwise, the
intent is not plainly expressed. It is not so expressed when
the existence of the intent arises only from inference or conjecture."
The conclusions stated in these cases are but the expression of many other adjudged causes. Railroad Company v.
Georgia, 98 U. S. 359, 365; loge v. Railroad Company, 99
U. S. 348, 353; Sinking Fund cases, 99 U. S. 700, 720;
Greenwood v. Freight Company, 105 U. S. 13, 21; Close v.
Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466, 476; Louisville Gas Comjpany v. Citizens' Gas Company, 115 U. S. 683, 696; Gibbs
v. Consolidated Gas Comjpany, 130 U. S. 396, 408; Sioux
City Street Railway v. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98, 108.
Undoubtedly in the Bank Tax cases, 97 Kentucky, 597,
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky decided that the Hewitt
law created an irrevocable contract, and that the general
assembly of that State could not repeal, alter or amend it
without impairing the obligations of the contract, despite the
existence of the act of 1856, and despite the circumstance
that that act was in express terms incorporated in and made
part of the Hewitt law. But the reasoning by which the
court reached this conclusion is directly in conflict with the
settled line of decisions of this court just referred to, and
the case has been specifically overruled by the opinion announced by the Kentucky Court of Appeals in the cause now
under review. It is not and cannot be asserted that the Bank
Tax cases were decided before the contract evidenced by the
Hewitt law was accepted, hence it cannot be urged that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

decision entered into the consideration of the parties in forming the contract. It is not pretended that the bank, whose
rights are here contested, was either a party or privy to the
Bank Tax cases. And even if such were the case, we must
not be understood as intimating that the construction of the
Hewitt Act, which was announced in the Bank Tax cases,
would be binding in controversies as to other taxes between
those who were parties or privies to those cases. On this
subject we expressly abstain from now intimating an opinion.
In determining whether, in any given case, a contract exists,
protected from impairment by the Constitution of the United
States, this court forms an independent judgment. As we
conclude that the decision in the Bank Tax cases above cited,
upon the question of contract, was not only in conflict with
the settled adjudications of this court, but also inconsistent
with sound principle, we will not adopt its conclusions.
It was earnestly argued that conceding the general rule to
be that a reserved power to repeal, alter or amend enters
into and forms a part of all subsequent legislative enactments,
nevertheless this case should not be controlled thereby, first,
because of peculiar conditions which it is asserted existed at
the time the Hewitt law was enacted, and, second, because
of the terms of the act of 1856 by which the power to repeal,
alter or amend was reserved. The conditions relied upon and
stated in argument as removing this case from the operation
of the general principle are as follows: When the Hewitt
law was enacted there existed much uncertainty as to the
power of the State of Kentucky to tax banks within its borders. There were banks claiming to be only subject to limited taxation because of charters enacted prior to the act of
1856. Again, there were other banks asserting a like right
because of charters adopted since 1856, but which, it was
said, were not dominated by that act. In consequence of
these pretensions on behalf of state banks which were then
undetermined, the national banks, organized in the State,
were insisting that they were subject only to the rate of
taxation to which the most favored state bank was liable,
because it was urged that to tax such banks at a higher rate

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

649

Opinion of the Court.

would be a discrimination in favor of these banks and against
the national banks, which was forbidden by the law of the
United States. To add to this complexity, it is said, the
varying rate of local taxation was operating inequality among
banks, and driving banking capital from the localities where
the tax was highest, thus producing a public detriment. To
assuage these difficulties and conflicts, to secure as to all
banks, state and national, a uniform and higher rate of state
taxation than that existing as to other property, it is asserted
that the Hewitt law tendered to all banks a contract giving freedom from local burdens if a higher state tax was
voluntarily paid. This must have been contemplated to be
irrevocable, for otherwise the very object of the law could not
have been accomplished. Conceding arguendo to the fullest
degree the situation to have been as described, the conclusion
sought to be deduced from it is wholly unsound, since it disregards the fact that the contract proposed and which was
actually entered into contained an express reservation of the
right to repeal, alter or amend. Indeed, the contention, when
analyzed, amounts to this, that the plain letter of the contract should be disregarded, upon the theory that the parties
-intended to make a different contract from that which they
actually entered into. The distinction between the potentiality of a particular state of facts, for the purpose of preventing the implication of the reserved power to alter, amend or
repeal, and the impotency of such facts to overcome the express and unambiguous provisions of the contract, at once
demonstrate the confusion of thought involved in the contention. It was upon the distinction existing between the implication of the power to amend, alter or repeal, and its express
statement in a contract, that the case of New Jersey v. Yard,
95 U. S. 104, proceeded, and that case is therefore wholly
inapposite to the controversy here presented..
The argument predicated on what is said to be the peculiar
language of the act of 1856 is this: That act, whilst reserving
the right to amend or repeal "all charters and grants of or to
corporations, or amendments thereof, and all other statutes,"
accompanied- this reserved right with the restriction that it

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

should not be exercised where "a contrary intent be therein
plainly expressed, (in the act creating the right,) provided,
that whilst privileges and franchises so granted may be
changed or repealed, no amendment or repeal shall impair
other rights previously vested." The bank, it is asserted,
had under its charter a right to be taxed only to a limited
amount; and this, it is claimed, constituted a contract which
was surrendered on the theory that the Hewitt law was irrevocable, and if it were not so, then there was no surrender of the
right under the charter, and therefore it now exists. This contention, however, but states in another form the claims which
we have already disposed of. The charter was conferred on
the bank subsequent to the act of 1856, and the limit of taxation stated in the charter was therefore subordinated to that act
and subject to the exercise of the power of amendment or repeal. True it is, in F'anklin County Court v. Deposit Bank
of Fr.ankfort (June, 1888), 87 Kentucky., 370, 382, the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky decided that a grant, after the act of
1856, of an exemption from taxation for a designated time,
signified such a plain manifestation of the will of the legislature that the grant should not be subject to alteration or
amendment, that the right so conferred was therefore not
submitted to the paramount power of repeal or amendment
reserved by the act of 1856. This decision, however, was
rendered long after the enactment of the charter of the bank,
whose rights are now before us, and has been expressly overruled, by the Court of Appeals, in the case which we are
The doctrine settled by the adjudications of
reviewing.
this court is this: That the mere grant for a designated time
of an immunity from taxation does not take it out of the
rule subjecting such grant to the general law retaining the
power to amend or repeal, unless the granting act contain
an express provision to that effect. The doctrine on which
the argument depends is that any grant for a designated
time is by implication taken out of the general rule, even
although there be no express provision to that end in the
act making the grant.
The assertion that wherever it is stated in a legislative grant

CITIZENS' SAYINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

651

Opinion of the Court.

or charter that it is to last for a given period of time, therefore
such provision is a plain manifestation of the intention of the
legislature that the grant or charter shall not be repealed or
amended for the time for which it was declared that it should
exist, is fallacious, since it overlooks the consideration that the
limit of time fixed for the duration of the charter or grant,
like every other provision therein, is qualified by the reserved
power to alter, amend or repeal. It hence results that where
in a charter or grant enacted, when there is a general statute
reserving the power to repeal, alter or amend, a time is stated,
the granting act must be read just as if it declared that the
charter or grant should exist for a designated time, unless
sooner repealed, altered or amended. Indeed, reduced to its
final analysis, the argument that because in a grant or charter
a time is designated for its duration, it cannot, therefore, until
the expiration of such time, be repealed, altered or amended,
is equivalent to saying that the reserved power cannot
be exercised in any case of contract. For, if every case of
charter or grant where a time is fixed, either expressly or by
necessary construction in the charter or grant, is taken out
of the reach of the reserved power, it would follow that only
*those charters or grants which were determinable at will would
come under the control of the power reserved. But to say
this simply amounts to declaring that the reserved power
applies and can be enforced only in those cases where it
would be entirely unnecessary or useless to do so.
The source of the reservation, by many of the States in
general laws, of the power to amend, alter or repeal, was
fully reviewed in Greenwood v. Freight Company, 105 U. S.
13, where it was shown that such legislation had its origin in
the purpose to provide for a case exactly like the one before
us. Referring to the decision in Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, the court, through Mr. Justice Miller,
said (p. 20): "It was, no doubt, with a view to suggest a
method by which the state legislatures could retain in a large
measure this important power," (the power to repeal or amend,)
"without violating the Federal Constitution, that Mr. Justice
Story, in his concurring opinion in the Dartmouth College

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

case, suggested that when the legislature was enacting a
charter for a corporation, a provision in the statute reserving to the legislature the right to amend or repeal it must
be held to be a part of the contract itself, and the subsequent
exercise of the right would be in accordance with the contract,
and could not, therefore, impair its obligation. And he cites
with approval the observations we have already quoted from
the case of Males v. Stetson, 2 Mlass. 143. It would seem that
the States were not slow to avail themselves of this suggestion.

.

.

."

As then the limitation in the charter of the

bank was subject to repeal by the legislature, it cannot be
claimed that such exemption was vested in the bank, and was
therefore subject to be reinstated if the Hewitt Act was not
an irrevocable contract, even if the correctness of the claim
that this result would legally arise, if the charter had been
an irrevocable contract, be arguendo conceded.
It is urged that as the act of 1856 provides that other rights
previously vested could not be taken away by the repealing
act, therefore the exemption from taxation could not be withdrawn; but this is a mere form of restating the arguments already examined, and is tantamount to the reassertion of the
proposition that the limited taxation established by the Hewitt Act, or the one conferred by the charter, could not be
taken away at all. Referring to this subject, this court in
Greenwood v. Freight Complany, (ubi supra,) said (p. 17):

"Such an act may be amended; that is, it may be changed
by additions to its terms or by qualifications of the same. It
may be altered by the same power, and it may be repealed.
What is it that may be repealed ? It is the act of incorporation. It is this organic law on which the corporate existence
of the company depends which may be repealed, so that it
shall cease to be a law; or the legislature may adopt the
milder course of amending the law in matters which need
amendment, or altering it when it needs substantial change.
All this may be done at the pleasure of the legislature. That
body need give no reason for its action in the matter. The
validity of such action does not depend on the necessity for it
or on the soundness of the reasons which prompted it." In

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

.

653

Opinion of the Court.

considering what constituted vested rights, the court clearly
pointed out that rights of this character did not embrace mere
privileges or franchises conferred by the granting act, and
such rights obviously came within the power to repeal and
amend, and were not within the category of those taken out
of the reach of such power.
In the Greenwood case the reserved power was, by the general statute, authorized to be exercised "at the pleasure of
the legislature." But this qualification was decided in Hamilton Gas Light Company v. Hamilton City, 146 U. S. 258, 271,
to be no more comprehensive than the power which would
be implied from a general law simply reserving the right to
repeal, alter or amend.
Nor is there force in the claim that before the adoption of
the charter in question the courts of the State of Kentucky
had settled the law to be that vested rights would include a
mere privilege conferred by the granting act, and which*was
therefore necessarily subjected to the power to repeal or
amend if such power is to have any application at all. This
claim is based on what is assumed to have been decided in
Kentucky in Commissioners of the Sinking Fund v. Green &
Barren River Navigation Company, 79 Kentucky, 73, 75, 83.
The case has not the import attributed to it. The scope of the
question, in that case adjudged, was considered and commented
on by this court in Louisville Water Company v. Clark, 143
U. S. 1, 16, where it was said:
"But there is nothing in that case inconsistent with the
views we have expressed. It was there decided that the legislature could not consistently with the constitution, or with
the above statute of 1856, take from the Green and Barren
River Navigation Company, without making compensation
therefor, the right it acquired under a contract with the State,
concluded in 1868, to take, for a term of years, tolls from vessels navigating Green and Barren rivers, in consideration of its
agreement, which had been fully performed, to maintain and
keep in repair, at its own expense, such line of navigation.
The case before us presents no such features. As already indicated, in losing an exemption from taxation the water corn-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

pany regained its rights to make such charges for water,
furnished for fire protection, as it could rightfully have done
before the act of 1882 was passed, and whilst its property was
subject to taxation."
Finally, it is said that as at the time the Hewitt Act was
passed the rate of state taxation was lower than the sum of
taxation fixed by that act on the banks giving their assent to
it, therefore this increased sum over and above the amount of
state taxes paid by other taxpayers, to the State, constituted a
consideration received by the State, and created a vested right
of such a nature that the State could not repeal the Hewitt
Act without providing for the refunding of the sum paid the
State in excess of the state taxes paid by other taxpayers.
But this disregards the patent fact that whilst the amount of
the state taxes, paid by the bank under the Hewitt Act, was
larger than the taxes paid by other taxpayers to the State,
the bank was by the Hewitt Act relieved from all obligation to pay county and municipal taxes. As the bank had
at the time of the Hewitt Act no contract limiting the taxing power of the State which could not have been repealed,
it therefore could have been subjected by the State to the
same rate of county and municipal taxes resting upon other
taxpayers. It is not asserted that if this legislative power had
been exerted and the bank been compelled to pay the same
amount of taxation, for all governmental purposes, that other
property owners were obliged to pay that it would not have
contributed more than it was called upon to do under the
Hewitt Act. The claim therefore amounts to this: That because the Hewitt Act relieved the bank from a part of the
burden of taxation which rested upon the other taxpayers of
the State, and this relief from burden was purely the result of
the voluntary act of the lawmaker, that the power to remove
the privilege cannot be exerted without refunding to the bank
a portion of the lesser burden which it has paid. Thus to
analyze the proposition is to answer it.
Our conclusion being that there was no irrevocable contract
protecting the bank frof taxation, and therefore that the taxing law of Kentucky did not violate the contract clause of

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

655

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

the Constitution of the United States, it follows that the decree below must be and it is

Afflrmed.
M

. JUSTICE

BRowN dissenting.

The cogency with which the opinion of the court is expressed is calculated to awaken a distrust as to the soundness
of any conflicting views; but the very fact that the court to
which this writ of error was issued, only two years before the
decree was pronounced which this court has affirmed, came
to a precisely opposite conclusion upon the same state of facts,
indicates at least that the question is not free from a reasonable doubt. Indeed the judiciary of Kentucky appears to
be about equally divided upon the subject.
The dominant question in the case is whether the written
acceptance by the bank of the proposition contained in the
act of 1886, known as the Hewitt Act, constituted a contract
which neither the legislature nor the bank could repudiate at
pleasure. As stated in the opinion of the court, the bank
was chartered in 1884, with a provision that its life should
continue for thirty years, and that a payment of fifty cents
on each one hundred dollars of stock should "be in full of all
tax and bonus thereon of every kind." This charter fell under the provisions of the prior act of 1856, declaring that all
such charters should be subject to amendment or repeal at
the will of the legislature. There seems, however, to have
been some dispute as to whether, under the power to amend,
it was within the competency of the legislature to increase
this tax during the life of the charter, without a violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. To
settle this question beyond peradventure, the legislature, in
1886, inaugurated a new policy, and in the Hewitt Act made
a distinct proposition that, if the banks and corporations interested, with the consent of the majority in interest of their
stockholders, at a regular meeting thereof, should give their
consent to the levying of a tax of seventy-five cents on each
share equal to one hundred dollars, and agree to pay the same
as therein provided, and would agree to waive and release all

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

right under the act of Congress, or under their charters, to a
different mode or smaller rate of taxation, and should evidence
such consent by writing under the seal of the bank delivered
to the Governor of the Commonwealth, "such bank and its
shares of stock should be exempt from all other taxation
whatever, so long as said tax shall be paid during the corporate existence of such bank." There was a further provision that, in case of refusal to enter into this compact, the
bank should be assessed as directed by a previous section, and
such state, county and municipal taxes imposed as were imposed on the assessed taxable property in the hands of individuals.
It is true that this act was made expressly subject to the
prior act of 1856, declaring that all charters and grants to corporations should be subject to amendment or repeal at the
will of the legislature; but this very act limited the power tb
repeal and amend to cases where a "contrary intent" was not
"therein plainly expressed." In other words, that while such
charters or grants were generally subject to amendment or
repeal, if language were used by the legislature indicating
clearly an intention that the privileges and franchises therein granted should not be subject to amendment or repeal, it
was perfectly competent to do so, and the stipulation was
binding. There was a further provision that no amendment
or repeal should "impair other rights previously vested." Hlow
then could such intent to limit its own powers be manifested
by the legislature? It will probably be conceded that, if the
grant or charter contained a clause to the effect than any
particular privilege therein granted should not be subject to
amendment or repeal, it would be sufficient; but it seems to
me equally clear that if it contained other language plainly
evincing an intent that a particular clause should be irrepealable for a certain length of time; or, if it contained a proposition from which the legislature could not withdraw without
a breach of faith toward those who had accepted its terms, it
could not be intended that such contract, if accepted, should
be subject to repudiation. Conceding to its fullest extent the
doctrine of the Dartmouth College case, that the charter of

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANLK v. OWENSBORO.

657

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

a corporation is a contract, it follows that so far as it is a
charter it is, under the act of 1856, subject to amendment
or repeal; but so far as the legislature departs from the main
object of the charter of granting privileges and franchises, and
invites its corporations to enter into written contracts with it,
requires such contracts to be executed in an unusual form, and
to receive the consent, not only of the directors but of a majority of its stockholders, and, further, that they be made
under seal and delivered to the Governor of the Commonwealth, that then it evinces an intent as clearly as language
can express it that such contract shall be binding, and that, in
respect thereto, it yields up its right to amendment or repeal.
New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104. To hold that a contract
thus solemnly entered into may be repudiated at the next
session of the legislature is practically to say that the legislature may set a trap for its corporations, and that after it has
enticed them into it by the offer of more favorable terms than
they otherwise could obtain, may repudiate its own obligations,
without restoring to the corporations what it bad previously
induced them to give up.
The difficulty with the position of the court is, that it renders it impossible for the Commonwealth to enter into a contract with one of its own corporations, which it may not
repudiate at the next session of its legislature. If capital may
be enticed into the State under its solemn promise that certain
privileges shall be granted, or that it shall be subject to a certain specified rate of taxation, which may be withdrawn at any
moment, it can scarcely complain if foreign capital refuses to
be tempted by such illusory offers. I see no reason why, under
the decision of the court, if the legislature should enter into a
compact with one of its own corporations to perform a great
public work, it may not, after capital has been largely invested
therein, and the work enterbd upon, under the guise of amending the grant, abrogate its contract and leave the corporation
practically defenceless. Indeed it seems to nie that it is not
creditable to the legislature to impute to it an intent to subject corporations, which had accepted the benefits of the Iewitt Act, to the rate of taxation prescribed by the act of 1892,
1 vOL. cLx=x--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

providing for wholly different modes of assessment and taxation, and that it is more reasonable to assume that the taxing
officers of the city of Owensboro exceeded their authority in
attempting to exact the taxes in question.
The cases cited in the opinion of the court are not in conflict
with the position here assumed. In Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15
Wall. 454, it was decided that an act of the legislature of South
Carolina, passed in 1851, incorporating the Northeastern Railroad Company, and a subsequent act passed in 1855, providing
that its stock should be exempt from taxation during the continuance of the charter, were subservient to a general act
passed in 1841, reserving the right to amend, alter or repeal
every such charter, unless the act granting such charter should
in express terms except it. As the amended charter in question
contained no clause excepting it from the provisions of the
general act of 1841, it was held that its property might be
taxed by subsequent legislation. The case differs from the
one under consideration in the fact that the amended charter
contained no exception taking it out of the act of 1841, and
that there was no express contradt in that charter that no tax
should be subsequently imposed. There was nothing to indicate that this charter was not intended to fall within the restrictions of the act of 1841.
In IRailroad Company v. 3faine, 96 U. S. 199, there was a
similar general law, passed in 1831, declaring any act of incorporation liable to be amended, altered or repealed at the .pleasure of the legislature, unless there was "an express limitation
or provision to the contrary." It was held that an act of the
legislature passed in 1856, authorizing corporations to consolidate and form a new corporation, was an act of incorporation
of a new company, and, there being in this act no limitation
upon the power of amendment, alteration and repeal, the State
retained the power to alter it in all particulars, constituting
the grant of corporate rights, privileges and immunities to the
new company, and that a limitation upon the taxing power of
the State prescribed in the charters of the old companies ceased
upon their consolidation, though it was said that "rights and
interests acquired by the company, not constituting a part of

CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

659

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

the contract of incorporation, stand upon a different footing." In its application to this case it is subject to the same
criticism as that of Tomlinson v. Jessup.
The case of the Louisville Mater Company v. Clark, 143
U. S.1, arose under the same act of Kentucky of 1856. In that
case, an imnlunity from taxation, conferred upon the water
company by an act passed in 1882, was withdrawn by a subsequent act passed in 1886, and it was held that as the act of
1882 contained no clause that "plainly expressed" an intention not to exercise the power reserved by the statute of 1856
to amend or repeal, at the will of the legislature, all charters
or grants to corporations, the act was subject to that general
statute for the very reason that there was no "contrary intent"
The opinion harmonizes completely
"plainly expressed."
with the position here assumed, and contains a clear inference
that where a subsequent act plainly evinces an intention on
the part of the legislature that the general statute of 1856
should not apply, such intention will be respected and will
control the operation of the general statute. If the Hewitt
Act does not evince such intention, of course the whole argument falls to the ground; but it seems to me that its language
in this particular is too clear to be disregarded.
The recent case of Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231, is
of the same tenor. An act passed in 1886, authorizing the city
of Covington to build a system of water works, contained a
provision that they should "remain forever exempt from state,
county and city tax." This was held to be subject to the act
of 1856, providing for the amendment or repeal at the will of
the legislature, unless a contrary intent be therein plainly expressed. It was very properly held that there was nothing in
the act of 1886 plainly expressing an intent that the provision
exempting the property from taxation was not subject to repeal; but the whole theory of this dissent is embodied in the
proposition that there was in the Hewitt Act a plainly expressed intent that it should not be amended or repealed to
the prejudice of banks accepting its terms. There was a plain
intimation in that opinion that if the act of 1886 had contained
evidence of such intent it would have been held to repeal the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

act of 1856 to that extent. "Before a statute," said the court,
-"
particularly one relating to taxation, - should be held to
be irrepealable, or not subject to amendment, an intent not
to repeal or amend must be so directly and unmistakably expressed as to leave no room for doubt; otherwise the intent
is not plainly expressed. It is not so expressed when the existence of the intent arises only from inference or conjecture."
Such intent was found by this court in iVew fersey v. Yard,
95 U. S. 104, in the fact that there was in the supplemental
charter of the corporation, precisely as in the Hlewitt Act, (1)
a subject of dispute and fair adjustment of it for a valuable
consideration on both sides; (2) the contract assumed, by
legislative requirement, the shape of a formal written contract; (3) the terms of the contract, that "this tax shall be
in lieu and satisfaction of all other taxation or imposition
whatsoever by or under the authority of this State or any
law thereof," excluded in view of the whole transaction, the
right of the State to revoke it at pleasure. There was the
same provision as in the IHewitt Act, that the section providing for a commutation of taxes should not go into effect,
or be binding upon the company, until it had signified its
assent under its corporate seal and filed it in the office of the
secretary of State. The language of Mr. Justice Miller is so
pertinent that I cannot forbear quoting the following paragraph: "Can it be believed that it was intended by either
party to this contract that, after it was signed by both parties, one was bound forever, and the other only for a day?
That it was intended to be a part of the contract that the
State of New Jersey was, at her option, to be bound or not?
That there was implied in it, when it was offered to the acceptance of the company, the right on the part of the legislature to alter or amend it at pleasure? If the State intended
to reserve this right, what necessity for asking the company to
accept in such formal manner the terms of a contract which
the State could at any time make to suit itself?" I find it
difficult to see how that case and the one under consideration
can stand together.
So far as the Court of Appeals of Kentucky had spoken

CITIZENS' SAYINGS BANK v. OWENSBORO.

661

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

upon this question, prior to the decision which is here affirmed,
it was uniformly in favor of the position taken in this dissent.
In F'anklin County Court v. Deposit Bank of Frankfort, 87
Kentucky, 370, it was held that an act which continued the
life of a charter to a period beyond the time fixed for its expiration, and reserved the corporate organization, privileges,
powers, duties and rights, was an extension of an old charter,
and not the grant of a new one; that an act passed in 1858,
"plainly expressed" an intention that the act of 1856 should
not apply to it, and that such intent was evinced by the provision that the appellee bank should establish a branch at
Columbus; "that the amount of its circulation should not
be greater than the amount of its capital stock actually paid
in; that it should, in addition to the fifty cents per share of
its capital stock, pay annually fifty cents upon each one hundred dollars of its contingent fund; that it should be subject
to all the limitations, conditions and duties imposed upon it
by the act of incorporation; that it should formally accept
the terms of extension."
I desire only to add that in Commonwealth v. Farmers'
Bank of JTentucky, 97 Kentucky, 590, it was held, by the
same majority of the court which subsequently overruled it,
that there existed in the Hewitt Act "every element of a
contract between the State and the banks and, with such a
consideration as will uphold it, no reasonable doubt can be
entertained that such was the purpose of the parties to it."
"We are satisfied," said the court, "after a careful consideration of this question, that the parties making the contract
never contemplated or intended that the act of 1856 should
apply to this contract after its acceptance by the banks, and
that such an acceptance was necessary to make the contract
complete between the parties." The argument is a powerful
demonstration of the existence of an irrevocable contract;
but the Court of Appeals subsequently overruled this decision,
and this court has affirmed its action, and in addition thereto
has pronounced an opinion seemingly so inconsistent with New
Jersey v. Yard, as to practically amount to an overruling of
that case. These cases, however, are but a reaffirmance of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

principle which the same court had previously laid down in
Commissioners of Sinking Fund v. Green & Barren River
lTavigation Co., '79 Kentucky, '73, and Commonwealth v.
Owensboro &c. Railroad, 95 Kentucky, 60, that a distinct
contract contained in a charter was not subject to the act
of 1856. Indeed, I do not understand upon what other theory
a positive acceptance of the taxation imposed by the Hewitt
Act was required of these banks.

'DEPOSIT BANK OF OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 149. Argued February 27, 28, 1899. -Decided

April 3, 1899.

Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, ante, 636, followed.

Tnis case was argued with the Citizens' Savings Bank case.
Mr. W. T. Ellis for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Chaeze Wathen and .&r. J. D. Atclison for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The relief sought by the plaintiff in error was the nullity of
certain taxes levied by the city of Owensboro for the years
1893 and 18941. The grounds upon which this relief was
prayed are in all material respects like unto those relied on in
the two cases against the city of Owensboro, just decided.
The charter and an amendment extending the same were
both enacted after the act of 1856.
Indeed, this case along with the other two were disposed of
by the Kentucky Court of Appeals in the same opinion, because of the identity of the questions presented.
For reasons given in the opinion in Citizens' Savings

