OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Court, and their construction and application were directly
involved.
Appeal dismissed.
MVR. JUSTICE BROWN took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this motion.

,UARANTEE COMPANY v. M ECHANICS' SAVINGS
BANK AND TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 224. Argued March 16,1899.-Decided April 3,1899.

A Circuit Court of Appeals is without jurisdiction to review a decree of a
Circuit Court when that decree, as in this case, was not a final one.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
ffi. TMilliamrL. Granbery for the Guarantee Company.
.21&. Albert D. fa2'ks was on his brief.
JXr. Eward B. East for Savings Bank & Trust Co.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in this suit - originally brought in the Chancery Court at Nashville, Tennessee, and subsequently removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of Tennessee -is the Mechanics' Savings Bank and Trust
Company, a Tennessee corporation suing to the use of James
J. Prior, assignee, under a general assignment of all the assets,
rights and credits of that company in trust for the benefit of
creditors.
The principal defendant is the Guarantee Company of North
America, a corporation created under the laws of the Dominion of Canada.
From January 16, 1888, to January 1, 1893, Schardt was

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' S. B. & TRUST CO.

583

Opinion of the Court.

teller and collector and from the latter date until his death
was cashier of the plaintiff, company.
The object of the present suit is to have an accounting and
a decree as to the amount due the plaintiff on two bonds erzecuted by the Guarantee Company of North America to the
Mechanics' Savings Bank and Trust Company; one, insuring
the latter corporation against such pecuniary loss as it might
sustain on account of the fraudulent acts of Schardt as teller
and collecter; the other, insuring the same corporation against
pecuniary loss by reason of fraudulent acts by him in his office
of cashier.
The bill alleges that while acting as teller and collector of
the plaintiff company Schardt fraudulently embezzled of its
moneys the sum of $78,956.11, of which $50,856.77 was embezzled during the year ending January 1, 1893; and that
during the period covered by the bond insuring his fidelity as
cashier he fraudulently appropriated of the plaintiff's moneys
the sum of $22,817.30.
The bill also alleged that a few days before his death
Schardt assigned to the plaintiff company, as additional indemnity for the losses he had brought upon it, certain policies
on his life amounting to $80,000; that upon those policies
$20,000 had been collected, and the residue was in dispute;
and that Schardt did not give any direction as to which of the
bonds insuring his fidelity the insurance moneys when collected should be applied.
The Guarantee Company in its answer insisted that by reason of the violation of the terms and conditions upon which
the bonds in question were issued it was not liable to the
plaintiff in any sum.
By the decree in the Circuit Court it was adjudged that
the amount embezzled by Schardt during the years 1890 and
1891 had been paid out of the assets and collections transferred
by him to the bank just before his death; that his embezzlements from and after September 1, 1890, and up to January 1,
1893, amounted, principal and interest, to $52,736.17, while his
embezzlements during his term as cashier amounted, principal
and interest, to $23,128.69 ; and that the total amount, princi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

pal and interest, of all his embezzlements while occupying the
two positions of teller and cashier, was $107,223.36.
The decree continued:
"It appearing that Schardt had assigned to the bank to
indemnify it against loss, two lots of land assigned to J. B.
Richardson and life insurance policies amounting to $80,000,
some of which policies have been paid to the assignee without
suit, and others are now in litigation in this court, or pending
on appeal or writ of error to the appellate court of this circuit,
held at Cincinnati, the court adjudges upon inspection of said
guaranty bonds, their terms and various conditions, and the
proof submitted, that the bank has complied with the same
and all its undertakings thereunder, substantially; and that
said Schardt embezzled and fraudulently appropriated the
moneys of the bank while he filled said two positions, to the
amounts named; and that interest should be calculated upon
said sums from the end of his respective terms.
"The court, after considering the various and numerous
defences set up by defendant company, why a recovery should
not be had upon either of said bonds, or both, in favor of
complainant, is pleased to disallow each and all of said defences, and to order, adjudge and decree that complainant
have its decree or judgment against the defendant, the Guarantee Company, upon each of said bonds with interest from
the time the same should have been paid according to the
terms of said bonds, and for the costs.
"That complainant have judgment on the teller's and collector's bond for the sum of ten thousand dollars principal and
the further sum of seven hundred and seventy dollars, being
interest at six per cent from 9th of April, 1894, to July 1,
1895; and that complainant have judgment on the cashier's
bond against defendant Guarantee Company for the sum of
twenty thousand dollars principal and the further sum of
$1540.00 interest thereon from April 9, 1894, to July 1, 1895,
making in the aggregate of principal and interest on both
bonds the sum of thirty-two thousand three hundred and ten
dollars ($32,310.00) with interest thereon until paid, and the
costs of this suit.

GUARANTEE CO. v. -ECHANICS' S. B. & TRUST CO. 585
Opinion of the Court.

"And the court orders and decrees that the liability of the
defendant, the Guarantee Company, is secondary to that of
John Schardt's estate; and that the bank or its assignee shall
account for all collections realized on assets or collaterals
turned over to the bank by said Schardt to reimburse it
against his shortage, which it has collected, or with due
diligence may collect hereafter; and for his fitness, and for
convenience, H. 'At. Doak is appointed master commissioner
to report the same to the next term of this court; and the
court orders that the same be applied to the shortage of said
Schardt in the order in which the same occurred, and in the
meantime no execution will issue against defendants for the
same, but only. for the costs; and the court orders that this
cause may be continued upon the docket of this court, for the
purpose only of making any orders necessary to apply all
collections from the assets of Schardt, held as collateral, in
exoneration, to that extent, of the defendant company and of
substituting the defendant to the rights of the bank, in case
the recovery herein is collected or paid and any of said assets
remain above the amount necessary to satisfy the shortage.
But the case is retained for no other purpose, and the decree
against defendant company is final as fixing its liability on
the bonds to make good the shortage, whatever that may
be. This decree is entered in lieu of one entered at a former
day of the term and the decree formerly entered is hereby
vacated." 68 Fed. Rep. 459.
Upon appeal prosecuted by the Guarantee Company to the
Circuit Court of Appeals the decree was affirmed. 54 U. S.
App. 108. The case is here upon writ of certiorari.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was without jurisdiction to
review the decree of the Circuit Court because that decree
was not a final one. 26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517, ยง 6. The Circui" Court disallowed all of the defence's made by the Guarantee Company and adjudged that upon the showing made
that company was primarily liable to the extent of the penalty of each bond, with interest. But the liability of the
defendant company was held to be secondary to that of
Schardt's estate which was in course of administration, and

OCTOBER TERMTI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount for which it could be held finally liable on execution was left to be ascertained by a master commissioner who
was directed to take into account "all collections realized on
assets or collaterals turned over to the bank by Schardt to
reimburse it against his shortage," or which the bank "with
due diligence may collect hereafter;" and the case was retained for the purpose of fixing the amount of this ultimate
liability to make good Schardt's shortage, "whatever that
may be." In effect, the Circuit Court only determined that
none of the defences were good in law, and that the Guarantee Company was liable on its bonds for such sum as might
thereafter be found to be due after crediting the amounts
that might be realized from the assets turned over to the
plaintiff bank by Schardt. Notwithstanding the company's
defences were adjudged to be bad in law, it remained for the
Circuit Court by proper orders to accomplish the object of
the suit, namely, to ascertain the amount for which the plaintiff was entitled to judgment and execution. When that
amount is judicially ascertained and fixed by a final decree,
the adjudication of the cause will be completed for all the
purposes of an appeal; and if the decree be affirmed the Circuit Court will then have nothing to do but to carry it into
execution. .RailroadCo. v. Swasey, 23 Wall. 405, 409; Green
v. Fisk, 103 U. S. 518, 519; Dainese v. Zendall, 119 U. S. 53,
54; Lodge v. Twell, 135 U. S. 232, 235.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals afirming the
judgment of the Circuit Court is reversedfor want of
jurisdiction in the former court, and the cause is remanded with directions to dismiss the appeal prosecuted
to that court, and for such furtherproceedings in the Circuit Court as may be consistent with law.

