OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

on other grounds, dissented, I prefer to place my dissent on
what seems to me the discrimination which the statute inevitably creates.

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEMENT
APPEAL FRO'

COMPANY.

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 119.

Argued and submitted January 10, 11, 1599. -Decided

February 20, 1899.

Under the act of March 8, 1895, of the legislature of the Territory of Arizona, relating to convict labor and the leasing of the same, the board of
control thereby created and given charge of all charitable, penal and
reformatory institutions then existing, or which might thereafter be
created in the Territory, could not dispense with the bond required by

the statute to be given by the person or persons leasing the labor of the
convicts, for the faithful performance of their contract; and no contract

made by the board leasing the labor of the convicts could become binding upon the Territory, until a bond, such as the statute required, was
executed by the lessee and approved by the board.
In this case as it appears that no such bond was executed, the plaintiff was
not in a position to ask relief by mandamus.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

fMr. Charles F. A'insworth, Attorney General of Arizona,
and XMr. L. E. Payson for appellant, submitted on their brief.
-Mr.Eugene S. Ives for appellee.
on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

_Hr. L. H Chalmers was

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of the legislative assembly of the Territory of
Arizona, approved March 8, 1895, the governor and auditor
of the Territory, together with one citizen to be appointed by
the governor with the advice and consent of the council,
were constituted a board of control and given charge of all
charitable, penal and reformatory institutions then existing or
which might thereafter be created in the Territory.
It was provided by the ninth section of the act that the

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.

339

Opinion of the Court.

board of control, after qualifying and entering upon their
duties, should have full control over the territorial insane asylum, the territorial reform school and territorial prison, together with all property, buildings and lands belonging thereto
or that should thereafter be acquired. That section further
provided: "Sixty days after the passage of this act they shall
have the power and authority to enter into an agreement or
agreements with a responsible person or persons, to lease on
shares or for cash the property, buildings and lands or any
part thereof now belonging to the Territory, wherever said
buildings and lands may be located, or that may hereafter be
acquired for the purpose of furnishing employment for the
inmates of the said territorial prison and the said territorial reform school. The said board shall have the authority to contract with a responsible person or persons to furnish the labor
of the inmates now within the said reform school or said
prison, or that may hereafter be confined therein, or any number of them, for the best interests of the Territory; provided,
however, that at no time shall the labor of the inmates of the
said territorial prison or territorial reform school be leased
to any person or persons when the labor of the inmates of
said institution is required upon any buildings or properties
of the aforesaid institutions, and no lease or contract shall be
made that will obligate the Territory to furnish tools, machinery or money, or make other expenditure other than the
labor of the inmates, properly clothed and fed, and. the proper
guards for same, together with the use of the property, buildings and lands heretofore mentioned; provided, that no contract or lease shall be made to extend for a term of more than
ten years from the time of making said lease or contract. And
the said board may contract to allow such labor to be performed at any place either inside or outside the prison walls
or the confines of the reform school, but if a contract be
made to allow labor to be performed outside of the prison
walls or confines of the reform school, it must be done under
proper restrictions, having regard for the safety of the prisoners or inmates. A good and sufficient bond must be given
by the person or persons leasing the labor of inmates of the

OCTOBER TERM:, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid institutions for the faithful performance of such contract; said bond to be approved by the board of control."
Laws of Arizona, 1895, pp. 20, 22.
This statute being in force, a written agreement was made
December 2, 1896, between "the Territory of Arizona, by
L. C. Hughes, Governor, C. P. Leitch, auditor, and AL I.
McCord, constituting the board of control of the Territory
of Arizona," of the first part, and the State of Arizona Improvement Company, of the second part. That agreement
contained among other provisions the following:
"The party of the second part having submitted its good
and sufficient bond for the faithful performance of this contract, which said bond has been approved by the said board
of control, and each of its members, and is herewith delivered
and accepted, the said party of the first part, for and in consideration of the covenants and agreements hereinafter mentioned, reserved and contained on their part, and on behalf of
the said party of the second part to be done and kept and performed, hath granted, bargained, demised, leased and to farm
letten to said party of the second part, its successors and asalso all the labor of
signs, all that certain real estate; . .
or who
penitentiary,
territorial
in
the
now
convicts
the male
the
to
hold
and
to
have
therein,
may hereafter be confined
the
secof
said
party
unto
convicts
penitentiary
labor of said
ond part, and to its assigns, for the term of ten years from
the date of these presents; and the lands and premises above
described for and during and until the end of the full term of
ten years to be fully completed and ended, and it is further
stipulated and agreed by and between the parties hereto that
in the event of the removal of the territorial prison from
Yuma County, Territory of Arizona, to any other portion of
the Territory, such removal will in no way, manner, shape or
form interfere with the conditions, stipulations and covenants
of this contract and lease.
"It is further understood, stipulated and agreed by and
between the parties hereto, that the party of the second part
is to have the eiclusive control of the labor of the convicts
in the territorial prison from 8 o'clock A.m. to 5 o'clock P.i.,

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.

341

Opinion of the Court.

during the said term of ten years from the date of these presents, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
"It is further agreed by and between the parties hereto
that the party of the first part, or its agent or agents, will
furnish the said convict labor to the party of the second part,
at the place or places designated by the said party of the second part, or its agents, in Yuma County, Arizona Territory,
properly guarded, clothed, fed and ready to commence work
at the hours and terms heretofore mentioned, and the party
of the first part shall properly guard said convicts during the
hours of labor. The party of the second part is to furnish all
the tools and machinery necessary for the use of the convicts
while at work under the conditions of this contract and lease,
but the said party of the first part shall not be compelled to
take outside of the prison, under guard, parties of less than
five convicts.
"The superintendent of the prison or agent of the Territory
having the convicts in charge shall be required to furnish the
convicts in such numbers as may be required from time to
time up to the amount of all the able-bodied male convicts;
to deliver them at such points or places in Yuma County, as
may be demanded of him, by the party of the second part,
its agent or agents. :The party of the second part further
agrees to keep a current and accurate account of the number of days worked by convicts, and on the first Monday
of each calendar month to make a statement of the total
number of days done the previous month by all the convicts
employed by the said party of the second part, and shall
furnish a copy of the said statement to the Superintendent
of the territorial prison, properly verified by an agent of the
company.
"The said party of the second part agrees to compensate
the party of the first part for such convict labor as follows, to
wit: The value of each convict's labor shall be placed at 70
cents per day, and as soon as the party of the first part has
furnished convict labor at the rate of 70 cents per day, aggregating the sum of sixteen hundred dollars, the party of the
second part shall issue its perpetual water-right deed for eighty

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

acres of land, of the water in its canal, when such canal is
completed.
"It is further covenanted and agreed, by and between the
parties hereto, that after the water rights hereinbefore provided for are earned by said party of the first part, then as
soon as the labor of convicts at the rate of 70 cents per day,
for each day's labor, amounts to sixteen hundred dollars, the
party of the second part shall issue water-right certificates for
one eighty-acre water right.
"It is further stipulated by and between the parties hereto
in consideration of the covenants herein contained, that the
said party of the second part is to use such of said convicts'
this contract and lease as it may from time to time
labor require, and such party of the second part need not commence
to use any of said labor sooner than five months from the date
hereof.
"It is further stipulated and agreed by and between the
parties hereto, in consideration of the covenants herein contained, to be performed by each of the parties hereto, and in
consideration of the convict labor herein mentioned, that the
lease of the lands herein described shall commence on and
from the day when the water shall be conducted in the canal
of the party of the second part to lands, convenient for the
said water to be conducted upon the said lands hereinbefore
described, and shall terminate ten years thereafter; and that
the party of the second part shall pay to the party of the first
part, as rent therefor, an annual sum, to be hereafter determined upon in cash, or at the option of the party of the second
part, one half of the net products of the said lands; provided,
however, that the said lease shall commence to run within four
years from date.
"It is further agreed, covenanted and declared that these
presents are made, executed and delivered for the best interest
of the Territory of Arizona, and for the purpose of furnishing
employment for the inmates of the said territorial prisonthe labor of said inmates being not required upon any buildings or properties of any institution of said Territory."
On the 22d day of April, 1896, it was agreed in writing

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.

343

Opinion of the Court.

between the parties as follows: "The time for commencing
work under this contract is hereby extended to the 10th day
of June, 1896, and it is fully understood and agreed by the
parties hereto that this extension is in no way to affect the
legal status of said contract. It is understood and agreed
that the rights of the parties thereto are to remain in statu
quo, and the extension herein made is not intended to ratify,
alter or impair said contract or to give it any validity whatsoever that it does not before the signing of this instrument
possess."
Later, a supplemental agreement in writing was made between the same parties, but in the view which the court takes
of this case it need not be set out in this opinion.
On the 26th day of May, 1896, the State of Arizona Improvement Company filed its complaint in the district court of the
third judicial district of the Territory in and for the county
of Yuma, in which reference was made to the above agreements with the board of control, and in which it was alleged
that it was a corporation organized under the laws of the Territory; that M. J. Nugent, a resident of Yuma County, was
the superintendent of the territorial prison at Yuma, and as
such had full control of the prisoners confined in that prison,
subject only to the direction of, the board of control of the
Territory; that on the 25th day of May, 1896, the plaintiff
company demanded in writing of said Nugent, superintendent
aforesaid, that in pursuance of the contract between it and
said board of control he furnish to plaintiff on the 2d day of
June, 1896, at 8 A.M., ten able-bodied male convicts out of the
territorial prison at Yuma, properly guarded, on the outside
of the gate of the territorial prison; that on the next day
N-ugent served a written notice on the plaintiff, whereby he
peremptorily declined to furnish the convict labor at such
time and place or at any time and place; and that the plaintiff had not a plain, speedy or adequate remedy in the ordinary
course of law.
The complaint was supported by the affidavit of the president of the plaintiff company.
The relief asked was that a writ of mandamus issue, directed

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to Nugent, superintendent of the territorial prison, directing
and commanding him to furnish to the plaintiff ten ablebodied male convicts out of the territorial prison at Yuma,
on the 2d day of June, 1896, on the outside of the prison gate
at Yuma, properly guarded; and that plaintiff have such
other and further relief as to the court seemed meet and just.
An alternative writ of mandamus was issued, and Nugent,
as superintendent of the prison, excepted to the sufficiency
of the complaint, and demurred thereto upon these grounds:
1. That the complaint did not state facts sufficient to authorize a writ of mandamus. 2. That the plaintiff sought to compel the performance of an act by the respondent as superintendent of the territorial prison which the law did not
specially enjoin upon him as a duty resulting from his office.
3. That the petition sought to compel the performance of
a contract made by others and not by respondent. 4. That
the alleged contract was void, because authorized only by a
pretended law which was void.
Nugent also filed an answer, alleging, among other things,
that there was a want of proper parties defendant; that the
Territory had no power to hire out the convicts confined in
the territorial prison who had not been sentenced to punishment with hard labor, nor to authorize the convicts to be
taken out and away from the territorial prison where punishment and sentence was by confinement in such prison;
that the board of control had no power to make the contract
sought to be enforced; that the contract was itself without
consideration and in violation of the act of Mlarch 8, 1895, in
that it was for a period of over ten years; that the contract
took the entire convict labor for the period just named in
violation of the provisions of the act providing that said labor
should not be leased out when it was needed to work on the
buildings and premises of the territory; and that the contract
was against public policy in authorizing all the prisoners to be
taken from the prison and to remain away from it in many
cases for the entire period of their sentence.
The answer also averred "that as the duly appointed, qualified and acting superintendent of the territorial prison at

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEM-ENT COMPANY.

35

Opinion of the Court.

Yuma, Arizona, previous to the service of the alternative writ
herein, this defendant was advised and informed by the Honorable B. J. Franklin, as Governor of the Territory of Arizona,
that the said pretended contract mentioned in the application
herein was and is of no valid force and effect, and further
advised and informed in substance and to the effect that said
contract was not of any legal force or binding effect upon
said Territory or said board of control, and, among other
things concerning the same, the said Honorable B. J. Franklin,
acting as such Governor, authorized and directed this defendant in substance and to the effect that in the event that the said
State of Arizona Improvement Company should, by its officers
or agents, make a demand upon this defendant to do or perform anything under the provisions of said contract, and especially if such demand should be made for the delivery of any
prisoners confined in or inmates of said penitentiary to the said
company, its officers or agents, at the gate of said prison or
elsewhere, that this defendant, acting as such superintendent,
should politely, but firmly, refuse such request or any request
made or to be made under the provisions of said pretended
contract; that acting under the advice and information given
by the Honorable B. J. Franklin, Governor of this Territory,
and of the direction of the head of the executive department
of this Territory, this defendant alleges that he made the refusal complained of in the application herein and not otherRespondent further avers and gives the court
.
wise.
to know that the State of Arizona Improvement Company has
not, before the institution of these proceedings, executed and
filed a good and sufficient bond enforceable in a court of law
in any of the courts of this Territory for the faithful performance of said contract, as required by said pretended board of
control act."
The case was heard in the district court on the complaint
and the demurrer and answer. The demurrer of the defendant was overruled, and the contracts set forth in the complaint
were the only evidence adduced at the trial. The defendant
having declined to amend the pleadings or to offer further
evidence, and having elected to stand upon the pleadings, the

OCTOBER TERM-,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

court found for the plaintiff, and ordered a peremptory writ
of mandamus to issue.
A new trial having been refused, the case was carried to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, where the judgment of the
district court was affirmed.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of the Territory
erred in affirming the judgment of the district court awarding a writ of mandamus against the defendant Nugent.
The statute under the authority of which the board of control made the contracts referred to in the complaint expressly
required a good and sufficient bond to be given by the person
or persons leasing the labor of inmates of the territorial prison
for the faithful performance of such contract, which bond was
to be approved by the board. The complaint asking for a
mandamus against the superintendent of the prison did not
distinctly allege the execution of such bond. But the answer
of Nugent alleged that the defendant in error had not, prior
to the institution of these proceedings, executed and filed a
good and sufficient bond enforceable in a court of law in any
court of the Territory for the faithful performance of its contract, as required by the act of March 8, 1895. That act it is
true did not in terms require the execution and delivery of
a bond prior to or contemporaneously with the making of a
contract with the board of control. But it is clear that the
board could not dispense with the bond, and that no contract
made by them leasing the labor of the convicts could become
binding upon the Territory until a bond such as the statute
requires was executed by the lessee and approved by the board.
The recital in the agreement of December 2, 1896, that the
lessee had submitted, and that the Board had approved, a
good and sufficient bond for the faithful performance of that
agreement, may have been made in the expectation that such
a bond would be executed before the agreement became effective as between the parties. But as the case was heard upon
the pleadings, without any evidence except the written agreements between the board of control and the Improvement
Company, the mere recital referred to cannot be taken as sufficient to disprove the averment in the answer as to the non-

NUGENT v. ARIZONA IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.

347

Opinion of the Court.

execution of the required bond. If the plaintiff was entitled
to the relief asked by a proceeding against the superintendent,
without bringing the members of the board of control before
the court, it should have shown by allegation and proof that
the required bond had been executed. If no bond was executed as required by the statute, the plaintiff was not in a
position to ask relief by mandamus. The superintendent of
the prison may not have been charged by law with knowledge
of the provisions of the statute, but he was aware of its provisions, and was bound not to allow the convicts to go beyond
his control under an agreement that did not conform to the
statute. An agreement unaccompanied by the required bond
would not justify him in surrendering custody and control of
the convicts or any of them. As it must be taken upon the
present record that the Improvement Company never executed
the bond required by the statute, the district court erred in
giving any relief.
Under the circumstances, it may not be inappropriate to say
that in the printed brief of the Attorney General of Arizona
it is distinctly stated that no bond had ever been executed,
and that statement is not disputed in the printed brief subsequently filed for appellee, nor was it disputed by counsel for
appellee in oral argument.
Without expressing any opinion in reference to other questions discussed by counsel, some of which are important, the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is for the
reasons stated
Reversed, with directions to remand the case to the district
court for such further proceedings as ?iay be consistent
with this opinion and with law, and it is so ordered.

