OCTOBER TERI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

facts in this case, so far as they bear upon the question in controversy, are precisely similar to the one just decided, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona is therefore
Affirmed.

BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
JOY.
,,a

2

iCERTIFICATE

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
1051 2liI

is,

226
9d 677
2612
10161

No. 129.

Submitted Jamnary NS, 1899.-Decided February 20,

169D.

An action, pending in the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in
Ohio, brought by an injured person as plaintiff, to recover damages for
injuries sustained by the negligence of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company in operating its road in Indiana, does not finally abate upon
the death of the plaintiff before trial and judgment, but may be revived
and prosecuted to judgment by his executor or administrator, duly
appointed by the proper court in Ohio.
A right given by a statute of a State to revive a pending action for personal injuries in the name of the personal representative of a deceased
plaintiff is not lost upon the removal of the case into a. Federal court.
Whether a pending action may be revived in a Federal court upon the death
of. either party, and proceed to judgment, depends primarily upon the
laws of the jurisdiction in which the action was commenced, and in the
present case is not affected in any degree by the fact that the deceased
received his injuries in Indiana.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh E. Bond, Jr., and -Mr.J R. Collins for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.

No appearance for Joy.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAw

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is before us upon a question of law certified by
the Judges of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit under the sixth section of the act of March
3, 1891, c. 517, 96 Stat. 826.

BALTIM\'ORE & 0HI0 RAILROAD CO. v. JOY.

227

Opinion of the Court.

It appears from the statement accompanying the certificate
that on the 18th day of October, 1891, John A. Hervey, a citizen of Ohio residing in Hancock County in that State, was
a passenger on a train of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company between Chicago, Illhiiois, and Fostoria, Ohio.
While upon the train as passenger he was injured at Albion,
Indiana, in a collision caused by the negligence of the railroad company. He brought suit in the Common Pleas Court
of Hancock County, Ohio, to recover damages for the personal injuries he had thus received.
Upon the petition of the railroad company the suit was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio upon the ground of diverse citizenship. After such removal Hervey died, and, against the
objection of the railroad company, the action was revived
in the name of the administrator of the deceased plaintiff
appointed by the proper court in Ohio.
At the time of Hervey's death the common law rule as to
the abatement of causes of action for personal injuries prevailed in Ohio. But by section 5144 of the Revised Statutes
of that State, then in force, it was provided that "except as
otherwise provided, no action or proceedingpending in any
court shall abate by the death of either or both of the parties
thereto, except an action for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault or assault and battery, for'a nuisance or against
a justice of the peace for misconduct in office, which shall
abate by the death of either party." Rev. Stat. Ohio, 1890,
vol. 1, p. 1491. That section was construed in Ohio & Penn.
Coal Co. v. Smith, Admr., 53 Ohio St. 313, which was an
action for personal injuries caused by the negligence of a corporation and its agents. The Supreme Court of Ohio said:
"The action was a pending- one at the time of the death of
the plaintiff. It is not within any of the enumerated exceptions of section 5144, and was, therefore, properly revived
and prosecuted to judgment in the name of the administrator
of the deceased plaintiff."
The Revised Statutes of Indiana, in which State the injury
was received, provided that "no action shall abate by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

death or disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue," § 272;
also, that "a cause of action arising out of an injury to the
person dies with the person of either party, except in cases
in which an action is given for an injury causing the death
of any person, and actions for seduction, false imprisonment
and malicious prosecution." § 283.
By section 955 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, brought forward from the Judiciary Act of September
24, 1789, c. 20, § 31, 1 Stat. 73, 90, it is provided that "1when
either of the parties, whether plaintiff or petitioner or defendant, in any suit in any court of the United States, dies before
final judgment, the executor or administrator of such deceased
party may, in case the cause of action survives by law, prosecute or defend any such suit to final judgment."
The question upon which the court below desires the instruction of this court is this:
"Does an action pending in the Circuit Court of the United
States sitting in Ohio, brought by the injured person as plaintiff to recover damages for injuries sustained by the negligence
of the defendant in Indiana, finally abate upon the death of
the plaintiff in view of the fact that, had no suit been brought
at all, the cause of action would have abated both in Indiana
and Ohio, and that, even if suit had been brought in Indiana,
the action would have abated in that State?"
If the case had not been removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States, it is clear that under the statutes of Ohio,
as interpreted by the highest court of that State, the action
might have been revived in the state court in the name of
the personal representative of Hervey and proceeded to final
judgment. We think that the right to revive attached under
the local law when Hlervey brought his action in the state
court. It was a right of substantial value, and became inseparably connected with the cause of action so far as the
laws of Ohio were concerned. Was it lost or destroyed when,
upon the petition of the railway company, the case was removed for trial into the Circuit Court of the United States?
Was it not rather a right that inhered in the action, and

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO. v. JOY.

229

Opinion of the Court.

accompanied it when in the lifetime of Hervey the Federal
court acquired jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter? This last question must receive an affirmative answer,
unless section 955 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
is to be construed as absolutely prohibiting the revival in the
Federal court of an action for personal injuries instituted in
due time and which was removed from one of the courts of a
State whose laws modified the common law so far as to
authorize the revival upon the death of either party of a
pending action of that character.
We are of opinion that the above section is not to be so
construed. In our judgment, a right given by the statute of
a State to revive a pending action for personal injuries in-the
name of the personal representative of a deceased plaintiff is
not lost upon the removal of the case into a Federal court.
Section 955 of the Revised Statutes may reasonably be construed as not applying to an action brought in one of the
courts of a State whose statutes permit a revivor in the event
of the death of a party before final judgment. Whether a
pending action may be revived upon the death of either party
and proceed to judgment depends primarily upon the laws of
the jurisdiction in which the action was commenced. If an
action be brought in a Federal court, and is based upon some
act of Congress or arises under some rule of general law recognized in the courts of the Union, the question of revivor
will depend upon the statutes of the United States relating
to that subject. But if at the time an action is brought in a
state court the statutes of that State allow a revivor of it on
the death of the plaintiff before final judgment -even where
the right to sue is lost when death occurs before any suit is
brought-then we have a case not distinctly or necessarily
covered by section 955. Suppose Hervey had died while the
action was pending in the state court and it had been revived
in that court, nevertheless after such revival, if diverse citizenship existed, it could have been removed for trial into the
Federal court and there proceeded to final judgment, notwithstanding section 955 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States. If this be so, that section ought hot to be construed

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

as embracing the present case. Nor ought it to be supposed
that Congress intended that in case bf the removal of an
action from a state court on the petition of the defendant
prior to the death of the plaintiff, the Federal court should
ignore the law of the State in reference to the revival of pending actions, and make the question of revivor depend upon the
inquiry whether the cause of action would have survived if no
suit had been brought. If Congress could legislate to that
extent it has not done so. It has not established any rule
that will prevent a recognition of the state law under which
the present action was originally instituted, and which at the
time the suit was brought conferred the right, when the plaintiff in an action for personal injuries died before final judgment, to revive in the name of his personal representative.
Cases like this may reasonably be expected out of the general
rule prescribed by section 955.
These views are in harmony with section 721 of the Revised
Statutes, which was brought forward from the Judiciary Act
of 1789, 1 Stat. 92, c. 20,. § 34, and provides that "the laws of
the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties or
statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide,
shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law,
in the courts of the United States, in cases where they apply;"
and also with section 914, providing that "the practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other
than equity and admiralty causes, in the Circuit and District
Courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice,
pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record of the State within
which such Circuit or District Courts are held, any rule of
court to the contrary notwithstanding." They are in accord
also with what was said in Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio 1ailroad, 151 U. S. 673, 692, in which, after referring to Schreiber
v. Shaqpless, 110 U. S. 76, 80, this court said: "In that case,
the right in question being of an action for a penalty under a
statute of the United States, the question whether it survived
was governed by the laws of the United States. But in the
case at bar, the question whether the administrator has a

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
Syllabus.

right of action depends upon the law of West Virginia, where
the action was brought and the administrator appointed. Rev.
Stat. § 721; Renshaw v. -Mfiller, 17 How. 212."
It is scarcely necessary to say that the determination of the
question, of the right to revive this action in the name of
Hervey's personal representative is not affected in any degree
by the fact that the deceased received his injuries in the State
of Indiana. The action for such injuries was transitory in its
nature, and the jurisdiction of the Ohio court to take cognizance of it upon personal service or on the appearance of the
defendant to the action cannot be doubted. Still less can it
be doubted that the question of the revivor of actions brought
in the courts of Ohio for personal injuries is governed by the
laws of that. State, rather than by the law of the State in
which the injuries occurred.
The question propounded to this court must be answered in
the negative. It will be so certified to the Circuit Court
of Apvpals.

COVINGTON v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUOKY.
No. 152. Submitted January 18, 1899. -Decided

February 20,1899.

This court is bound by the construction put by the highest court of the
State of Kentucky upon its statutes, referred to in the opinion of the
court, relating to exemptions from taxation of property used for " public purposes," however much it may doubt the soundness of the interpretation.
The provision in the act of the legislature of Kentucky of May 1, 1886,
c. 897, that "the said reservoir or reservoirs, machinery, pipes, mains
and appurtenances, with the land on which they are situated," which the
city of Covington was, by that act, authorized to acquire and construct,
"shall be and remain forever exempt from state, county and city tax,"
did not, in view of the provision in the act of February 14, 1856, that "all
charters and grants of or to corporations, or amendments thereof, and
all other statutes, shall be subject to amendment or repeal at the will
of the legislature, unless a contrary intent shall be therein plainly ex-

