YERKE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

and discovered no dangerous condition; that the vessel did
not commence leaking until Sunday morning; and that the
master thereupon did all he could to save her. It does not
appear that the master was informed that the bottom was a
rock bottom, or that the fact was mentioned that the Baird
had previously got on an obstruction in the berth; and there
was nothing in what was said to lead the captain to suppose that there was danger provided there was water enough
around the vessel. He rather thought the vessel touched bottom on Saturday evening at low tide, but that, if so, did not
in itself constitute cause for alarm. In fact, the danger was
the existence of the rock in the middle of the berth under the
vessel. The evidence is voluminous in respect of the extent
and manner of the loading; of what passed between the parties; of the different soundings, and so on; but it is unnecessary to recapitulate it, as we are satisfied that no adequate
ground exists for disturbing the result reached.
At all events, we are unable to decide that the Court of
Appeals was not justified in holding on the evidence that
appellants were liable for negligence and the want of reasonable care, and that the master was free from contributory
negligence; and the decree must, therefore, be
Ajiared.

YERKE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAhiS.
No. 664. Submitted February 20, 1899.-Decided March 19, 1S99.

claims "on
Under the clause in the act of March 3, 1885, c. 341, regarding
comdepredations
of
account
on
States,
United
the
of
citizens
of
behalf
treaty
any
of
reason
by
Indians
of
mitted, chargeable against any tribe
received and
between such tribe and the United States," no claim can be
of a perbehalf
on
presented
is
considered by the Court of Claims which
was passed,
act
the
when
States
United
the
of
citizen
a
not
was
who
son
become such
but who, a foreigner, had then duly declared his intention to
citizen, and did subsequently become such.
When the language of a statute is clear, it needs no construction.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

i-3f. C. .N. Carter and _31'. T. 1. NV. .2cPAerson for appellant.
_3t'. Assistant Attorney General Thomyson and
coln B. Smith for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA

ir. uin-

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant (petitioner in the court below) claimed
$3400.00 under the act approved M11arch 3, 1891, c. 538, 26
Stat. 851, entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication
and payment of' claims arising from Indian depredations."
He alleged that he was a native of Prussia, and came to the
United States in 1828, and declared his intention to become
a citizen of the United States on the 8th of January, 1842,
and was recognized as a voter of Cochise County, Arizona,
from 1884: to 1886; that he made application for and was
adjudged and declared a citizen of the United States December 16, 1896; that in Mkrarch, 1872, he was the owner of certain property (which was described) of the value of $3400.00,
in Arizona Territory, "which was taken, used and destroyed
by the Apache Mkohave Indians," who were in amity with the
United States "when the depredation was committed." He
further alleged "that he presented his claim to the honorable
Commissioner of Indian Affairs M arch 8, 1882, but that no
action was had thereon; that said claim has not been paid nor
any part thereof, nor has any of the property been returned
either by the said Indians or the United States."
The United States filed a general traverse.
The court dismissed the petition for want of jurisdiction.
This ruling is assigned as error.
The act of March 3, 1891, gives jurisdiction to the Court of
Claims to "inquire into and finally adjudicate, in the manner provided in this act, all claims of the following classes,
namely :"
First. "All claims for property of citizens of the United

YERKE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

States taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to any band,
tribe or nation in amity with the United States.
Second. Such jurisdiction shall also extend to all cases which
have been examined and allowed by the Interior Department,
and also to such cases as were authorized to be examined under
the act approved March 3, 1885, c. 341, 23 Stat. 362, 376, and
under subsequent acts.
The "subsequent acts" do not affect the question; and that
part of the act of March 3, which it is necessary to quote,
provides as follows:
"For the investigation of certain Indian depredation claims,
ten thousand dollars; and in expending said sum the Secretary of the Interior shall cause a complete list of all claims
heretofore filed in the Interior Department, and which have
been approved in whole or in part and now remain unpaid,
and also all such claims as are pending, but not yet examined on behalf of citizens of the United States on account
of depredations committed, chargeable against any tribe of
Indians by reason of any treaty between such tribe and the
United States, including the name and address of the claimants,

.

.

to be made and presented to Congress at its

next regular session .
...
Is the demand of appellant within any of these clauses?
1. In Johnson v. United States, 160 U. S.546, it was held
that citizenship at the time of the depredation was an essential condition of the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims of
demands under the first clause.
2. Speaking of the second clause, it was said: "By that
jurisdiction is extended to 'cases which have been examined
and allowed by the Interior Department, and also to such
cases as were authorized to be examined under the act of Congress' of March 3, 1885, and subsequent acts."
The appellant's case was not of the former kind. His claim
had not "been examined and allowed by the Interior Department." It had only been filed with the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs. Was it hence a case of the second kind? To
have been that it must have been one then "pending but not
yet examined," and must have been on behalf of a citizen of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States. It was on file, and" hence may be said to
have been " pending," but it was not on behalf of a citizen of
the United States. Appellant was not then a citizen. He did
not become such until December 16, 1896.
But appellant urges that the act of 1891 applies to claimants
who were inhabitants at the time of the depredations, and that
their naturalization afterwards should be held to relate to
that time. This view is attempted to be supported by analogy to sections 2289 and 2319 of the Revised Statutes, which
respectively give to citizens and to those w.ho have declared
their intention to become such the right to enter agricultural
or mineral lands, and the practice of the Land Department in
such cases to give retroactive effect to a declaration of intention. The answer is ready, and may be brief. The act of
1891 is not ambiguous. Its clearness does not need and may
not be construed by analogies from other statutes or from
the practice under other statutes. The rule is elemental that
language which is clear needs no construction. Lake County
v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662. Under both of the clauses of the
act of 1891, the claims of which jurisdiction was given were
strictly identified. Under the first clause, by citizenship at
the time of the depredations. May be also under the act of
1885, which provides the cases of the second clause. But
whether, as was said in Johnson, v. United States, the different phraseology of the act of March 3, 1885, would include
claims in favor of those not citizens at the time of the depredations by the Indians, it was decided that they must be
claims then "pending" - that is, pending at the time of the
act on behalf of citizens. And as it was such cases which
"were authorized to be examined" under the act of 1885, it
was to such cases that the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
was extended by the second clause of the act of 1891.
Judgment ajfirmed.

