112

[Sup. Ct.

BEST V. POLK.
Statement of the case.

BEST V. POLK.
Stat. at
1. The treaty of May 24th, 1884, with the Chickasaw Indians (7
which
it,
by
contemplated
reservations
the
to
title
conferred
Large, 450)
was complete when the locations were made to identify them.
lands
2. A patent (as often decided before) is void which attempts to convey
previously granted, reserved frem sale, or appropriated.
addition to,
3. Reservees under the treaty above named are not obliged, in
also
proving that the locations were made by the proper officers, to prove
had
act
to
authorized
were
officers
these
which
on
that the conditions
been observed by them.
register
4. Copies of records appertaining to the land office, certified by the
of the district where they are, are evidence in Mississippi.
from
5. An officer commissioned to hold office during the term of four years
the 2d of March, 1845, is in office on the 2d of March, 1849. The word
" from " excludes the day of date.

to the District Court for the Northern District of
Mississippi; the case being thus:
By virtue of a treaty made October the 20th, 1832,* the
Chickasaw Nation of Indians, in the belief that it was better
ERROR

to
to seek a home west of the Mississippi, ceded their lands
on
them
the United States, who agreed to survey and sell
the same terms and conditions as the other public lands,
and to pay the proceeds to the nation. In order, however,

that the people of the tribe should not be deprived of a home
until they should have secured a country to remove to, they
were allowed, after the survey and before the first public

sale of their lands, to select out of the surveys a reasonable

as
settlement for each family, and to retain these selections

long as they were occupied. After this occupation ceased
the selected lands were to be sold and the proceeds paid to
the nation.
On the 24th of May, 1834, a little more than a year after
the date of the first treaty, another treatyt was made with

these Indians, essentially changing the provisions of the former one.

These changes were made owing to the supposed

inabiiity of the Chickasaws to obtain a country within the
7 Stat. at Large, 881.

t

lb. 460.

Oct. 1.873.]

BEST V.

POLK.

Statement of the case.

territorial limits of the United States adequate to their wants,
and to the desire expressed by them to have within their
own direction and control the means of taking care of themselves. Accordingly they abandoned the idea of selecting,
out of the surveys, lands for temporary occupancy, and, in
lieu thereof; reservations of a limited quantity were conceded
to them. The scheme embraced the whole tribe-heads of
families as well as all persons over twenty-one years of age,
male and female, who did not occupy that relation. The
six th article of the treaty reserved a section of land to each
of this latter class of Indians, a list of whom, within a rea
sonable time, seven chiefs (named in the treaty) were to
make out and file with the agent. On this officer certifying
that the list was believed to be accurate, the register and
receiver were to cause the locations to be made.
In this state of things, the United States, on the 13th of
March, 1847-reciting that one James Brown had paid,
"according to the provisions of two several treaties with the
Chickasaw Indians, dated October 20th, 1832, and May 24th,
1834," &c., for the section 23, in township 5, of range 11
west, in the district of lands subject to sale at Pontotoc,
Mississippi, containing, &c., "according to the official plat of
the survey returned into the General Land Office by the
surveyor-general, which said tract has been purchased by
the said James Brown"-granted the section of land described to the said Brown in fee.
Brown granted it to one Polk. Hereupon, a certain Best
being in possession, Polk sued him in ejectment. The defendant set up that prior to the issuing of the patent to
Brown the section had been located to an Indian, named
Bah-o-nah-tubby, of the Chickasaw Nation, under the terms
of the second treaty, and that he held under the said Indian.
On the trial the defendant offered in evidence a paper
certified by one A. J. Edmondson, styling himself register
of the land office of the United States at Pontotoc, Mississippi, to be " a true copy of the roll, number, reserves, and
locations under the sixth article" of the treaty between the
United States and Chickasaw Indians, &c., " and of the list
VOL.

XVIII.

A

BSsT V. :POLK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of persons furnished by the Chickasaw agent to the register
and receiver as Indians entitled to land under said article."
The paper ran thus:
Reservations under the sixth article of the Chickasaw treaty.
No.

Reserve.

S.

T.

R.

Date.

774
775
776

Tah-pin-tah-umby.
Chah-caw-mubby.
Bah-o-nah-tubby.

7
10
23

6
5
5

11 W
11 "
11

June 17, 1839.
It it
"

"

The certificate of Edmondson to this exhibit was dated
March 2d, 1849, while the commission of Edmondson himself, which was produced and put in evidence by the other
side, was dated on March 2d also, four years previously;
and appointed him register of the land office at Pontotoc
" during the term of four years from the 2d day of March,
1845."
The plaintiff objected to the paper offered in evidence,
upon the ground that it did not purport to be a copy of the
record of the land office; that the certificate was not authorized by any act of Congress; that it stated facts and legal
conclusions; that it did not show that the list was made by
the person named in the articles of the treaty, or that the
agent certified to its believed accuracy; that it was not
founded on any order of survey, donation, pre-emption, or
purchase; that it did not purport to be a copy of the plat of
the general office; that it could not be set up to defeat a
patent; that the present action being one of ejectment the
legal title alone was involved, and that such title could only
pass by a patent; that a patent could not be impeached at
law except for defects apparent on its face; that the treaties
did not convey the title in fee to the Indian Bah-o-nah-tubby,
for the section of land sued for, but that the title remained
in the United States till it passed out by patent.
The court decided that the paper was incompetent, and
verdict and judgment having been rendered for the plaintiff,
the defendant brought the case here, assigning for error the
exclusion of the paper.

,Oct. 1873.]

BEST V. POLK,
Opinion of the court.

Mr. T. J. D. Fuller, in support of the ruling below:
In addition to the reasons taken on the trial for the rejection of the paper-reasons here iterated and relied on-it
may be urged:
1. That the contemplated reservees were unknown and
uncertain persons till deignate'd and fixed in a prescribed
manner and on specific proofs. The certificate offered in
evidence should have therefore shown, in addition to what
it did show (if it showed anything), that a list including
Bah-o-nah-tubby was furnished by the "seven chiefs," in
accordance with the sixth article of the treaty to the agent,
and that he certified to the receiver and register that he believed it accurate.
2. The paper ofered was not authenticated in the manner
prescribed by statute. It should have been certified by the
Commissioner of the Land Office, under the seal of the Department of the Interior, accompanied with the survey, maps,
and reservationsmarked thereon, as they must be if the record
exists.*
3. The paper was inadmissible, because the officer certifying, and at the time he certified, was not in office. The
day of the date of his commission is to be included within
the computation of the four years. His office, or term of
office, expired on the night of March 1st, 1849. And such
is understood to be the practice and holding of the government. It is in analogy to the rule of law for computing
time under the statute of limitations.
4. The paper, if competent for any purpose, could be so
for one purpose only, and that was to disprove seizin of the
plaintiff. But the defendant offered no evidence to connect
himself with the alleged outstanding title.
Mr. J. W. C. Watson, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to carry out in good faith Indian treaties, effect
* See act of January 23d, 1823, 3 Stat. at Large, 721; 10 Id. 297; and
8rightly's Digest, 267 and footnotes.

116

BEST V. POLK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

must be given to the intention of the parties to them; and
from the different provisions of the treaties which are applicable to this case, no well-founded doubt can exist of the
proper construction to give to the sixth article. The cession
in the first treaty contemplated the ultimate abandonment
of the lands by the Indians. This treaty did not prove satisfactory, and the Indians asked, an~d the United States conceded to them, a limited quantity of land for a permanent
home. This object could not be obtained if it were meant
to give only an equitable title to the Indians. Such a title
would soon become complicated by the encroachments of
the white race; and that the Indians supposed they were
providing for a good title to their " reservations" is manifest
enough, because they declare, in the second treaty, that they
wish to have the management of their affairs in their own
hands.
This disposition, which was natural under the circumstances, the United States yielded to, and agreed, when the
body of the lands were surveyed, to reserve from sale certain
limited portions on which the reservations should be located.
This was done in obedience to a just policy, for it would
have been wrong, considering the dependent state of these
Indians, to hold then to their original engagement. The
United States could not afford to do this, and, therefore,
willingly consented to re-cede to the Indians enough lands
for their wants. Can it be doubted that it was the intention
of both parties to the treaty to clothe the reservees with the
full title? If it were not so there would have been some
words of limitation indicating a contrary intention. Instead
of this there is nothing to show that a further grant, or any
additional evidence of title, were contemplated. Nor was
this necessary, for the treaty proceeded on the theory that a
grant is as valid by a treaty as by an act of Congress, and
does not need a patent to perfect it. We conclude, therefore, that the treaty conferred the title to these reservations,
which was complete when the locations were made to identify them. This was the view taken of this subject by the
highest court of Mississippi soon after this treaty went into

Oct. 1873.]

BEST V. POLK.

117

Opinion of the court.

operation, in litigations which arose between the white race
and the Indians themselves concerning the effect to be given
to these reservations.* In all these cases the Indian reservee
was held to have preference over the subsequent patentee,
on the ground that the United States had parted with the
title by the treaty. These decisions, furnishing a rule of
property on this subject in Mississippi, were not brought to
this court for review, as they could have been, but have been
acquiesced in for a quarter of a century. To disturb them
now would unsettle titles bonafiide acquired.
It has been repeatedly held by this court that a patent is
void which attempts to convey lands that have been " previously granted, reserved from sale, or appropriated."t "It
would be a dangerous doctrine (say the court in New Orleans
v. United Stalest) to consider the issuing of a grant as conclusive evidence of right in the power which issued it. On its
face it is conclusive, and cannot be controverted; but if the
thing granted was not in the grantor no right passes to the
grantee. A grant has been frequently issued by the United
States for land which had been previously granted, and the
second grant has been held to be inoperative."
If, therefore, the location of the land in controversy was
properly made, the legal title to it was consummated, aud
the subsequent patent was unauthorized. And this brings
us to the consideration of the question whether the evidence
on the subject of the location ought to have been received
by the court.
This evidence consists of the certificate of the register of
the land office at Pontotoc that the reserve of a Chickasaw
Indian (naming him) was located on the disputed section in
June, 1839, under the provisions of the sixth article of the
Chickasaw treaty, and a copy of the roll, number, reserve,
Wray v. Doe, 10 Smedes & Marshall, 461; Newman v. Doe, 4 Howard
(Mississippi), 555; Niles et al. v. Anderson et al., 5 Id. 365; Coleman v.
Doe, 4 Smedes & Marshall, 46.
t Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 284; United States v. Arredondo, 6
Peters, 728; Reicltart v. Felps, 6 Wallace, 160.
1 10 Peters, 731

BEST V. POLK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and location is given, showing this to be the case. It is
insisted that this certificate did not go far enough; that it
ought to have shown that a list, including this Indian, was
furnished by the seven chiefs to the agent, and that the
agent certified to the register and receiver, prior to the location, that he believed the list to be accurate. If this were
so no presumption could arise that local land officers,
charged with the performance of a duty, had discharged it
in conformity with law.
It would be a hard rule to hold that the reservees under
this treaty, in case of contest, were required to prove not
only that the locations were made by the proper officers, but
that the conditions on which these oflicers were authorized
to act had been observed by them. Such a rule would impose a burden upon the reservees not contemplated by the
treaty, and, of necessity, leave their titles in an unsettled
state. The treaty granted the land, but the location had to
be fixed before the grant could become operative. After
this was done, the estate became vested and the right to it
perfect, as much so as if the grant had been directly executed to the reservee. It has been frequently held by this
court that a grant raises a presumption that the incipient
steps required to give it validity have been taken.*
The grant, in this case, was complete when the location
was made, and the location is, in itself, evidence that the
directions of the treaty on the subject were observed, and it
cannot be presumed that the officers empowered to make
the location violated their duty. Even if the agent neglected
to annex a proper certificate to the roll of Indians entitled
to the reservations, it is difficult to see how the Indians
could be prejudiced by this neglect. We conclude, therefore, that the certificate of the register was competent evidence, and if the locations were not as there stated, it is
easy for the plaintiff below to show that fact. The same
effect was given to a similar certificate of this same officer,
* Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 5 Wheaton, 293; I3agnell v. Broderick, 14
Peters, 436.

Oct. 1873.]

BEST V. POLK.
Opinion of the court.

by the High Court of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi, as
early as 1848, in an action of ejectment brought by a Chickasaw Indian, for a tract of land claimed by him in virtue of
a location made in his behalf as a reservee, against a party
claiming by patent subsequent in date to the location of his
reservation. And this decision was reaffirmed by the same
court in 1854, in the case of another Indian suing for his
land under similar circumstances.* It must have been supposed at the time by the losing parties that these decisions
were correct, or else the opinion of this court would have
beeni asked on the point involved. After such a length of
acquiescence, it would produce great mischief to hold this
evidence to be incompetent.
It is objected that the paper offered in evidence should
have been certified by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office ; but this was not necessary, for copies of records appertaining to the land office, certified by the register,
are evidence in Mississippi, and similar statutes exist in
nearly all the Western and Southwestern States.t
Another objection is taken to the certificate of Edmondson, on the ground that when it was given his term of office
had expired. This objection cannot be sustained, for the
certificate bears date the 2d March, 1849, and lie was cornmissioned to hold the office of register " during the term of
four years from the 2d day of March, 1845." The word
"from" always excludes the day of date.1
It is argued that in ejectment a stranger to the outstanding title cannot invoke it to defeat the action. Whether
this be so or not depends on the laws of the State; but the
point does not arise in this case, for there was no opportunity for the defendant to connect himself with the Indian
title after the court refused to let the evidence on the subject
of this title go to the jury.
Wray v. Doe, 10 Smedes & Marshall, 462; Hardin v. Ho-yo-ho-Nubby's
Lessee, 27 Micsissippi, 567.
t See Revised Code of Mississippi.
I See 1 Parsons on Notes and Bills, 385, and the authorities therein cited.

COFFIN V.

OGDEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

The decision respecting this evidence necessarily disposed
of the case.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

COFFIN V. OGDEN.
1. When, in a patent case, a person claims as an original inventor and the
defence is a prior invention by the defendant, if the defendant prove
that the instrument which he alleges was invented by him was complete
and capable of working, that it was known to at least five persons, and
probably to many others, that it was put in use, tested, and successful, he
brings the case within the established severe tests required by law to
sustain the defence set up.
2. Barthol Erbe anticipated William S. Kirkham in the invention of door
locks with reversible latches.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, in which court Coffin filed a bill against
Ogden et al. to enjoin them from making door locks of a
certain kind, the exclusive right to make which he alleged
belonged by the assignment of a patent right to him.
The case was one chiefly of fact, involving the question
of priority of invention. The court below was of the opinion
that the complainant, or rather the person under assignment
of whose patent he claimed and was working, had been anticipated in his invention; and dismissed the bill. From
that decree the defendants took this appeal.

Mr. George Gbffrd, for the appellant; Mr. B. F. Thurston,
contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, recited the evideuce, and delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant was the complainant in the court below, and
filed this bill to onjoin the defendants from infringing the

