WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. or.

Syllabus.

ing the duties of his office of attorney-general of the Territory.
The power given to the legislature is extremely broad.
It extends to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent
with the Constitution and the organic act itself. And there
seems to be nothing in either of these instruments which
directly conflicts with the Territorial law. If there is any
inconsistency at all, it is in that part of the organic act which
provides for the appointment by the President of an attorney
for the Territory. But is that necessarily an inconsistency?
The proper business of that attorney may be regarded as
relating to cases in which the government of the United
'States is concerned. The analogous case of the marshal,
and the separation of the business of the courts as to Govern.
ment and Territorial cases, seem to give some countenance
to this idea. At all events, it has sufficient basis for its
support to establish the conclusion that there is no necessary
conflict between the organic and the Territorial laws. The
"organic act is susceptible of a construction that will avoid
such conflict. And that construction is supported by long
usage in this and other Territories. Under these circumstances it is the duty of the court to adopt it, and to declare
the Territorial act valid. In any event, no great inconvenience can arise, because the entire matter is subject to
the control and regulation of Congress.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

1. Under the "act to increase duties on imports," &c., passed June 30th,
1864, the collector is under no obligation to give notice to the importer
of his liquidation of duties on merchandise imported. The importer
who makes the entries is under obligation himself, if he wishes to appeal from it, to take notice of the collector's settlement of them.

2. The right of the importer to complain or appeal begins with the date of
the liquidation whenever that is made.

Oct. 1873.]

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.
,8. The ordinary warehouse bond, in the form prescribed by the regulations
of the Secretary of the Treasury, in which the condition provides in
the alternative, that the penalty may be avoided by the payment, within
one year, of a sum of money fixed, oR by the payment of whatever duties may be ascertained to be due whenever the goods should become
subject ,to duty by withdrawal for consumption, is hardly an ordinary
pecuniary bond, but is rather a bond given to secure the payment of
whatever duties may be by law chargeable on the merchandise to which
it refers. At all events, if the obligor pay but part of the sum of money
fixed as above said, and the whole of the sum thus fixed, proves, on
liquidation of the duties for which the bond was given, to be less than
the sum with which the goods are rightly chargeable, he cannot come
in after the expiration of the year, and when, at law, a forfeiture has
occurred, and tender payment of the difference (with interest) between
the sum named in the bond and the amount which he has actually paid
He can be relieved from the forfeiture only upon doing complete equity,
and that, in such a case, is nothing less than payment of all the duties
to secure which he gave the bond.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
"An act to increase duties on imports," &c., passed June
30th, 1864,* enacts:

"SECTION 14. That on the entry of any merchandise, the decision of the collector of the customs at the port of importation
and entry, as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid on
such merchandise, shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless the owner, importer, consignee,
or agent of the merchandise shall, within ten days after the
ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the proper officer
of the customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered in bond
as for consumption, give notice in writing to the collector on
each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting forth therein,
distinctly and specifically, the grounds of his objection thereto,
and shall, within thirty days after the date of such ascertain.
ment and liquidation, appeal therefrom to the Secretary of the
Treasury, whose decision on such appeal shall be final and conelusive. And such merchandise shall be liable to duty accordingly, unless suit shall be brought within ninety days after the
decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on such appeal, for
*

13 Stat. at Large, 214

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

any duties which shall have been paid before the date of such
decision on such merchandise, or within ninety days after the
payment of duties paid after the decision of the secretary."
This act being in force, Westray & Co. imported into New
York a cargo of rice; the duty on which article, when in
the form commercially known and designated as " uncleaned," is two cents per pound, and when in the form
commercially known and designated as " cleaned" is two
and a half cents per pound. The rice was entered for warehouse in October, 1864, and the usual warehouse bond given
on that day by the importer. The bond was in $25,049.90,
and was conditioned that the importer should,
" On or before the ex)piration of one year, to be computed
from the date of importation, . . . pay . . . unto the collector of

the customs, &c., the sum of $12,524.95, oR the amount of duties
to be ascertainedunder the laws now existing, or hereafter to be
enacted, to be due and owing, &C., oR shall in the mode prescribed by law, on or before the expiration of three years from
date of said importation, withdraw said goods from the bonded
store or public warehouse where they may be deposited,

. .

. and

actually export the same beyond the limits of the United States,
OR shall within three years.., transport said merchandise in,
bond to any port of the Pacific or western coast of the United
States."
Westray & Co. within a year after giving the bond withdrew the rice for consumption, and paid thereon two cents
per pound as upon " uncleaned rice;"
Thus paying, as it turned out, the sum of

Or le.s by
Than the sum conditioned named in the bond,

$12,852 15

172 80
$12,524 95

The rice was afterwards appraised as "cleaned rice," and
on entry the collector liquidated the same as such, and the
dutiable rate thereof at two and a half cents per pound. The
additional half cent, thus charged, made a difference of
$2111.17 between the sum which had been paid and that
with which the rice as cleaned rice was now chargeable.
It did not appear that the collector had at any time given

0ct. 1873.]

WESTRAY

V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

notice to Westray & Co., the importers, of the liquidation,
nor did the importers within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation give any notice of their dissatisfaction,
nor make any appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury.
In this state of things the United States brought suit on
the bond, alleging as breach that though the time of one
year mentioned in it had expired, Westray & Co. had not
within the said year paid the $12,524.95 oR the amount,
when ascertained, of the duties imposed by laws then existing, &c. Plea, nil debet.
On the trial the defendants offered in evidence samples of
the rice, and offered to prove that it was in fact and as commercially designated "uncleaned rice," and, therefore, liable
to pay no more duty than two cents per pound, which the
government admitted had been paid within one year from
date of importation, and that by the said payment of two
cents per pound the bond became void.
The government objected to this evidence on the ground
that by the act of Congress, above quoted, the decision of
the collector was final and conclusive as to the rate and
amount of duties, no notice of dissatisfaction with such decision having been given to him within ten days after the
liquidation, and no appeal therefrom having been made to
the Secretary of the Treasury.
The court sustained the objection, and held that the defendants could give no evidence respecting the character of
the rice or its commercial designation in trade, or the rate
of duty chargeable thereon. The defendants excepted.
The defendants then requested the court to rule that,
there being no evidence that notice of the aforesaid liquidation by the collector was at any time given to them, or that
they ever had knowledge of such liquidation, the time within
which to serve notice of dissatisfaction upon the collector,
and to appeal from his decision to the Secretary of the
Treasury, if required by law, as ruled by the court, did not
run till notice of liquidation was given to defendants, or till
they had knowledge of the same.

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

.[SU.p.

Ct.,

Argument for the importers.

The court refused :thus to rule, on the ground that the
collector was not bound to give any notice of his liquidatioi
to the defendants, nor to bring his decision to the defendants
knowledge, and that the time within which to give notice
of dissatisfaction as aforesaid, and appeal, must run from
the date of such liquidation, whenever made. To which
decision the defendants excepted.
The defendants then requested the court to admit the evidence offered by them as to the commercial designation of
the rice, on the grounds that the collector had given no
notice of liquidation as aforesaid, and that, therefore, they
were not debarred by the limitations of the statute from
giving such notice of dissatisfaction and appeal, as required
by the ruling of the court.
The court refused to admit the evidence, on the ground
that, having ruled that no notice of liquidation from the
collector to the defendants was required, the defendants were
barred, and the evidence inadmissible. To which decision
the defendants excepted.
The defendants then requested the court to instruct the
jury that it was a condition of the bond that the same
should be cancelled upon the payment of $12,524.95, within
one year from date of importation, and as it was admitted
that $12,352.15 had been paid within one year, that the jury
could lawfully find no greater amount of damage than the
difference between these two amounts, and interest on this
difference.
The court refused to so instruct the jury. To which decision the defendants excepted.
The court then directed the jury to bring in a verdict for
the plaintiffs for $2111.77, gold, with interest, to which direction of the court the defendants excepted.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the United States,
the defendants brought the case here.
Mr. Ethan Allen, for the plaintiffs in error:.
The liquidation of the duties, and the decision of the col

Oct. 1873.1

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

327

Argument for the importers.

lector is A secret proceeding, so far as the merchant is concerned. No date is fixed when the act shall be done. The
appraiser notes his classification of the merchandise on the
invoice when his convenience permits, and his clerk extends
in figures on the entry the amount of the duty according,
to this classification; and this constitutes the decision of the
collector, of which, according to the ruling of the court below, no: notice whatever need be given to the importer,
although from the moment this decision is made, the ten
days limitations begin to run within which the importer
must protest and appeal. As this statute takes away the
common-law right of the citizen to defend himself, as in
this case, against an alleged illegal exaction, it is a severe
statute, and should be interpreted liberally. Indeed the
treasury department, by regulations adopted in 1869, directs notice to be given to the merchant of the time when
the decision of the collector is made, by ordering collectors
to "keep a daily record of the entries liquidated," &c., and
to "give notice of the liquidation of such entries by posting
a transcript ofsuch record insome conspicuous place in the
custom-house, &c., for ten days." As these regulations,
however, were issued in 1869, and as the bond upon which
this suit is brought was made in 1864, these regulations do
not cover this case. They show, however, that the treasury
recognizes it as a duty to give notice to the merchant of the
decision of the collector. Before this regulation was made,
it was the custom for the collector to send a special notice
to the importer, informing him of any decision made. This.
notice, however, was not given to the importers in this case,
as was admitted on the trial.
2. In an action on a bond, of many separate conditions-,
like the one' in suit-the performance of either one of which
cancels the bond, the maker of the bond is entitled to choose
which conditio~i he will fulfil in satisfaction of it.
In part fulfilment of the, first condition, it was admitted
on the trial that $12,352.15 had been paid within one year.:
The only breach, then, on the part of the importers, was in
not paying the balance of $172.80 within the year. Had

WESTRAY

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

this balance been paid within the year, clearly the importers
could have demanded cancellation of the bond.
The condition of an obligation is considered as the language of the obligee, and so is construed in favor of the
obligor, and shall always be taken most favorably for the
obligor. The law never overcomes by implication the express provisions of parties. Nor will equity enforce the
penalty, the party being ready and desirous fully to perform
any one of several alternate conditions.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr.S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The acts of Congress which regulate the collection of duties upon imported articles are imperative that, on the entry
of any goods, wares, or merchandise, the decision of the
collector of customs, at the port of importation and entry,
as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid on such goods,
wares, and merchandise, and the dutiable costs and charges
thereon, shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless the owner, importer, consignee, or
agent of the merchandise shall, within ten days after the
ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the proper
officers of the customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered in bond as for consumption, give notice in writing to
the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision,
setting forth therein distinctly and specifically the grounds
of his objection thereto, and shall, within thirty days after
the date of such ascertainment andliquidation, appeal therefrom to the Secretary of the Treasury.*
This act expressly applies to liquidations made when imported articles are entered fbr warehousing, and to those
made when they are entered for consumption. In neither
ease is there any provision for notice of the decisions or
liquidations, and for the obvious reason that such a provision
Act of June 30th, 1864,

14, 13 Stat. at Large, 214.

Oct. 1878.]

WESTRAY V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

would be superfluous. The importer is instructed by the
'law at what time the collector or officers of the customs
imust liquidate the duties. The statute, and the treasury
,regulations established under it, require that the duties must
be ascertained whenever an entry is made, whether it be for
warehousing or for withdrawal. In practice, it is true, the
liquidation at the time of entry for warehousing is little
nore than an approximate estimate, and it is mainly for the
purpose of determining the amount of the bond to be given.
It is made, and the bond is given, before the goods are sent
to the warehouse, or even to the appraisers' stores, and before they are weighed, gauged, or measured. But the importer enters them and gives the bond, the amount of which
is regulated by the estimated amount of duties. It is due
to his inattention, therefore, if he does not know what that
estimate is at the time when it is made. Equally true is it
that he has ample means of knowledge of the second or corTected liquidation-that made at the time of the withdrawa.
entry. One of the conditions of his bond is that he pay
the amount of duties to be ascertained under the laws then
existing or thereafter enacted. He is thus informed that
there is to be another liquidation, and that the law requires
it to be made at the time when he Call make his withdrawal
entry and when the duties are required to be paid. There
is, then, no reason for requiring a notice to be given to him
.of the collector's decision. But, if this were not so, it is
,certain that the statute requires none; and it is not for us
to rule that what Congress has declared to be conclusive
:shall not be so, unless something has been done more than
ithe lawmakers required. It follows that the Circuit Court
was not in error when it refused to receive evidence to show
that the rice which the officers of the customs had decided
was " cleaned rice," and subject to duty as such, was "un,cleaned," and therefore subject to less duty. No notice of
dissatisfaction with the duty assessed, or with the liquidation
made, was given to the collector within the period defined
by the statute; no appeal was made to the Secretary of the
'Treasury, and the decision of the collector was, therefore,

330

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct."

Opinion of the court.

by the express declaration of the act of Congress, final and,
conclusive upon the plaintiffs and upon all persons interested.
The same considerations lead to the conclusion that the
Circuit Court correctly refused to rule that the ten days;
prescribed by the statute, within which notice of dissatisfaction is required to be given, did not begin to run until notice,
of the collector's liquidation was given to
the plaintiffs in,
error, or until they had knowledge thereof. The limitation,
of the right to complain or to appeal commences with thedate of the liquidation, whenever that is made. No notice
is required, but the importer who makes the entries is under,
obligation to take notice of the collector's settlement of the
amount of duties. The claim of the government upon the
goods is in the nature of a proceeding in rem, of every step
in which the claimant, owner, or importer is, presumed tohave notice, and since, as we have remarked, the liquidation
of the duties is required by the law to be made when the
entries are made, the presumption is not unreasonable.,
This disposes of the first four assignments of error.
The bond upon which the suit was brought was for the
penal sum of $25,049.90, and its conditions were that it
should be void if the obligors, or either of them,,shomld ,
within one year, pay unto the collector of the customs the
sum of $12,524.95 (half the penalty), or the amount of duties
to be ascertained under the laws then existing, or thereafter,
to be enacted, due and owing on the imported goods described, or should, in the mode prescribed by law, on or before the expiration of three years from the date of importation, withdraw the goods from the bonded warehouse where
they might be deposited, and actually export them, or within,
three years should, under the regulations of the Secretary
of the Treasury, transport them to the Pacific coast. It was
an ordinary warehouse bond, in the form prescribed by the
regulations of the Treasury Department.t Its.purpose was,
to secure the payment of the duties which might be owing.
upon the goods, when they should be withdrawn from th.
*'

See Treasury Regulations, 1857, ch. 8,

2,8.

t Regulations, p. 221

Oct. 1873.]

WESTRAY

V. UNITED STATES.

831

Opinion of the court.

warehouse for consumption, should they be so withdrawn.
It was impossible to ascertain at the time when it was given
what the amount of duties would be when the goods might
be withdrawn. The defeasance was, therefore, in the alternative that the penalty might be avoided by payment of a
sum mentioned within one year, or by the payment of whatever duties might be ascertained to be due and owing, that
is, ascertained to be due and owing whenever the goods
should become subject to duty by withdrawal for consump'
tion. It was not, therefore, an ordinary pecuniary bond.
Hence, when the defendants requested the Circuit Court to
insti'uct the jury that it having been admitted $12,352.15
had been paid within one year, no verdict could be returned
for any greater sum than the difference between the amount
paid and $12,524.95 (the sum mentioned in the defeasance),
with interest thereon, we think it was not error to refuse
the instruction. At law the penalty was forfeited by the
non-performance of any one of the conditions. The defendants' claim to relief was in equity alone, and though in the
case of an ordinary pecuniary bond, with a simple pecuniary
penalty, compliance with the condition to pay at a specified
day is allowed even in a court of law to be compensated for
by the payment of the sum mentioned in the condition, with
interest thereon, the rule may well be otherwise in the case
of such a bond as this. If it be admitted that the obligors
might have selected the condition with which they would
comply before a legal forfeiture had been commenced, it
must still be held that, considering the nature of the bond
and the purpose for which it was given, such an option was
not theirs after they had come into defiult. They can be
relieved from the forfeiture only upon their doing complete
equity, and that is nothing less than the payment of all the
duties, to secure which they gave the bond.
It follows that the jury were properly directed to return
a verdict for the plaintiffs for the amount of duties unpaid,
as ascertained and liquidated by the collector, with interest
thereon.
JUDGMENT AFFJRMED.

