HORtNBUCKLE V.

TOOMBS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ment adopted in this case can neither mislead nor embarrass
an honest manufacturer who has kept true and exact books
of account.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HORNBUCKLE

v.

TOOMBS.

1. The practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding of the Terri.
torial courts, as well as their respective jurisdictions, were intended by
Congress to be left to the legislative action of the Territorial assemblies
and to the regulations which might be adopted by the courts themselves.
In case of any difficulties arising out of this state of things, Congress
has it in its power at any time to establish such regulations on this, as
well as on any other subject of legislation, as it shall deem expedient
and proper.
2. The cases of Noonan v. Lee (2 Black, 499), Orchard v. Hughes (1 Wallace,
.77), and Dunphy v. Kleinsmith (11 Id. 610), reconsidered and not
approved.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana;
the case being thus:
The seventh amendment to the Constitution ordains:

"In suits at common law, where, &c., the right of trial by jury
shall be preserved ; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined than according to the rules of the common
law."
An early statute of the United States, the statute com-

monly known as the Process Act of 1792,* an act still in
force, enacts:
"That the forms of writs, executions, and other process, .
and the forms and modes of proceeding in suits"In those of the common law shall be the same as are now
used in the said courts, respectively, in pursuance of the act en.
titled , An act to regulate processes in the courts of the United
States.'
* 1 Stat. at Large, 276.

Oct. 1873.]

HORNBUCKLE V. TO0MBS.
Statement of the case.

"In those of equity and in those of admiralty and maritime

jurisdiction, according to the principles, rules, and usages which
'belong to courts of equity and to courts of admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from courts of common law, except so far as may have been provided for by the act to establish
the judicial courts of the United States, subject, however, to
such alterations and additions as the said courts respectively
shall, in their discretion, deem expedient, or to such regulations
as the Supreme Court of the United States shall think proper,
from time to time, by rule, to prescribe to any Circuit or District Court concerning the same."
In this state of' fundamental and of statutory law, Congress, on the 26th of May, 1864,* passed "A n act to provide a temporary government for the Territory of Montana."
It enacted:
"SEcTION 6. The legislative power of the Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the
-Constitution of the United. States and the provisions of this
-act.
"SEcTION 9. The judicial power of said Territory shall be
vested in a supreme court, district courts, probate courts, and
in justices of the peace. . .. The jurisdiction of the several
courts herein provided for, both appellate and original, and that

,of the probate courts, . . . shall be limited by law. Provided,
....That the said supreme and district courts, respectively, shall

possess chancery as well as common-law jurisdiction.
"SEcTIoN 13. The Constitution and all laws of the United
States, which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same
force and effect within the said Territory of Montana as elsewhere within the United States."
The Territory being organized, its legislative assembly,
in December, 1867, passed a " Civil Practice Act" containing these provisions:
"SEcTIoN 1. There shall be in this Territory but one form of
civil action for the enforcement or protection of private rights
and the redress or prevention of private wrongs.
18 Stat. at Large, 88.

HoRNBUCKLE

v.

TooMBS.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff in error.
"SECTION 2. In such action, the party complaining shall be
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
" SECTION 38. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintiff
shall be the complaint, demurrer, or replication to the defend
ant's answer; and the only pleadings on the part of the defend
ant shall be a demurrer to the complaint, or a demurrer to the
replication, or an answer to the complaint.
" SECTION 155. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless
a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered, as provided in
this act."

In this state of things Toombs brought an action against
Hornbuckle in a District Court of the Territory of Montana,
for damages caused by the diversion of a stream of water,
by which his farm was deprived of irrigation, and for an
adjudication of his right to the stream, and an injunction
against further diversion. The action was framed and conducted in accordance with the practice as established by the
legislative assembly of the Territory, in the provisions lastabove quoted.
The case was tried by a jury, who found for the plaintiff,
assessed his damage at one dollar, and decided that he was
entitled to seventy inches of the water. Upon this verdict
the court gave judgment, and awarded an injunction as
prayed.
The only errors assigned were based on the intermingling
of legal and equitable remedies in one form of action.
Mr. Robert Leech, for the plaintiff in error:
The proceedings are erroneous in that they entirely disregard the distinction between the chancery and common-law
jurisdiction conferred by Congress upon the Territorial
courts, by the organic act. This court has decided in the
cases of Noonan v. Lee,* Orchardv. Hughes,t Dunphy v. Kleinsmith,T Thompson v. Railroad Companies,ยง and other cases, that
legal and equitable matters cannot be thus confused.
2 Black, 499.

t 1 Wallace, 77.

11 Id. 610.

J 6 Id. 137.

Oct. 1873.]

HORNBUCKLE
.

v.

TOOMBS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The case of Dunphy v. Kleinsmith was brought here from
the Supreme Court of this very Territory of Montana, and
this court, in passing upon this legislation and the organic
law of the Territory, said:
"It is apparent that the Territorial legislature has no power
to pass any law in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States, or which shall deprive the Supreme and District
Courts of the Territory of chancery as well as common-law
jurisdiction."
In Thompson v. Railroad Companies,* the court was equally
emphatic. It said:
" The Constitution of the United States and the acts of Congress recognize and establish the distinction between law and
equity. The remedies in the courts of the United States are,
at common law, or in equity, not according to the practice of
State courts, but according to the principles of common law and
equity, as distinguished and defined in that country from which
we derive our knowledge of these principles. 'And although
the forms of proceedings and practice in the State courts shall
have been adopted in the Circuit Courts of the United States,
yet the adoption of the State practice must not be understood
as confounding the principles of law and equity, nor as authorizing legal and equitable claims to be blended together in one
suit.' "
Unless, therefore, this court means to disregard its own
solemn precedents made, iterated and reiterated, the ju, gment and decree below must be reversed.
The precedents rest, too, on obvious reason. The organic
act of the Territory does not speak of chancery and commonlaw jurisdiction otherwise than as distinct systems, and the
Process Act of 1792-still in force, undoubtedly contemplating the two systems as distinct systems and to be administered separately, and which act is " not locally inapplicable"
to the Territories-has, by the thirteenth section of tb, or* 6 Wallace, 137.

[Sup. Ct,

HORNBUCKLE v. TOOMBS.
Opinion of the court.

ganic act "the same force and effect within the Territory of
Montana as elsewhere in the United States."
Messrs. Montgomery Blair and F. A. Dick, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The only errors assigned are based on the intermingling
of legal and equitable remedies in one form of action.
Such an objection would be available in the Circuit and
District Courts of the United States. The Process Act of
1792* expressly declared that in suits in equity, and in those
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, in those courts, the
forms and modes of proceeding should be according to the
principles, rules, and usages which belong to courts of
equity and to courts of admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from courts of common law, subject to such alterations and additions as the said courts respectively should
deem expedient, or to such regulations as the Supreme Court
should think proper to prescribe. The Supreme Court, in
prescribing rules of proceeding for those courts, has always
followed the general principle indicated by the law. Whether the Territorial courts are subject to the same regulation is the question which is now fairly presented.
In the case of Orchard v. Hughest a majority of this court
was of opinion that the Territorial courts were subject to
the same general regulations in equity cases which govern
the practice in the Circuit and District Courts. That was
the case of a foreclosure of a mortgage in the Territorial
court of Nebraska, and the court, under a Territorial law,
not only decreed a foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged
premises, but gave a personal decree against the defendant
for the deficiency. We had decided in lVoonan v. Lee,t that
under the equity rules prescribed for the Circuit and District
Courts, such a decree could not be made. The majority of
the court now applied the same rule in the case of Orchard
v. ilughes, although it was decided by a Territorial court.
*1 Stat. at Large, 275.

t 1 Wallace, 77.

* 2 Black, 499.

Oct. 1873.]

Ot1ORNBUCKLE v. TooMBs.
Opinion of the court.

Following out the principle involved in that deci 3n, we
subsequently, in the case of Dunphy v. Kleinsmith,* reversed
a judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana, on the ground
that the case (being in nature of a creditor's bill, filed to
reach property which the debtor had fraudulently conveyed)
was a clear case of equity, whilst the proceedings therein
exhibited no resemblance to equity proceedings, there being
a trial by jury, a verdict for damages, and a judgmenton
the verdict.
On a careful review of the whole subject we are not satisfied that those decisions are founded on a correct view of
the law. By the sixth section of the organic act of the
Territory of Montana, with which that of Nebraska substantially agreed, it was enacted, "that the legislative power
of the Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the United States
and the provisions of this act." By the ninth section it
was provided "that the judicial power of said Territory shall
be vested in a supreme court, district courts, probate
courts, and in justices of the peace," and that " the jurisdiction of the several courts herein provided for, both appellate and original, and that of the probate courts and.
justices of the peace, shall be limited by law; Provided,"
that "the said supreme and district courts respectively shall
possess chancery as well as common-law jurisdiction."
Now, here is nothing which declares, as the Process Act
of 1792 did declare, that the jurisdictions of common law
and chancery shall be exercised separately, and by distinct
forms and modes of proceeding. The only provision is,
that the courts named shall possess both jurisdictions. If
the two jurisdictions had never been exercised in any other
way than by distinct modes of proceeding, there would be,
ground for supposing that Congress intended them to be
exercised in that way. But it is well known that in many
States of the Union the two jurisdictions are commingled
in one form of action. And there is nothing in the nature
* 11 Wallace, 610.

,654

tHoRNBUCKLE

v.

TOOMBS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

of things to prevent such a mode of proceeding. Even in
the Circuit and District Courts of the United States the same
court is invested with the two jurisdictions, having a law
side and an equity side; and the enforced separation of the
two remedies, legal and equitable, in reference to the same
subject-matter of controversy, sometimes leads to interesting exhibitions of the power of mere form to retard the administration of justice. In most cases it is difficult to see
any good reason why an equitable right should not be enforced or an equitable remedy administered in the same
proceeding by which the legal rights of the parties are adjudicated. Be this, however, as it may, a consolidation of
the two jurisdictions exists in many of the States, and must
be considered as having been well known to Congress; and
when the latter body, in the organic act, simply declares
that certain Territorial courts shall possess both jurisdictions,
without prescribing how they shall be exercised, the passage by the Territorial assembly of a code of practice which
unites them in one form of action, cannot be deemed repugnant to such organic act.
A clause in the thirteenth section of the act, however,
has been referred to, by which it isdeclared "that the Constitution, and all laws of the United States which are not
locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect
within the said Territory of Montana as elsewhere in the
United States;" and it is argued that by virtue of this
enactment, all regulations respecting judicial proceedings
which are contained in any of the acts of Congress, are imported into the practice of the Territorial courts. But this
proposition is not tenable. Laws regulating the proceedings of the United States courts are of specific application,
-nd are, in truth and in fact, locally inapplicable to the
courts of a Territory. There is a law authorizing this court
to appoint a reporter. In one sense this law is not locally
inapplicable to the Supreme Court of the Territory; but in
a just sense it is so. The law has a specific application to
this court, and cannot be applied to the Territorial court
without an evident misconstruction of the true meaning

Oct. 1873.]

HORNBUCKLE v. TOOMBS.
Opinion of the court.

and intent of Congress in the clause of the thirteenth section above referred to. That clause has the effect, undoubtedly, of importing into the Territory the laws passed
by Congress to prevent and punish offences against the
revenue, the mail service, and other laws of a general character and universal application; but not those of specific
application.
The acts of Congress respecting proceedings in the
United States courts are concerned with, and confined to,
those courts, considered as parts of the Federal system, and
as invested with the judicial power of the United States
expressly conferred by the Constitution, and to be exercised
in correlation with the presence and jurisdiction of the
several State courts and governments. They were not intended as exertions of that plenary municipal authority
which Congress has over the District of Columbia and the
Territories of the United States. They do not contain a
word to indicate any such intent. The fact that they require the Circuit and District Courts to follow the practice
of the respective State courts in cases at law, and that they
supply no other rule in such cases, shows that they cannot
apply to the Territorial courts. As before said, these acts
have specific application to the courts of the United States,
which are courts of a peculiar character and jurisdiction.
Whenever Congress has proceeded to organize a government for any of the Territories, it has merely instituted a
general system of courts therefor, and has committed to the
Territorial assembly full power, subject to a few specified
or implied conditions, of supplying all details of legislation
necessary to put the system into operation, even to the defining of the jurisdiction of the several courts. As a general thing, subject to the general scheme of local government
chalked out by the organic act, and such special provisions
as are contained therein, the local legislature has been intrusted with the enactment of the entire system of municipal law, subject also, however, to the right of Congress to
revise, alter, and revoke at its discretion. The powers thus
exercised by the Territorial legislatures are nearly as exten-

HORNBUCKLE

v. TooMBs.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

sive as those exercised by any State legislature; and the
jurisdiction of the Territorial courts is collectively coerxtensive with and correspondent to that of the State courts--a
very different jurisdiction from that exercised by the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States. In fine, the Territorial, like the State courts, are invested with plenary municipal jurisdiction.
It is true that the District Courts of the Territory are, by
the organic act, invested with the same jurisdiction, in all,
cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, as is vested in the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States; and a portion of each term is directed to be.
appropriated to the trial of causes arising under the said
Constitution and laws. Whether, when acting in this capacity, the said courts are to be governed by any of the
regulations affecting the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States, is not now the question. A large class of
cases within the jurisdiction of the latter courts would not,
inder this clause, come in the Territorial courts; namely,,
those in which the jurisdiction depends on the citizenship.
of the parties. Cases arising under the Constitution and,
laws of the United States would be composed mostly of
revenue, admiralty, patent, and bankruptcy cases, prosecutions for crimes against the United States, and prosecutions.
and suits for infractions of the laws relating to civil rights.
under the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments. To avoid
question and controversy as to the modes of proceeding in,
such cases, where not already settled by law, perhaps additional legislation would be desirable.
From a review of the entire past legislation of Congress,
on the subject under consideration, our conclusion is, that
the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding
of the Territorial courts, as well as their respective jurisdictions, subject, as before said, to a few express or implied,
conditions in the organic act itself, were intended to be left
to the legislative action of the Territorial assemblies, and to.
the regulations which might be adopted by the courts themselves. Of course, in case of any difficulties arising out of'

Oct. 1873.J

HERSHFIELD V. GRIFFITH.
Statement of the case.

this state of things, Congress has it in its power at any
time to establish such regulations on this, as well as on any
other subject of legislation, as it shall deem expedient and
proper.
The judgment is
AFFIRMED.

CLIFFORD, DAVIS, and STRONG, JJ.: We dissent
from the judgment in this case for the reason that this court
has several times decided that claims at law and claims in
equity cannot be united in one action even in the Territorial
courts. And we think, if a change in the rule is to be made,
that it should be made by Congress.

HERSHFIELD V. GRIFFITH.
The preceding case affirmed, the case here having been a proceeding to
obtain satisfaction of a mortgage.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Mon-

tana.
Griffith sued Starr in one of the District Territorial courts
of Montana, on a mortgage on certain property; the suit
being brought under the Civil Practice Act, quoted in the
preceding case; an act passed under circumstances there
set forth, and which it is necessary for the reader to possess
himself of in order to understand at all this case. One
Hershfield intervened, asserting that he had a mortgage on
the property, of a date prior to that sued on by Griffith.
The court gave judgment in favor of Griffith, and Hershfield took the case to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which affirmed the judgment below. Hershfield now brought
the case here by appeal, assigning among other errors the
blending of equity and common-law jurisdiction.
VOL. XVIII.

42

