Oct. 1873.]

5

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.
Syllabus.

many circumstances. The principle is impracticable as a
rule of action to be administered by the courts. There is
no standard known to us by which we are able to say that
it is wrong in the defendant not to pay the plaintiff's debt.
We are of the opinion that the letter produced does not
contain evidence of a promise to pay the debt in suit, and
that the judgment appealed from must be
AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. PENISTON.

1. The exemption of agencies of the Federal government from taxation by
the States is dependent, not upon the nature of the agents, nor upon the
mode of their constitution, nor upon the fact that they are agents, but
upon the effect of the tax; that is, upon the question whether the tax does
in truth deprive them of power to serve the government as they were intended to serve it, or hinder the efficient exercise of their power. A tax
upon their property merely, having no such necessaryeffect, and leaving
them free to discharge the duties they have undertaken to perform, may
be rightfully laid by the States. A tax upon their operations being a
direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers may not be.
2. This doctrine applied to the case of a tax by a State upon the real and
personal property, as distinguished from its franchises, of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation chartered by Congress for
private gain, and all whose stock was owned by individuals, but which
Congress assisted by donations and loans, of whose board of directors
the government appoints two, which makes annual reports to the government, whose operations in laying, constructing, and working its railroad and telegraph lines, as well as its rates of toll, are subject to regulations imposed by its charter, and to such further regulations as Congress
may hereafter make; on whose failure to comply with the terms and conditions of its charter, or to keep the road in repair and use, Congress may
assume the control and management thereof, and devote the income to the
use of ne United States; the loan of the United States to which, amounting to many millions, is a lien on all the property, and on failure to
redeem which loan, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take
possession of the road with all its rights, functions, immunities, and
appurtenances, for the use and benefit of the United States; and, finally,
where all the grants made to the company are declared to be upon the
condition that, besides paying the government bonds advanced, the
company shall keep the railroad and telegraph lines in repair and use,
and shall at all times transmit dispatches and transport mails, troops,

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. PENISTO.

PSut. Ct

Statement of the case.
and munitions of war, supplies and public stores for the government,
whenever required to do so by any department thereof; and that the
government shall have the preference at rates not to exceed those charged
to private parties, and payable by being applied to the payment of the
bonds aforesaid; and in addition to which control, and the obligations
and liabilities of the company, Congress, not forbidding a State tax,
reserves the right to add to, alter, amend, or repeal the charter.
S. The unorganized territory in Nebraska west of Lincoln County and the
unorganized county of Cheyenne having been attached by statute to
the county of Lincoln, in Nebraska, for revenue purposes, the authorities of Lincoln County were the proper authorities to levy taxes upon
property thus placed under their charge.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska; the case being thus:
By act of Congress of July 1st, 1862,* entitled "An act
to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure the government the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes," Congress incorporated certain
individuals, their associates and successors, as the "Union
Pacific Railroad Company," with authority to build a continuous railroad and telegraph from a point on the one hundredth meridian to the western boundary of Nevada Territory. The act fixed the amount of the capital stock and
shares, and declared that "the stockholders should constitute said body politic and corporate." The government
had no stock in the road, though through the President of
the United States it was to appoint two directors, not stockholders, out of fifteen, which the charter provided for as the
number to be appointed in all. Annual reports were to be
made to the Secretary of the Treasury. The act granted to
the company the right of way through the public lands, and
"for the purpose of aiding in the construction of suid railroad and telegraph line, and to secure the safe and speedy
transportation of the mails, troops, munjitions of war, and
the public stores thereon," made to it an extensive grant of
lands, and provided for the issuing of patents therefor. And
APPEAL

* 12 Stat. at Large, 489.

Oct. 1873,]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

7

Statement of the case.

for the same purposes the United States agreed to, and did
issue its 6 per cent. bonds, payable in thirty years, to the
company, to the amount of $16,000 per mile, for each section of forty miles; which bonds the original act declared
"shall, ipso facto, constitute a first mortgage on the whole
of the railroad and telegraph, together with the rolling
stock, fixtures, and property of every kind," and made specific provision as to proceedings on the failure of the company to redeem the bonds.
By an act of July 2d, 1864,* this was changed, and the
company authorized to issue its "first mortgage bonds to
an amount not exceeding the bonds of the United States,"
and the lien of the bonds of the United States was declared
to be subordinate to the bonds so issued by the company,
with the exception relating to the transportation of dispatches, troops, mails, &c., for the government.
The grants to the company were declared by the original
act to be made upon condition that the company shall (1)
pay the bonds of the United States at maturity; (2) keep
their line and road in repair and use; (3) "transmit dispatches
over said telegraph line, and transport mails, troops, and
munitions of war, supplies, and public stores upon said railroad for the government," &c., giving the government the
preference at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not
exceeding those charged to private individuals, the amount
thus earned to be applied in payment of the bonds, as well
as 5 per cent. of the net earnings of the road after its completion.
By the seventeenth section of the same act it was provided that if the road, when finished, should for any unreasonable time be permitted to remain out of repair, or unfit
for use, Congress should have authority to put the same in
repair and use, and from the income of the road reimburse
the government for expenditures thus caused.
The eighteenth section provided that when the net eary,,
ings of the road should exceed 10 per cent. of its cost, Con13 Stat. at Large, 356.

RAILROAD

(COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

gress might reduce, fix, and regulate rates of fare thereon,
and declared that "the better to accomplish the object of
this act, to wit, to promote the public interest ard welfare
by the construction of said railroad and telegraph line, and
keeping the same in working order, and to secure the gov.
ernment at all times (but particularly in times of war) the
use and benefits of the same for postal, military, and other
purposes, Congress may at any time, having due regard for
the rights of said companies named herein, add to, alter,
amend, or repeal this act."
The act also contained provisions, that so far as the public
and government were concerned the railroad and branches
should be worked as one connected and continuous line.
There was no provision, in any act of Congress relating
to this company, respecting the taxation of it or its property by the States through which its roads might run.
The road was completed and put in operation in May,
1869, and with the Central Pacific Railroad formed a continuous line from the Missouri River and the Eastern States
to California and the Pacific, thus uniting the extremities
of the country. At the time of granting' the charter, the
territory over which this line was projected all belonged to
the United States. But Nevada was admitted into the Union
as a State in 1864, and Nebraska in 1867, and the road, as
constructed, crosses the latter State in its whole breadth,
from east to west.
So far as to the history of the Union Pacific Railway. Now
as to a certain tax laid upon it, the subject of this suit.
On the 15th of February, 1869, the legislature of Nebraska
passed an act "to define the western boundary of Lincoln
County," which, after defining it, provided,
"That all the unorganized country lying west of the western
boundary of Lincoln, and east of the east line of Cheyenne
County, and south of the Ncrth Platte River be, and the same
is hereby, attached to the said county of Lincoln, for judicial
and revenue purposes, and that the county of Cheyenne be, and

Oct. 1873.]

9

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.
Statement of the case.

the same is hereby, attached, for judicial and revenue purposes,
to said county of Lincoln."*
In this state of things the authorities of Lincoln County,
in the State of Nebraska, under a revenue law of the State,
passed on the same 15th of February, 1869, laid a tax upon
the property of the railroad company, embraced within the
taxation, upon the valuation of $16,000 per mile, for a length
of one hundred and seventy-six miles.t
The property of the company thus rated and taxed consisted of its road-bed, depots, wood-stations, water-stations,
;and other realty; telegraph-poles, telegraph-wires, bridges,
boats, books, papers, office furniture and fixtures, money
;and credits, movable property, engines, &c.
The population of Lincoln County and all the attached
territory, by the census of 1870, was 1352 persons. The
'whole amount of the tax list was $4,081,904, of which was
$3,936,000
145,904

Property of the company,
Property of other taxpayers,

The tax levied by the county was $41,328 upon the com-pany's property, and $6350.45 upon the property of other
taxpayers.
The tax levied upon the company's property was distrib,uted under the following heads or purposes of taxation :
For State general fund,
.
For State sinking fund,
.....
For State school fund,...
For county general fund,
For county sinking fund,
And for district school purposes, ....

......

$7,872
3,936
3,936
19,680
3,936
1,968

The length of the company's road lying within the tarritory ascribed to Lincoln County for taxation, was as follows:
In Lincoln County, eight miles; in Cheyenne County (un'organized), one hundred and five miles; between the two
* Laws of Nebraska, 1869, p. 249.

"The tax was, in fact, laid on two hundred and forty-six miles; but, as
,it was admitted by the defendant that there was seventy miles of excessive
-computation, the only question here was as to the tax on the remaining one
hundred and seventy-six miles.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

[Kul). ort

Statement of the case.

counties, sixty-three miles; making a, total of oine. hundred
and seventy-six miles.
In this state of things, one Peniston, Treasurer of Lincoln County, being about to collect the tax laid, the Union
Pacific Railroad Company filed a bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States in the District of Nebraska against him,
to restrain his doing so; assigning as grounds for- the bill
among others-That the State of Nebraska had no power to, subject to,
taxation for State purposes the road-bed, rolling-stock, and
other property necessary for the use and operation, of the
road; such power resting, as it was asserted by the bill, ex-clusively in the government of the United States.
That Lincoln County was not by law authorized to tax,
any portion of the road-bed or property of the company.
except such as was situate within its geographical limits.
The cause was heard upon pleadings and agreed proofs,.
and the Circuit Court refused to restrain the collection of
the tax against the one hundred and seventy-six miles of the
road, holding the sane to have been lawfully imposed, and
the property of the company to be open to State taxation.
Upon this decree being brought here by the present appeal,.
the following errors were assigned:
First. That it was error to hold the tax a valid imposition,
upon the property of the Union Pacific Railroad Company
subjected to it, such property being exempt from State taxation, by virtue of the incorporation of the company by theUnited States as a means for the performance of certain
public duties of the government, enjoined and authorizedby the Constitution.
Second. That it was error to hold the rating and taxing of
the property of the company, outside the county of Lincoln,,
by the authorities of that county, valid and lawful under thelegislation of the State.
Mr. W. M. Evarts, for the appellant:
I. The tax and the statute of Nebraska, so far as it au-

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.
Argument against the tax.

Lhorized the tax, were void, and the company's property
should have been relieved, and protected therefrom by the
judgment of the court.
1. The railroad company was created and endowed by
Congress, with its franchises, powers, and property, as a
means, instrument, and agency for the execution of the
powers vested in the General government by the Constitution of the United States.
2. At the time of the passage of the act of Congress, under
which the corporate powers were created and conferred, the
government of the United States exercised the sole and undivided dominion over the territories to be traversed by the
railroad, or affected by the powers of this corporation or
their administration.
3. The tax here authorized by the statute of Nebraska,
and actually laid by the county of Lincoln, is rated and
assessed upon whatever constitutes the property and the
means of the company as collected, combined, prepared, and
worked (under or by authority of the act of Congress) as the
instrument and agent of the General government, for the
execution of its constitutional powers and the pertrmance
of its constitutional duties, so far as this instrument and
agent has its structure, capital in any and every form of use
or investment, and its operations within the local range of
the taxing power.
The theory of the taxation is an apportionment of the
total and aggregated means of the corporation per mile of
its railroad, and a valuation and taxation of the ratable
share of the length of the railroad found within the different
counties of the State.
4. If the tax be looked at in its circumstances as well as
in its principle, it is not too much to say that the introduction and operation of this means and agency of the General
government within the territorial limits of what now constitutes the State of Nebraska, is made the occasion, and the
means and agent made the subject, of taxation for local and
general State purposes, in exoneration of the property of the
population which should bear those burdens.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

IL The settled doctrines of this court, in expounding the
relations which the means, instruments and agencies, created
by the General government for the execution of its constitutional powers bear to the States, and taxation under the
authority of the States, exempt the Union Pacific Railroad
Company from the taxation to which it is sought to be subjected.
The principles established in the celebrated cases of Me Culloch v. Maryland,* and Osborn v. Bank of United States,t stand
unbroken and impregnable. Neither the force of their
reason, nor the weight of their authority, is, in the least,
abated by any subsequent adjudications in pari materia.
The late Chief Justice Chase thus speaks of these decisions :1
"That Congress may constitutionally organize or constitute
agencies for carrying into effect the National powers granted
by the Constitution; that the agencies may be organized by the
voluntary association of individuals, sanctioned by Congress;
that Congress may give to such agencies, so organized, corporate unity, permanence, and efficiency; and that such agencies
in their being, capital, franchises, and operations, are not sub.
ject to the taxing power of the States, have ever been regarded,
since those decisions, as settled doctrines of this court.
"Those decisions were the judgments of great men and of

great judges. They were pronounced by the most illustrious of
their number, and are distinguished by his peculiar clearness
and cogency of reasoning. For nearly half a century the principles vindicated by them have borne the keen scrutiny of an
enlightened profession and the sharp criticism of able statesmen,
and they remain unshaken. All the judges who concurred in
them have descended long since into honored graves, but their
judgments endure, and gathering vigor from time and general
consent, have acquired almost the force of constitutional sanctions "

A concise and authoritative statement of what principles
-were decided in McCalloch v. Maryland, and Osborn v. Bank
4 Wheaton, 316.

t Van Allen v The Assessors, 3 Wallace, 591.

t 9 Id. 738.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

Argument in support of the tax.

of the United States, is given by this court in its opinion, as
delivered by Marshall, C. J., in Weston v. Charleston.*
"We will not repeat the reasoning which conducted us to the
conclusion thus formed; but that conclusion was, that all subjects to which the sovereign power of a State extends, are objects of taxation ; but those over which it does not extend, are,
upon the soundest principles, exempt from taxation.
"' The sovereignty of a State extends to everything which exists by its own authority, or is introduced by its permission;' but
not to those means which are employed by Congress to carry
into execution powers conferred on that body by the people of
the United States.
"The attempt to use the power of taxation on the means employed by the government of the Union in pursuance of the
Constitution, is in itself an abuse, because it is the usurpation
of a power which the people of a single State cannot give.
"The States have no power by taxation, or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner control the operation of
the constitutional laws enacted by Congress, to carry into execution the powers vested in the General government."
III. But, if the State act be constitutional, in its application to the property of this company subjected to it, it is
submitted that the property outside of the county of Lincoln is
not lawfully taxable by the authorities of that county under
the laws of the State.
Mr. J. M. Woolworth, contra:
lthe main objection to these taxes is, that they are imposed upon an agent of the Federal government. The
objection cannot be supported as an original proposition.
We concede that those agencies which Congress has established for the purpose of carrying into execution the powers
conferred in the Federal Constitution, are in no way liable
to interference by the States. This court has reiterated that
principle many times, and with great emphasis. But there
is another principle which this court has as often and as
emphatically asserted, and which is equally necessary to the
* 2 Peters, 466.

-RAILhOAD COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

harmonious relations of the State and Federal powers. It
is, that the taxing power exists in the States unrestricted by
the Federal Constitution or government, except as to the
means necessary to the latter to discharge its functions.
This matter received full exposition from this court (Chase,
C. J., speaking for it), in Lane County v. Oregon.*
These two principles are fundamental in our complex
system:
1. The taxing power of a State extends to every matter
of value within its sovereignty.
2. But that power cannot reach those agencies which are
employed by Congress to carry into execution the powers
conferred in the Federal Constitution.
These principles are coefficient. By the one, the just and
necessary powers of the States, by the other the just and
necessary powers of the Nation are preserved. But they are
not co-ordinate. The first is the rule, the second the exception thereto. It devolves upon those who would withdraw
,any property, business, or persons, within their respective
limits, from the taxing power of the States," to show the
same to be within the exception.
But there are many agencies of the Federal government
which do not enjoy any exemption whatever from taxation
by the States. They do not claim such exemption, even in
respect of property which they use when serving the government.
The steamship on the ocean, which bears the ambassador
to a foreign court, and the dispatches by which the diplomatic intercourse of the nation is guided, are agents of the
government, and discharge most necessary, valuable, and
efficient service. The railroad companies, in every one of
whose trains is a postal car, bearing the orders of the executive to subordinate officers scattered all through the wide
country, and by which the domestic policy and operations
of the government are directed, are its agents, also dis* 7 Wallace, 71; and see the previous cases of Nathan v. Louisiana, 8
Howard, 73; Hamilton Company v. Massachusetts, 6 Wallace, 632.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

15

Argument in support of the tax.

,charging most necessary, valuable, and efficient service.
'The stage-coach upon the frontier, taking up and carryii g
,into remote parts these orders, so that from this centre the
•volitions and pulsations are obeyed and felt to the extremities of the land, shares in the vast service of the republic.
And, for all this service, these agents, and thousands of
others like them, are paid by the government. Not a small
,proportion of their earnings, and the dividends which they
,distribute among their stockholders, is derived from the
government. They even pay to the State taxes upon these
,earnings. They have conveniences for doing this service,
:used for this service exclusively; the steamship, apartments;
the railroad, postal cars; the stage.coach, wagons; and they
pay taxes thereon; and yet they never claim exemption from
,State taxes. Or if one of them, the Kansas Pacific Railroad,
is any exception, if it has claimed exemption on that ground,
,it
stands solitary and alone in asserting such claim, and it
lhas signally failed in establishing it.*
But, as all know, there are agencies to which such exemption is conceded. The line of separation is clearly drawn
by Chief Justice Marshall in Osborn v. The Bank of The United
&Slates.t He says:
"The foundation of the argument in favor of the right of a
'State to tax the bank, is laid in the supposed character of that
institution. The argument supposes the corporation to have
been originated for the management of an individual concern,
to be founded upon contract between individuals, having private
trade and private profit for its great and principal object.
"If these premises were true, the conclusion drawn from
them would be inevitable. This mere private corporation, en,gaged in its own business, with its own views, would certainly
be subject to the taxing power of the State, as any individual
would be; and the casual circumstance of its being employed
by the government in the transaction of its fiscal affairs, would
no more exempt its private business from the operation of that
power, than it would exempt the private business of any indi-vidual employed in the same manner. But the premises are not
Thompson v. Railroad Company, 9 Wallace, 579.

t 9 Wheaton, 859.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTOGI.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the tax.

true. The bank is not considered as a private corporationwhose principal object is individual trade and individual profit,
but as a public corporation, created for a public and national
purpose. That the mere business of banking is, in its own nature, a private business, and may be carried on by i ndividuall
or companies, having no political connection with the govern.
ment, is admitted; but the bank is not such individual or company. It was not created for its own sake, or for private purpose . ..
"Why is it that Congress can incorporate or create a bank ?
This question was answered in the case of Meculloch v. The Stato.
of Maryland. It is an instrument which is ' necessary and proper'
for carrying on the fiscal operations of government."
From the exposition of the relations and immunities of
the agencies of the government, traced in the case cited, these
principles are deducible:
1. A private corporation, whose principal object is individual trade and individual profit, is not exempted from,
State taxation by the casual circumstance of being employed
by the government in the transaction of its fiscal affairs.
2. While it is true that the agent entitled to exemption,
may transact private business, its capacity so to do must bean incident to its agency, and be in aid thereof.
3. Its operations in transacting private business must be
necessary to its character and efficiency, as a machine employed by the government.
But it is not all of the property of any agents of the Federal government that may be withdrawn from the taxingpower of the States. The Bank of the United States was a.,
fiscal agent of the government; it bore a most intimate relation to that government; and yet in McCuUlloch v. Maryland,* Marshall, C. J., said:
"This opinion does not deprive the States of any resources,
which they originally possessed. It does not extend to a tax.
paid by the real property of the bank, in common with otherreal property within the State."
* 4 Wheaton, 436.

Oct. 1873 J

RAILROAD

COMPANY

'. PENISTON.

Argument in support of the tax.

And again, in Osborn v. The Bank of the United States,* he
said, that the local property of' the bank may be taxed by
the State, the same as the property of other citizens.
But there is a position in which the Federal officer is entitled to the protection of the Federal power. While the
property of the officer in general is subject to State taxation,
his salary is entirely exempt therefrom.t And the same is
true of the corporate agent. If " the tax be upon its operations, and consequently upon the operation of an instrument
empowered by the government of the Union, to carry its
powers into execution," then the tax is unconstitutional.
The reason of the rule marks its limitations. The National
government must be free to use such means as it selects, to
carry out its functions, else it cannot exist. When a State
tax impairs the efficiency of any instrumentality which Congress selects to carry out the legitimate purposes of the Federal government, it is unconstitutional. When it does not
have that effect, it is within the competency of the State to
impose it.
Miller, J., delivering the unanimous opinion of the court,
in National Bank v. Coinmonwealth,$ one of the cases of the
bank taxes, distinguishes the cases in the way we do, where
the State may and where it may not tax. He says:
"It is argued that the banks, being instrumentalities of the
Federal government, by which some of its important operations
are conducted, cannot be subjected to such State legislation. It
is certainly true that the Bank of the United States, and its
capital, were held to be exempt from State taxation on the
ground here stated; and this principle, laid down in the case of
McCulloch v. The State of Maryland, has been repeatedly affirmed
by the court. But the doctrine has its foundation in the proposition, that the right of taxation may be so used in such- cases,
as to destroy the instrumentalities by which the government
proposes to effect its lawful purposes in the States; and it certainly cannot be maintained that banks, or other corporations
9 Wheaton, 897.
- Dobbins v.The Commissioners of Erie Countyp 16 Peters, 435.
: 9 Wallace, 353, 361.
VOL. XVIII.

18

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the tax.

or instrumentalities of the government, are to be wholly with.
drawn from the operation of State legislation. The most important agents of the Federal government are its officers ; but
no one will contend that when a man becomes an officer of the
government he ceases to be subject to the laws of the State.
The principle we are discussing has its limitation; a limitation
growing out of the necessity on which the principle itself is
founded. That limitation is, that the agencies of the Federal
government are only exempted from State legislation so far as
that legislation may interfere with or impair their efficiency, in
performing the functions by which they were designed to serve
that government. Any other rule would convert a principle
founded alone in the necessity of securing to the government
of the United States the means of exercising its legitimate
powers, into an unauthorized and unjustifiable invasion of the
rights of the States. The salary of a Federal officer may not
be taxed; he may be exempted from any personal service which
interferes with the discharge of his official duties, because those
exemptions are essential to enable him to perform those duties.
But he is subject to all the laws of the State which affect his
family or social relations, or his property; and he is liable to
punishment for crime, though that punishment be imprisonment
or death. So of the banks. They are subject to the laws of
the State, and are governed in their daily course of business, far
more by the laws of the State than of the nation. All their
contracts are governed and construed by State laws. Their acquisition and transfer of property, their right to collect their
debts, tand their liability to be sued for debts, are all based on
State laws. It is only when the State law incapacitates the
banks from discharging their duties to the government, that it
becov .es unconstitutional."
Indeed, it is believed that no case adjudged by this court
can be found, of a tax on the property of a third partymeaning by this term some agency, other than an integral
part of the machinery of government-made use of by the
National government, which has been held invalid. The
tax in question, in McCulloch v. Maryland, and Osborn v. The
United States Bank, was upon the operations of the bank, and

not upon its property.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.
Argument in support of the tax.

And in one of the cases of the bank tax,* the taxation of
the present national banks has been supported upon the same
theory: the theory, to wit, that it was upon the new use, in
the business of banking, to which the Federal bonds were
put, and not upon the bonds nor upon the banks that the
taxes were imposed.
It may be that the language of some of the judges, and
even the reasoning which they have pursued, seem to fhvor
the doctrine of total exemption of the property of an agent
of the National government from State taxes. But, as
Chase, C. J., said in Thompson v. The Pacific Railroad, these
decisions are limited to the cases before the court.
It is obvious, upon the principle of the cases above cited,
that there are agencies of the government, like the old
Bank of the United States, the nature of which places them
beyond the reach of the States. But there are other agencies,
as the new banks, whose principal business is private, and the
public business is an incident thereto,which cannot be placed
in the same category. As to this latter class, it is not too
much to insist that exemption from State regulation should
be secured by express direction of Congress; that if Congress does not in terms grant the exemption the State sovereignty is not displaced. It is not needful to this case, to
go through the judgments of this court in order to ascertain
whether the State power is displaced without a direct enactment of Congress to that effect. There was a long disagreement between the judges on this subject.t But in Gilman
v. Philadelphia,t Swayne, J., delivering the opinion of the
court, assigned as one of the reasons fbr sustaining the State
law authorizing the bridge, against objections that it conflicted with the commercial power of the nation, the fact
that " Congress may interpose whenever it shall be deemed
necessary, by general or special laws," the inference being,
that until such interposition the power of the State must
be respected; and in Woodruff v. Parham,§ Miller, J., also
* Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wallace, 573.

t See the LIcense Cases, 5 Howard, 504.
8 Wallace, 123, 140.

3 Wallace, 718.

20

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Argumeot in support of the tax.

speaking for the court, pretty clearly intimates the same
view.
Turning now to the immediate case before us. Is this
railroad company entitled to exemption from State taxation
because it is an agency of the Federal government?
It is a private corporation whose principal object is individual trade and individual profit. True, it is incorporated
by Congress; but, when regard is had to the circumstances,
this fact has no significancy. It was authorized to build a
road from a point on the one hundredth meridian* to "the
western boundary of Nevada Territory." At that time, and
when the amendatory act of 1864 was passed, that whole
section was territory not within any State. Again: there
was a careful abstinence from the claim of any power to
authorize the building of a road within any State. It was
important, in order to secure all the advantages of the work,
to construct parts of it and branches of it in States; but
those parts and those branches were to be built by State
corporations, and not by the Union Pacific Railroad Company appellant here.
The Central Pacific, a California corporation, was to build
from the Pacific coast, or the headwaters of the Sacramento,
to the eastern boundary of California.t The Leavenworth,
Pawnee, and Western, a Kansas corporation, was to build
from the Missouri, near the Kansas River, to the one hundredth meridian.T The Hannibal and St. Joseph, a Missouri
corporation, with the consent of Kansas, was to build into
that State, either under its own franchise or one derived
from Kansas.§ And so on. Every mile of road to be built
within the limits of any State was to be built by a State corporation. And these several corporations received the same
aid in bonds and lands from the United States as did the railroad company which is now here as the appellant in this case.
This corporation, we say, was formed for private trade
This point, as the Reporter understands it, is on a north and south line
dividing Nebraska about equally.
J Id.
10.t Id.
f See Act of 1862, 9.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.
Argument in support of the tax.

and private profit. The service which it renders to the government is only an incident to its general business. Its operations are only accidentally, they are not inseparably connected with those of the government. Between it and the
old Bank of the United States there is in this respect the
widest possible distinction. The bank, by the system of
exchanges which it maintained between different sections
of the country, was converted into a convenient agency for
transferring the public funds from place to place. Every
bill drawn at one branch upon another, transmitted and
paid, was an operation not only of which the government
might avail itself, but it increased to a degree the facility of
communication which the treasury had need of And the
necessity to the treasury of the most facile and certain and
efficient means for the transmission of funds was what justified the incorporation of the bank. But who shall say of
this railroad company, that the running of its daily trains is
thus needful or useful to the government?
What are the services required of it by the government?
They are stated to be to " transmit dispatches over said telegraph line, and transport mails, troops, and munitions of
war, suppfies, and public stores upon said railroad for the
government." Every grant of land ever made by Congress
to a railroad has provided in the same terms for the same
servicoo.
Not to go farther back than 1850, the grant to Illinois
in aid of what became the Illinois Central, contains this
clause :*

'Tho said railroad and brflnches shall be and remain a public
highway for the use of the United States, free from toll or other
charge, upon the transportation of any property or troops of
the United States."
And: The United States mail shall, at all times, be transported on
the said railroad, under the direction of the Postoffice Depart.
waut, at such price as the Congress may by law direct."
* 9 Stat. at Large, 467.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. C',

Argument in support of the tax.

These exact words are found in the grant to Missouri, foir
the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad,* in that to Arkansas
and Missouri,t to Minnesota,J Iowa,§ Florida and Alabama,II Alabama, Louisiana,** Wisconsin,tt Michigan,11
Mississippi,§§ and so on down to the last act of the kind
passed by Congress.
The service stipulated for by Congress, to be rendered by
every land-grant railroad in this country, is as large, as necessary, as valuable as that to be rendered by the company
appellant. And yet, it will not be argued that all these
agencies are rendering this service as the principal part of
their business, and rendering only an incidental service to
the public.
Congress has not interposed any claim of exemption on
behalf of the government of the character set up by the appellant.
Neither the title of the act nor the terms used in the act
have such reach or force.
The objects of the act, as declared in the eighteenth seetion,jII are twofold: first, to promote the public interest, &c.;
and secondly, to secure to the government the use of the
road. One of these objects was evidently as prominent in
the mind of Congress as the other. The circumstances of
the company's incorporation are matters of common knowledge. Congress was moved to pass the original act by the
consideration, at the time greatly agitating the public mind,
that the Pacific States and Territories, by reason of their
separation from the other parts of the country, might follow
the example of the Southern States and seek to withdraw
from the Union. To bind those distant parts more closely to
the rest, by the bands of commerce, was the argument most
pressed upon Congress. Facility in the transportation of
the mails, troops, and stores of the government was rather
the incident to this broad and patriotic policy. So that
* 10 Stat. at Large, 9.

11 Id. 9.
** lb. 19.
1 81.
lb.

t Id. 156.
11lb. 16.
tt lb. 20.
..
I1 Supra, pp. 7, 8.

1lb. 802.
lb. 18.
lb. 22.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

Argument in support of the tax.

whether we regard the words of the acts or the circumstances of their passage, it is obvious that those services, on
account of which exemption from State taxation is here
claimed, must be considered incidental only.
There is nothing in this record to show that the taxes
here complained of will interfere with or impair the efficiency of the railroad company in performing the service
required of it by the acts. And if we look to the effect of
taxation generally, upon the services to be rendered, nothing
appears at all within the rule as laid down by Miller, J., in
the NationalBank v. The Commonwealth.* Congress gave the
corporation power to make contracts, which implies also the
power to make debts. A creditor could sue his demand
and recover judgment, and, by proper process, enforce it.
These duties and liabilities would be as much interfered
with by such judicial process as by sale for taxes; and the
supreme rights of the government may as reasonably be interposed in one case as the other. Those rights, however,
find their protection in the fact that, whether the property
remains in the corporation or passes to another, it is bound
to those duties and liabilities; that is to say, the purchaser
takes the property subject to them in both instances.
There is no need of words to show that this tax is upon
the property of the corporation and not upon its operations,
and that it is not a constituent element in the government,
but a third party made use of by it incidentally to render to
it a certain service.
A private ccrporation, organized for private trade and
private profit, rendering to the government a service incidentally in the course of its private business, and not inseparably connected with the government operations; not a
constituent part of the machinery of the government, but
called in to discharge a duty for which it is compensated;
not claimed by Congress as an agency entitled to freedom
from State control; its efficiency to discharge its duty, not
impaired by the taxation complained of, and its property
* 9 Wallace, 353.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the tax.

only, and not its operations, subjected to taxes;-this company must submit, in common with all citizens atd all cor.
porations, to those reasonable exactions which the State must
make to support the government which gives protection and
value to its business and its property.
But this case has been substantially decided by this court.
In Osborne v. The United States Bank, it is emphatically said
that the circumstance that the bank was a Federal corporation was not important. The question, and the only question, there treated as vital was, what was the nature of the
services required of it by the government ?
In the bank-tax cases of Van Allen v. The Assessor and National Bank v. The Commonwealth, the distinction which we
seek to maintain between what interests of a Federal corporation are taxable by a State and what non-taxable is
clearly taken.
In Thompson v. The Railroad Company,* the services,
duties, liabilities, relations of the company in question, were
all precisely the same as those of this plaintiff. They were
all imposed by these same acts we have been considering.
In the words of section nine, of the first:
"The Leavenworth, Pawnee, and Western Railroad Company
of Kansas, are hereby authorized to construct a railroad and
telegraph line . . . upon the same terms and conditions, in all

respects, as are provided in this act for the construction of the
Union Pacific Railroad."
And yet those services, duties, liabilities, relations, grants,
and subsidies did not secure the exemption sought. It is
true that the opinion of the Chief Justice was confined to a
State corporation. But put the case of Osborne v. The Bank
of the United States with that case and the rule of this case is
directly established. The case of Thompson v. The Railroad
Cmpavy holds that a State corporation, rendering the same
Hervices, subject to the same duties and liabilities, sustaining
the same relations as this appellant, must lay its State taxes.
The case of Osborne v. The Bank of the United States holds
9 Walieae, 579.

,Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

V.

PEXISTON.

Reply-Against the tax.

that a State corporation and a Federal corporation are on
precisely the same footing in these respects. The conclusion
covers this company.
And, after all, on plain principles, it must be so. Here is
a corporation running the whole length of Nebraska, four
hundred and fifty miles, owning millions of property, conducting an immense and profitable traffic. Every day it appeals to the officers of the State for protection. Why should
it not contribute to the State a due share and portion of what
is necessary to maintain the State's power of protecting it?
II. It is further objected that only eight miles of road is
in Lincoln County, and that there is no provision of law for
its authorities taxing what lies in the other sections. But
the Revised Statutes of Nebraska provide that " all unorganized counties shall be attached to the nearest organized
,county directly east of them, for election, judicial, and revenue purposes." This seems conclusive.
Reply: The adjudications in the bank tax cases cited by
the opposing counsel, or the reasoning upon which they rest,
do not in the least impair the scope or vigor of the principles, and the authorities already cited by us, in their efficient
protection from State taxation, of the means and agencies
created by the General government, in execution of its con;stitutional powers. The cases mentioned simply hold that
it is competent for Congress, in its establishment and arrangement of these means and agencies, to concede to the
;States such measure and modes of taxation, as Congress deems
consistent with the safety and efficiency of these means and
,agencies, of executing the powers of the General government. This is taxation, not by predominance of State authority, but by favor of Federal submission of the subject
to State taxation, upon motives of Federal policy. But this
concession is not a judicial question. The judicial conclusion
excludes the taxation of the States from the province of
Federal means and agencies, and requires the express assent
of Federal authority to support the State taxation, and fix
-ts measu'e and its modes. To make the measure or mode

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PRNISTON.

LSup. Ct

Reply-Against the tax.

of State taxation, as allowable or excessive, a judicial question, is flatly repugnant to the celebrated cases cited, and"
subversive of their reasoning.*
The doctrine of this court, as declared in Thompson v.
Pacific Railroad,t also much relied on by the opposingcounsel, that the adoption by Congress of the aid or,
operation of corporations created by the States, in performing
services in connection with the execution of the constitutional power of the Federal government (in the absence of
all indication on the part of Congress that the State agencies;
so employed should be exempted, in consequence of such
employment, from State taxation), does not exempt sueb.
State corporations from State taxation, has no application
to the case of this Union Pacific Railroad Company, an incorporation of the General government confessedly, under
acts of Congress. That decision rests upon the distinction between the case of the employment of the State corporation for a Federal service and the creation of a corporation
as a Federal means and agency, within the discretion of
Congress, fbr the execution of the constitutional powers of
the General government. The court held that, in case of
the employment of State corporations by Congress, it was:
competent for Congress to " exempt, in its discretion, the,
agencies employed in such services from any State taxation
which will really prevent or impede the performance of
them."
The only question, theretbre, raised and decided by thecourt in this case was thus stated by the court:
"But can the right of this road to exemption from such taxation be maintained in the absence of any legislation of Congress,
to that effect ?"
The argument that the doctrine of the court in McCulloch
v. Maryland exempted tue Bank of the United States, with'
* Bank of Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black, 620; Van Allen v. The,
Assessors, 3 Wallace, 692; The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Id. 16; Nationah
Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Id. 353.
f 9 Wallace, 579.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.
Reply-Against the tax.

its branches, from taxation by the State of Maryland, although no express exemption was found in the charter, and
that under that doctrine a Siale corporation, employed as an
agent of the operations of the General government, was
equally exempt, is thus disposed of by the court :*
"But it must be remembered that the Bank of the United
States was a corporationcreated by the United States; and, as an
agent of the constitutional forms of the government, was en.
dowed by the act of creation with all its faculties, powers, and
functions. It did not owe its existence or any of its qualities to
State legislation. And its exemption from taxation was put
upon this ground."
And again :t
"The State tax, held to be repugnant to the Constitution,
was imposed directly upon an operation or an instrument of
the government. That such taxes cannot be imposed on the
operations of the government is a proposition which needs no
argument to support it. And the same reasoning will apply to
instruments of the government created by itself for public and
constitutional ends."
And the doctrine of the court is thus expressed:1
"But it will be safe to conclude, in general, in reference to persons and State corporations employed in government service, that
when Congress has not interposed to protect their property
from taxation, such taxation is not obnoxious to that objection"
(i. e., to the objection that the State taxation is used "to defeat
or hinder the operations of the National government.")
The tax under consideration does not fall, as the counsel
opposed to us argue, within the limitation suggested by the
court, in McCulloch v. Maryland, and incorporated in the
National Bank Act by Congress. The court say of the exemption asserted, that"It does not extend to a tax paid by the real property of the
bank, in common with the other real property within the State,
nor to a tax imposed on the interest which the citizens of MaryThompson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wallace, 589.
Ib. 691

-t Ib. 590.

28

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply-Against the tax.
land may hold in this institution in common with other property

of the same description throughout the State."
The tax of the State of Nebraska is not laid upon the
shares of the Union Pacific Railroad Company held by citizens of that State, nor upon the real property of the company in common with the other real property within the
State. The tax is upon the universal possessions and resources of the company, as collected, combined, prepared,
and applied, within the State, in the operations of the government services, for which this instrument was created
and endowed by Congress. This tax, then, in the final
proposition of the court, after the statement of the above
limitation, "is a tax on the operation of an instrument employed by the government of the Union to carry its powers
into execution. Such a tax must be unconstitutional."*
It is not necessary to suggest that the intimated liability
in McCulloch v. Maryland, of the real estate of the bank to
the State taxation, could not by parity of reason be held to
expose the real estate of a railroad-the very corpus of its
structure for the operations of the government for which
the company was created and endowed-to State taxation.
The real estate of the bank is manifestly referred to as of
merely incidental, and not substantial, relation to the public
uses of the bank, for which it was created by Congress.
INo intendment can be drawn from the absence of any express exclusion of State taxation by the act of Congress, that
the exposure of this company to State taxation was contemplated by Congress. The whole road, to which the act of
incorporation applies, was within the Territories of the
United States, and there was no State government whose
operation needed to be considered or provided against by
Congress. Manifestly, nothing could have been further
from the expectations of the capitalists who entered into the
enterprise proposed to them by the acts of Congress incorporating and endowing this company, than that their prop.
erty invested in this National road was to be rated and taxed
* McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 436.

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

29

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

to support the local government of the States that should
come into being along its route. They accepted the established doctrines of this court as possessing, in the language
of Chase, C. J., " the force of constitutional sanctions."
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the judgment of the court.
That the taxing power of a State is one of its attributes
of sovereignty; that it exists independently of the Constitution of the United States, and underived from that instrument; and that it may be exercised to an unlimited extent
upon all property, trades, business, and avocations existing
or carried on within the territorial boundaries of the State,
except so far as it has been surrendered to the Federal government, either expressly or by necessary implication, are
propositions that have often been asserted by this cour .
And in thus acknowledging the extent of the power to tax
belonging to the States, we have declared that it is indispensable to their continued existence. No one ever doubted
that before the adoption of the Constitution of the United
States each of the States possessed unlimited power to tax,
either directly or indirectly, all persons and property within
their jurisdiction, alike by taxes on polls, or duties on internal production, manufacture, or use, except so far as such
taxation was inconsistent with certain treaties which had
been made. And the Constitution contains no express restriction ot this power other than a prohibition to lay any
duty of tonnage, or any impost, or duty on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing the State's inspection laws. As was said in Lane County
v. Oregon :* "In respect to property, business, and persons
within their respective limits, the power of taxation of the
States remained, and remains entire, notwithstanding the
Constitution. It is, indeed, a concurrent power (concurrent
with that of the General government), and in the case of a
tax upon the same subject by both governments, the claim
of the United States as the supreme authority must be pre* 7 Wallace, 77.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. PENISION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

erred; but with this qualification it is absolute.

The ex-

tent to which it shall be exercised, the subjects upon which
it shall be exercised, and the mode in which it shall be exercised, are all equally within the discretion of the legislatures to which the States commit the exercise of the power.
That discretion is restrained only by the will of the people
,expressed in the State constitutions, or through elections,
and by the condition that it must not be so used as to burden
or embarrass the operations of the National government.
There is nothing in the Constitution which contemplates
or authorizes any direct abridgment of this power by National legislation. To the extent just indicated it is as complete in the States as the like power within the limits of' the
Constitution is complete in Congress." Such are the opinions we have expressed heretofore, and we adhere to them
now.
There are, we admit, certain subjects of taxation which
are withdrawn from the power of the States, not by any
direct or express provision of the Federal Constitution, but
by what may be regarded as its necessary implications.
They grow out of our complex system of government, and
out of the fact that the authority of the National government is legitimately exercised within the States. While it
is true that government cannot exercise its power of taxation
so as to destroy the State governments, or embarrass their
lawful action, it is equally true that the States may not levy
taxes the direct effect of which shall be to hinder the exercise of any powers which belong to the National government. The Constitution contemplates that none of those
powers may be restrained by State legislation. But it is
often a difficult question whether a tax imposed by a State
does in fact invade the domain of the General government,
or interfere with its operations to such an extent, or in such
a manner, as to render it unwarranted. It cannot be that
a State tax which remotely affects the efficient exercise of a
Federal power is for that reason alone inhibited by the Constitution. To hold that would be to deny to the States all
power to tax persons or property. Every tax levied by a

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

State withdraws from the reach of Federal taxation a portion of the property from which it is taken, and to that extent diminishes the subject upon which Federal taxes may
be laid. The States are, and they must ever be, coexistent
with the National government. Neither may destroy the
other. Hence the Federal Constitution must receive a practical construction. Its limitations and its implied prohibitions must not be extended so far as to destroy the necessary
powers of the States, or prevent their efficient exercise.
These observations are directly applicable to the case before us. It is insisted on behalf of the plaintiffs that the
tax of which they complain has been laid upon an agent of
the General government constituted and organized as an
instrument to carry into effect the powers vested in that
government by the Constitution, and it is claimed that such
an agency is not subject to State taxation. That the Union
Pacific Railroad Company was created to subserve, in part
at least, the lawful purposes of the National government;
that it was authorized to construct and maintain a railroad
and telegraph line along the prescribed route, and that
grants were made to it, and privileges conferred upon it,
upon condition that it should at all times transmit dispatches
over its telegraph line, and transport mails, troops, and muiiitions of war, supplies and public stores, upon the railroad
for the government, whenever required to do so by any department thereof, and that the government should at all
times have the preference in the use of the same for all the
purposes aforesaid, must be conceded. Such are the plain
provisions of its charter. So it was provided that in case
of the refusal or failure of the company to redeem the bonds
advanced to it by the government, or any part of them,
when lawfully required by the Secretary of the Treasury,
the road, with all the rights, functions, immunities, and appurtenances thereunto belonging, and also all lands granted
to the company by the United States which at the time of
the defailt should remain in the ownership of the company,
might be taken possession of by the Secretary of the Treasury for the use and benefit of the United States. The char-

RLAILROAD

COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

ter also contains other provisions looking to a supervision,
and control of the road and telegraph line, with the avowed'
purpose of securing to the government the use and benefit
thereof for postal and military purposes. It is unnecessary
to mention these in detail. They all look to a purpose of
Congress to secure an agency competent and under obligation to perform certain offices for the General government.
Notwithstanding this, the railroad and the telegraph line
are neither in whole nor in part the property of the government. The ownership is in the complainants, a private corporation, though existing for the performance of public
duties. The government owns none of its stock, and though.
it may appoint two of the directors, the right thus to appoint is plainly reserved for the sole purpose of enabling
the enforcement of the engagements which the company
assumed, the engagements to which we have already alluded..
Admitting, then, fully, as we do, that the company is an
agent of the General government, designed to be employed,
and actually employed, in the legitimate service of the government, both military and postal, does it necessarily follow
that its property is exempt from State taxation ?
In Thompson v. The Ution Pacific -Railway Company,* after
much consideration, we held that the property of that company was not exempt f rom State taxation, though their railroad was part of a system of roads constructed under the.
direction and authority of the United States, and largely forthe uses and purposes of the General government. Thecompany, in that case, were agents of the government, precisely as these claimants are, to the same extent and for the,
same purposes. Congress had made the same grants to,,
them, and attached to the grants the same conditions. They,
too, had received from Congress grants of land, and of bonds,
and of a right of way for the purpose of aiding in the construction of their railroad and telegraph line, but with thecondition that they should keep their railroad and telegraph.
line in repair and use, and should at all times transmit dis-* 9 Wallace, 679.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. PENISTON.

83

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

patches over their telegraph line, and transport mails, troops,
and munitions of war, supplies and public stores, upon their
railroad for the government, whenever required to do so by
any department thereof, and that the government should at
all times have the preference in the use thereof for the purposes aforesaid. There is no difference which can be pointed
out between the nature, extent, or purposes of their agency
and those of the corporation complainants in the present
case. Yet, as we have said, a State tax upon the property
of the company, its road-bed, rolling-stock, and personalty
in general, was ruled by this court not to be in conflict with
the Federal Constitution. It may, therefore, be considered
as settled that no constitutional implications prohibit a State
tax upon the property of an agent of the government merely
because it is the property of such an agent. A contrary
doctrine would greatly embarrass the States in the collection of their necessary revenue without any corresponding
advantage to the United States. A very large proportion
of the property within the States is employed in execution
of the powers of the government. It belongs to governmental agents, and it is not only used, but it is necessary
for their agencies. United States mails, troops, and munitions of war are carried upon almost every railroad. Telegraph lines are employed in the National service. So are
steamboats, horses, stage-coaches, foundries, ship-yards, and
multitudes of manufacturing establishments. They are the
property of natural persons, or of corporations, who are instruments or agents olf the General government, and they
are the hands by which the objects of the government are
attained. Were they exemlpt from liability to contribute to
the revenue of the States it is manifest the State governments would be paralyzed. While it is of the utmost importance that all the powers vested by the Constitution of
the United States in the General government should be preserved in full efficiency, and while recent events have called
for the most unembarrassed exercise of many of those
powers, it has never been decided that State taxation of
such property is impliedly prohibited.
VOL. XVIII.

8

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

It is, however, insisted that the case of Thompson v. The
Union Paeific Railroad Company differs from the case we have
now in hand in the fact that it was incorporated by the Territorial legislature and the legislature of the State of Kansas,
while these complainants were incorporated by Congress.
We do not perceive that this presents any reason for the application of a rule different from that which was applied in
the former case. It is true that, in the opinion delivered
by the Chief Justice, reference was made to the fact that
the defendants were a State corporation, and an argument
was attempted to be drawn from this to distinguish the case
from McGulloch v. The State of Maryland.* But when the
question is, as in the present case, whether the taxation of
property is taxation of means, instruments, or agencies by
which the United States carries out its powers, it is impossible to see how it can be pertinent to inquire whence the
property originated, or from whom its present owners obtained it. The United States have no more ownership of
the road authorized by Congress than they had in the road
authorized by Kansas. If the taxation of either is unlawful,
it is because the States cannot obstruct the exercise of National powers. As was said in Weston v. Charleslon,t they
cannot, by taxation or otherwise, "retard, impede, burden,
or in any manner control the operation of the constitutional
laws enacted by Congress to carry into execution the powers
vested in the General government." The implied inhibition,
if any exists, is against such obstruction, and that must be
the same whether the corporation whose property is taxed
was created by Congress or by a State legislature.
Nothing, we think, in the past decisions of this court
is inconsistent with the opinions we now hold. McCulloc,
v. The State of Maryland and Osborn v. Bank of the United
Statest are much relied upon by the appellants, but an examination of what was decided in those cases will reveal
that they are in full harmony with the doctrine that the
property of an agent of the General government may be
*t 4 Wheaton, 316.

t 2 Peters, 467.

: 9 W heaton, 788.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. PENISTON

35

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

subjected to State taxation. In the former of those cases
the tax held unconstitutional was laid upon the notes of the
bank. The institution was prohibited from issuing notes at
all except upon stamped paper furnished by the State, and
to be paid for on delivery, the stamp upon each note being
proportioned to its denomination. The tax, therefore, was
not upon any property of the bank, but upon one of its operations, in fact, upon its right to exist as created. It was a
direct impediment in the way of a governmental operation
performed through the bank as an agent. It was a very
different thing, both in its nature and effect, from a tax on
the property of the bank. No wonder, then, that it was
held illegal. But even in that case the court carefully linited the effect of the decision. It does not extend, said the
Chief Justice, to a tax paid by the real property of the bank,
in common with the other real property in the State, nor to
a tax imposed on the interest which the citizens of Maryland may hold in the institution, in common with the other
property of the same description throughout the State. But
this is a tax on the operations of the bank, and is, consequently, a tax on the operations of an instrument employed
by the government of the Union to carry its powers into execution. Such a tax must be unconstitutional. Here is a
clear distinction made between a tax upon the property of
a government agent and a tax upon the operations of the
agent acting for the government.
In Osborn v. The Bank the tax held unconstitutional was
a tax upon the existence of the bank-upon its right to
transact business within the State of Ohio. It was, as it
was intended to be, a direct impediment in the way of those
acts which Congress, for National purposes, had authorized
the bank to perform. For this reason the power of the
State to direct it was denied, but at the same time it was
declared by the court that the local property of the bank
might be taxed, and, as in McCulloch v. Maryland, a difference was pointed out between a tax .upon. its property and
one upon its action... In noticing an alleged resemblance
between the bank and a government contiactor, Chief Jus.

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

[Sup. CtL

Opinion of Strong, Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ.

tice Marshall said: " Can a contractor for supplying a mili
tary post with provisions be restrained from making purchases within a State, or from transporting the provisions to
the place at which the troops were stationed ? Or could lie
be fined or taxed for doing so? We have not heard these
questions answered in the affirmative. It is true the property of the contractor may be taxed; and so may the local
property of the bank. But we do not admit that the act of
purchasing, or of conveying the articles purchased, can be
under State control." This distinction, so clearly drawn in
the earlier decisions, between a tax on the property of a governmental agent, and a tax upon the action of such agent, or
upon his right to be, has ever since been recognized.. All
State taxation which does not impair the agent's efficiency
in the 'discharge of his duties to the government has been
sustained when challenged, and a tax upon his property
generally has not been regarded as beyond the power of a
State to impose. In National Bank v. The Commonwealth of
Kentucky,* when the right to tax National banks was under
consideration, it was asserted by us that the doctrine cannot
be maintained that banks, or other corporations or instrumentalities of the government, are to be wholly withdrawn
from the operation of State legislation. Yet it was conceded
that the agencies of the Federal government are uncontrollable by State legislation, so far as it may interfere with, or
impair their efficiency in performing the functions by which
they are designed to serve that government.
It is, therefore, manifest that exemption of Federal agencies from State taxation is dependent, not upon the nature
of the agents, or upon the mode of their constitution, or
upon the fact that they are .agents, but upon the effect of the
tax; that is, upon the question whether the tax does in truth
deprive them of power to serve the government as they were
intended to serve it, or does hinder the efficient exercise of
their power. A tax upon their property has no such necessary effect. It leaves them free to discharge the duties they
* 9 Wallace, 853.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

37

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring in the judgment.

have undertaken to perform. A tax upon their operations
is a direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers.
In this case the tax is la'd upon the property of the railroad company precisely as was the tax complained of in
Thompson v. Union Pacific. It is not imposed upon the franchises or the right of the company to exist and perform the
functions for which it was brought into being. Nor is it
laid upon any act which the company has been authorized
to do. It is not the transmission of dispatches, nor the
transportation of United States mails, or troops, or munitions
of war that is taxed, but it is exclusively the real and personal property of the agent, taxed in common with all other
property in the State of a similar character. It is impossible
to maintain that this is an interference with the exercise of
any power belonging to the General government, and if it is
not, it is prohibited by no constitutional implication.
It remains only to notice one other position taken by the
complainants. It is that if the act of the State under which
the tax was laid be constitutional in its application to their
property within Lincoln County, the property outside of
Lincoln County is not lawfully taxable by the authorities of
that county under the laws of the State. To this we are
unable to give our assent. By the statutes of Nebraska the
unorganized territory west of Lincoln County, and the unorganized county of Cheyenne, are attached to the county of
Lincoln for judicial and revenue purposes. The authorities
of that county, therefore, were the proper authorities to levy
the tax upon the property thus placed under their charge
for revenue purposes.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, concurring in the judgment: I
concur in the affirmance of the judgment in this case. I see
no reason to doubt that it was the intention of Congress not
to give the exemption claimed. The exercise of the power
may be waived. But I hold that the road is a National instrumentality of such a character that Congress may interpose and protect it from State taxation whenever that body

RAILROAD

[Sup. Vt,

COMPANY V. PENISTON.

Opinion of -Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

shall deem it proper to do so. For some of the leading authorities in support of the principle involved in this view of
the subject I refer to the Chicago and Northwestern Railway v.
F$uller,* decided by this court a short time ago.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
One of the errors assigned to the decree of the court below is: That the State of Nebraska has no power to subject
to taxation, for State purposes, the road-bed, rolling stock,
and other property necessary for the use and operation of
the complainants' road; and whether the State has such
power is the controlling question in this cause. In my judgment, no such power exists, and my opinion is based upon
the principles established in the cases of MeCulloch v. Maryland,t and Osborn v. The United States Bank.t Those principles, as summed up by Chief Justice Marshall himself, in
the later case of Weston v. The Gity of Charleston,§ were as
follows:
1. "That all subjects to which the sovereign power of a
State extends, are objects of taxation ; but those over which
it does not extend are, upon the soundest principles, exempt
from taxation."
2. "That the sovereignty of a State extends to everything
which exists by its own authority, or is introduced by its
permission; but not to those means which are employed by
Congress to carry into execution powers conferred on that
body by the people of the United States."
8. "That the attempt to use the power of taxation on the
means employed by the government of the Union in pursuance of the Constitution, is itself an abuse, because it is
the usurpation of a power which the people of a single
State cannot give."
4. "That the States have no power by taxation, or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner control
17 Wallace, 560.

f 4 Wheaton, 316.

1 9 Id. 738.

@ 2 Peters, 466

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

39

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

the operation of the constitutional laws enacted by Congress, to carry into execution the powers vested in the General government."
If we needed an example to show that the application of
these principles extends to such a case as the present, we
could not frame one more to the purpose than that of the
United States Bank, in respect to which they were announced in the cases referred to. The parallel between it
and the Union Pacific Railroad is striking, and, for the purposes of the question, complete. In the case of the bank a
corporationwas created, with full banking powers. The capital stock was mostly subscribed by individuals, the government reserving an interest of seven millions out of thirtyfive. Its affairs were managed by twenty-five directors, of
whom five were appointed by the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The powers of the directors were defined and restricted by
the charter. The Secretary of the Treasury was authorized,
from time to time, to call upon the bank for a statement of
its affairs. For the privileges and benefits conferred, tho
bank was required to pay to the United States a bonus of
$1,500,000. The books of the bank were to be always open
to the inspection of a committee of either house of Congress, appointed for that purpose. Penalties and forfeitures
were imposed for the breach of certain limitations and directions; and, finally, the bills and notes of the bank were
to be receivable in payment of public dues; the public
moneys were to be deposited in the bank and its branches,
unless the Secretary of the Treasury should otherwise order;
and, on his requisition, the bank was to give the necessary
facilities for transferring the public funds from place to
place within the United States, and for distributing the same
in payment of the public creditors, without charging commissions or exchange.* Here, then, was a corporation, con.
stituted mainly of private individuals, created by Congress,
established by its aid, regulated by its laws, amenable to its
8 Stat. at Large, 266.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

committees and to the executive department, and subser.
vient to the uses and purposes of the government, in executing and carrying out a particular part of its constitutional
functions.
Now in all of these respects, except the single one of
ownership of a portion of its capital stock, the Union Pacific
Railroad presents a parallel case. The corporation is the
creature of Congress; it receives large aid from the General
government, both in donations and loans; the President appoints two of its directors; and all the operations of the
company in laying, constructing, and working its railroad
and telegraph lines, as well as its rates of toll, are subject to
regulations imposed by its charter, and to such further regulations as Congress may hereafter make. Oil failure to
comply with the terms and conditions of the charter, or to
keep the road in repair and use, Congress may assume the
control and management thereof, and devote the income to
the use of the United States. Annual reports are to be
made to the Secretary of the Treasury. The loan of the
United States to the company, amounting to many millions,
is a lien on all the property, and on failure to redeem it, the
Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take possession
of the road, with all its rights, functions, immunities, and
appurtenances, for the use and benefit of the United States;
and, finally, all the grants made to the company are declared to be upon the condition that, besides paying the
government bonds advanced, the company shall keep the
railroad and telegraph lines in repair and use, and shall at
all times transmit dispatches and transport mails, troops,
and munitions of war, supplies and public stores for the
government, whenever required to do so by any department
thereof; and that the government shall have the preference
at rates not to exceed those charged to private parties, and
payable by being applied to the payment of the bonds afbresaid; and in addition to all this control of Congress, and
the obligations and liabilities of the company, Congress rewerves the right to add to, alter, amend, or repeal the charter.
In these provisions we see the same close connection be-,

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. IENISTON.

41

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

tween the government and the corporation, the same control
reserved by the former, the same or an equal interest in the
scheme, and a like creation of means for carrying into execution the powers conferred upon Congress. In the one
,case, the object was to facilitate the financial transactions of
the government, and the bank was used as a means to that
end; in the other, the object is to establish a National postroad for the mails, and a telegraph line for the transmission
,of intelligence, and to facilitate government transportation
of every kind between the East and the West, as well as
to promote and regulate the commerce between those sections; and the railroad company is used as a means to these
ends.
It seems to me that unless we are prepared to overrule
the decisions referred to, we must apply the same law to this
case which was applied to the United States Bank. I trust
we are not prepared to overrule those decisions. Whilst no
,one disputes the general power of taxation in the States,
,which is so elaborately set forth in the opinion of the majority, it must be conceded that there are limits to that
power. The States cannot tax the powers, the operations,
,or the property of the United States, nor the means which
it employs to carry its powers into execution. The government of the United States, within the scope of its powers, is
supreme, and cannot be interfered with or impeded in their
exercise.
The case differs tolo coelo from that wherein the government enters into a contract with an individual or corporation
to perform services necessary for carrying on the functions
,of government-as for carrying the mails, or troops, or supplies, or for building ships or works for government use.
In those cases the government has no further concern with
the contractor than in his contract and its execution. It has
no concern with his property or his faculties independent of
that. How much he may be taxed by, or what duties he
may be obliged to perform towards, his State is of no consequence to the government, so long as his contract and
;ts execution are not interfered with. In that case the con.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ , dissenting.

tract is the means employed for carrying into execution the
powers of the government, and the contract alone, and not
the contractor, is exempt from taxation ,r other interferencel
by the State government.
But where the General government creates a corporation,
as a means of carrying out a national object, that corporation and its powers, property, and faculties, employed in,
accomplishing the service, are the instrumentalities by which
the government effects its objects. Hence the corporation,
is not taxable by State authority. And it matters not that
private individuals are interested for their private gain in.
the stock of the corporation. Such individual interest may
be taxable by itself, but the corporation and its property
and operations cannot be, without interfering with the agencies used by the government fbr the accomplishment of its.
objects.
This distinction between private corporations performing
services for the government and public corporations created,
by the government for the purpose of carrying on its opera-tions, and the colnsequences resulting therefrom, are forcibly
drawn by Chief Justice Marshall in Osborn v. The United
States Bank. He says:
" The foundation of the argument in favor of the right to,
tax the bank is laid in the supposed character of that institution. The argument supposes the corporation to have
been originated for the management of an individual concern, to be founded upon contract between individuals, having private trade and private profit for its great end and
principal object. If these premises were true, the conclusion
drawn from them would be inevitable. This mere private,
corporation, engaged in its own business, with its own views,
would certainly be subject to the taxing power of the State,
as any individual would be; and the casual circumstance of
its being employed by the government in the transaction of
its fiscal affiirs would no more exempt its private business,
from the operation of that power than it would exempt tbe
private business of any individual empl)yed in the same
manner. But the premises are not true, The bank is not

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

43

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

considered as a private corporation, whose principal object
is individual trade and individual profit, but as a public corporation, created for public and national purposes. That
the mere business of banking is, in its own nature, a private
business, and may be carried on by individuals or conipanies, having no political connection with the government,
is admitted; but the bank is not such an individual or company. It was not created for its own sake, or for private
purposes. It has never been supposed that Congress could
create such a corporation. The whole opinion of the court
in McCulloch v. Maryland is founded on and sustained by
the idea that the bank is an instrument which is necessary
and proper for carrying into effect the powers vested in the
government of the United States. It is not an instrument
which the government found ready made, and has supposed
to be adapted to its purposes, but one which was created in
the form in which it now appears for national purposes only.
It is, undoubtedly, capable of transacting private as well as
public business. While it is the great instrument by which
the -fiscal operations of the government are effected, it is
also trading with individuals for its own advantage. The
appellants endeavor to distinguish between this trade and
its agedicy for the public, between its banking operations and
those qualities which it possesses in common with every
corporation, such as individuality, immortality," &c.
The suggestion of Chief Justice Marshall in the above
quotation, that Congress cannot create any corporations except for public and national purposes, is worthy of particular
notice. The in ference is obvious, that any corporation rightfully created by Congress, being necessarily public and national ii its object, is beyond the reach of State taxation.
That suggestion, it is true, was made in reference to a corporation established for business purposes within the States
of the Union. And in such a case, it is evident that the
proposition must be true, namely, that Congress cannot create a corporation except for a public and national purpose.
But in a Territory of the United States, Congress is supreme,
and is the fountain of local as well as public and national

44

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

law. It usually exercises its municipal powers over such
Territories by the agency of Territorial governments. But
,it is not obliged to do this. It might exercise them directly,
for the greater power includes the less. As the source of
municipal legislation in the Territory of Nebraska, therefore, Congress undoubtedly could have established local and
private corporations for manufacturing, mining, financial,
and other business purposes, the same as it has been accus
tomed to do in reference to the District of Columbia, prior
to the recent establishment of a legislature therein. Now,
any such private and local corporations created by Congress
in a Territory, would cease to be United States corporations
when such Territory became a State. They would then become subject to State control by reason of not possessing a
national character. A quo warranto from the State courts
could be issued for the repeal of their charters in case of
forfeiture for misfeasa~ice or non-feasance. The admission
of a Territory as a State would be a virtual assignment by
Congress of all control over such institutions to the State as
the proper successor in the municipal sovereignty. BuV this
would not be the case witl; regard to corporations of a public
and national character, such as Congress could have created
if the Territory had been a State at the time. They will
remain United States corporations, subject to Congressional,
and not to State control.
The Union Pacific Railroad was authorized to be con:structed entirely in Territories then belonging to the United
States. But the work was public and national in its character, and the corporation was a public and national corporation, as much so as would be a company created by Congress
to construct a railroad from New Orleans to New York,
through the old or long-admitted States. The circumstance,
therefore, that the road was originally authorized in the
United States territory, does not detract from the importanc6
of Chief Justice Marshall's suggestion in its bearing upon
the case in hand. The very fact that the charter of the com.
pany can stand at all as a Congressional instead of a State
charter, which has not been seriously questioned, is proof

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY t.

PENISTON.

45

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

of its national character; for without such national character
it would cease to be subject to national control.
That Congress has the power under the Federal Constitution to create and establish such a corporation for such purposes of a national character was demonstrated by the unanswerable argument of Mr. Hamilton on the creation of
the first National bank, and was set at rest by the equally
unanswerable argument of Chief Justice Marshall in the
case of McCulloch v. Maryland.
"Although among the enumerated powers of government," says the Chief Justice,* "we do not find the word
'bank' or 'incorporation,' we find the great powers to levy
and collect taxes, to borrow money, to regulate commerce,
to declare and conduct war, and to raise and support armies
and navies. The sword and the purse, alf the external relations, and no inconsiderable portion of the industry of the
nation, are intrusted to its government. It can never be
pretended that these vast powers draw after them others of
inferior importance merely because they are inferior. Such
an idea can never be advanced. But it may with great reason be contended that a government intrusted with such
ample powers, on the due execution of which the happiness
and prosperity of the nation so vitally depends, must also be
intrusted with ample means for their execution. The power
being given, it is the interest of the nation to facilitate its
execution. ....Throughout this vast republic, from the St.
Croix to the Gulf of Mexico, from the Atlantic to the Pacific,
revenue is to be collected and expended, armies are to be
marched and supported. The exigencies of the nation may
rdquire that the treasure raised in the North should be transferred to the South, that raised in the East conveyed to the
West, or that this order should be reversed. Is that construction of the Constitution to be preferred which would
render these operations difficult, hazardous, and expensive?
. . . The government which has the right to do an act, and
has imposed on it the duty of performing that act, must, ac.
* 4 Wheaton, 407.

46

RA1Ln1OAD

COMPANY V.

PENISTON.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

cording to the dictates of reason, be allowed to select the
means; and those who contend that it may not select any
appropriate means, that one particular mode of effecting the
object is excepted, take upon themselves the burden of establishing that exception. . . . The power of creating a corporation, though appertaining to sovereignty, is not, like the
power of making war, or levying taxes, or of regulating
commerce, a great substantive and independent power,
which cannot be implied as incidental to other powers, or
used as a means of executing them. It is never the end for
which other powers are exercised, but a means by which
other objects are accomplished. No contributions are made
to charity for the sake of an incorporation, but a corporation
is created to administer the charity; no seminary of learning
is instituted in order to be incorporated, but the corporate
character is conferred to subserve the purposes of education.
No city was ever built with the sole object of being incorporated, but is incorporated as affording the best means of
being well governed. The power of creating a corporation
is never used for its own sake, but for the purpose of effecting something else. No sufficient reason is, therefore, perceived why it may not pass as incidental to those powers
which are expressly given, if it be a direct mode of executing them."
Now, I think it cannot be doubted at the present day,
whatever may have been contended in former times, that
the creation of national roads and other means of communication between the States, is within the power of Congress
in carrying out the powers of regulating commerce between
the States, establishing postoffices and postroads, and in
providing for the national defence and for military operations in time of war. And no one will contend that, if the
creation of a corporation is a suitable agency and means of
carrying on the financial opei'ations of the government, the
creation of a corporation is equally apposite as an agency
and means of carrying out the objects above mentioned.
This has been so forcibly stated by one of the justices of
this court, in the case of The Clinton Bridge, decided in the

Oct. 1678.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

47

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

Eighth Circuit, in October, 1867,* that I shall not further
enlarge upon the point.
The Union Pacific Railroad Company, therefore, being a
United States corporation created for national objects and
purposes, and deriving its existence, its powers, its duties,
its liabilities, from the United States alone; being responsible
to the United States, now as formerly, for a whole congeries of duties and observances; being subjected to 'the forfeiture of its corporate franchises, powers, and property to
the United States, and not to any individual State; being
charged with important duties connected with the very
functions of the government: every consideration adduced
in the cases of McCulloch v. Maryland, and Osborn v. The
Bank, would seem to require that it should be exempt not
only from State taxation, but from State control and interference, except so far as relates to the preservation of
the peace, and the performance of its obligations and contracts. In reference to these and to the ordinary police
regulations imposed for sanitary purposes and the preservation of good order, of course, it is amenable to State and
local laws.
As an instrument of national commerce as well as government operations, it has been regulated by Congress. Can it
be further regulated by State legislation ? Can the State
alter its route, its gauge, its connections, its fares, its franchises, or any part of its charter? Can the State step in between it and the superior power or sovereignty to which it
is responsible ? Such an hypothesis, it seems to me, is inadmissible and repugnant to the necessary relations arising
and existing in the case. Such an hypothesis would greatly
derogate from and render almost useless and ineffective that
hitherto unexecuted power of Congress to regulate commerce by land, among the several States. If it be declared
in advance that no agency of such commerce, which Congress may hereafter establish, can be freed from local impositions, taxation, and tolls, the hopes of future free and un.
1 Woolworth, 160.

48

RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

restricted intercourse between all parts of this great country
will be greatly discouraged and repressed.
These conside-rations show how totally different this case
is from that of Thompson v. The Kansas Pacific -RailroadCom.
paiy. That was a State corporation, deriving its origin
from State laws, and subject to State regulation and responsibilities. It would be subversive of all our ideas of the necessary independence of the National and State governments,
acting in their respective spheres, for the General government to take the management, control, and regulation of
State corporations out of the hands of the State to which
they owe their existence, without its consent, or to attempt
to exonerate them from the performance of any duties, or
the payment of any taxes or contributions, to which their
position, as creatures of State legislation, renders them liable.
But, it may be asked, if the States cannot tax a United
States corporation created for public and national purposes,
on what principle can the General government tax local corporations created by the State governments for local and,
State purposes ? If the States cannot tax a National bank,.
how can the United States tax a State bank? The answer
is very manifest, and is stated by Chief Justice Marshall in.
McCulloch v. Maryland.* "The government of the Union,
though limited in its powers, is supreme within its sphere
of action. This would seem to result necessarily from its,
nature. It is the government of all; its powers are delegated
by all; it represents all, and acts for all. Though any one
State may be willing to control its operations, no State is,
willing to allow others to control them." Again: "It has.
also been insisted that, as the power of taxation in the General and State governments is acknowledged to be concurrent, every argument which would sustain the right of the.
General government to tax banks chartered by the States,.
will equally sustain the right of the States to tax banks chartered by the General government. But the two cases are
not on the same reason. The people of all the States have,
4 Wheaton, 405.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. PENISTON.

49

Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

created the General government, and have conferred upon
it the general power of taxation. The people of all the
States, and the States themselves, are represented in Congress, and, by their representatives, exercise this power.
When they tax the chartered institutions of the States, they
tax their constituents; and these taxes must be uniform.
But when a State taxes the operations of the government of
the United States, it acts upon institutions created, not by
their own constituents, but by the people over whom they
claim no control. It acts upon the measures of a govern.
ment created by others as well as themselves, for the benefit
of others in common with themselves. The difference is
that which always exists, and always must exist, between
the action -of the whole on a part, and the action of a part
on the whole-between the laws of a government declared
to be supreme, and those of a government which, when in
opposition to those laws, is not supreme."
But it is contended that the laying of a tax on the roadbed of the company is nothing more than laying a tax on
ordinary real estate, which was conceded might be done in
the case of the United States Bank, in reference to its banking-house or other lands taken for claims due in the course
of its business. This is a plausible suggestion, but in my
apprehension, not a sound one. In ascertaining what is
essential in every case, respect must always be had to the
subject-matter. The State of Maryland undertook to tax
tho circulation of the United States branch bank established
in that State by requiring stamps to be affixed thereto; the
State of Ohio imposed a general tax of $50,000 upon the
branch established therein. These taxes were declared unconstitutional and void. They impeded the operations of
the bank as a financial agent. Real estate was not a necessary appurtenant to the exercise of the functions of the bank.
It might hire rooms for its office, or it might purchase or
erect a building.
But the primary object of a railroad company is commerce
and transportation. In its case, a railroad track is just as
essential to its operations as the use of a currency, or the
VOL. XVIII.

4

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. PENISTON.

[Slip. Ct,

Dissent of Hunt, J.

issue or purchase of bills of exchange is to the 'operations
of a bank. To tax the road is to tax the very instrumentality
which Congress desired to establish, and to operate which
it created the corporation.
Besides, all that a railroad company possesses in reference
to its road-bed is the right of way, and the right to use the
land for the purpose of way. This is a franchise conferred
by the government, and inseparately connected with the
other franchises which enable it to perform the duties for
the performance of which it was created. Any estate in the
land-the soil-the underlying earth-beyond this, belongs
to the original proprietor; and that proprietor in the present
case is the government itself. So that, look at it what way
we will, there is no room for the taxing power of the State.
The estate in the soil cannot be taxed, for that remains in
the United States; the franchise of right of way and materials of track cannot be taxed, because they are essentially
connected with and form a part of the powers, faculties, and
capital by which the national purposes of the organization
are accomplished.
If the road-bed may be taxed, it may be seized and sold
for non-payment of taxes-seized and sold in parts and parcels, separated by county or State lines-and thus the whole
purpose of Congress in creating the corporation and establishing the line may be subverted and destroyed.
In myjudgment, the tax laid in this case was an unconstituional interference with the instrumentalities created by
the National government in carrying out the objects and
powers conferred upon it by the Constitution.
Mr. Justice HUNT: I dissent from the opinion of the
court.

