Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

375

Syllabus.

execution, and the judgment is afterwards reversed, so far as
he is concerned his title is at an end, and the land or goods
must be restored in specie; not the value of them, but the
things themselves. There is an exception where the sale is
to a stranger bonoide, or where a third person has bond fide
acquired some collateral right before the reversal."* The
same doctrine is asserted in McJillon v. Love, by the Supreme Court of Illinois,t and is there stated to be well
established by authority, and numerous cases in support of
the position are cited. In New York the doctrine would
seem to be settled ini the same way.t As this case must go
back for a new trial, this position can be more fully considered than it appears to have been by the court below.
The defendant in this case acquired her interest, one-half,
by devise from the purchaser, Page; and the other half by
conveyance from one of the attorneys years after the reversal of the decree.
It follows that the judgment must be

REVERSED, AND THE

CAUSE

REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

DAVIS, J., did not sit in the case, and took no part in its
decision.

TIFFANY V.

BOATMAN'S

INSTITUTION.

1. Although a loan of money may be usurious and the contract to return it
void, yet, in the absence of statutory enactment, it does not follow that
the borrower, after he has once repaid the money, nor even that his
assignee in bankruptcy, whose rights are in some respects greater than
his own, can recover the principal and illegal interest paid. Equity,
however, in its discretion may enable either to get back whatever money
the borrower has paid in excess of lawful interest; and in the present

suit it did enable an assignee in bankruptcy to do so; both in a case
t 13 Illinois, 486.
Cadwell, 1 Cowen, 644.

* 41 Missouri, 416.

Jackson

*'.

576

TIFFANY v. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
where before his bankruptcy the money was lent directly to the bankrupt, and in a case where the money had been given to brokers, upon
indorsed notes, which, the evidence made sufficiently plain, were accommodation notes, drawn to enable the bankrupt to raise money on them,
and were understood by the lender of the money so to be.

2. A man really insolvent, but not having yet openly failed, and hoping to
overcome his difficulties and to carry on his business, violates no provision of the Bankrupt Act by pledging his property for money lent; the
money being lent at the time when the pledge is made, and the lender
having no reason to suppose otherwise than that the purpose of the
loan is to give effect to hopes, such as above described, of the party borrowing.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case being thus:
There was living in St. Louis in 1869, and for many years
previously, a person named Darby, originally, as it seemed,
a member of the bar, but who afterwards entered into various sorts of business, including, as a chief one, that of an
exchange broker and a so-called "banker."
He had no
capital worth speaking of, when he entered into them, nor
any considerable cash means at any time. He was always
scheming, and as respected ready money always more or less
embarrassed. He was, however, regarded as a man of wonderful energy and capacity for business, and though "suspending" in seasons of fiscal embarrassment, would manage
to get on his feet again when the monetary crisis would be
passed, and so go on anew. In this way he managed to
work along for many years, never at any time being broken
up. In 1868 he found himself with large property and with
large debts-these being due to a considerable number of
creditors, not a few of them by deposit with him as a
banker-and all the time needing ready money in order to
keep up appearances and to save himself from open failure.
Whether he was at this time, in fact, insolvent was a matter
aboul which different people differed. For the purposes of
this case, he was conceded by the court to have been so;
though it seemed that he never so regarded himself.
There existed at the same time in St. Louis, and in the
later part of Darby's career, a corppration called the Boat-

Oct.

1873.]

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

377

Statement of the case.

man's Savings Institution, a company authorized by its
'charter to lend money. The charter, however, forbade the
institution to lend at more than 8 per cent. for any loan; but

prescribed no penalty, nor declared what should otherwise
ifollow as a consequence for lending at higher rates.
The general statutes of Missouri concerning interest, dedclares that no person. shall receive more than 10 per cent.*
'The act proceeds:
"SECTION 5. If any action or suit shall hereafter be commenced upon any bond, note, mortgage, specialty, agreement,
,contract, promise or assurance whatever, which shall be made
within this State, the defendant may in his answer show that a
,higher or greater rate of interest than 10 per cent. per annum
was therein or thereby agreed for, or received or taken ; and if
the answer of the defendant to any such suit shall be sustained
by the verdict of a jury, or the finding of the court, the court
:shall render judgment on such verdict or finding for the real
sum of money or price of the commodity actually lent, advanced
.or sold, and interest on the same at the rate of 10 per centum
per annum; upon which judgment the court shall cause an
order to be made, setting apart the whole interest for the use of
the county in which such suit may be brought, for the use of common schools; and the same, when collected, shall be paid over
accordingly, and go to and form a part of the common school
fund of such county; and the defendant may recover his costs."
With these provisions by way of penalty, the whole subject seemed to end; and if the debtor voluntarily paid the
money borrowed no penalties were prescribed.
Among Darby's borrowings of money, were two with the
Boatman's Institution.
The first was in this way. The county of St. Louis wishing to build a jail issued proposals for sale of its bonds,
which for convenience were to be issued in sums of $1000
'each. Darby took one hundred and fifty of them ($150,000),
at rates considerably below par, and borrowed the money to
,pay the county from the National Bank of Missouri; pledg* General Statutes of Missouri, 18656, p. 401, chap. 89, J 4

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct'

Statement of the case.

ing the bonds as security collateral to his notes for the sum,
borrowed. For some reason not specifically disclosed, Darby
after a certain time wished to pay his debt to this bank.
In this condition of things, one Hogeman, the cashier of the
Boatman's Institution, offered, in behalf of the institution,
to lend him, at 10 per cent. interest, $135,000 (with which
ium he could withdraw the bonds then in pledge with the
National bank), and to take the bonds as collateral security
for a note which Darby should give; Darby to have full
power to sell the bonds from time to time at his own price;,
the amount received to be credited on his note. This arrangement was completed, that is to say Darby gave his
note for $135,000, at 10 per cent., to the institution, withdrew the bonds from the National Bank of Missouri, deposited them with the institution, sold them at such rates as,
he saw good-fair ones-and by which (throwing out of consideration the usurious rates that he paid for money) he
rather gained than lost, and with the proceeds paid his note
to the institution with the 10 per cent. interest.
Next, as to the other of the two transactions abovementioned; this other, however, being rather a series of transactions, six in number, than a single one.
As already said, Darby was always embarrassed for ready
money; always borrowing, and always wanting to borrow.
As a banker his creditors by deposit amounted to $170,000,
while he seldom or never had more than about $5000 to
meet their drafts. To meet these and other claims he was.
constantly raising money through street-brokers, especially
through one named Stagg. Darby, generally speaking,
would come to him for money, proposing to draw notes
which should be indorsed by Messrs. Brotherton & Knox,
gentlemen of known character and means, for the amount
wanted. Stagg would then go to the Boatman's Institution,
see the cashier, and learn whether the institution was disposed to lend the amount wanted. If the reply was in the
affirmative, Darby would draw and sign a note, Messrs..
Brotherton & Knox would indorse it, Stagg would take it
and get the money, deduct his broker's commission, and,

Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

379

Statement of the case.

pass the balance to Darby. This sort of operation was carried on for a certain time, the Boatman's Institution at the
end of it, that is to say in January, 1869, being the holder
of six notes for $5000 each, which, with interest on them, at
rates never less than 10 per cent., and sometimes near 18 per
cent., were paid, by a sale of certain real property of Darby's,
made in April, 1869, through the agency of Hogeman.*
Before the 17th of June, of the year just mentioned,
Darby had become too notoriously embarrassed to go on
longer with his business; and at a meeting of his creditors
held on that day he was told by one of them that he must
file his petition to be adjudged a bankrupt, or that he would
be forced into bankruptcy. He did accordingly file such his
petition, on the 1st of July, and on the 12th was adjudged a
bankrupt, one Tiffany being appointed his trustee.
Hereupon Tiffhny, as such trustee, filed a bill in the court
below against the Boatman's Institution to recover from it,
as having been lent at usurious rates and in violation of the
Bankrupt Act, the moneys which it had lent to Darby, that
is to say, the $135,000, for which he had given the one note,,
and the $30,000 for which he had given the six notes, and
both and all of which loans, as already said, Darby had paid.
The provisions of the Bankrupt Act relied on were certain
ones in the thirty-fifth section, thus:
"And if any person, being insolvent or in contemplation of
insolvency or bankruptcy, within six months before the filing of
the petition . . . makes any payment, sale, assignment, transfer,

conveyance, or other disposition of any part of his property to.
any person who then has reasonable cause to believe him to be
insolvent .. .and that such payment, sale, assignment, transfer,

or other conveyance is made with a view to prevent his property
coming to his assignee in bankruptcy, or to prevent the same
being distributed under this act ...

the sale, assignument, trans-

fer, or conveyance shall be void and the assignee may recover
the property or the value thereof as assets of the bankrupt."t
* This sale is described in Tiffany v. Lucas, 15 Wallace, 411.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 584. The word "payment," in the last paragraph,
Is left out in the statute as printed.

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The bill did not ask for a decree for the excess of interest
reserved and taken, over lawful rates, but asked for all the
money lent to Darby and repaid by him. The grounds on
which it proceeded were apparently these:
I. That at the time of the making of all these notes and
of the payments on and of them, Darby was insolvent, and
that both he and the Boatman's Institution had cause to
know, and did know, that fact; that the payments were thus
made with an intent to give the defendant a preference over
other creditors, and in violation of the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act, and were received with knowledge that such
preference was intended and given; and finally, that such
violation and fraud was contemplated and accomplished.
II. That the general statute of Missouri declaring the
effects of usury and diverting the interest from the lender
but saving the principal to him, applied only to "persons,"
that is to say, to natural persons, and did not include corporations; that therefore loans by corporations at rates forbidden by law-usurious loans-stood upon general principles; and being illegal were wholly void; that applying
these principles1st. To the case of the $135,000, evidenced by the one note;
that the loan being illegal and not anything which the law
would regard as a loan, the note given as evidence of it was
void, and the attempted transfer of jailbonds as security no
valid transfer; that therefore there was in law no security
held by the Boatman's Institution for the note of $135,000;
that accordingly any payments made to the Boatman's Institution stood upon the same ground as any other payments
made by an insolvent debtor to an unsecured creditor:
2d. 7b the case of the $30,000, evidenced by the six notes;
that the money had undoubtedly been lent to Darby, and
was known by the Boatman's Institution (Hogeman's, its
cashier's, knowledge being its knowledge) to have been so;
that the loan being at above 8 per cent. it was void, and the
payments, transfers, or gifts of money without consideration.
III. That independently of these general principles, the
matter of the $135,000 was specially open to censure; that

Oct. 1878.]

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

881

Statement of the case.

the manner in which the subject of the jail-bonds, given for
the purpose of securing the $135,000, had been arranged by
Darby and the company (Darby taking the bonds from ther
National Bank of Missouri, where he had them on just the
same sort of loan as he was about to put them with the
Boatman's Institution, except apparently that the bank
would not let him appear as owner of them and sell them,
and being allowed to put them in the Boatman's Institution
on pledge, and yet to manage as his own and sell them as,
if he were absolute owner), gave to him a fictitious credit
and enabled him to defraud his creditors. The special form.
of the transaction thus involved the Boatman's Institution
in complicity with his fraudulent intent.
That though equity might not enable Darby, he being a
party to the unlawful dealings, to recover what he had once
voluntarily paid, it would enable his assignee under the.
Bankrupt Act, who was acting for creditors, and was therefore not to be affected by Darby's complicity in the unlawful arrangements, when its effect was to injure them.
The bill was resisted on various grounds, including the
one that the general statute of Missouri about usury did
apply to corporations, a position for which The Bank of
Louisville v. Young* was cited, as also a provision in the General Statutes " on the construction of statutes," in which it
was thought to be declared that under the term "person"'
corporations were included;t and that for the rest, equity
would not enable the assignee of a bankrupt to pay even.
the bankrupt's just debts, out of other men's money, because the bankrupt had borrowed money at illegal rates
and repaid it, and that the most it would do would be to,
put him where he would have been had he paid no more
than lawful interest; that is to say, would enable him to
recover the surplus.
The court below thought that the first transaction-that
of the $135,000-it being a transaction directly with Darby* 37 Missouri, 406.

t General Statutes of 1865, p. 88, chapter 9, J 4.

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was unlawful so far as concerned any interest above 8 per
cent., the lawful rate, but that it was lawful for the residue.
While, as to the other transaction or series of transactionsthe transaction or transactions about the six notes of $5000
each, $30,000 in all-assuming, as the court did, that none
of these loans were to Darby directly, but were purchases
by the Boatman's Institution in the market of negotiable
paper, made by Darby to third parties, by them indorsed,
and which the institution might naturally believe that such
third parties had thrown on the market for their own purposesit held that there was nothing unlawful-not even the excess
of interest-in them.
From a decree to this effect and from a ruling which bad
excluded certain evidence tending to prove Darby's insolvency at the time of the transactions, the assignee took this
appeal.

Messrs. E. R. Hoar and S. Knox, for the assignee in bankruptcy, appellant; Mr. . T. Gantt, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The general statute of Missouri concerning usury allows
an individual to receive ten per cent. per annum interest vor
the loan of money; but, if more be taken and suit is brought
to enforce the contract, and the plea of usury be interposed,
the whole interest is forfeited to the proper county for the
use of schools. The debtor is not released from his obligation to pay, but the interest is diverted from the parties and
appropriated for school purposes. If, however, the borrower
suffers judgment to go against him, without pleading usury,
or if, without suit, he pays the usurious interest, he cannot,
either at law or in equity, maintain an action for its repayment. This was settled in Ransom v. Hays,* and affirmed
in Rutherford v. Williams,t and these decisions would be conclusive of this controversy, unless it is affected by the Bankrupt law, if the legislature intended the general provisions
* 39 Missouri, 448.

t42 Id. 85.

Oct. 1873.] , TIFFANY

V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

IMP

Opinion of the court.

of this act to apply to loans by artificial as well as natural
persons, although the former might be restricted to a less
rate of interest than the latter. It is contended by the defendant that this act was meant to apply to corporations, and
that if a bank, discounting a note in the course of business,
commits usury, it is subject to precisely the same consequences with an individual. On the other hand, the complainant insists that the legislature did not intend in this
matter to place corporations on the same footing with natural persons, and cites in support of this position The Bank
of Louisville v. Young.* But the facts of that case did not
involve the construction of a contract made by a corporation
created by an act of the legislature of Missouri. The point
decided there was that a note given to secure a loan made
in foreign bank notes by a foreign corporation doing business by an agent in St. Louis, contrary to the provisions of
;an act to prevent illegal banking, was void.
We have been referred to no case in the courts of Missouri, nor are we aware of any, in which the question has
been directly presented whether the general law relating to
usury applies to and has the same effect upon a contract
-made in violation of its charter by a bank as upon a contract
made by an individual. The question is one of great importance to the business interests of that State, and may be
far-reaching in its consequences, and as it is not necessary
to decide it in order to dispose of this case, in accordance
with the principle on which the Circuit Court placed its de,cree we prefer to leave its decision to the State tribunals.
Assuming, then, that this defendant is not within the purview of the general usury statute of the State, what are the
.consequences that must attach to it for taking excessive interest from Darby ? The bill proceeds on the idea that the
provision of the charter being violated all the loans to Darby
were ultra vires and void, and as they were made to him
within four and six months of his adjudication as a bankrupt, with the knowledge of the defendant during the whole
* 37 Missouri, 406.

b4

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

course of its dealing with him that he was insolvent, the
complainant has, in his character of trustee, the right to
recover for the use of his trust all the sums of money paid
to the defendant by Darby, because paid in fraud of the!
Bankrupt Act.
The defendant is by its charter authorized to lend money
on interest, but is forbidden to exact more than 8 per cent.
for the loan. No penalty is prescribed for transgressing the
law, nor does the charter declare what effect shall be given,
to the usurious contract. This effect must, therefore, be determined by the general rules of law. The modern decisions in this country are not uniform on the question whether,
if the bank takes more than the rate prescribed, the contract
shall be avoided or not on these general rules; nor is this a
matter of surprise if we consider the growing inclination to.
construe statutes against usury so as not to destroy the contract. It is, however, unnecessary to review these cases, or
the ear!ier ones in England and this country, which uniformly hold that the contract is avoided, because this court
has in the case of The Bank of the United States v. Owens,*z
decided the question. The bank in that case brought suit
upon a promissory note that was discounted at a higher rate
of interest than 6 per cent., which was the limit allowed by
its charter upon its loans or discounts, The charter, like
that of the Boatman's Institution, did not declare void any
contract transcending the permitted limits, nor affix any
penalty for the violation of the law. It was contended in
that case, as it has been in this, that a mere prohibition to,
take more than a given per cent, does not avoid a contract
reserving a greater rate, and that when a contract is avoided,
it is always in consequence of an express provision of law
to that effect. But the court held otherwise, and decided
that such contracts are void in law upon general principles;
"that there can be no civil right where there is no legal
remedy, and there can be no legal remedy for that which is
illegal." Chief Justice Taney, in the Maryland circuit, as
* 2 Peters, 527.

Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

386

Opinion of the court.

late as 1854, in a similar case, held similar views, and supported them by the decision in this case.* It must, therefore. be accepted as the doctrine of this court, that a contract to do an act forbidden by law is void, and cannot be
enforced in a court of justice.
But it does not follow in cases of usury, if the contract
be executed, that a court of chancery, on application of the
debtor, will assist him to recover back both principal and
interest. To do this would be to aid one party to an illegal
transaction and to deny redress to the other. Courts of
equity have a discretion on this subject, and have prescribed
the terms on which their powers can be brought into activity. They will give no relief to the borrower if the contract be executory, except on the condition that he pay to
the lender the money lent with legal interest. Nor, if the
contract be executed, will they enable him to recover any
more than the excess he has paid over the legal interest.t
In recognition of this doctrine the court below rendered a
decree for the excess of interest over 8 per cent. per annum
exacted of Darby on the note for $135,000, and dismissed
the bill as to all other claims.
The six accommodation notes, which the defendant alleges were purchased from note brokers, were really taken
on loans to Darby, and the illegal interest received above 8
per cent. on them should, on the principle of that decree, be
refunded, as much as that upon the larger note. It is true
that usury is only predicable of an actual loan of money,
and equally true that a negotiable promissory note, if a real
transaction between the parties to it, can be sold in the
market like any other commodity. The real test of the
salability of such paper is whether the payee could sue the
maker upon it when due. He could do this if it was a valid
contract when made, otherwise not. Mere accommodation
paper can have no effective or legal existence until it is
transferred to a bona fide holder. It follows, then, that the
* Dill v. Ellicott, Taney's Circuit Court Decisions, 283.

- Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 1 vol., 10th edition by Redfleld,
801, 802.
VOL. XV1II.

25

800,

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[SUp. Ct

Opinion of the court.

discounting by a bank at a higher rate of interest than the
law allows of paper of this character, made and given to the
holder for the purpose of raising money upon it, in its origin
only a nominal contract, on which no action could be maintained by any of the parties to it if it had not been discounted, is usurious, and not defensible as a purchase. The
point was decided in New York at an early day,* and this
decision recognized and approved by this court in Nichols v.
Fearson,tand the general current of decision is in the same
direction.1
There are cases which hold that the purchaser of such
paper is protected, if he took it in good faith of the holder,
without knowledge of its origin, and in the belief that it
was created in the regular course of business.ยง Whether
this limitation of the rule be correct or not, it is not important to inquire, as the decision of the question under con.
sideration does not rest upon it.
The six notes which are the basis of the transaction complained of, were executed by Darby, solely for the purpose
of raising money upon them, indorsed by Brotherton &
Knox for his accommodation, and delivered by him to Stagg
and other street brokers to be negotiated. This negotiation
was effected with the Boatman's Institution, and it is perfectly manifest that the cashier, in purchasing the paper, did
not suppose he was advancing the money for the benefit'of
the brokers who held them, or of Brotherton & Knox, who
indorsed them. They were doubtless purchased because
the security was deemed sufficient, but it is impossible to
conceive that the cashier did not know the paper to be of
that class called accommodation, as it is conceded that Brotherton & Knox were gentlemen of large pecuniary ability,
and had no occasion to go upon the street to get paper held
Munn v. Commission Co., 15 Johnson, 55.
t 7 Peters, 10'.
Munn v. Commission Co., 15 Johnson, 55; Powell v. Waters, 17 Id.
176; Wheaton v. Hillard, 20 Id. 289; Powell v. Waters, 8 Cowen,.669; Cor.
coran & Riggs v. Powers, 6 Ohio State, 87; 8 Parsons on Contracts, 6th ed.,
p. 144, and cases cited in note S.
j 3 Parsons on Contracts, p. 145, and cases cited in the note on that page.
*

Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

387

Opinion of the court.

by them bonafide, against Darby or any one else, discounted.
Indeed, Stagg says the notes were negotiated for Darby s
benefit, and explains in some instances how it was done.
Darby would apply to him for money on his paper, and he
would go to the Boatman's Institution to see if the cashier
would take it, and if the reply was in the affirmative, the
paper would be made, taken to the bank, and the money
obtained on it. Can any rational person suppose, in the absence of any direct evidence, that the cashier in dealing with
Stagg thought he was dealing with the owner of the notes?
The presumption is that street brokers act for others, not
themselves, and that the cashier was well acquainted with
this course of business. If so, he knew, or ought to have
known, that Darby wanted the money, and that the paper
was made to enable him to get it, and for no other purpose.
This being the case, the transaction can be viewed in no
other light than as a loan of money directly to Darby, and
as he paid more than 8 per cent. for its use, the Circuit Court
erred in not ordering the excess to be refunded.
The remaining question to be considered is, whether, in
this case, the rights of the trustee are greater than those of
Darby. It is certainly true, in very many cases, he can do
what the bankrupt could not, because he represents the
creditors of the insolvent. If, for instance, the bankrupt
should create a trust which was designed to conceal his property from creditors, although equity would not lend its aid
to him to enforce the trust, it would to his assignee for the
benefit of creditors.* And many other examples might be
cited in illustration of the rule, but it would be a waste of
labor to do so. The point is whether, under the facts of
this case, the bill will lie to recover back both principal and
interest paid on the loans by Darby, when, as we have seen,
if he had not been declared a bankrupt, and had filed it in
his own behalf he could have only recovered the excess of
interest paid beyond the charter rate.
. It is very clear if the loans in controversy had been made
* Carr V. Hilton,'1 Curtis, 285.

388

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup

Ct.,

Opinion of the court.

at legal rates, and were not fraudulent in fact, they could
not be impeacied. There is nothing in the Bankrupt law
which interdicts the lending of money to a man in Darby's
condition, if the purpose be honest and the object fiot fraudulent. And it makes no difference that the lender had good
reason to believe the borrower to be insolvent if the loan,
was made in good faith, without any intention to defeat the
provisions of the Bankrupt Act. It is not difficult to see
that in a season of pressure the power to raise ready money
may be of immense value to a man in embarrassed circumstances. With it he might be saved from bankruptcy, and
without it financial ruin would be inevitable. If the struggle,
to continue his business be an honest one, and not for the
fraudulent purpose of diminishing his assets, it is not only
not forbidden, but is commendable, for every one is interested that his business should be preserved. In the iature.
of things he cannot borrow money without giving security
for its repayment, and this security is usually in the shape
of collaterals. Neither the terms nor policy of the Bankrupt
Act are violated if these collaterals be taken at the time the
debt is incurred. His estate is not impaired or diminished
in consequence, as be gets a present equivalent for the securities he pledges for the repayment of the money borrowed.
Nor in doing this does he prefer one creditor over another,
which it is one of the great objects of the Bankrupt law to,
prevent. The preference at which this law is directed can
only arise in case of an antecedent debt. To secure such a
debt would be a fraud on the act, as it would work an unequal
distribution of the bankrupt's property, and, therefore, the
debtor and creditor are alike prohibited from giving or receiving any security whatever for a debt already incurred if
the creditor had good reason to believe the debtor to be insolvent. But the giving securities when the debt is created
is not within the law, and if the transaction be free from
fraud in fact, the party who loans the money can retain
them until the debt is paid. In the administration of the
bankrupt law in England this subject has frequently come
before the courts, who have uniformly held that advances

Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY v. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

88

Opinion of the court.

may be made in good faith to a debtor to carry on his business, no matter what his condition may be, and that the
party making these advances can lawfully take securities at
the time for their repayment. And the decisions in this
country are to the same effect.* Testing this case by this
rule, there is no difficulty about it on the theory that the
loans were not made in excess of lawful interest.
There is nothing to invalidate the jail-bond transaction.
If it was unwise in Darby to purchase these bonds the defendant did not advise it, and is not, therefore, chargeable
with the fictitious credit which, it is alleged, he obtained by
reason of the purchase. So far as the evidence shows the
purchase was accomplished before the defendant knew of it.
It is a fair inference of fact that the National Bank of Missouri was tired of carrying the loan which Darby made of
it in order to buy the bonds, and that the effect of the loan
from this defendant was to prevent their sacrifice. At any
rate the creditors of Darby were not harmed by the transaction, for the bonds when sold realized more than they cost;
nor was any wrong intended by Darby. The money was not
borrowed to conceal it from creditors, but to take valuable
securities out of pledge. This Darby had the right to do,
and the defendant in helping him to do it was guilty of no
fraud on creditors, nor was any contemplated. On the contrary, so far as we can see, the creditors were benefited by
the substitution of the Boatman's Institution for the National Bank of Missouri. At all events Darby's estate was
in no wise impaired by the transaction. The securities were
valid in the hands of the defendant, and Darby could lawfully apply the proceeds arising from their sale to repay the
advances made by it.
If the six accommodation notes had been discounted at
* Hilliard on Bankruptcy, ch, 10, p. 883,

10; Hutton v. Cruttwell, I

Ellis & Blackburn, 15; Bittlestone v. Cooke, 6 Id. 296; Harris v. Rickett, 4
Hurlstone & Norman, 1; Bell v. Simpson, 2 Id. 410; Lee v. Hart, 34 Eng.
lish Law and Equity, 569; Hunt v. Mortimer, 10 Barnewall & Cresswell, 44;
Ex parte Shouse, Crabbe, 482; Wadsworth v. Tyler, 2 Bankrupt Register,

101.

890

TIFFANY V. BOATMAN'S INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

legal rates the loan would have been equally unimpeachablez.
Conceding that the bank had good reason to believe Darby
to be insolvent, the proceeding, as we have seen, was not
necessarily fraudulent as a matter of law, and there is nothing
in the evidence to show that it Was fraudulent in fact. The
loans were not made to defeat creditors or delay them, or to
conceal property from them, nor was such their effect. The
paper on which they were based was taken as other paper
with good indorsers is taken in the regular course of business. There is no evidence that the money was used improperly, or that the bank supposed it would be. Darby,
doubtless, raised the money hoping to be able to go on with
his business; not to defeat his creditors, but to pay them.
If it were clear at the time to his mind that he could overcome his difficulties (as we think it was), notwithstanding
the real state of his affairs did not justify the belief, his conduct was not in fact fraudulent, nor is it condemned by any
provision of the Bankrupt law.
Does the fact, then, that the interest reserved on the notes
in controversy exceeded the charter rate, change these transactions, which were lawful if not tainted with usury, so that
the trustee can recover back the whole sum; when, as we
have seen, Darby, if suing personally, could only recover
the excess ? We think not. The trustee in this matter has
no larger interest than the bankrupt. The estate of Darby
is diminished, by reason of his dealings with this defendant,
to no greater extent than the usurious interest which he has
paid. This the trustee should obtain as proper assets to be
administered, but to allow him to get what he asks, would
be to transfer to the creditors of Darby, a sum of money
exceeding $150,000, which he never owned, by way of punishment of the bank for taking excessive interest. A court
of equity does not deal with contracts affected with usury in
this way. The relief it gives is always based on the idea
that the money borrowed with legal interest shall be paid.*
We have not considered the point raised about the exclu.
* 1 Story's Equity, J, 301-302.

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
Syllabus.

sion of evidence, because, at the most, the evidence, if admitted, would only have been cumulative on the subject of
Darby's insolvency and the defendant's knowledge; and we
have treated the case on the theory that the officers of the
institution knew, when they made the loans and received
payment of them, that Darby was insolvent.
The case will have to go back for the purpose of enabling
the Circuit Court to ascertain in some proper way the excess
of interest over the charter rate paid on the six accommodation notes, and to enlarge the decree so as to cover that sum.
In all other respects the disposition of this case by the Circuit Court was correct.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with directions

to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY

WITH THIS OPINION.

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
A railroad company exempted by the legislature of a State from taxation
accepted bonds for large sums of money from the State by way of loan,
the statute which authorized the transaction declaring that the acceptance by the company of the bonds should operate as " a mortgage of
the road of the company and every part and section thereof, and its appurtenances;" and that if the company did not provide for the payment
of the bonds it should be lawful for the governor to sell " their road and
its appurtenances" at auction to the highest bidder, or to buy in the
same . . . subject to such disposition, in respect to such road or its proceeds, as the legislature might thereafter direct.
Subsequently to this the State made for itself a new constitution, provisions
of which were in these words:
" No property, real or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except suoh
as may be used exclusively for public schools and such as may belong to the
United States, to this State, to counties, or to municipal corporations within this
State.
"The General Assembly shall not pass special laws . . . exempting any prop.
erty of any named person or corporation from taxation."
At the same time it adopted in a separate form "An ordinance for the
payment of State and railroad indebtedness;" which was to "have full
force and effect as a part of the constitution," which ordinance, aftel

