Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Statement of the case.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

A. The doctrine of this court affirmed, and the cases in support of it cited,
that where a prisoner shows that he is held under a judgment of a
Federal court, made without authority of law, the Supreme Court will,
by writs of habeas corpus and certiorari,look into the record, so far as
to ascertain that fact, and if it is found to be so, will discharge the
prisoner.
2. The general principle asserted as applicable to both civil and criminal
cases, that the judgments, orders, and decrees of the courts of this country are under their control during the term at which they are made; so
that they may be set aside or modified as law and justice may require.
:8. But it is also declared that this power cannot be so used as to violate the
guarantees of personal rights found in the common law, and in the
constitutions of the States and of the Union.
4. If there is anything settled in the jurisprudence of England and America,
it is that no man shall be twice punished byjudicial judgments for the
same offence.
5. The provisions of the common law and of the Federal Constitution, that
no man shall be twice placed in jeopardy of life or limb, are mainly
designed to prevent a second punishment for the same crime or misdemeanor.
6. Hence, when a court has imposed fine and imprisonment, where the statute only conferred power to punish by fine or imprisonment, and the
fine has been paid, it cannot, even during the same term, modify the
judgment by imposing imprisonment instead of the former sentence.
7. The judgment of the court having been executed so as to be a full satisfaction of one of the alternative penalties of the law, the power of the
court as to that offence is at an end.
6. A second judgment on the same verdict is, under such circumstances, void
for want of power, and it affords no authority to hold the party a pris
oner, and he must be discharged.
ON petition for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari.
Edward Lange filed a petition to this court at a former
day, praying for a writ of habeas corpus to the marshal for
the Southern District of New York, on the allegation that
he was unlawfully imprisoned under an order of the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district. On consideration of the petition, the court was of opinion that the facts
which it alleged very fairly raised the question whether the
Circuit Court, in the sentence which it had pronounced, and

Ex

[sup. Ct

PARTE LANGE.

Statement of the case.

under which the prisoner was held, had not exceeded its
powers. It therefore directed the writ to issue, accompanied
also by a writ of certiorari, to bring before this court the proceedings in the Circuit Court under which the petitioner
was restrained of his liberty.
From the record of the case in the Circuit Court, and the
return of the marshal in whose custody the prisoner was
found, the following facts appeared, and were stated, by the
learned justice who delivered the opinion of the court, as
the case:
" The petitioner had been indicted under an act of Congress, passed 8th June, 1872,* for stealing, purloining, embezzling, and appropriating to his own use certain mail-bags.
belonging to the Post-office Department. Upon the trial, on
the 22d day of October, 1873, the jury found him guilty of
appropriating to his own use mail-bags, the value of which
was less than twenty-five dollars; the punishment for which
offence, as provided in said statute, is imprisonment for not
more than one year or a fine of not less than ten dollars
nor more than two hundred dollars. On the 3d day of November, 1873, the judge presiding sentenced the petitioner
under said conviction to one year's imprisonment, and to
pay two hundred dollars fine. The petitioner was, on said
day, committed to jail in execution of the sentence, and on,
the following day the fine was paid to the clerk of the court,
who, in turn, and on the 7th day of November, 1873, paid,
the same into the Treasury of the United States.
"On the 8th day of the same month the prisoner was
brought before the court on a writ of habeas corpus, the same
judge presiding, and an order was entered vacating the former judgment, and the prisoner was again sentenced to one
year's imprisonment from that date; and the return of the
marshal to the writ of habeas corpus showed that it was under
this latter judgment that he held the prisoner. It was conceded that all this was during the same term at which his
trial took place before the jury. A second writ of habeas
* 17 Stat. at Large, 320,

290.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex PARTE LANGE.
Opinion of the court.

corpus, issued by the circuit judge, was returned into the
Circuit Court, when the two district judges sat with him on
the hearing, and the writ was discharged and the petitioner
remanded to the custody of the marshal."
Mr. H1. H. Arnoux, in support of the discharge, made a full
citation of cases, as well the British and Irish as our own,
on the power of courts over their own judgments ; certain
of the cases denying all right to change the judgment after
once enrolled; and made, further, an elaborate argument to
prove that whatever its general power in the matter might
be, the court in this case having imposed fine and imprisonment, and the fine having been paid, it could not, even during the term, modify the judgment as it had sought to do.
Mr. C. 1. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra, relied
on the doctrine sufficiently long established, that during the
term at which they are made, all courts have power over
their judgments; arguing, moreover, that the judgment first
rendered in this case being erroneous, was to be treated as
void; in other words, as not entered, or no judgment; and
that, therefore, the court could enter a valid judgment, and
had done so in what it finally did. In support of his propositions, he relied much on the case of Bassett v. United States,
decided by this court at December Term, 1869; in which
it is said that "it is competent for good causd to set aside
at the same term at which it was rendered a judgment of
conviction on confession, though the defendant had entered
upon the imprisonment ordered by the sentence."
The last judgment, he also said, though, perhaps, erro.
neous, was not void; and so no power to discharge existed.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
On consideration of the petition which was filed in this
case at a former day, the court was of opinion that the facts
therein recited very fairly raieed the question whether the
Circuit Court, in the sentence which it had pronounced. and
under which the prisoner was held, had not exceeded its

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

powers. It therefore directed the writ to issue, accompanied
also by a writ of' certiorari, to bring before this court the proceedings in the Circuit Court under which the petitioner was
restrained of his liberty. The authority of this court in such
case, under the Constitution of the United States, and the
fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, to issue this
writ, and to examine the proceedings in the inferior court,
so far as may be necessary to ascertain whether that court
has exceeded its authority, is no longer open to question.
The cases cited in the note below* will, when examined,
establish this proposition as far as judicial decision can
establish it.
Disclaiming any assertion of a general power of review
over the judgments of the inferior courts in criminal cases,
by the use of the writ of habeas corpus or otherwise, we proceed to examine the case as disclosed by the record of the
Circuit Court and the return of the marshal, in whose custody the prisoner is found, to ascertain whether it shows that
the court below had any power to render the judgment by
which the prisoner is held.
The first inquiry which presents itself is as to the nature
and extent of the power of the Circuit Court over its own
judgments in reversing, vacating, or modifying them.
We are furnished by counsel with a very full review of
the cases in the English and American courts on the question of the power of courts over their judgments once rendered in criminal cases. Many of these decisions in the
English courts are on writs of error and have but little bearing on the question before us. Others, which seem to present cases of judgments vacated or modified during the term
at which they were rendered, are based upon the doctrines
of the English courts, that there is no judgment or'decree
until the decree in chancery is enrolled or the judgment has
* Hamilton's Case, 3 Dallas, 17; Burford's Case, 3 Cranch, 448; Ex parto
Bollman, 4 Id. 75; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 193; Same Case, 7 Id. 568;
Ex parte Metzger, 5 Howard, 176; Ex parte Kaine, 14 Id. 103; Ex parto
Wells, 18 Id. 307; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace, 2; Ex parte McCardle, 6
Id. 318. Same Caue, 7 Id. 506; Ex parts Yerger, 8 Id. 85.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of the court.

been signed by the judge of the court of law, and become
technically a part of the judgment roll.*
These decisions, some of which go to the extent of denying all right to amend or change the judgment after it becomes a part of the roll, are inapplicable to our system, where
a judgment roll, strictly speaking, is no part, or, at least,
not a necessary part of our system of judicial proceedings.
In most, if not all, our courts a minute-book, or a record of
the proceedings of the court, is kept, and is the appropriate
repository of all the orders and judgments of the court; and
this book with all its entries is, as a general rule, under the
complete control of the court during the term to which such
entries relate.
The general power of the court over its own judgments,
orders, and decrees, in both civil and criminal cases, during
the existence of the term at which they are first made, is
undeniable. And this is the extent of the proposition intended to be decided in the case of -Bassett v. United States.t
That was a case like this, in which, in a prosecution for misdemeanor, the prisoner had been sentenced to imprisonment.
But it was by a judgment rendered on confession. He was
afterwards, during the same term, brought into court and
the judgment vacated, his plea of guilty withdrawn, and
leave given to plead anew; and then he gave bail and his
case was continued. It was in an action on the bail-bond
which he had forfeited, thlat the sureties raised the question
of the right of the court to vacate the former judgment.
In general terms, without much consideration, for no
counsel appeared for the sureties, this court sustained the
right. If it was intended in that case to raise the question
of the right of the court to inflict a new and larger punishment on the prisoner, without reference to the time of his
imprisonment on the one set aside, that point was not presented so as to receive the attention of the court, and certainly was not considered or decided.
It would seem that there must, in the nature of the power
Archbold's Criminal Pleading, 176.

t" 9 Wallace, 388

vo

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

thus exercised by the
court, be in criminal cases
some limit
The judgment of the
courts in this class of
to life, liberty, and
cases extends
property. The terms
of many of them
extend through considerable
periods of time, often
months, with adjournments
many
and
vacations in the same
at the discretion of the
term,
judge.
to a disgraceful punishment, A criminal may be sentenced
as whipping, or, as
English law, to have
in the old
his ears cut oft or to
be branded in the
hand or forehead.
The judgment of the
court to this effect
being rendered
and carried into execution
before the expiration
of
can the judge vacate
that sentence and substitute the term,
fine or imprisonment, and cause
the
latter
sentence
also to be executed ? Or if the judgment
of the court is that the
be imprisoned for fbur
convict
months, and he enters
immediately
upon the period of
punishment, can the
court, after it has
been fully completed,
because it is still in
session of the
same term, vacate
that judgment and
render anotber, for
three or six months'
imprisonment, or fbr
a fine ? Not only
the gross injustice of
such a proceeding,
but the inexpediency of placing such
a power in the hands
of any tribunal is
manifest.
If there is anything
settled in the jurisprudence
land and America, it
of Engis that no man can
be twice lawfully
punished for the same
offence. And though
there have
been nice questions
in the application of
this rule to cases
in which the act charged
was such as to come
within the
definition of more than
one statutory offence,
or to bring
the party within the
jurisdiction of more
than one court,
there has never been
any doubt of its entire
and complete
protection of the party
when a second punishment
posed in the same
is procourt, on the same
facts, for the same
statutory offence.
The principle finds expression
in more than one form
the maxims of the common
in
law.
In civil cases the doctrine
is expressed by the maxim
that no man shall be
twice vexed
for one and the same
cause. Nemo debet his
vexari pro una et

(jet. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of the court.

eadem causa. It is upon the foundation of this maxim that
the plea of a former judgment for the same matter, whether
it be in favor of the defendant or against him, is a good bar
to an action.
In the criminal law the same principle, more directly applicable to the case before us, is expressed in the Latin,
"Nemo his punitur pro eodem delicto,"* or, as Coke has it,
"Nemo debet his puniri pro uno delicto." t No one can be twice
punished for the same crime or misdemeanor, is the translation of the maxim by Sergeant Hawkins.
Blackstone in his ComnentariesT cites the same maxim
as the reason why, if a person has been found guilty of manslaughter on an indictment, and has had benefit of clergy,
and s~ffered the judgment of the law, he cannot afterwards be
appealed.
Of course, if there had been no punishment the appeal
would lie, and the party would be subject to the danger of
another form of trial. But by reason of this universal principle, that no person shall be twice punished for the same
offence, that ancient right of appeal was gone when the punishment had once been suffered. The protection against the
action of the same court in inflicting punishment twice must
surely be as necessary, and as clearly within the maxim, as
protection from chances or danger of a second punishment
-on a second trial.
The common law not only prohibited a second punishment for the same offence, but it went further and forbid a
:second trial for the same offence, whether the accused had
suffered punishment or not, and whether in the former trial
he had been acquitted or convicted.
Hence to every indictment or information charging a
party with a known and defined crime or misdemeanor,
,whether at the common law or by statute, a plea of autrefois
acquit or autrefois convict is a good defence.
2 Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown, 377.
f 4 Reports, 43, a; 11 Id. 95, b.
I Vol. 4, 315, Sharswood's edition.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[sulp. c't.-

Opinion of the court.

In the case of Crenshaw v. The State of Tennessee,* it waR
held by the Supreme Court of that State that the commonlaw principle went still further, namely, that an indictment,
conviction, and punishment in a case of felony not capital
was a bar to a prosecution for all other felonies not capital
committed before such conviction, judgment, and execution.
If in civil cases, says Drake, J., in State v. Oooper,t the
law abhors a multiplicity of suits, it is yet more watchful in
criminal cases that the crown shall not oppress the subject,
or the government the citizen, by unreasonable prosecutions.
These salutary principles of the common law have, to
some extent, been embodied in the constitutions of the
several States and of the United States. By Article VII of
the amendments to the latter instrument it is declared that
no fact once tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined
in any court of the United States than according to the
rules of the common law; and by Article V, that no person
shall for the same offence be twice put in jeopardy of life
or limb . . . nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law.
It is not necessary in this case to insist that other cases:
besides those involving life or limb are positively covered by
the language of this amendment; or that when a party hashad a fair trial before a competent court and jury, and has
been convicted, that any excess of punishment deprives him,
of liberty or property without due course of law. On the
other hand it would seem to be equally difficult to maintain,
after what we have said of the inflexible rules of the common law against a person being twice punished for the same
offence, that such second punishment as is pronounced in this
case is not a violation of that provision of the Constitution.
It is very clearly the spirit of the instrument to prevent a
second punishment under judicial proceedings for the same
crime, so far as the common law gave that protection.
In the case of The Commonwealth v. Olds,1 one of the
1 Martin & Yerger, 122.
A Littell, 117.

t 1 Green's New Jersey, 876.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

171

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of the court.

best common law judges that ever sat on the bench of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky* remarked, "that every person acquainted with the history of governments must know
that state trials have been employed as a formidable engine
in the hands of a dominant administration.... To prevent
this mischief the ancient common law, as well as Magna
Charta itself, provided that one acquittal or conviction should
satisfy the law; or, in other words, that the accused should
always have the right secured to him of availing himself of
the pleas of autrefois acquit and autrefois convict. To perpetuate this wise rule, so favorable and necessary to the liberty
of the citizen in a government like ours, so frequently subject to changes in popular feeling and sentiment, was the
design of introducing into our Constitution the clause in,
question."
In the case of Cooper v. The State,t in the Supreme Court
of New Jersey, the prisoner had been indicted, tried, and
convicted for arson. While still in custody under this proceeding he was arraigned on an indictment for the murder
of two persons who were in the house when it was burned.
To this he pleaded the former conviction in bar, and the
Supreme Court held it a good plea. It is to be observed
that the punishment for arson could not technically extend
either to life or limb; but the Supreme Court founded its,
argument on the provision of the constitution of New Jersey, which embodies the precise language of the Federal
Constitution. After referring to the common law maxim.
the court says: "The constitution of New Jersey declares
this important principle in this form: ' Nor shall any person
be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy
of life or limb.' Our courts of justice would have recognized and acted upon it as one of the most valuable principles of the common law without any constitutional provision. But the framers of our Constitution have thought it
worthy of especial notice. And all who are conversant with
courts of justice must be satisfied that this great principle:
iiMills, J.-Rep.

t1

Green, 861.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

forms one of the strong bulwarks of liberty. . . . Upon this
principle are founded the pleas of autrefois acquit and autrefois
convict."

And Hawkins in his Pleas of the Crown* says that both
the pleas of autrefois acquit and autrefois convict are grounded
on the maxim that a man shall . . . not be brought into
danger of his life for one and the same offence more than
-once.
In Moor v. The People of Illinois,t the defendant was fined
four hundred dollars under the criminal code of that State
for harboring and secreting a negro slave. The case came
to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, on the ground that the right to legislate on that subject
was exclusively in Congress. The court did not concur in
that view of the question. But it was also urged that the
party might be subjected twice to punishment for the same
offence if liable to be prosecuted under statutes of both
State and National legislatures. In regard to this Judge
McLean said, in a dissenting opinion, that "the exercise of
:such a power by the States would, in effect, be a violation
of the Constitution of the United States and of the respective States. They all provide against a second punishment
for the same act." "It is contrary," said he, "to the nature
;and genius of our government to permit an individual to be
twice punished for the same act."
Mr. Bishop, in the latest edition of his work on criminal
law,t speaking of this constitutional provision, says the construction of these words is that properly the rule extends to
treason and all felonies, not to misdemeanors. Yet practi,cally and wisely the courts have applied it to misdemeanors,
and that in view of the liberal construction of statutes and
constitutions in favor of persons charged with crime he cannot well see how courts can refuse to apply this constituitional guarantee in cases of misdemeanor.
Chitty§ also drops the words life and limb in speaking of
* Pager 515, 526.
J Sections 990, 991, 5th edition.

j 14 Howard, 13.
1 Criminal Law, 452-462.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

173

Opinion of the court.

the pleas of autrefois acquit and autrefois convict, and declares
that they both depend on the principle that no mal shall
more than once be placed in peril of legal penalties upon
the same accusation.
If we reflect that at the time this maxim came into existence almost every offence was punished with death or other
punishment touching the person, and that these pleas are
now held valid in felonies, minor crimes, and misdemeanors
alike, and on the difficulty of deciding when a statute under
modern systems does or does not describe a felony when it
defines and punishes an offence, we shall see ample reason
for holding that the principle intended to be asserted by the
constitutional provision must be applied to all cases where a
second punishment is attempted to be inflicted for the same
offence by a judicial sentence.
For of what avail is the constitutional protection against
more than one trial if there can be any number of sentences
pronounced on the same verdict? Why is it that, having
once been tried and found guilty, he can never be tried
again for that offence? Manifestly it is not the danger or
jeopardy of being a second time found guilty. It is the
punishment that would legally follow the second conviction which is the real danger guarded against by the Constitution. But if, after judgment has been rendered on the
conviction, and the sentence of that judgment executed
on the criminal, he can be again sentenced on that conviction to another and different punishment, or to endure
the same punishment a second time, is the constitutional
restriction of any value? Is not its intent and its spirit
in such a case as much violated as if a new trial had been
had, and on a second conviction a second punishment inflicted ?
The argument seems to us irresistible, and we do not
doubt that the Constitution was designed as much to prevent the criminal from being twice punished for the same
offence as from being twice tried for it.
But there is a class of cases in which a second trial is had
without violating this principle. As when the jury fail to

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

agree and no verdict has been rendered,* or the verdict set
aside on motion of the accused, or on writ of error prosecuted by him,t or the indictment was found to describe no
offence known to the law.
And so it is said that the judgment first rendered in the
present case being erroneous must be treated as no judgment, and, therefore, presenting no bar to the rendition of
a valid judgment. The argument is plausible but unsound.
The power of the court over that judgment was just the
same, whether it was void or valid. If the court, for instance, had rendered a judgment for two years' imprisonment, it could no doubt, on its own motion, have vacated
that judgment during the term and rendered a judgment
for one year's imprisonment; or, if no part of the sentence
had been executed, it could have rendered a judgment for
two hundred dollars fine after vacating the first. Nor are
we prepared to say, if a case could be found where the first
sentence was wholly and absolutely void, as where a judgment was rendered when no court was in session, and at a
time when no term was held-so void that the officer who
held the prisoner under it would be liable, or the prisoner
at perfect liberty to assert his freedom by force-whether
the payment of money or imprisonment under such an order
would be a bar to another judgment on the same conviction.
On this we have nothing to say, for we have no such case
before us. The judgment first rendered, though erroneous,
was not absolutely void. It was rendered by a court which
had jurisdiction of the party and of the offence, on a valid
verdict. The error of the court in imposing the two punishments mentioned in the statute, when it had only the
alternative of one of them, did not make the judgment
wholly void. Miller v. Finklet is directly in point. But
we think that no one will contend that the first sentence
was so absolutely void that an action could be maintained
United States v. Perez, 9 Wheaton, 579.

t People v. Casborus, 13 Johnson, 351.
1 1 Parker Criminal Reports, 374.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE' LANGE.

Opinion of the court.

against the marshal for trespass in holding the prisoner
under it.
The petitioner, then, having paid into court the fine imposed upon him of two hundred dollars, and that money
having passed into the Treasury of the United States, and
beyond the legal control of the court, or of any one else but
the Congress of the United States, and he having also undergone five days of the one year's imprisonment, all under a
valid judgment, can the court vacate that judgment entirely,
and without reference to what has been done under it,
impose another punishment on the prisoner on that same
verdict? To do so is to punish him twice for the same offence.
ie is not only put in jeopardy twice, but put to actual punishment twice for the same thing.
The force of this proposition cannot be better illustrated
than by what occurs in the present case if the second judgment is carried into effect. The law authorizes imprisonment not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding two
hundred dollars. The court, through inadvertence, imposed
both punishments, when it could rightfully impose but one.
After the fine was paid and passed into the treasury, and the
petitioner had suffered five days of his one year's imprisonment, the court changed its judgment by sentencing him to
one year's imprisonment from that time. If this latter sentence is enforced it follows that the prisoner in the end pays
this two hundred dollars fine and is imprisoned one year and
five days, being all that the first judgment imposed on him,
and five days' imprisonment in addition. And this is done
'because the first judgment was confessedly in excess of the
,authority of the court.
But it has been said that, conceding all this, the judgment
under which the prisoner is now held is erroneous, but not
void; and as this court cannot review that judgment for
,error, it can discharge the prisoner only when it is void.
But we do not concede the major premise in this argument. A judgment may be erroneous and not void, and it
may be erroneous because it is void. The distinctions between void and merely voidable judgments are very nice,

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and they may fall under the one class or the other as they
are regarded for different purposes.
We are of opinion that when the prisoner, as in this case,,
by reason of a valid judgment, had fully suffered one of the,
alternative punishments to which alone the law subjected
him, the power of the court to punish further was gone.
That the principle we have discussed then interposed its,
shield, and forbid that he should be punished again for that,
offence. The record of the court's proceedings, at the moment the second sentence was rendered, showed that in that
very case, and for that very offence, the prisoner had fully
performed, completed, and endured one of the alternativepunishments which the law prescribed for that offence, and
had suffered five days' imprisonment on account of the other.
It thus showed the court that its power to punish for that
offence was at an end. Unless the whole doctrine of our
system of jurisprudence, both of the Constitution and the.
common law, for the protection of personal rights in that
regard, are a nullity, the authority of the court to punish,
the prisoner was gone. The power was exhausted; its.
further exercise was prohibited. It was error, but it was.
error because the power to render any further judgment did
not exist.
It is no answer to this to say that the court had jurisdiction of the person of the prisoner, and of the offence under
the statute. It by no means follows that these two facts.
make valid, however erroneous it may be, any judgment
the court may render in such case. If a justice of the peace,,
having jurisdiction to fine for a misdemeanor, and with the.
party charged properly before him, should render a judgment that he be hung, it would simply be void. Why void ?
Because he had no power to render such a judgment. So,.
if a court of general jurisdiction should, on an indictment
for libel, render a judgment of death, or confiscation of property, it would, for the same reason, be void. Or if on an,
indictment for treason the court should render a judgment
of attaint, whereby the heirs of the criminal could not inherit his property, which should by the judgment of the

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

III

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of the court.

court be confiscated to the State, it would be void as to tie
attainder, because in excess of the authority of the court,
and forbidden by the Constitution.
A case directly in point is that of Bigelow v. Forrest.* In
that case, under the confiscation acts of Congress, certain
lands of French Forrest had been condemned and sold, and
Bigelow became the holder of the title conveyed by those
proceedings. After Forrest's death his son and heir brought
suit to recover the lands, and contended that under the joint
resolution of Congress, which declared that condemnation
under that act should not be held to work a forfeiture of the
real estate of the offender beyond his natural life, the title
of Bigelow terminated with the death of the elder Forrest.
In opposition to this it was argued that the decree of the
court confiscating the property in terms ordered all the
estate of the said Forrest to be sold, and that though this part
of the decree might be erroneous, it was not void. Here was a
case of a proceeding in rem where the property was within
the power of the court, and its authority to confiscate and
sell under the statute beyond question; but the extent of
that power was limited by the statute. The analogy to the
case before us seems almost perfect. In that case the court
said: " It is argued, however, on behalf of the plaintiff in
error that the decree of confiscation of the District Court of
the United States is conclusive, that the entire right, title,
and interest of French Forrest was condemned and ordered
to be sold; and that as his interest was a fee simple that
entire fee was confiscated and sold. Doubtless, a decree of
a court having jurisdiction to make the decree cannot be
impeached collaterally, but under the act of Congress the District Court had no power to order a sale which should co nfer upon
the purchaser rights outlasting the life of _F'ench Forrest. Had
it (lone so it would have transcended its jurisdiction." The doctrine of that case is reaffirmed in the case of Day v. Micou at
the present term,t where it is said that in Bigelow v. Forrest
we also determined that nothing more was within the ju'
* 9 Wallace,
VOL. XVIII.

339.

t Suira, 166.
19

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

.Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

risdiction or judicial power of the District Court (than the
life estate), and that consequently a decree condemning the
fee could have no greater effect than to subject the life estate
to sale."
But why could it not? Not because it wanted jurisdiction
of the property or of the offence, or to render a judgment
of confiscation, but because in the very act of rendering a
judgment of confiscation it condemned more than it had
authority to condemn. In other words, in a case where it
had full jurisdiction to render one kind of judgment, operative upon the same property, it rendered one which included
that which it had a right to render, and something more,
and this excess was held simply void. The case before us
is stronger than that, for unless our reasoning has been entirely at fault, the court in the present case could render no
second judgment against the prisoner. Its authority was
ended. All further exercise of it in that direction was forbidden by the common law, by the Constitution, and by the
dearest principles of personal rights, which both of them are
supposed to maintain.
There is no more sacred duty of a court than, in a case
properly before it, to maintain unimpaired those securities
for the personal rights of the individual which have received for ages the sanction of the jurist and the statesman;
and in such cases no narrow or illiberal construction should
be given to the words of the fundamental law in which they
are embodied. Without straining either the Constitution
of the United States, or the well-settled principles of the
common law, we have come to the conclusion that the sentence of the Circuit Court under which the petitioner is
held a prisoner was pronounced without authority, and he
should therefore be discharged.
DISCHARGED ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
Provision is made by the act of the eighth of June, 1872,
that any person who shall steal, purloin, or embezzle any
mail-bag or other property ini the use of or belonging to the

Oct. 1878.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Post-office Department, or who shall, for any lucre, gain, or
convenience, appropriate any such property to his own use,
or to any other than its proper use, or who shall, for any
lucre or gain, convey away any such property to the hindrance or detriment of the public service, his aiders, abettors, and counsellors, shall, if the value of the property be
twenty-five dollars or more, be deemed guilty of felony, and
on conviction thereof the offender shall be imprisoned not
exceeding three years; and if the value of the property be
less than twenty-five dollars, the party offending shall be
imprisoned not more than one year or be fined not less than
ten nor more than two hundred dollars.*
Pursuant to that act of Congress the petitioner was indicted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, held by adjournment on the
seventh of October, 1873; and it appears that the indictment
contained twelve counts, in each of which he is charged
either with unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully, and feloniously
stealing, purloining, or embezzling fifty mail-bags belonging
to the Post-office Department, each of the value of fifty cents,
or with unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully, and feloniously appropriating the same to his own use or to some other than
its proper use, or with unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully, and
feloniously conveying away the same to the hindrance and
detriment of the public service.
Doubt cannot be entertained that each of the twelve counts
of the indictment is well drawn, and that they embody an
offence which is legally defined in the aforesaid act of Congress. By the record it also appears that a jury was duly
impanelled on the fifteenth of October in the same year,
for the trial of the defendant upon that indictment, and that
the jury, on the twenty-second of the same month, returned
their verdict that the defendant is guilty, and that the value
of the said mail-bags is less than twenty-five dollars.
Convicted as the defendant was upon a valid indictment,
he was liable to be punished by being imprisoned not more
* 17 Stat. at Large, 320.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[SuP. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

than one year or to be fined not less than ten nor more than
two hundred dollars, but the judge presiding at the trial,
without authority of law, on the third day of November in
the same year sentenced the defendant " to be imprisoned
for the term of one year and that he pay a fine of two hundred dollars," and it appears that he was remanded to prison
in execution of the sentence. Plenary proof is also exhibited
that the defendant, oil the following day, paid the line in flll
to the clerk and the clerk certifies under that date that " said
sum is now on deposit in the registry of the court."
Two days after the sentence was pronounced, to wit, on
the fifth of the same November, application in behalf of the
defendant was made to the district judge of that district for
a habeas corpus, and it appears that the writ was immediately
granted and made returnable to the Circuit Court on the
eighth of the same November. Due return was made of the
same by tie marshal, and the return shows that he produced
the defendant and a certified copy of the sentence, stating
that the sentence was the cause of the imprisonment and detention of the petitioner. Regular proceeding, therefore, was
instituted for a review of the sentence before the money paid
for the fine passed out of the registry of the court, as it appears that the amount of the fine was not deposited to the
credit of the Treasurer of the United States until the day
before the return day of the writ of habeas corpus. On the
following day the Circuit Court came in by adjournment,
within the same term as that when the indictment was tried,
and the same judge presiding who sat in the trial and who
passed the sentence which is the subject of complaint. Attention was called to the return of the marshal to the writ
of habeas corpus, and the parties having been heard the following proceedings took place:
By the court.-Ordered that the sentence pronounced
against the defendant on the third of the prEsent month be,
and the same is hereby, vacated aiid set aside, and the record
states that "the court thereupon proceeds to pass judgment
ancw and resentence the prisoner, Edward Lange, to be im
prisoned for the term of one year."

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTR LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Application was subsequently made to the circuit judge,
on the seventeenth of December in the same year, for a writ
of habeas corpus and a writ of certiorari, to the end that the
prisoner might be discharged from custody, and it appears
that the circuit judge granted a rule requiring the district
attorney and the marshal to show cause before the Circuit
Court, on the twenty-fourth of the same month, at 11 o'clock
in the forenoon, why the two writs mentioned should not
issue. Service was made and the parties appeared and Were
heard before the circuit judge and the district judge for that
district and the judge who sat on the trial of the indictment
and who passed the two sentences.
Counsel on both sides were heard, and the court denied
the application upon the ground that the judgment, being
for a punishment expressly authorized by an act of Congress,
cannot be impeached by a writ of habeas corpus, unless it appears that the court had no jurisdiction to pronounce the
sentence. They proceed to answer that inquiry, commencing with the remark that the jurisdiction is questioned only
upon the ground that the court had, on a previous day in
the same term, pronounced judgment imposing a different
sentence, and they might have added that the sentence first
pronounced imposed a punishment not authorized by the
act of Congress under which the indictment was found.
Vacated as the former judgment was by the order of the
court, they proceed to consider the case, in that aspect, and
remark that if the court had power to vacate that judgment
it became of no effect, and that it was the duty of the court
to deal with the prisoner upon his conviction of the offence
charged in the indictment, and for the reasons given, as
more fully set forth in the record, they discharged the rule
and denied the application.
Subsequently, to wit, on the twenty-ninth of the same
December, the Circuit Court again came in by adjournment,
the judge presiding who sat on the trial of the indictment
and who passed the respective sentences against the defendant, and it being suggested that the rights of the prisoner
would be better preserved if the writ of habeas corpus was

Ex

PARTE LANgGE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

granted as prayed in the preceding application, it was or.
dered that the writ issue returnable on the same day, and
the return having been made, the counsel were agaiu heard,
but it being conceded that the second sentence was pronounced in the same term as the first sentence, it was ordered that the writ of habeas corpus be dismissed wnd that
the prisoner be remanded for the reasons given by the court
on the last preceding occasion. Whereupon the petitioner,
by his counsel, applied to this court for a writ of habeas corpus directed to the marshal having the prisoner in ocustody,
commanding him to produce the prisoner at such time as
the court shall direct, and that the marshal then and there
show the cause of the prisoner's detention, to the end that
he may be discharged from custody; and the petitioner also
prayed that a writ of certiorari might issue to the clerk of the
Circuit Court for that district, commanding him to certify
to this court all the record of that court respecting the case
of the prisoner, to the end that errors therein may be corrected.
Both writs were ordered, but with the understanding that
the writ of habeas corpus would not be issued and served
until the counsel were further heard upon the return of the
writ of certiorari, and upon the return of the writ of certiorari
the counsel were fully heard, and the majority of the court
decided that the prisoner was entitled to be discharged from
his imprisonment. Unable to concur in that conclusion, I
will proceed to state the reasons of my dissent.
By the fourteenth section of the Judiciary Act it is provided, among other things, that either of the justices of the
Supreme Court as well as the judges of the District Courts
shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment, provided
that writs of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to persons
in jail unless where they are in custody under or by color
of the authority of the United States, or are committed for
trial before some court of the same, or are necessary to be
brought into court to testify. Properly construed the principal provision empowers the Supreme Court as well as the

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANOE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

justices thereof to issue the writ and to grant the relief as
prayed to the petitioner.*
Authority upon the subject is also conferred by other acts
of Congress, but it is unnecessary to refer to any other act,
as the petition in this case is obviously founded upon the
provision in the Judiciary Act.
Courts of justice may refuse to grant the writ of habeas
corpus where no probable ground for relief is shown in the
petition, or where it appears that the petitioner is duly committed for felony or treason plainly expressed in the warrant
of commitment, but where probable ground is shown that
the party is in custody under or by color of authority of the
United States, and is imprisoned without just cause, and,
therefore, has a right to be delivered, the writ of habeas
corpus then becomes a writ of right which may not be denied, as it ought to be granted to every man who is unlawfully committed or detained in prison or otherwise restrained
of his liberty. Authorities in support of these propositions
are unnecessary, as wherever the principles of the common
law have been adopted or recognized they are universally
acknowledged.
Civil society, however, could not exist if it were permitted
that crimes should go unpunished, nor is it true that the
writ of habeas corpus was ever intended to operate as the
means of delivering a prisoner from his imprisonment if he
had been duly indicted, convicted, and sentenced, and is in
prison by virtue of a lawful conviction under a valid indictment and a legal sentence passed in pursuance of a constitutional law of the jurisdiction where the offence was committed. No objection is made in this case to the validity of
the indictment, nor is it questioned that the defendant was
duly convicted of the offence set forth in the several counts
of the indictment. Beyond all question, therefore, it follows that he was liable to be "imprisoned not more than
one year, or to be fined not less than ten nor more than two
hundred dollars."
1 Stat. at Large, 82.

184

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

None of these propositions can be successfully controve'ted, as it is impliedly conceded that the act of Congress
is a valid law, and it is not even suggested that the indictment is defective or that there was any error in the trial or
in the verdict of the jury. Concede these several propositions, and it follows beyond peradventure that the defendant
might have been sentenced to imprisonment for the term of
one year or he might have been sentenced to pay a fine of
two hundred dollars, but the court sentenced him to both,
that is, that he should be imprisoned for the term of one
year, and that he should pay a fine of two hundred dollars,
which is a sentence not authorized by the act of Congress
which defines the offence and under which the indictment
was found.
It is insisted by the petitioner that the sentence pronounced
in such a case is an entirety, and that if it exceeds the punishment provided by law it is wholly illegal, and in that
proposition I entirely concur. He cites cases* which fully
support the proposition. Most of these cases were decided
in appellate tribunals and in jurisdictions where there was no
legislative act conferring any authority to impose the proper
sentence or to remand the prisoner to the court of original j urisdiction for that purpose, and of course the only judgment
which the appellate court could render was that of reversal,
which operated to discharge the prisoner. Legislative defects of the kind, in many jurisdictions, have been corrected,
and wherever that has been done the proper sentence is
either imposed by the appellate court or the case is remanded
to the court of original jurisdiction for that purpose.t
Congress has never empowered this court to exercise any
* Rex v. Ellis, 5 Barnewall & Creswell, 395; King v. Bourne, 7 Adolphus
& Ellis, 68; Queen v. Silversides, 3 Q. B. 406; King v. The Queen,
7 Id.

795; Holt v. Regina, 2 Dowling & Lowndes, 774; Ex parte
Page, 49 Mis.
gouri, 291; Holland v. Queen, 2 Jebb & Symes, 357; O'Leary
v. People, 4
Parker's Criminal Reports, 187; Shepherd v. Commonwealth,
2 Metcalf,
419; Stevens v. Same Defendant, 4 Id. 360; Fitzgerald v. State,
4 Wisconsin, 395; Fellinger v. People, 15 Abbott's Practice Reports,
128; Ratzky s.
People, 29 New York, 124.
t Ratzky v. People, 29 New York, 124.

,Oct. 1873.1

Ex

PARTE :LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

:appellate power over the judgments of the Circuit Courts in
,criminal cases, except where the Circuit Court is held by
two judges and they differ in opinion and certify the question in difference here for the decision of this court. Except in that limited class of cases this court cannot re-examine
any ruling or decision of the Circuit Court in any criminal
ease, nor will a writ of error lie from this court to the Cir,cuit Court in such case. Exceptions, under the statute of
Westminster, were never allowed in criminal cases in the
parent country, and from the moment that statute was
adopted as the rule of decision in the Federal courts to the
.present time, its application, without any exception, has
uniformly been confined to civil actions.*
Authority to re-examine the rulings and decisions of the
,Circuit Courts in criminal cases might undoubtedly be vested
in the Supreme Court, but the insuperable difficulties in the
way of exercising any such power at the present time is that
,Congress has not conferred any such jurisdiction. Congress,
it is true, has not declared in express terms that the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court shall not extend to
criminal cases, nor to civil actions or suits in equity where
the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed
the sum or value of two thousand dollars, but Congress has
-described affirmatively the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, and that affirmative description has always
been held "to imply a negative on the exercise of such appellate power as is not comprehended within it." t
Governed by those principles this court has decided in repeated instances that a writ of error will not lie, under any
circumstances, to a Circuit Court in a criminal case.t
1 Chitty Criminal Law, 622; 1 Levinz, 68; 1 Siderfin, 65; Rex v.
'Stratton, 21 Howell's Stat Trials, 1187; United States v. Gibert et al., 2
Sumner, 22; People v. Holbrook, 13 Johnson, 90; Ex parte Barker, 7 Cowen,
143; People v. Vermilyea, Ib. 108; 2 Phillips on Evidence, 997.
t United States v. More, 3 Crancb, 170; Durousseau v. United States, 6
Id. 314.
1 Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 42 i Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 201;
Forsyth v. United States, 9 Howard, 571; In re Kaine, 14 Id. 120; Ex parte
'iatkins 7 Peters, 568; Ex parte Gordon, 1 Black, 505.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct-

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Even if a writ of error would lie in such a case still the.
concession would not advance the argument in favor of the
petitioner, as no such writ has been sued out or served, nor
is the record here under any process which authorizes this,
court to reverse or affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court,.
as the writ of habeas corpus is not addressed in any sense to,
the judgment with any view to correct anything which it
contains, nor is the judgment removed here for any otherpurpose than as evidence to support the representation set
forth in the petition, that the petitioner is unlawfully imprisoned or restrained of his liberty. Hence it follows, that
inasmuch as the record shows that the indictment is in due'
form, and that the conviction is valid, and that the judgment
is legal in form and such as the act of Congress authorized
the Circuit Court to impose, the only proper order which,
this court could give in the case was to remand the prisoner,.
as nothing more than that can be done in the case without
exercising appellate power such as the court might exercise
if Congress had authorized the court to grant a writ of error
to re-examine the judgment as in a civil action.
Grant that a writ of error would lie, still it is manifest
that the alleged error could not be corrected without a bill
of exceptions, as the error is not apparent in the record.
On the contrary, the sentence under which the petitioner is
imprisoned is as perfect as one can be framed, as it follows;
the conviction, and no one pretends either that the conviction is invalid or that the indictment is in any respect erroneous. Unless, therefore, the writ of habeas corpus can properly pertbrm the office both of a bill of exceptions and a,
writ of error the decision of this court must be erroneous;
and if it be true that the writ of habeas corpus may perform
both of those offices, then it follows that this court has been,
in error throughout its whole history, as it has always been
competent for the court to re-examine the judgments of the.
Circuit Court in criminal cases, which, as it seems to me, it
is impossible to admit.
Legislation to provide for a bill of exceptions in criminal,
cases or to authorize a writ of error is certainly unnecessary;

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

if a petition for habeas corpus, well filled with the affidavits
of the jurors who tried the case and of the counsel who,
conducted the defence, will answer the purpose, as it will be
easy to strengthen such proofs, if need be, by the opinions
of chamber counsel and by the affidavits of sympathizing
bystanders and of the short-hand writers employed for the
occasion. Plenty of material of that kind can readily be
obtained, and if that will answer the purpose of a bill of
exceptions to correct the rulings of a Federal judge, madein the trial of a criminal case, it is quite evident that no,
further legislation upon the subject is necessary.
Opposed to this it may be suggested that the writ of habeas
corpus in this case is accompanied by the writ of certiorari,
which must be admitted, and it must also be admitted that
the office of the writ of certiorari is to bring up the record,
from the subordinate court for the inspection of this court,
in order that the court, by virtue of the writ of habeas corpus,
may inquire into the cause of commitment; but if it appear
that the cause of commitment is the judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction in a case, not revisable by this court,
the settled law is that the judgment is of itself a sufficient
cause for the commitment, as neither the writ of habeas
corpus nor the writ of certiorari will perfbrm the office of a
bill of exceptions. Hence the appellate court, unless specially authorized by legislative authority to do more, cannot
look beyond the judgment, nor can it re-examine the proceedings which led to it, for the reason, as Marshall, C.J.,
says, that a judgment in its nature concludes the subject on
which it is rendered and pronounces the law of the case,
and be adds that the judgment of a court of record whose
jurisdiction is final is as conclusive on all the world as the
judgment of this court would be. It puts an end to inquiry
concerning the fact by deciding it.*
It is to be understood, said Judge Story, that this court
has no appellate jurisdiction confided to it in criminal cases
by the laws of the United States. It cannot entertain a writ
Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 202; Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 48.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

of error to revise the judgment of the Circuit Court in any
tase where a party has been convicted of a public offence.
If then, says the same learned judge, this court cannot di.
rectly revise a judgment of the Circuit Court in a criminal
ease, what reason is there to suppose that Congress intended
to invest it with the authority to do it indirectly ?*
Apply those rules to the case before the court and it is
clear that the petitioner should be remanded, as it appears
by the return that he is in prison by virtue of a sentence of
the Circuit Court in regular form, which was pronounced by
the court in pursuance of a legal conviction founded upon a
valid indictment.
By virtue of the conviction the defendant became liable
to be punished by imprisonment for a term of not more than
one year or to be fined not less than ten nor more than two
hundred dollars, and the court sentenced him to imprisonment for the term of one year.
Much stress, however, is placed upon the alleged fact that
the first sentence imposed was of a different character, that
it included imprisonment for the term of one year and a fine
of two hundred dollars, but it is a sufficient answer to that
suggestion to say that neither the ruling of the court in imposing that sentence nor the subsequent ruling of the court
in vacating it and setting it aside is in any proper sense any
part of the record. Statements to that effect are found in
the minutes, but those are no part of the record nor can they
be made so in any other mode than by a bill of exceptions,
which is a proceeding wholly unknown except in civil actions. Nothing is properly included in the record of a criminal case except the indictment, the arraignment and the
plea of the defendant, the impanelling of the jury, the conviction of the defendant and the sentence pronounced by the
court, and the warrant for his removal in case the punishment is imprisonment. Affidavits cannot add anything to
the record, and it is as clear as anything can be that neither
* Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 42; Johnson v. United States, 3 Mo,

Lean, 89.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

the writ of habeas corpus nor the writ of certiorari can
bring into review anything, not apparent on the face of the
record.
Certain defects in the proceedings are alleged in this case,
none of which are apparent on the face of the record. Reference will only be made to two of the alleged defects, as
they are the only ones much pressed in argument. They
are as follows: (1.) That a different sentence was first pronounced by the court, to wit, that the defendant should be
imprisoned for the term of one year and that he should pay
a fine of two hundred dollars. (2.) That he was remanded
to prison in pursuance of that sentence.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the first
sentence was wholly illegal, as the court, under the act of
Congress defining the offence, could not lawfully pronounce
such a sentence, and that the court, as soon as the error was
discovered, directed that the defendant should be brought
into court and vacated the sentence and set it aside, which,
as all must agree, had the effect to render it a complete nullity, even if it ever had any force or effect, which is not admitted. Strong doubts are entertained whether any of these
matters are the proper subjects of consideration, but it must
be admitted, I think, that the affidavits, if they are admissible at all, are the proper subjects of reference to show what
really did take place.
Certainly a sentence, vacated and set aside by the court
which pronounced it, within the same term, for reason that
it was plainly erroneous, to the prejudice of the prisoner,
must, from the moment it was vacated and set aside, be regarded as a nullity. Such being the necessary legal conclusion, the state of the case before the court was just the same
as it would have been if no sentence had ever been passed,
as the record showed that the defendant was legally convicted of an offence against the authority of the United
States, upon a valid indictment, and that the sentence which
the law imposed upon such an offender had never been pronounced in the case. No motion fbr new trial was pending,
and as all the other proceedings in the case were ended, it

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup.. C ,.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

was the plain duty of the court to pronounce the sentence
which the law imposed in the case.
Two principal objections are taken to the right of the
,court under those circumstances to impose the sentence,
though it is admitted that the sentence pronounced is one
which the act of Congress under which the indictment is
framed authorized the court to impose in the case. Those
objections are as follows: (1.) That the defendant, after
having been remanded under the first sentence, remained
in prison five days before the court passed the order vacating
the sentence and setting it aside. (2.) That the defendant,
on the fourth of November, the day after the first sentence
was passed, paid the amount of the fine imposed to the clerk
of the Circuit Court, and that the clerk, on the seventh of
the same month, the day before the existing sentence was
imposed, deposited the amount of the fine to the credit of
the Treasurer of the United States.
All must agree that neither of the defects suggested, if
such they be, is apparent in the record, as the former sentence was before that vacated and set aside, and the evidence
of the payment of the fine consists of the unsworn certificate
of the clerk. Great difficulty exists in regarding a sentence
in a criminal case, which has been vacated and set aside, as
a part of the record, and it seems past belief that any one
should for a moment contend that the certificate of the clerk
that he had received the amount of fine from a prisoner in
execution should be regarded as any part of the record in
the present case.
Aside from those difficulties, however, there are several
other questions involved which are of very great importance
in the administration of criminal justice, which will be separately considered.
Confessedly all of the facts are without dispute, as it is
conceded that the conviction of the defendant, the first senlence, the granting of the first writ of habeas corpus, the
order vacating the first sentence and setting it aside, and
the sentence as it now appears in the record, all took place
during the same term of the Circuit Court; and it also ap-

00ct. 1873.1

Ex PARTE LANGE.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

pears that the sentence under which the defendant is detained in prison was pronounced by the same judge who
presided at the trial of the prisoner and who imposed the
sentence which was vacated and set aside.
Four principal propositions are maintained by the United
'tates: (1.) That a sentence passed upon a prisoner duly
,convicted of an offence defined by an act of Congress, if
,erroneous, may be vacated and set aside like any other judgment during the term in which it was pronounced, by the
,court which awarded it, and that the prisoner may be sentenced in the same term, as provided by law, for the offence
of which he stands convicted. (2.) That an erroneous sentence, when vacated and set aside during the same term by
the judge who pronounced it, becomes void and of no effect,
and that the prisoner, if duly convicted under a valid indictment, may be sentenced to such punishment as the law provides for the offence of which he is convicted just as if the
erroneous sentence had never been pronounced. (3.). That
the power of the court to sentence a prisoner legally convicted is not superseded or withdrawn by the fact that the
first sentence pronounced in such a case was erroneous, if
the erroneous sentence, within the same term, is promptly
vacated and set aside as soon as the error is discovered.
(4.) Nor can it be held that the power of the court in that
behalf is affected by the fact that the prisoner in the meantime, as in this case, paid the fine which was imposed by
the court as a part of the sentence, provided the error is dis,covered within the same term and it appears that the judge
who imposed the erroneous sentence immediately vacated
the sentence and set it aside.
1. Exactly the same question in principle was presented
in the case of King v. Price,* to the King's Bench, where it
was decided very early in the present century. Suffice it to
say that the charge was perjury, and that the court, after
overruling a motion for a new trial, sentenced the prisoner
4o be imprisoned in Newgate for one calendar month, and
* 6 East, 327.

Ex

PARTS LANGE.

[Sup.

Cti,.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

that he then be transported beyond the seas for seven years.
Subsequent researches, however, satisfied the court that the,
sentence was erroneous because not warranted by law, and
the case shows that the court, a few days before the close of
the term, vacated it and set it aside, and on the last day of
the term the prisoner was again brought into court and set'.
at the bar, as Lord Ellenborough stated, for the purpose of
passing upon him a different judgment, which, as he observed, might be done at any time within the same term;
and it also appears that Mr. Justice Grose, after havingstated to the prisoner that the former sentence had been
vacated, pronounced the sentence of the court in the case,.
that the prisoner should forfeit £20 and be imprisoned in
Newgate for the term of six months without bail, that his,
oath from thenceforth should not be received in any court
of record within the realm, and that after the expiration of
his imprisonment he should be transported beyond the seas
for thb term of six years. Seventy years have elapsed since
that decision was made, and yet it has never been called in
question by the court where it was made. Based on that
decision this court said, in the case of Basset v. United States,*'
that the control of the court over its own judgments during
the term is of every day's practice, which is a proposition:
supported by the highest authority.t
Courts of common law possessed the power to vacate their
judgments during the term in which they were rendered,.
and the rule is still the same in all courts exercising jurisdiction in common-law cases, whether civil or criminal; and
the remark is equally correct whether applied to a State orFederal court. Power of a court over its judgments during
the entire term in which they are rendered is unlimited.t
Every term continues until the call of the next succeeding
term, unless previously adjourned sine die; and until that
time the judgment may be modified or stricken out.§ Dur* 9 Wallace, 41.

t Doss v. Tyack, 14 Howard, 312.
I Freeman on Judgments, 90.
Noonan v. Bradley, 12 Wallace, 129; King v. Justices, 1 Maule & Sel.
wyn, 442.

Oct. 1878.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

ing the same session or assize or any adjournment thereof,
says Mr. Archbold, the court may vacate the judgment
passed upon the defendant, before it has become matter of
record, and pass another less or even more severe.*
Unqualified support to the proposition that an erroneous
sentence may be corrected or altered at any time during the
term is also found in the case of Rex v. Fletcher, decided in
1803 by the twelve judges.t
Amendments may be made while the proceedings are in
paper, that is, until judgment is issued, for until the end of'
the term the proceedings, except, perhaps, in capital cases,
are considered only in fieri, and consequently they are sub.
ject to the control of the court.T Equally decisive also is
the language of Mr. Starkie in his valuable work on crimi.
nal pleading, in which he lays down the rule that, during
the term, assizes, or session in which judgment is given it
remains in the breast of the court, and he states that the
fine imposed or any other discretionary punishment may be
varied, but he adds that after the term it becomes matter of
record and admits of no alteration.§
It is clear, says Mr. Chitty, in the case of misdemeanors,
that the court may vacate the judgment passed before it
becomes matter of record, and may mitigate or pass another,
even when the latter is more severe.1j
If, by inadvertence in passing a sentence, says Colby, a
requirement of the statute has been overlooked, the court
may correct the judgment at the same term before the sheriff
has proceeded to execute it, and he adds that such correc* Archbold's Pleading and Evidence, by Welsby, 15th ed. 177; Comyn's
Digest, Title Indictment, N.
t Russell & Ryan Crown Cases, 60.
1 3 Blackstone's Commentary, 407; George v. Wisdom, 2 Burrow, 756;
King v. Knolles, 1 Salkeld, 47; Turner v. Barnaby, 2 Id. 566; Greenwood
v. Piggott, 3 Id. 31; Co. Litt. 260, a; 1 Chitty's Archbold Practice, 11th
ed 541.
Citing 1 Institutes, 260; Cro. Car. 251; 2 Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown,
48, 125; 1 Starkie's Criminal Pleading, 262; Blackamore's Case, 8 Reporte
460.
1 Chitty's Criminal Law, 722.
13
VOL. XVIII.

Ex

PARTE

LANGE.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

tion may be made by expunging or vacating the first sen
tence and passing a new one.*
Coke states the rule at common law to be that the record
of any judicial act done remaineth during the term in the
breast of the judges of the court and in their remembrance,
hence, as lie says, the roll is alterable during that term as
the judges shall direct, but when that term is past then the
record, as he states the rule, is in the roll and admitteth of
no alteration, averment, or proof to the contrary.
Judgments in criminal cases, it is admitted by Gabbett,t
May be vacated before they become matter of record, but
he insists that no court can make any alteration in the same
when once the judgment is solemnly entered on the record,
except that it may be reversed by writ of error if any material defect appear on the face of it.
What is meant by the final record is nowhere better explained than by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in the
case of Commonweallh v. Weymouth,j in which the opinion
was given by the chief justice. Minutes of the proceedings
in a criminal trial are made on the docket by the clerk as
they take place, but the record, except in capital cases, is
not made until the end of the term or session of the court,
when the whole proceedings are spread upon the record in
a book or books kept for that purpose, which is, in the
Federal courts, the proper substitute for what is called the
roll in the practice of the parent country. Such a record is
never made up in ordinary criminal trials during the term,
but the legal evidence of the proceedings rests in the minutes of the clerk, which, if need be, may be verified by his
oath. Hence it is that even the strictest authorities admit
that erroneous sentences may be corrected during the term
in which it was imposed, as that could always be done in
the parent country, although a writ of error would lie to
correct the error if it was apparent on the face of the record.
* Criminal Law, vol. 1, p. 391; Miller v. Finkle, I Parker's Criminal
Reports, 376.
t 2 Criminal La v, 564; Rex v. Walcott, 4 Modern, 396.
$ 2 Allen, 144.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Accordingly it was held there that if the error was not cor
rected during the term it could only be corrected by the
appellate court, and inasmuch as the appellate court could
only reverse or affirm the judgment of the court of original
jurisdiction, it followed, in case the judgment was reversed,
that the prisoner was discharged.
State legislatures also, in some instances, have created
appellate courts in criminal cases without investing such
courts with the power either to impose the sentence which
the subordinate court should have imposed or to remand the
prisoner to the subordinate court for that purpose, and cases
are referred to which show that the prisoner in such jurisdictions was necessarily discharged, but all such difficulties
in most jurisdictions where they existed for a time have been
obviated by more discreet legislation.*
Unsupplied as the jurisprudence of the United States is
with any appellate tribunal for the correction of errors in
criminal cases, it seems necessary to preserve all the corrective power legally vested in the courts of original jurisdiction to that end. Errors and mistakes will occur, but it is
settled law that a writ of error will not lie from this court
to a Circuit Court, and it is equally well settled that a writ
of error will not lie in the circuit for any such purpose.t
Resort to that remedy has certainly been had in a few instances in the Circuit Court in civil cases, but all the authorities agree that if the error be in the judgment itself and not
in the process, a writ of error does not lie in the same court.1
Errors of fact in the process sued out in a civil action, or
such as happened through the fault of the clerk in the record
of the proceedings prior to the judgment, might be corrected at common law by a writ of error returnable in the
court where the action was commenced and where the judgRatzky v. People, 29 New York, 124; McKee v. People, 32 Id. 289;
Campbell v. Regina, 11 Queen's Bench, 810; Jacquins v. Commonwealth, 9
Cushing, 279.
t. Pickett's Heirs. v. Legerwood, 7 Peters, 147.
$ Kemp v. Cook, 18 Maryland, 187; Hawkins v. Bowie, 9 Gill & John.
son, 437.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

ment was rendered. When granted to re-examine a judgment rendered in the King's Bench it was called a writ of
error coram nobis, because it was founded upon a record and
process described in the writ as remaining "before us," in
accordance with the theory that the sovereign of the king.
dom presided in the court.* Such a writ might also be sued
out in the common pleas for a like purpose, but the writ,
when sued out and returnable in the latter court, was denominated a writ of error coram vobis, because the writ was
directed to "you and your associates," meaning the chief
justice and the other justices of that court.t Proceedings
under such a writ of error, in respect to a civil action, never
extended to the judgment, as the rule was universal that a
writ of error for that purpose must issue from another and
a superior tribunal.t Such a writ, when returnable in the
King's Bench, might extend to a criminal case as well as to
a civil case, and might, within the scope of its operations,
embrace questions of law as well as questions of fact, but
it never extended to the correction of any error in the judgment, because the writ of error for that purpose must be
issued from the proper appellate tribunal.§
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that such
an error in the judgment in a criminal case cannot be corrected at all unless the correction can be made in the mode
adopted by the Circuit Court in this case, as it is clear
that a writ of error will not lie from this court to a Circuit
Court in a criminal case for any purpose, nor will a writ of
error coram vobis lie in a Circuit Court to correct any error
of law or fact in a Circuit Court.I
2. Such an error, it is said, cannot be corrected in that
2 Tidd's Practice, 1136; 2 Williams's Saunders, 101, note 1; Dewitt V.
Post, 11 Johnson, 460; 3 Blackstone's Commentaries, by Cooley, 407, note 4.
t 1 Archbold's Practice, 6th ed. 504.
: Pickett v. ILegerwood, 7 Peters, 148; 1 Rolle's Abridgment, 746; 2 Sel.
Ion's Practice, 484; 8 Blackstone's Commentaries, 407, note 6.
: The Queen v. O'Connell, 7 Law Rep. (Irish), 856, 357; 9 Viner's Abridgment, 491.
I United States v. Plumer, 3 Clifford, 59.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

mode in this case because the prisoner had been in confinement five days under the sentence before the order was made
vacating the sentence and setting it aside, and the proposition is advanced in argument that no such correction can be
made in any case after the prisoner is removed from the
court in pursuance of the sentence, which is equivalent to
the proposition that it cannot be made at all in that mode, as
it will seldom or never happen that such a mistake will be
discovered at the time it is made.
Cases may be imagined where the denial of such a remedy
would shock the public sense; as if the Circuit Court, in a
case where the prisoner was duly convicted of murder upon
the high seas under the Crimes Act of the third of March,
1825, should, through inadvertence, sentence the prisoner
not only that "he shall suffer death," but that the body of
the offender "shall be delivered to a surgeon for dissection,"
as the sentence may be in a case where the indictment and
conviction are under the original Crimes Act.*
Execution seldom or never immediately follows the sentence, but the sentence is that the prisoner be remanded to
the place whence he came, and that he be there imprisoned
until the day fixed for his execution, which shows that the
term of imprisonment from the date of the sentence to the
time of execution is an essential part of the sentence. Suppose in the case suggested the error is not discovered before
the expiration of ten days, will any one contend that it cannot be corrected? If not, then it must be executed as it
stands, or the prisoner must be set free, perhaps to repeat
his offence.
3. Assume that the rule adopted by the majority of the
court in this case is correct, and it follows beyond peradventure that the court could not vacate the sentence and pass
the sentence authorized by law, and if not, then it is clear
that it could not be corrected in any other mode, as it is
settled law that a writ of error will not lie fbr the purpose
either from this court or in the court where the error was
* 1 Stat. at Large, 113; 4 Id. 115.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

committed. Public justice must, therefore, be defeated, as
all will agree, if the error cannot be corrected that the prisoner would be entitled to a discharge on habeas corpus, as
every sentence in a criminal case is an entirety, so that if
any part of it is unauthorized by law the whole sentence is
illegal. Any rule which will peremptorily discharge a prisoner, legally convicted of an offence, whether it be a felony
or misdemeanor, merely because the court committed an
error in pronouncing the sentence, cannot be a sound one,
nor is it believed that it will be satisfactory to any who have
much acquaintance with the administration of criminal justice in the Federal courts.
Many cases are cited by the petitioner, but an examination of them will show that not one of the number supports
any such proposition as that which it is necessary to adopt
to sustain the ruling of this court in ordering the discharge
of the prisoner, nor can any case be found where such a doctrine is directly laid down.
Where the sentence imposed is legal in all respects, it is
held in Maine that the judge, after the prisoner has been
remanded in execution of the sentence, cannot order him to
be brought up and set at the bar for the purpose of revising
the sentence and increasing the punishment. In that case
the prisoner had been duly sentenced to six months' imprisonment in the county jail, and he had served out nineteen
days of the time, when the court ordered that he should
again be brought up, and the court imposed a new sentence
of imprisonment for the term of three years in the State's
prison; but it is apparent that, the first sentence being regular and according to law, there was no error to correct,
which shows that the case is as widely different from the
one before the court as truth is from error.*
Doubts may well arise whether the decision in that case
is correct, but it is not necessary to call it in question in this
case, as the first judgment in this case, as conceded by the
petitioner, was wholly illegal, and in such a case the author* Brown v. Rice, 67 Maine, 66.

Oct. 1878.]

Ex

PARTE

LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

ities appear to be uniform that the sentence authorized by
law may be imposed at any time within the same term, and
in some of the cases it is held that it jnay even be done in a
subsequent term.* Promptitude in criminal trials is enjoined by the Constitution, but delays will occur in spite of
every effbrt to expedite the result. Time for proper deliberation is indispensable, nor is it reasonable to expect that
an error will be corrected before it is discovered. Beyond
all doubt an erroneous judgment may be vacated and set
aside if the error is discovered within the term, and when
such a judgment is set aside the case stands just as it would
have stood if the erroneous judgment had never been passed,
as the proceeding is still infieri until the regular sentence is
imposed.t Errors even in the administration of criminal
law will occur, and the ends of justice imperatively require
that when they do occur there shall be some appropriate
mode for their correction without discharging a prisoner
legally convicted, as it cannot be admitted that an error of
the court in passing the sentence of the law can have the
effect to expiate the offence of the prisoner or to condone
the criminal act of the offender.
4. All other objections failing, it is contended in the next
place that the fact that the clerk deposited the amount of
the fine imposed by the first sentence to the credit of the
Treasurer of the United States the day before the second
sentence was passed operated as an estoppel against the act
of the court in vacating the first sentence and imposing thp
existing sentence.
Dates are of much importance in this case, and by reference to the petition subsequently presented to the circuit
judge it appears that a habeas corpus in behalf of the prisoner was issued by the district judge on the same day the
clerk deposited the amount of the fine as aforesaid, and that
the writ of habeas corpus was made returnable on the folEasterling v. State, 85 Mississippi, 212; Jeffries v. State, 40 Alabama,
884.
t 3 Blackstone's Commentaries by Cooley, 407 Cook v. Wood, 24 Illi.
nois 296; Taylor v. Lusk, 9 Iowa, 445.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

lowing day, which is the day when the illegal sentence was
vacated and set aside and when the sentence authorized by
the act of Congress was imposed, and much reason exists to
suppose that the clerk was induced to make the deposit thus
early in order that the prisoner might have the benefit of
that proof in the hearing upon the petition for habeas corpus, which was previously set down for the following day.
If that deposit had not been made the amount of the fine
would have remained in the registry of the court, in which
case it might have been returned to the prisoner by the
order of the court. Such a payment made under such circumstances cannot expiate the offence of the prisoner or
condone the criminal act of which he was legally convicted
by the verdict of a jury duly summoned, impanelled, and
sworn.* Measures fbr the correction of the illegal sentence
had been instituted in behalf of the prisoner, and it cannot
be that the power of the court to perform the mandate of
the act of Congress can be thwarted by the mere circumstance that the clerk of the court, of his own motion or at
the suggestion of the prisoner or his counsel, deposited the
amount of the fine paid to him by the prisoner to the credit
of the Treasurer of the United'States. When the first sentence was vacated and set aside the money paid to the clerk
for the fine became ipso facto the money of the prisoner, and
wherever it may be now it is his money, nor can it make
any difference even if it be held that it cannot be paid back
without the consent of Congress, as it is money which ex
-equo et bono belongs to the prisoner. Money paid under a
mistake of fact may be recovered back, and it does not
change the legal status of the right because the holder happens to be the government, which cannot be sued.
Suggestions of various kinds are made to avoid, if possible, the force of the conceded fact that the conviction remairs undisturbed and that it rests upon the solid foundation of a valid indictment, one or two of which will be briefly
noticed.
Attention is called to the constitutional ,provision that no
Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, p. 825.

'Oct. 1873.1

Ex

PARTE, LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

iperson shall be subject for the same offence to be twice put
in jeopardy of life or limb, which, as Judge Story says, means
that a party shall not be tried a second time for the same
.offence after he has once been convicted or acquitted of the
'offence charged by the verdict of a jury, and judgment has
,passed thereon for or against him. But the existing sentence
is founded upon the same conviction as the first sentence,
which of itself shows that the provision referred to has no
zapplication to the case, nor does the provision mean that the
:accused shall not be tried a second time if the jury have
been discharged without giving any verdict, or, if having
:given a verdict, judgment has been arrested upon it or a
new trial has been granted in his favor, for in such a case,
,says the learned author, his life or limb cannot judicially be
,said to have been put in jeopardy.* What is meant by the
,phrase "twice put in jeopardy of life or limb" has been
judicially defined, and the definition cannot now be enlarged to help out a predetermined unsound judicial conclusion. It means that a party shall not be tried a second time
for the same offence after he has once been acquitted or
convicted, unless the judgment has been arrested or a new
trial has been granted, on motion of the party; but it does
not relate to a mistrial.t Even in a capital case the court
may discharge a jury without their giving a verdict, whenever in the opinion of the court there is a manifest necessity
for such an act, or the ends of justice will otherwise be de*feated; and for the same reason the court, during the same
term, may vacate an erroneous judgment and render the
judgment which the law requires.1
One trial and verdict, says Cooley, must as a general rule
protect the accused against any subsequent accusation of the
same offence, whether the verdict be for or against him, and
2 Story on Constitution, 1787; Vaux v. Brook, 4 Reports, 89, b; Fox V.
State, 5 Howard, 432; United States v.Marigold, 9 Id. 560; Moore v. State,
14 Id. 20.
t United States v. Haskell, 4 Washington, 410; United States v.Perez,
9 Wheaton, 579.
: 2 Graham & Waterman on New Trials, c. 2, pp. 51-18

Ex PARTE LANGE.

.[Sup.

Ct.,.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

whether or not the'court is satisfied with the finding, if it
be in his favor and he was put upon trial before a court of
competent jurisdiction and upon an indictment which ia
sufficient in form and substance to sustain the conviction*
But if the court had no :jurisdiction of the suit, or if the
indictment was so far defective that no valid judgment could
be rendered upon it, or if by any overruling necessity the
jury were discharged without a verdict, from the sickness
or death of the judge or of a juror, or from the inability of
the jury to agree upon a verdict, after reasonable time allowed for deliberation, or if the term of the court as fixed
by law comes to an end before the trial is finished, or the
jury are discharged with the consent of the defendant ex
pressed or implied, or if the verdict is set aside, on motion
of the defendant, or on a writ of error in a jurisdiction
where provision for a second trial is made by law-in any
of these cases the accused may be again tried for the same
offence, and the rule is well settled that the former trial will
afford him no protection or defence.*
Where the verdict and judgment are set aside on a writ
of error in an appellate tribunal, if the law of the jurisdiction makes no provision for a second trial the prisoner must
be discharged, but it is settled law that it is competent for the
legislature to provide that on reversing the judgment in such
a case the court, if the prior proceedings are regular, shall
remand the case for the proper sentence.t
Exceptions of the kind have their foundation in necessity,
as all experience shows that errors and casualties will sometimes intervene in the administration of criminal justice.
Autrefois acquit or autrefois convict, where the indictment is.
valid and the conviction is regular, in a court of competent
jurisdiction, is a bar to a second prosecution for the same.
offence, but even that rule is subject to all the exceptions
named and to many others of like character.
,
* Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 2d ed. 827.
t McKee v. People, 82 New York, 289.
: 4 Blackstone's Con-mentaries, by Cooley, 835, note 5; Rex v. Emden, 9
East, 487.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Beyond all doubt it is the duty of the court to render
the judgment required by law in the first instance, but the
experience of ages makes it evident that mistakes in that
behalf will sometimes occur, even in the courts of general jurisdiction, and hence the rule, which may be traced
to the very origin of the common law, that a court may
vacate and set aside an erroneous judgment, during the
same term, and render in its stead the judgment required
by law.
Trials upon bad indictments are governed by the same
rule, and in my judgment the provision can have no application whatever in a case like the present, where the conviction is undisturbed and the illegal sentence is vacated
and set aside as soon as the error is discovered. Judge
Story, it is said, decided that a new trial could not be
granted in the case of a good indictment after a trial by a
competent and regular jury, whether the accused was acquitted or convicted, and the argument is that if a new trial
cannot be granted in such a case that it is not competent for
the court to vacate an illegal sentence and impose another,
even though the latter be in substance and form what the
law requires.
Even should it be admitted that a new trial cannot be
granted in such a case, it by no means follows that the action of the Circuit Court in this case was unwarranted, as
it is sanctioned by a long course of decisions founded upon
acts of Parliament applicable to criminal as well as civil
cates.*
New trials, however, in misdemeanors have always been
granted in England in proper cases, as appears by numerous
adjudications of the highest authority.t
Whether a new trial can be granted in felony in the courts
of that country is more doubtful. Certainly it was decided
Bingham on Judgments, pp. 71-73.
t Arundel's Case, 6 Reports, 14; Rex v. Curril, Lofft, 156; Rex v. Simmons, 1 Wilson, 829; Rex v. Mawbey, 6 Term, 638; Rex v. Tremaine, 7
Dowling & Ryland, 687; Same Case, 5 Barnewall & Cresswell, 266; Camp
bell v. Regina, 11 Q. B. 810.

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

in the case of Regina v. Scaife el al.,* that a new trial may
be granted in such a case.t But in certain later cases it
is decided the other way.t Be that as it may, it is nevertheless settled law in this country that a new trial may be
granted in favor of the prisoner, whether the charge be felony
or only a misdemeanor.§ Much effort was expended by
Judge Story in the case of United States v. Gibert et al.,[l to
prove the negative of that proposition, but his views in that
regard have never been accepted by the bench or bar, as
appears by the decisions of the Circuit Courts and by the
,decisions of nearly all of the State courts, many of which
are collected in the following reported cases: People v. Morrison, United States v. Williams et al.,** in which it is stated
that since the decision in Gibert's case the point has been
,discussed in twenty of the States of the Union, in every one
of which it has been held that a new trial may be granted
,on the application of the accused in any criminal case for
good cause shown.tt
Fine or imprisonment may be imposed in a case like the
present, and the suggestion is that if the court by the second
,entence had imposed a fine the prisoner would have been
,compelled to pay the fine a second time, but it is so obvious
that the money in the registry of the court, or on deposit to
the credit of the treasurer, belonged to the prisoner the
moment the first sentence was vacated and set aside that it
seems to be a work of supererogation to employ any time
in discussing the point, and it is accordingly dismissed.
Authority to issue writs of habeas corpus is not claimed
to be among the enumerated cases of original jurisdiction
-conferred upon the Supreme Court, consequently if it exists
2 Denn Cr. C. 281.

t Same Case, 17 Q. B. 238.

: Reg. v. Bertrand, Law Reports, 1 Privy Council, App. 628; Same Case,
,10Cox Cr. C. 621 ; Reg. v. Murphy, Law Reports, 2 Privy Council, App. 546.
1 Leading Criminal Cases, 584; Commonwealth v. Green, 17 Massashu.
4etts, 515.
[I 2 Sumner, 37.
1 Parker's Criminal Cases, 626; 1 Leading Criminal (ases, 2d ed. 587.
** 1 Clifford, 17.
I-t Bishop's Criminal Law, 5th ed. 1004.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex

PARTE LANGE.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

at all, it must be found in the appellate power of the court,
which is given with such exceptions and under such regulations as Congress may make, from which it follows that the
appellate jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution can only
be exercised by this court in pursuance of an act of Congress conferring the authority and prescribing the mode in
which it shall be performed.*
Power to grant the writ of habeas corpus was never intended to confer authority upon this court to review the
judgment of a Circuit Court in a criminal case, and hence
it follows that this court cannot look beyond the sentence
where the tribunal which pronounced it had jurisdiction of
the case.t
Enough has already been said to show that the judgment
under which the prisoner is held is perfect in form, and inasmuch as he was put to trial upon a valid indictment and
was duly convicted of the offence charged in the indictment,
I am of the opinion that he is not entitled to be discharged
under the writ of habeas corpus.
Mr. Justice STRONG also dissented.
* Wiscartv. Dauchy, 8 Dallas, 327; United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 172;
Durousseau v. United States, 6 Id. 308.
t Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheaton, 38; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 193;
Johnson v. United States, 3 McLean, 89; Ex parte Van Aernam, 3 Blatchford, 160; Barry v. Mercein, 5 Howard, 103; Ex parte Gifford, 6 American
Law Register, New Series, 669; 1 Curtis's Commentaries, 240, p. 259; Ex
parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 448.

