DAVENPORT

v. Dows.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

acceptance and reliance by Strong on another and very different security for the payment for his work, inconsistent
with the idea of a mechanic's lien, and that no such lien
ever attached in the case.
DECREE REVERSED, with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE dissenting.

DAVENPORT

v. Dows.

Although a stockholder in a corporation may bring a suit when the corporation refuses, yet, as in such case the suit can be maintained only on the
ground that the rights of the corporation are involved, the corporation
should be made a party to the suit, and a demurrer will lie if it is not
so made.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
Dows, a citizen of New York, in behalf of himself and all
other non-resident citizens of Iowa, who were stockholders
in the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Company,
filed a bill in the court below against the city of Davenport,
and its marshal, to arrest the collection of a tax, alleged to
be illegal, levied by the said city for general revenue purposes, on the property of the company within its limits.
The bill assigned as a reason for its being filed by Dows, a
stockholder in the company, instead of by the company itself,
that the company neglected and refused to take action on the
subject. A demurrer was interposed to the bill, which was
overruled, and on the defendants refusing to answer over,
the Circ-iit Court ordered that the collection of the tax be
perpetually enjoined. From this, its action, the defendants
appealed, insisting that the Circuit Court erred in overruling
the demurrer, for three reasons:
First. Because the railroad company was not made a party
to the bill.
APPEAL

Oct. 1873.]

DAVENPORT

v. Dows.

Opinion of the court.

Second. Because the complainant had a complete remedy
at law; and,
Third. Because the tax in question was a proper charge
against the property of the corporation.
Mr. J. N. Rogers, for the appellants; Mr. T. F. Witherow,
vnira.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to notice the last two reasons assigned,
why the demurrer should not have been overruled, as the
first is well taken. Indeed, it would be improper to pass on
the merits of the controversy until the proper parties to be
affected by the decision are before the court.
That a stockholder may bring a suit when a corporation
refuses is settled in Dodge v. Woolsey,* but such a suit can
only be maintained on the ground that the righlts of the corporation are involved. These rights the individual shareholder is allowed to assert in behalf of himself and associates,
because the directors of the corporation decline to take the
proper steps to assert them. Manifestly the proceedings for
this purpose should be so conducted that any decree which
shall be made on the merits shall conclude the corporation.
This can only be done by making the corporation a party
defendant. The relief asked is on behalf of the corporation,
not the individual shareholder, and if it be granted the complainant derives only an incidental benefit from it. It would
be wrong, in case the shareholder were unsuccessful, to
allow the corporation to renew the litigation in another suit,
involving precisely the same subject-matter. To avoid such
a result, a court of equity will not take cognizance of a bill
brought to settle a question in which the corporation is the
essential party in interest, unless it is made a party to the
!itigation.t
* 18 Howard, 340.

t Robinson v. Smith, 3 Paige, 222, 233; Cunningham v. Poll, 5 Id. 607;
Hersey v. Veazie, 24 Maine, 1; Charleston Insurance and Trust Co. v. Sebring, 5 Ricnardson, Equity, 342; Western Railroad Co. v. Nolan, 48 New
York, 573; Bagshaw v. Eastern Union Railroad Co., 7 Hare, 114-131.

628

ST.

CLAIR COUNTY

V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

In this case the tax sought to be avoided was assessed
against the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Company, and the decree rendered discharges the company from
the payment of this tax. The corporation, therefore, should
have been made a party to the suit, and as it was not, the
demurrer should have been sustained.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings,
IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

ST. CLAIR COUNTY V. LOVINGSTON.
No judgment is final which does not terminate the litigation between the
parties. A judgment reversing the judgment of an inferior court, and
remanding the cause for such other and further proceedings as to law
and justice shall appertain, does not do this. A writ of error to such a
judgment dismissed, on the authority of Moore v. Robbins, supra, p. 668.

to the Supreme Court of Illinois.
The county of St. Clair, in Illinois, sued Lovingston in the
Circuit Court of the county, and got judgment against him.
The Supreme Court of Illinois reversed this judgment, and
remanded the cause "for such other and further proceedings
as to law and justice shall appertain." To that judgment
the county took this writ of error.
ERROR

Mr. G. Koerner, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. W. H. Underwood, contra
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case must be dismissed on the
authority of Moore v. Robbins, decided at this term. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State cannot be regarded as a final judgment in the sense in which the term
was used in the Judiciary Acts. No judgment is final which
does not terminate the litigation between the parties to the

