272

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct-

Statement of the case.

We see no ground for interfering with the judgment of'
the Circuit Court, and it is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

ATKINS

v. THE

DISINTEGRATING

COMPANY.

1. An entry on the record of an admiralty case, that on the return of a process of attachment Mr. B. "appears for the respondent, and has a week
to perfect an appearance and to answer," is an appearance, the entry
being followed by the execution by the respondent or his agents of different bonds, reciting "that an appearance in the case had been entered. "'
2. A District Court of the United States, when acting as a court of admiralty, can obtain jurisdiction to proceed in personam against an inhabi-

tant of the United States not residing within the district (within which
terms a corporation incorporated by a State not within the district is
meant to be included), by attachment of the goods or property of such,
inhabitant found within the district.

from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of New York.
Atkins filed a libel in the District Court for the Eastern,
District of New York, in a cause civil and maritime, against
the Fibre Disintegrating Company; styling it "a corporation duly incorporated," but not saying by what State incorporated, nor anything else about it; the company having in
faet been incorporated by the State of New Jersey, a State
not within the limits of any judicial district of New York,
but on the contrary forming in itself the judicial " district
of New Jersey."
The libel was on a charter-party of the ship Hamilton,.
executed in New York, and was to recover:
1. Freight due the ship for bringing a cargo from Kingston and Port Morant in the island of Jamaica.
2. For demurrage for the ship while getting a cargo.
3. For damage to the ship by getting on a reef at Port
Morant.
APPEAL

Hitchcock, 6 Hill, 16; Brewer v. Boston and Worcester Railroad Company,
6 Metcalf, 479; Biddle Boggs v. Merced Mining Company, 14 California,.
868 ; Davis v. Davis, 26 Id. 23.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS v. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

278

Statement of the case.

It alleged that the company had chartered the ship to proceed to Kingston, a deep-water and safe port for a full cargo,
freight to be paid at a price named; that twenty running
lay days were allowed for loading, and, for any delay beyond
that, $100 per day demurrage; that if a full cargo should
not be provided at Kingston, then the company had the
privilege of sending the vessel to a second safe port; that the
company, in violation of the charter, had sent the ship to
Port Morant, an unsafe port, whereby the vessel was delayed, and, by the unsafeness of the port, got aground and
was damaged.
It prayed for process and a citation to appear, and f the
defendants should not be found, that an attachment might issue
against their property in the district.
Process according to the prayer issued accordingly, June
14th, 1866, returnable June 20th, 1866.
The process was returned as follows:
Respondents not found in my district, and I attached all the
property of the respondents found in their factory in Red Hook
Point, in the city of Brooklyn.
A. F.
June 20th, 1866.

CAMPBELL,

United States Marshal.

The record, under date of this same 20th of June, noted
a return of the service, with an entry thus (Mr. Beebe being
a proctor of the court):
"'Mr.Beebe appearsfor the respondent, and has a week to pefect
appearance,and to answer."
And on the same day with Mr. Beebe's action, the said
20th, a motion was made on the part of the defendants, with
stay of proceedings, to show cause why the property attached
should not be discharged; the ground of this motion being
that the business of the company was carried on at Brooklyn, in the Eastern District of New York, and that its officers were all at its factory there during business hours, and
that service of process could have been made on them, but
that such service had purposely not been made in order to
attach property. The hearing of the motion being deferred,,
VOL. XVIII.

18

274

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the defendants, by consent, were allowed to give stipulations for value and to take the property attached, without
prejudice to the motion already made, and with an agreement that if the motion to discharge the property should be
granted, the stipulations should be cancelled.
The stipulation for costs, acknowledged July 6th, 1866,
contained a recital that "an appearance had been filed in
the cause by the said Disintegrating Company." The stipulation for value, which was signed by the president of the
company and two of the directors, and which was acknowledged July 7th, 1866, contained a recital that an appearance
had been duly filed by said Fibre Disintegrating Company, and
provided for notice of the final decree to Beebe, Dean, and
Donohue, proctorsfor the claimants of the property attached, and
the defendant; and the papers were signed and indorsed
"Beebe, Dean, and Donohue, proctors."
The motion to discharge the property attached was never
decided. But a motion was made in March, 1867, to set
aside and vacate the clause of attachment contained in the
motion and all proceedings under it; this motion being based
upon this clause in the eleventh section of the Judiciary
Act:
"And no CIVIL SUIT shall be brought before either of said
courts against an inhabitant of the United States, by any origi.
nal process, in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving
the writ."
The ground of the application was that the respondents
at the time of the issuing and serving the process were nonresidents of the Eastern District of New York, and had not
been found therein at the time of serving the writ.
The motion was'opposed by the libellants, who argued
that a cause in the admiralty was not a "civil suit" within
the meaning of the clause relied on, and, therefore, that the
clause did not apply; while for the rest, that the proceeding
by attachment against an absconding, absent, or non-resident debtor, was one, they argued, inherent in courts of

Oct.

1873.]

A WINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

275

Statement of the case.

admiralty and practiced from the earliest times. In support of this view reliance was had on Clerke's Praxis, an
old but authoritative book of the time of Elizabeth, and on

Browne's Civil Law and Law of Admiralty. Clerke's Praxis,
translated, read thus:
" SECTION 24. If the defendant so conceals himself, or perhaps
he is absent from the kingdom, that he cannot be arrested, then
f he shall have any goods, wares, or ship, or any part of a ship,
zr boat upon the sea or within the flow and reflow of the sea,
then a warrant is to be taken out to this effect, to arrest such
goods or such a ship, &c., belonging to N., that is, to the defendant debtor, in whosesoever hands they may be, and to cite,
with such goods, N., the debtor, specially, and all others generally who have or pretend to have any right or interest in the
said goods, to appear on such a day to answer the plaintiff in a
certain civil and maritime cause."
Browne's language* was thus:
"Let us, lastly, suppose that a person against whom a warrant
has issued cannot be found, or that he lives in a foreign country:
here the ancient proceedings of the admiralty court provided an
easy and salutary remedy. . ..

They were analogous to the pro-

ceedings by foreign attachment under the charters of the cities
of London and Dublin. The goods of the party were attached
to compel his appearance."
Opposed to this it was said that the present cause waa
palpably a "civil suit;" that the clause of the eleventh section relied on, therefore, did apply. 1But that if this were
otherwise, and if there were no statutory prohibition, that
the attachment ought to be set aside; for that while the ancient usage of the admiralty allowed the process of attachment if the defendant concealed himself, or bad absconded,
or were an alien non-resident-to which cases the language
of Clerke and Browne, as of other writers, applied-neither
such ancient practice nor any proper practice allowed it, nor
would the language of either of the authors cited justify
it in application to a case where the defendant was not alien
Volume 2, page 434; and see pages 338 and 438.

276

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

to the United States (in whose courts the case was), had not
concealed himself, and had not absconded, but contrariwise
was a person (an artificial person), incorporated by one of
the United States, owing and paying allegiance to the government, and neither absent, nor concealed, nor absconding; but contrariwise again, at its own home in an adjoining judicial district of the United States, the district of New
Jersey, in the third Federal circuit, where by crossing the
Hudson it could be sued just as well as, and much more
properly and effectively than, where it had been sued, to wit,
in the Eastern District of New York, in the second.
The District Court denied the motion to vacate and set
aside the attachment.*
The defendants then put in their answer averring performance of the charter-party and the acceptance of the
cargo; that the second port had been voluntarily accepted
as a safe port by the master; and also setting up that they
were a foreign corporation, incorporated under the laws of
New Jersey, and not residents of the Eastern District of
.New York, and that the libel did not allege that they resided
or were in the district.
The District Court, after full argument, considering that
the company, so far as the proceeding against it individually
was concerned, had by the appearance and action of its
proctor, come into court, and considering further that the
merits were with the libellants, decreed against it individually for $13,302, an amount found due by a master; and
considering also that the proceeding was not " a civil suit"
within the meaning of the clause in the eleventh section,
and that, independently of the prohibition there contained,
the ancient usage of the admiralty did authorize the attachment, as an inherent power of the court, decreed against the
property seized; or to speak, in this particular case, more
literally, decreed that the stipulators should cause the stipulations which they gave on the discharge of the property
from seizure, to be performed.
1 Benedict, 118.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

271

Statement of the case.

On appeal the Circuit Court reversed the decree.
As to the matter of appearance-remarking that it was
according to the ancient practice in admiralty in cases of
attachment not to recognize anything as an appearance but
putting in of bail-it thought that what had been done by
Mr. Beebe was not to be regarded as a general appearance;
that, on the contrary, he had been allowed time " to perfect
an appearance," and had immediately moved to set aside
the proceeding as unauthorized; that this motion being denied and the respondent compelled to answer, the answer
was made by setting up again an invalidity; and that the
libellants had stipulated expressly that the subsequent bond
for value should not operate as a waiver of the respondent's
motion.

Upon the other and greater question-whether a court of
admiralty in one judicial district of the United States can
obtain jurisdiction against an inhabitant of another district
by an attachment of his goods,-the Circuit Court also disagreed with the District Court, and accordingly the whole
decree was reversed.*
From that reversal the case was now on appeal here;
there being, in this court, less dispute perhaps about the
merits, and about whether there was a sufficient "appearance" to authorize a decree in personam against the corporation, than whether the proceeding was a "civil suit" within
the meaning of the clause already quoted of the eleventh
section of the Judiciary Act, and if it was not, whether the
inherent power of the court of admiralty authorized an
attachment in a case like that here issued, and where the
defendant was not an alien, nor absent from his own home,
nor absconding, nor anywhere concealed.
What answer should be given to the first part of this chief
question, it was admitted on both sides, was a matter which
received light from certain provisions in the Constitution,
and also from enactments of Congress other than the exact
clause of the eleventh section, on which the question turned.
* Of course, in the view taken in the Circuit Court, no discussion about
Perie.s was necessary.

278

ATKINS V.

THE

DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Some of these may be recited.
The Constitution, as sent forth by the Convention of 1787,
and as adopted, in the same article* which ordains"That the judicial power of the United States shall extend to

all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction "Ordains also:
"The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall
be held in the State where the said crime shall have been committed."
And as amended in 1789, by the first Congress :t
"In criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed."
The "Act to
Passing now to legislative enactments.
establish the Judicial Courts of the United States," commonly called the Judiciary Act, and passed September 29th,
1789,1 enacts:
"SECTION 9. That the District Courts shall have, exclusively
of the courts of the several States, cognizance of all crimes and
offences that shall be cognizable under the authority of the
United States, committed within their respective districts, . . .
where no other punishment than whipping, &c., is to be inflicted:
"And shall also have exclusive original cognizance of all civil
causes of admiralty and maritimejurisdiction,including all seizures

under laws of impost .

. .

. where the seizures are made on

waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or
more tons burden, within their respective districts, as well as
upon the high seas ...
"And shall also have exclusive original cognizance of all
seizures on land or other waters than as aforesaid made, and of
all suits for penalties incurred under the laws of the United
States:
"And shall also have cognizance concurrent with the courts of
the several States or the Circuit Courts, as the case may be, of
all causes where an alien sues for a tort only in violation of the
law of nations or a treaty of the United States:
* Article III, section 2.

t Amendment VI.

+ 1 Stat. at Large, 73.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

279

Statement of the case.

"And shall also have cognizance, concurrent as last mentioned, of all suits at common law, where the United States sue
and the matter in dispute amounts, exclusive of costs, to the
sum or value of $100:
" And shall also have jurisdiction, exclusively of the courts of

the several States, of all suits against consuls or vice-consuls, except for offences above the description afbresaid :
" And the trial of issues in fact, in the District Courts, in all

causes except civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
shall be by jury."
Next in order of matter comes the eleventh section, in
which is found the clause upon which the case turned:
" The Circuit Courts shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of' all suits of a civil
nature, at common law or in equity, when the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500, and the
United States are plaintiffs, or petitioners, or an alien is a party,
or the suit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State.
" And shall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable under the authority of the United States,
except where this act otherwise provides, or the laws of the
United States shall otherwise direct, and concurrent jurisdiction
with the District Courts of the crimes and offences cognizable

therein ; but no person shall be arrested in one district for trial in
another, in any civil action, before a Circuit or District Court. And
no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts against an
inhabitantof the United States by any originalprocess in. any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant or in which he shall
be found at the time of serving the writ."
Then follows:
"SECTION 21. From final decrees in a District Court, in causes

of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $300 . . . an appeal shall be
allowed to the next Circuit Court to be held in such district.
"SECTION 22. Final decrees and judgments in civil actions in a
District Court, where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or
value of $50, . . . may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed

280

ATKINS v. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in a Circuit Court holden in the same district upon a writ of
error."

So far as to the Judiciary Act.
"An act to regulate processes in the courts of the United
States "-a temporary Process Act-passed September 29th,
1789,* five days after the passage of the Judiciary Act, enacted :
"That until further provision shall be made, and except where
by this act or other statutes of the United States is otherwise provided, the forms of writs and executions . . . and mode of process, and rates of fees, . . . in the Circuit and District Courts,
in suits at common law, shall be the same in each State respectively as are now used . . . in the Supreme Court of the same.
"And the forms and modes of proceeding in causes of equity and
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction shall be according to the
course of the civil law."
And "A n act for regulating processes," &c.-thepermanent Process Act-of May 8th, 1792,t enacts:
"SECTION 2. That the forms of writs, executions, and other
process, . . . and the forms and modes of proceeding in suits"In those of the common law shall be the same as are now
used in the said courts, respectively, in pursuance of the act entitled 'An act to regulate processes in the courts of the United
States' [the last above-quoted, act]"In those of equity and in those of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, according to the principles, rules, and usages which
belong to courts of equity and to courts of admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from courts of common law, except
so far as may have been provided for by the act to establish the Judicial Courts of the United States, subject, however, to such alterations and additions as the said courts respectively shall, in
their discretion, deem expedient, or to such regulations as the
Supreme Court of the United States shall think proper, from
ime to time, by rule, to prescribe to any Circuit or District
Codirt concerning the same."
By an act of 23d August, 1842,1 in the nature of a pro.
cess act, it is enacted :
1 Star. at Large, 93.

t lb. 276.

5 Id. 517.

(Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING GMPANY.

281

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.
"That the Supreme Court of the United States shall have full
,power . . . to prescribe, regulate, and alter the forms of writs,
;and other process to be used and issued in the District and Circuit Courts, . . . and the forms and modes of framing and filing
.libels, bills, and answers, and other proceedings, and pleadings
in suits at common law, or in admiralty, or in equity, and generally to regulate the whole practice of the said courts."
Under the power given by these acts, the said court, by
its second Rule in Admiralty, provided that:
" In suits in personam the mesne process may be by a simple
warrant of arrest of the person of the defendant in the nature
,of a capias; or ' by a warrant of arrest of the person of the defendant, with a clause therein that if he cannot be found to attach his
,goods and chattels,' &c., or by a simple monition in the nature of
.a summons to appear and answer."
Messrs. E. C. Benedict, for the libellants, appellants here; a
brief of Messrs. George Willey, J. E. Cary, and if. L. Terrill,
,on the same side, though in another case, beingfiled in this case by
,leave of the court :
Assuming, as we think is sufficiently plain, that the defendants did enter their appearance, and that, on the merits,
the case was with the libellants, we pass directly to the great
-question of the case,-the question, namely, whether the
right exists to attach in the admiralty the property of a defendant who was not found in the district.
The question is not new. It was raised in the year 1802,
only ten years after the passage of the Process Act of 1792,
in Bouysson & Holmes v. Miller & Ryley,* in the District Court
,of South Carolina, before Judge Bee, then the judge of that
court. That cause appears to have been fully and ably
.argued as "a new question," where it was necessary to investigate the jurisdiction of the admiralty as to matters civil
and maritime, and the learned judge declares:
"I have fully considered the circumstances and arguments
ibrought before me, and am clearly of opinion that attachments
* Bee, 186.

282

ATKINS v. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[SUP. Ot.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

against the goods, or debts of absent persons, may issue out of
this court of admiralty. If the actors cannot proceed in this
way they lose all remedy, whatever may be their right of action."

Judge Bee was an able judge; one of the sages of the
law. His construction may be properly called contemporaneous with the Judiciary Act.
This right of attachment was not again questioned before
1825, when it was understood to be settled in this court by
the case of Manro v. Almeida.*
This court then said:
"Thus this process has the clearest sanction in the practice
of the civil law, and during the three years that the admiralty
courts of these States were referred to the practice of the civil
law for their ' forms and modes of proceedings,' there could be
no question that this process was legalized. Nor is there anything in the different phraseology adopted in the act of 1792
that could preclude its use. That it is agreeable to the principles, rules, and usages which belong to courts of admiralty is
established not only by its being resorted to in one at least of
the courts of the United States, but by the explicit declaration
of a book of respectable authority and remote origin, Clerke's
Praxis, article 28."

The question was, nevertheless, again raised on the circuit,
in Rhode Island, in 1841, in Clarke v. The New Jersey Steam
Navigation Company.t The opinion of Story, J., in this case
has greater weight, because he was a member of the Supreme
Court when the case of Manro v. Almeida was decided.

He

says:
"Ever since the elaborate examination of the whole subject
in the case of Manro v. Almeida, this question has been deemed
entirely at rest."
And again:
"And the case does not fall within the prohibitory clause of
the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act."
* 10OWheaton, 478.

t1 Story, 581.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS

v. THE

DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

283

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Indeed, in the case of The Invincible,* Judge Story had
said:
"I accede to the position that in general, in cases of maritime tort, the court of admiralty will sustain jurisdiction where
either the person or his property is within the territory. It is.
not even confined to the mere offending thing."
The question was also really involved in the case of The
JNew Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. The Merchants' Bank,t
but court and counsel appear to have considered it too plain
to be raised and discussed as doubtful, while the practice is
distinctly recognized by this court in Waring v. Clarke,t where
it specifies as among the cases of undoubted admiralty jurisdiction,
"Cases to enforce judgments of foreign admiralty courts,
when the person or his goods are within the jurisdiction."
The practice, as appears by Boyd v. Urquhart,§was familiar
practice to Judge Sprague, eminent as an admiralty judge,
and was discussed in Smith v. Milne,1 and other cases of Judge
Betts, not less eminent, without the suggestion of a doubt as
to its regularity. And the high authority of Judge Parsons
in his work on Maritime Law, and also on Shipping,**
after the question had been raised, is positive in support of
the validity of the practice.
Independently of authority, and by reference to the language of acts of Congress, and of the Judiciary Act especially, the matter is clear.
The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act does not extend
to "causes civil and maritime" in the court of admiralty. It
embraces only "suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity," which are specified in the first clause of the section.
It has not been usual to consider admiralty causes as in1 5 Id. 452.
t 6 Howard, 344.
* 2 Gallison, 41.
1 Sprague, 423; and see Shorey v. Rennel, Ib. 418.
II 1 Abbott's Admiralty Reports, 378, 382; and see Reed v. Hussey, I
Blatchford & Howland, 525.
** Page 390.
Page 686, note.

284

ATKINS V.

TnE

DISINTEORATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

'eluded in practice legislation, unless specified. Admiralty
proceedings are sui generis, and there are other instances in
which language has been used in the statutes, which at first
,reading would seem to include them, but which the courts
have held not to include them.
Thus the act of February 29th, 1839,* ordered that no
person should be imprisoned for debt in any State on process issuing out of 6 court of the United States, where, &c.
But this was held not to include process issuing out of a
court of admiralty, and parties were arrested by the admiralty courts notwithstanding this act, until this court abolished the practice by the forty-eighth rule, adopted in 1851.t
The act of 1803, ch. 40,1 directed that "from all final
judgments or decrees in any District Court, an appeal shall
be allowed," &c. But Story, J., held that this did not inelude judgments at common law, the word "appeal" having
a technical admiralty meaning.§
The act of August 23d, 1842,11 provided that, " on all judgments in civil cases hereafter recovered in the Circuit or District Courts of the United States, interest shall be allowod,"
&c. Yet this is held not to embrace admiralty judgments.
But the Judiciary Act itself plainly distinguishes the different sorts of controversy.
By the twenty-first section of that act, Congress provided
that "from final decrees in a District Court in causes of adnmiralty and maritime jurisdiction, where the matter in dispute
exceeds $300, an appeal shall be allowed to the next Circuit
Court."
And by the twenty-second section of the same act, Congress provided that "final decrees and judgments in civil
actions lh a District Court, where the matter in dispute exceeds $50, may be re-examined and reversed, or affirmed in
5 Stat. at Large, 321.
t Gaines v. Travis, 1 Abbott's Admiralty Reports, 422.
: 2 Stat. at Large, 244.
United States v. Wonson, 1 Gallison, 11.
5 Stat. at Large, 518.
Hemmenway v. Fisher, 20 Howard, 268; The Ann Caroline, 2 Wallace,

6M.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE, DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

285

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

a Circuit Court holden in the same district, upon a writ of
error."
No one will think that Congress intended by this different
language to allow judgments and decrees in any admiralty
causes whatever, to be reviewed on writ of error. But unless
they did so intend, they used the words "civil actions," as
contradistinguishedfrom "admiralty causes."
Furthermore, it is apparent, from a comparison of the
language used in the ninth, eleventh, twenty-first, and twentysecond sections of the Judiciary Act, that admiralty causes
were intended to be excluded from the eleventh section.
The analogy between the provisions of the ninth and eleventh sections on the one hand, and the twenty-first and'
twenty-second sections on the other, is obvious.
In the ninth section, Congress gave jurisdiction to the
District Courts of two classes of proceedings: (1) "of civil,
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," and (2) of
certain suits; and in the eleventh section, they gave jurisdiction to the Circuit Court of "all suits of a civil nature at
common law, or in equity," &c., &c.
In the twenty-first section, they provided for the review
of decrees of the District Court, in "causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," by appeal; and in the twentysecond section, for a review of "decrees and judgments in.
civil actions" in District Courts, by writ of error, and also of
"decrees and judgments, in civil actions" in the Circuit:
Courts, by writ of error.
Can it be rightly doubted that Congress intended, by this
language in the twenty-first section, the same kind of actions
which they intended by thefirst class mentioned in the ninth,
section ; and that they intended, by the language in the first
clause of the twenty-second section, the same kind of actions
as they intended by the second class mentioned in the ninth
section; and by the second clause of the twenty-second
section, the same kind of actions as they intended by the
eleventh section? Or can it be rightly doubted that, by thewords "suits of a civil nature" and "civil actions," used in,
the eleventh and twenty-second sections, they did not mean.

286

ATKINS

v.

THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

what they meant in the first clause of the ninth and in the
twenty-first sections, viz., admiralty causes?
But it will be seen that the words in question, in this case,
form part of the eleventh section, and are in pari materid with
the first sentence of that section. They should, therefore,
be construed as having the same meaning, which excludes
admiralty causes.
Can any sufficient reason be given why the words, "civil
suit," in the eleventh section, should have a broader meaning than the words, "civil actions," in the twenty-second
section ? But the latter words, by universal consent, do not
include admiralty causes.
The ninth section of the Judiciary Act gave to the District Courts the full jurisdiction of the admiralty. This
cause is fully within that jurisdiction. And no limitation of
that jurisdiction is to be inferred.
From the earliest periods, the distinction between common law proceedings and proceedings in causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, has been maintained in the
phraseology of the law. In the Constitution, when the word
admiralty first occurs, and in the laws of the United States
passim, this difference appears.
Admiralty causes are not usually called "suits" or "actions" (words which are usually applied to common law
actions), but "causes,"-" a cause civil and maritime," a
4' cause of collision, civil and maritime," "a cause of contract, civil and maritime," &c. This descriptive and peculiar language is found in the commissions of the Colonial
;admiralty judges.* It has come down from the earliest
precedents collected in Clerke's Praxis, which has always
been accepted as the most authoritative exposition extant
,of the early course and usages in admiralty proceedings.
Wherever Clerke has occasion to speak of an admiralty proceeding, he uses the language, "causa civilis et maritirna."t
In the organization of the judiciary of the United States,
in 1787, the characteristic difference between the courts of
Benedict's Admiralty, H 126, 127, 151.

j- Articles 1, 9, 24, 26, 37.

'Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

287

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

common law and courts of admiralty was fully recognized
and acted upon.
In the Constitution, where the word admiralty first occurs
in the laws of the United States, this difference appears:
"All cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
In the same phraseology does the Judiciary Act make a
grant of jurisdiction to the District and Circuit Courts. The
distinction is obviously observed in the ninth section, which
speaks in one place of "civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," and in another of "suits at common
law."*
If it is asked what the words "civil suit" and " civil
action" refer to in the eleventh section, as to the District
Courts, the answer is, that they refer to the cases mentioned
in the ninth section, suits by an alien, suits at common law
for $100, suits against consuls, &c.
The same distinguishing language, above mentioned as so
common in the Judiciary Act, is used in other acts of Congress. Thus, in an act of April 3d, 1818,t we find the expression :
"In any suit at common law, or in any civil cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
The temporary Process Act of September 29th, 1789 (five
days after the Judiciary Act), provided separately for suits
at common law and causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. It provided that the process and proceedings "in
the Circuit and District Courts in suits at common law"
!shall be like those in the State courts. And that "the
forms and modes of proceedings in causes in equity and of
* See also the thirtieth section, prescribing the mode of taking deposi,tions. Instead of saying "all actions" or "all civil actions," the legislature
mentions admiralty in this peculiar language, "as well in the trial of causes
in equity, and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as of actions at com,mon law." And in other portions of the same section occur the phrase
"causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
t 8 Stat. at Large, 414; see also act of September 29th, 1789; act of May
'8th, 1792; and act of July 16th, 1862.

288

ATKINS v.

THE

DISINTERATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ut..

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

admiralty and maritime jurisdiction shall be according top
the course of the civil law." This, if at all inconsistent,
with the Judiciary Act, modified and controlled that act,.
being passed of a later date.
Thus the admiralty system of the United States, in its very
inception, adopted and embraced this very proceeding, of
attachment, which is a familiar and undisputed proceeding,
of the civil law. That practice prevailed as the civil law
practice till May, 1792, when the new Process Act was passed,.
which enacted that the practice of the common law courtsshould be as befbre established, and that in those of equity
and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction it should be.
" according to the principles, rules, and usages which belongto courts of equity and to courts of admiralty respectively, as
contradistinguished from courts of common law." Thus the
old practice was continued without change, the admiralty
process and the civil law process being identical, so far as
this proceeding is concerned.
There is an exception upon which some stress will penhaps be laid, "except so far as may have been provided for'
by the Judiciary Act." Many things are provided for in theJudiciary Act which were not to be repealed by this Process
Act, such as the power to make rules, to grant injunctions,.
to consolidate actions, to regulate arrests, bail, and imprisonment, to cure and amend defects in proceedings, to regulate.
clerks, marshals, jurors, lawyers, district attorneys, &c., &c.
Besides this exception, this practice was to be " subject,
however, to such alterations and additions as the courts"
may make in their own practice, and " to such regulations
as the Supreme Court shall think proper by rule to prescribe." The District Court of New York made its rules
authorizing this proceeding inquestion in 1828, which have
been continued to this day. And the Supreme Court in
1842 made the admiralty rules authorizing this practice.
Therefore, even if this provision of the eleventh section
did include admiralty causes, still, unless that section was
beyond repeal or modification, the Process Act of 1789. and,

Oct. 1873.]

ATKrIN

v. THE

DISINTIEGRATING COMPANY.

289

Argument against the jurisdiction.

the Process Act of 1792, and the act of 1842, §§ 6, 7, and the
second admiralty rule, have modified the practice and fully
authorized this mode of proceeding, which is the familiar
practice of the civil law and of the admiralty courts from
the earliest periods.
Difficulties were found to arise, in suits at law and in
equity, under this clause of the eleventh section, owing to
the residence of defendants in different districts. In 1839,
therefore, Congress passed an act which, as Mr. Law says,*
"was intended to remove the many difficulties arising in
practice, in cases of law and equity, under the third clause
of the eleventh section of the act of 1789."
These difficulties, which, if that clause of the eleventh
section had included admiralty causes, would have been
more certainly experienced in them than in suits at law or
equity, had not been met with in admiralty, owing to the
course of decisions which we have cited above sustaining
the admiralty process of attachment against absent debtors.
To this fact, doubtless, it is due that, by this act of 1839,
the difficulticH in question were removed from the practice
in "suits at law or in equity," while causes of admiralty jurisdiction are not mentioned.
The passage of such an act is the strongest legislative
approbation of the judicial interpretation which had been
put upon the Judiciary Act. In no other way can the failure
to mention admiralty causes be accounted for.
Mr. C. Donahue (a brief of Mr. G. B. Hibbard on the same
side, though in another ease, being filed by leave of the Court),
eontra:
It would seem rather out of strict practice, on a great
question of Federal jurisprudence-one which nothing but
a solemn decision of this the highest court of the land
can settle,-to be citing as authority-citing especially on
an appeal from a Circuit Court-such cases as Bouysson &
Holmes v. Miller & Ryley, or Smith v. Milne, decided in District
Courts, or even to be citing Clark v. The New Jersey Steam
* Law's United States Courts, 84, n.
VOL. XVIII.

19

290

ATKINS

v.

THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

Navigation Company, The Invincible, and other cases decided
by a Circuit Court. The appeal here being from a Circuit
Court, presumptively as right and certainly of technical
authority equal to that of other Circuit Courts, such citations seem of small value. Certainly, if the cases cited did
all pass on the very point here under discussion, and if
they would thus bind the courts which decided them, they
have no authority in this court. If they had, the decision
by Mr. Justice Washington, of the Third Circuit, in Ex parte
Graham,*by Mr. Justice Hoffman, of the California District,
in Wilson v. Pierce,t of Mr. Justice Shipman, of the Connecticut District, in Blair v. Bemis (not perhaps reported),
and the very adjudication from which the present appeal is
taken-could be opposed to them.
The decision here and now' must be rested upon cases in
this court, of which it is not pretended by opposing counsel
that more than one-Manro v. Almeida-has adjudged the
chief question under argument. If an analysis of that only
case presented, shows that while its general purpose has
been rightly conjectured, its precise limitations and bearings have not been attended to, and that it has no real bearing on the matters now in issue, then we must examine, in
their exactness of phrase, the great statutory enactments
which lie at the base of the jurisdiction set up, and if the
language is at all obscure or difficult, then the history, and
principles, and objects of these enactments. The examination
in all its branches is thus made by Mr. Justice Woodruff, in
the opinion of the court below; an opinion which refers,
moreover, to some minor cases which we have named. We
refer to the opinion not as authority, but as an argument
which we think cannot be answered. It says:
"The general proposition deducible from the Judiciary Act.
and from the act of August 23d, 1842, was decided by the
Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of Manro v.
Almeida, in 1825, and is not open for discussion in this court..
namely, that the courts of the United States, proceeding a
*8

Washington's Circuit Court, 460.

t 15 Law Reporter, 137.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKI17S

v. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

291

Argument against the jurisdiction.
courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, may issue the
process of attachment to compel appearance, in cases of maritime torts and contracts.
" As that is the only case in which the question appears to
have been raised and passed upon in that court, and as the
decision of that court is conclusive, it is important to state what
the case was in which the above general proposition is held, and
to what precise extent the decision goes. The libel was filed
in the District of Maryland, charging Almeida with having
committed a tort, on board a certain vessel off the Capes of the
Chesapeake, in taking therefrom $5000 in specie, and converting
it to his own use. It appears, by the statement of the case, that
Almeida resided in the district, but had absconded from the
United States, and fled beyond the jurisdiction of the court;
and the libel averred, that the libellants had no means of redress
but by process of attachment against his goods, chattels, and
credits, which were, also, about to be removed, by his orders,
to foreign parts. The goods, &c., were attached by the marshal,
and a copy of the monition was left at the late dwelling-house
of Almeida, and a copy affixed at the public exchange, and on
the mast of the vessel containing the attached goods, &c. On
demurrer to the libel, the questions decided were raised, and,
from the decision dismissing the libel, an appeal was taken to
the Supreme Court, and the decree was reversed. The decision
affirms, therefore, that it is within the power and jurisdiction
of' the District Court, as a court of admiralty, to issue process
of attachment to compel the appearance of a respondent proceeded against by a suit in personam; and that, in the United
States, such process may issue against the goods of a resident
of the district in which the suit is brought, whenever the defendant has concealed himsef, or absconded from the country.
The case of Bouysson v. Miller is referred to as an authority in
this country, and Clerke's Praxis is cited for the general practice
of the civil law. The opinion of the court shows, further, that
the attachment was originally devised, and is still maintained,
as a means of' compelling the respondent to appear in thesuit
to answer, and that this is its primary object, while, if he does,
nevertheless, not appear, the goods, &c., may be sold to satisfy
the libellant.
"In Cushing v. Laird, recently decided in the District Court
.of the United, States for the Southern District ofNew York

292

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[SuP. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

Judge Blatchford has examined the subject further, and con;
eludes, mainly upon the authority of the case of Manro v. At.
meida, and of the text of Clerke's Praxis, that the jurisdiction
and power to attach property to compel an appearance also
exists in this country, where the defendant is not an inhabitant
of the United States, but is an alien not found within the district, but having property there which can be attached.
"With these decisions, the present case raises no controversy.
They are in perfect consistency with the ground relied upon by
the respondents here, to wit, that, being in a legal sense inhabitants of the District of New Jersey, they could not be sued in
the Eastern District of New York, by process of attachment
and seizure of their goods. And it is of great pertinency to
say that, recognizing the principles and practice sanctioned by
the decisions above referred to, completely satisfies the provisions of the acts of Congress already cited, and gives a proper
and sufficient field for the operation of the act regulating the
practice of the court, and of the rule of the Supreme Court of
the United States prescribing the process of attachment when
the defendant cannot be found within the district; for, by these
decisions, if he be concealed, or have absconded, or be an alien
non-resident, there is occasion for the process.
"The question then recurs-and entirely without conflict
with those statutes, or with the rule of the Supreme Court, or
with those decisions-can an inhabitant of the United States
be sued, in a court of admiralty, by process of attachment of
his goods, issued and served to compel his appearance, in any
other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant?
"It is of some significance to note that the Constitution of
the United States had provided, prior to the passage of the
Judiciary Act, that ' the trial of all crimes, except in cases of
impeachment, .

. .

shall be held in the State where the said crime

shall have been committed;' and an amendment proposed by
the same Congress, and at the same session, at which the Judiciary Act was passed, provides that, Iin all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public
trial by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the
crime shall have been committed.'
"That an attachment of goods to compel appearance, and a
holding thereof to answer any claim which a plaintiff may reoover, is ' original process,' within the meaning of the language

Oct. 1878.]

A'KINS v. THE DISINTEGRATING

COMPANY.

298

Argument against the jurisdiction.

of the clause in question of the eleventh section of the Judi-

ciary Act, is not doubtful. That the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States cannot send their process into another
district, in suits at common law or in equity, and thereby obtain
jurisdiction of the person, is also clear. That, in actions at the
common law or in equity, they cannot proceed by attachment,
and so obtain jurisdiction of a person who is an inhabitant of
another district, is settled. In such actions, the statute applies
according to its very terms; and, in order to jurisdiction, the
defendant must be an inhabitant of the district in which the
suit is brought or be found therein, if the defendant be an inhabitant of any of the United States. If, then, the present is a
'civil suit,' within the meaning of the act, there is an end of the
question, and jurisdiction of the defendant could not be acquired
by attachment of goods.
"1. The restriction cited, and which forms part of the eleventh
section, is not confined, in its operation, to the jurisdiction conferred by that section. This is clear, because no civil jurisdiction is, by-that section, conferred upon the District Courts; and
yet the restriction forbids that any civil suit shall be brought
before either the District or Circuit Court in any other district,
&c. The words 'District Court,' and 'either of said courts,'
would be senseless and inoperative if the restriction did not
apply to other actions than those which were authorized by
that section. The terms, therefore, plainly apply to the District
Court in the exercise of some jurisdiction theretofore mentioned,
and must operate to limit or explain the powers given to those
courts in the previous ninth section. Including both courts in
terms, the limitation operates upon the jurisdiction of each conferred by that section. This is also settled by the cases cited;
for, if it were otherwise, then the District Court could, in the
exercise of such common-law jurisdiction as is given by the
ninth section, proceed by attachment.
"2. The Congress of the United States, when this restriction
was imposed, were in the very act of framing a judicial system.
They provided for the organization of the courts, for a distribution thereof throughout the States, bringing the Federal tribunals within easy approach by every citizen, for the determination of' controversies deemed appropriate to those tribunals.
Their jurisdiction as to subject-matter was made to depend
chiefly upon the nature of the subjects and the residence of the

294

ATKINS V. THE

DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.
parties, who, when of different States, might prefer a tribunal
existing and acting in freedom from State influence. The courts
of original jurisdiction were located in each district. As they
acted not under local authority, but derived their power from a
government embracing the entire Union, they might seem warranted in entertaining suits against defendants residing in any
State, however remote, and in sending process for service compelling appearance. It was, therefore, of' great and manifest
importance, that some rule on this subject should be prescribed ;
and it was done so as to prevent parties proceeded against from
being called to a great distance to defend actions brought against
them, when there was a Federal tribunal at their own door
competent to administer justice.
"3. There is, therefore, no possible reason for any distinction
in this respect between a suit in admiralty and a suit in equity or
a suit at law. A suit in personam in the court of' admiralty is
within the jurisdiction of that court, when founded on a maritime contract, or prosecuted fbr a marine tort. But no reason
can be stated for requiring a party living in New Orleans or
San Francisco, to come to New York to defend an action or
suit on the covenants in a charter-party, when he ought not to
be required to come there to defend a suit at law or in equity
founded on any commercial or common-law contract. For a
marine tort committed by a resident of New Orleans, he is liable
at common law, and may also be held liable in the court of
admiralty. There is no just reason for holding him to answer
in such case in any District Court of the United States, however
remote, if the plaintiff elects to proceed in admiralty; while, if
the plaintiff proceeds at common law, he must sue in the district
of the defendant's residence, or in the district in which he may
be found. The reason of the act of Congress includes suits in
personam in admiralty, as fully as in equity or at law.
"4. The word 'civil' is used in the act in distinction from
'criminal.' In the ninth aid eleventh sections, conferring jurisdiction on the District and Circuit Courts, Congress had spoken
of 'crimes and offences,' 'civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction,' 'suits for penalties and forfeitures,' 'causes where
an alien sues for a tort,' ' suits at common law,' 'suits against
consuls' other than 'for offences,' and 'suits of a civil nature at
common law or in equity.' They then declare that 'no civil
suit' shall be brought, &e. A civil cause of admiralty and marl.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEORATItiG COMPANY.

295

Argument against the jurisdiction.

time jurisdiction is prosecuted by a suit. It is within the terms
of the restriction as closely as a cause I where an alien sues for
a tort.' It was wholly unnecessary, in the restrictive clause, to
recite again the several terms previously employed, as suits for
forfeitures, suits against consuls, suits at common law, &c., and
civil causes in admiralty. These are all civil in their nature.
A cause in admiralty is so expressly described. It is a civil
cause. The general term 'civil suit' was apt to describe all
these actions and causes of action, and it was so employed.
And, as the Constitution provided that criminal prosecutions,
jurisdiction whereof was given by this act to the Circuit and
District Courts, should be had in the State where the crime
was committed; so, also, civil suits against an inhabitant of
the United States were required to be brought in the district
whereof he was an inhabitant. Jurisdiction of crimes and
offences, as well as of proceedings of a civil nature, being conferred on these courts by the sections mentioned, this classification, by the word 'civil,' as distinguished from 'criminal,' was
an essential conformity to the constitutional requirement, that
crimes and offences should be prosecuted where committed.
The restriction, therefore, made the system in this respect complete.
"5. This view of the effect of this statute, securing to inhabitants of the several States the right of being sued within the
district whereof they are respectively inhabitants, is, therefore,
in perfect consistency with the claim, that courts of admiralty
have general power to proceed in personam by attachment of
goods, where the defendant cannot be found within the district,
so far as that is asserted in Manro v. Almeida,* in King v. Shepherd,t in Boyd v. Urquhart,lor in Bouysson v. Miller.§ The limitation is the result of the act of Congress, and does not deny
the original jurisdiction or practice of those courts, or their
present power or jurisdiction where the respondent is an alien
non-resident; or, being an inhabitant of the district, conceals
himself or absconds, so that he cannot be found.
"6. To the suggestion, that the acts of Congress regulating
the process and practice of the courts are in such general terms
that they and the rule of the Supreme Court in admiralty have
operated to modify the act of 1789 limiting jurisdiction in this
*

10 Wheaton, 473.

f 3 Story, 349.

1 1 Sprague, 423.

Bee, 186.

296

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the facts in the opinion.
respect, it is sufficient to say, that these acts are not designed
to alter or enlarge the jurisdiction of the courts, but only to
regulate the exercise of jurisdiction where it exists. I understand this to be distinctly affirmed in Toland v. Sprague.* Indeed, if these acts are held to authorize the Supreme Court in
any respect, by rule, to abrogate the restriction in the act of

1789, it cannot be confined to the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty.

For the act of 1842 gives the same power touching

proceedings at the common law and in equity as in admiralty;
and the construction and effect contended for would enable that
court practically to repeal all the restrictions contained in the
act of 1789 on this subject, and to authorize common law actions
against inhabitants of any State to be brought in any district
of the United States.

"Of the cases of Clarke v. The New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company,t and The New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v.
Merchants' Bank,. it is sufficient to say, that the point discussed
in this case was neither raised nor decided in either; and the
first named case is full to the effect above asserted, that, on this
question, a corporation stands in the same position as a natural
person. The effect of the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act
on the power of the court to proceed against either, was not
raised, discussed, or decided. The decision in the last-named
case related, first, to the merits; and, second, to the inquiry
whether the case was, in its nature, cognizable in a court of
admiralty. The synopsis of the case first named, as reported,
would suggest that the point in question was decided adversely
to the views here expressed; but, in truth, the point was not
raised, the opinion stating that it had not been doubted, and
referring to the general doctrine of' Manro v. Almeida, with
which these views are in no conflict."

Mr. Justice SWAYNE recapitulated the facts of the case
and delivered the opinion of the court.
The libel is founded upon a charter-party and seeks to
recover freight earned by the ship Elizabeth Hamilton in
bringing a cargo of bamboo from Kingston and Port Morant, in the island of Jamaica; for demurrage while the ship
4* 12 Peters, 300.

t I Story, 531.

16

Howard, 344.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

297

Recapitulation of the facts in the opinion.

was obtaining the cargo, and for damages to the ship by
getting on a reef when leaving Port Morant.
The libel alleges that the respondents are a corporation,
and have property in the district, and prays for process
against them, and, if they were not found, that a foreign
attachment issue against their property in the district, and
for a decree for the amount claimed, with interest and costs.
The libel was filed on the 13th of June, 1866. On the day
following a citation was issued with a foreign attachment
clause. On the 20th of the same month the marshal returned that the respondents were not found in his district,
and that he had attached all the property found in their factory at Red Hook Point, in the city of Brooklyn. In a
journal entry or the same date it is stated: " Mr. Beebe appears for respondent, and has a week to perfect appearance
and to answer." On the 19th of July following the respondents executed a stipulation for costs. It recited that "an
appearance has been filed in said cause by said disintegrating company." On the same day the proctors for the
libellants consented that the property attached should be
discharged from custody upon the respondents giving a
stipulation for its value in the sum of $25,000, and they
agreed that in case the judge should grant the motion to
discharge the property, the stipulation should be cancelled,
and that "the stipulation for value is given without prejulice to such motion." The stipulation for value was thereiipon filed. That also recited "that an appearance has been
-filed by said company." On the 3d of May, 1867, the re!spondents filed their answer. Among other things it averred
that they were a foreign corporation, created by the laws of
New Jersey, and were not residents of the Eastern District
-of New York; and that it was not alleged in the libel that
they were either found in the district or resided in the district, and they craved the same benefit and advantage as if
they had formally excepted to the libel. It does not appear,
that the motion to discharge the attachment was ever" decided. But by an entry of the 22d of March, 1867, it ap.
pears that a motion had been made to vacate the attachment

298

ATKINS

v. TII

DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. CtZ

Opinion of the court.

clause in the monition, and all the proceedings under it
upon the ground that under the circumstances the eleventh.
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 denied jurisdiction to
the court, and that the motion was overruled. The cause
was heard in the District Court upon the merits on the 16th
of December, 1867. The court made an interlocutory decree, disallowing the claim for damages to the ship, but
referred the case to a commissioner to ascertain the amount
which the libellants were entitled to recover in respect of
their other claims. The commissioner made his report..
No exception was taken by either party. The court confirmed the report and decreed accordingly. The libellants,
appealed from so much of the decree as refused them damages for the injury sustained by the ship in leaving Port
Morant. The respondents appealed from the whole decree..
The Circuit Court reversed the entire decree, and the libel-,
lants thereupon appealed to this court. The case is thus
brought before us.
The statement of the case, which we have given, shows
that the defendants entered their appearance without reservation. If there could be any doubt upon the subject it is
removed by their repeated subsequent recognitions of the
fact. This made their position just what it would have been
if they had been brought in regularly by the service of process. In this aspect of the case all defects were cured and
the jurisdiction of the court over their persons became complete.* This warranted the decree in personam for theamount adjudged to the libellants.
But the stipulation for value was entered into subject to
the motion to discharge the property attached; the stipulation to be cancelled if the motion prevailed. Though this,
motion was not decided, the subsequent motion, founded'
upon the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, took its
place and bad the same effect. The latter motion was overruled, and the decree required the stipulators to perforrb
* Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Cranch, 421; Knox v. Summers, 8 Id. 496.

Oct.

1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

299

Opinion of the court.

their undertaking. The Circuit Court reversed the decree
by reason of the facts relied upon in support of the motion
to vacate. If the attachment clause was void for want of
jurisdiction in the District Court to issue it, the seizure of
the property was a trespass, and the stipulation a nullity,
irrespective of the reservation which it contained. These
considerations render it necessary to examine the case both
as to the merits and the jurisdictional question thus presented.
In regard to the merits-after a careful examination of
the record-we have found no reason to dissent from the
views of the learned district judge by whom the case was
heard.* However full might be our discussion, we should
announce the same conclusions. They are clearly expressed
and ably vindicated in his opinion. To go again through
the process by which they were reached would be a matter
rather of form than substance.
The question of jurisdiction is of a different character, and
requires more consideration.
The Constitutiont declares that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend to " all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction."
The act of Congress of the 24th of September, 1789,4
known as the Judiciary Act, provides that "the District
Courts . . . shall have also original cognizance of all civil

causes of admiralty and maritimejurisdiction,including all seiz-:
ures under all laws of impost, navigation, or trade of the
United States, where the seizures are made on waters which
are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons,
burden, within their respective districts as well as upon the
high seas."
The Short Practice Act of September 29th, 1789,§ required that "the forms and modes of proceedings in causes
* Atkins v. The Fibre Disintegrating Co., 2 Benedict, 881.

" Article 8,

2.

1 1 Stat. at Large, 76.

L

Ib. 98.

S00

ATKINS V.

THE

DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

of equity and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction shall
be according to the course of the civil law."
By the second section of the Practice Act of 1792,* it was
declared "that the forms of writs, executions, and other process shall be, in suits in equity and in those of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, according to the principles, rules, and
usages which belong to courts of equity and to courts of
admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from courts
of common law, except so far as may have been provided
for by the act to establish the judicial courts of the United
States, subject, however, to such alterations and additions
as the said courts respectively shall, in their discretion, deem
expedient, or to such regulations as the Supreme Court of
the United States shall think proper, from time to time, by
rule to prescribe to any Circuit or District Court concerning
the same."
The act of the 23d of August, 1842,t authorized the Supreme Court "generally to regulate the whole practice" of
the Circuit and District Courts in all their proceedings.
This controversy turns upon the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789. The importance of the section in
this case induces us to set it out in full:
"The Circuit Court shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a
civil nature, at common law or in equity, when the matter in
dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500,
and the United States are plaintiffs, or petitioners, or an
alien is a party, or the suit is between a citizen of the State
where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, and
shall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences
cognizabte under the authority of the United States, except
where this act otherwise provides, or the laws of the United
States shall otherwise direct, and concurrent jurisdiction
with the District Courts of the crimes and offences cogijizable therein; but no person shall be arrested in one distric! for trial in another, in any civil action, before a Circuit
or District Court. And no civil suit shall be brought before
t 6 Id 517.
1 Stat. at Large, 276.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

801

Opinion of the court.

either of said courts, against an inhabitant of the United States, by,
any originalprocess in any other district than that whereof he is an,
inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the
writ.
" Nor shall any District or Circuit Court have cognizance
of any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note.
or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover
the said contents, if no assignment had been made, except
in cases of foreign bills of exchange. And the Circuit
Courts shall also have appellate jurisdiction from the District Courts, under the regulations and restrictions hereinafter provided."
The prohibition to bring a "1civil suit" against an inhabitant of the United States in a district other than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found,,
is the hinge of the controversy between these parties. The
appellees maintain that a cause of admiralty jurisdiction is
a "civil suit" within the meaning of this prohibition. The
appellants maintain the contrary. Our views coincide with
those of the appellants, and we will proceed to state succinctly the considerations which have brought us to this.
conclusion.
It may be admitted that an admiralty case is a civil suit in,
the general sense of that phrase. But that is not the question before us. It is whether that is the meaning of the
phrase as used in this section. The intention of the lawmaker constitutes the law.* A thing may be within the
letter of a statute and not within its meaning, or within its
meaning though not within its letter.t In cases admitting,
of doubt the intention of the lawmaker is to be sought in
the entire context of the section-statutes or series of statutes in part materia.t
* United States v. Freeman, 3 Howard, 563.
t Slater v. Cave, 8 Ohio State, 85; 7 Bacon's Abridgment, title Statutes,,
1, 2, 3, 5.
Patterson v. Winn, 11 Wheaton, 389; Dubois v. McLean, 4 McLean,

489; 1 Cooley's Blackstone, 59; Doe v. Brandling, 7 Barnewall & Presswell,
648; Stowel v. Zouch, 1 Plowden, 365.

02

-ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The general language found in one place, may be restricted in its effect to the particular expressions employed
in another, if such, upon a careful examination of the subject, appears to have been the intent of the enactment.*
The first paragraph of the eleventh section defines the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as extending to "all suits
,of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, where," &c.
The criminal jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is next defined. Then follows the provision that no one shall be
arrested in one district for trial in another "in a civil action " before a Circuit or District Court, and next the prohibition here in question.
Construing this section, down to the second prohibition,
inclusive, by its own light alone, we cannot doubt that by
the phrase " civil suit," mentioned in this prohibition, is
meant a suit within the category of "all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity," with which the section
deals at the outset. This view derives further support from
the ninth, twenty-first, and twenty-second sections of the
act. The ninth section gives to the District Court its admiralty jurisdiction, its common-law jurisdiction, and its criminal jurisdiction. With reference to that first named, the
language is "of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." As to the second, it is " of all suits at common
law," &c. The twenty-first section allows appeals from the
District to the Circuit Court "in causes of admiralty and martime jurisdiction where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum
of three hundred dollars." The twenty-second section provides " that final decrees and judgments in civil actions,"
where the matter in dispute exceeds fifty dollars, may be
reviewed in the Circuit Court upon error. The distinction
is thus made between admiralty and other civil actions, and
the terms "causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," are
applied to the former, and the phrases "civil actions" and
"suits at common law" to the latter.
* Brewer v. Blougher, 14 Peters, 198,

199; Miller v. Salomons, 7 Ex-

chequer, 546; Same Case in error, 8 Id. 778; Waugh v. Middleton, Ib. 356,

,57.

IOct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

MR
0*

Opinion of the court.

We think the conclusion is inevitable that the terms civil
suit, in the eleventh, and civil actions, in the twenty-second sec"tion, were intended to mean the sarne thing. The meaning
,ofthe phrase employed in the latter admits of no doubt.
The language there is " civil actions," and it is used to distinguish them from "causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction," provided for in the preceding section. The
twenty-first and twenty-second sections are in pari.materia
with the eleventh, and throw back a strong light upon the
question arising under the latter. We think it dispels all
,darkness and doubt if any could otherwise exist upon the
-subject.
Our attention has been called to other instances in the
laws of Congress where the same phrases are used for the
tsame purposes of distinction between admiralty and other
,causes. It is unnecessary to refer to them in detail. The
argument could not be strengthened by further support
,drawn from that quarter.
The use of the process of attachment in civil causes of
maritime jurisdiction by courts of admiralty, as in the case
before us, has prevailed during a period extending as far
back as the authentic history of those tribunals can be traced.
"Its origin is to be found in the remotest history of the civil
as well as of the common law."* The rules by which it
was regulated in the English admiralty are found in Clerke's
Praxis, a work still of authority, published in the time of
Elizabeth.
Browne in his Civil and Admiralty Lawt says: "Let us,
lastly, suppose that a person against whom a warrant has
issued cannot be found, or that he lives in a foreign country:
here the ancient proceedings of the admiralty court provided
an easy and salutary remedy, though according to Huberus,
not authorized by the example of the civil law; they were
analogous to the proceedings by foreign attachment under
the charters of the cities of London and Dublin. The goods
of the party were attached to compel his appearance .
* Mani ) v. Almeida, 10 Wheaton, 473.

t Vol. 2, page 484.

304

ATKINS v. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[SuP. Ct-

Opinion of the court.

This process of attachment went not only against those in
the actual possession of himself, his factors or agents, but
also against those in the hands of his debtors, since the
maxim taken from the Justinian Code was debitor crediloris
est debitor credilori creditoris."
As in the practice of our courts of admiralty, the attachment of the goods or credits gave jurisdiction, and the cause
proceeded to decree whether the defendant appeared or not.
The Constitution, in the grant of the admiraltyjurisdiction, refers to it as it existed in this and other maritime
countries at the time of the adoption of that instrument.
It was then greatly larger here than in England. The hostility of the common-law courts there had wrought the
reduction.*
While the mode of proceeding in the admiralty courts of
the United States was required by the Practice Act of 1789,
to be according to the course of the civil law, the process of
attachment to compel the appearance of an absent defendant had the sanction of that system of jurisprudence.t It
has the sanction of the act of 1792, because it is according
to the principles, rules, and usages which belong to courts
of admiralty. It has also the sanction of the act of 1842.
Under that act this court, at the December Term, 1844, prescribed " rules of practice for the courts of the United
States in admiralty and maritime jurisdiction on the instance
side." The second of those rules is as follows: "In suits in,
personam the mesne process may be by a simple warrant of
arrest of the person of the defendant in the nature of a
capias, or by a warrant of arrest of the person of the defendant, with a clause therein that if he cannot be found to,
attach his goods and chattels to the amount sued for; or, if
such property cannot be found, to attach his credits and
effects to the amount sued for in the hands of the garnishees
* Manro v. Almeida, supra; Waring v. Clarke, 5 Howard, 455; New JerThe St.
sey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Id. 889;Insuranca
12 Howard, 454;
Lawrence, 1 Black, 527; The Genesee Chief,
Company v.Dunham, 11 Wallace, 24; Story on the Constitution, 1666.
t Manro v.Almeida, supra.

Oct. 1873.]

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

305

Opinion of the court.

named therein, or by a simple monition in the nature of a
summons, to appear and answer to the suit, as the libellant
I
shall in his information pray for or elect."
The fourth and thirty-seventh rules relate to the same
subject. The process in question in the case before us was
issued according to the formula prescribed in the second
rule, and that rule did not transcend the authority in pursuance of which it was framed.
This subject came under the consideration of the District
Court of South Carolina, sitting in admiralty, in 1802.*
The court held, without qualification, that it had the power
to issue the process of attachment to compel the appear.
ance of an absent defendant, and proceeded accordingly.
In the case of The Invincible,t decided in 1814, Mr. Justice
Story said: "The admiralty may, therefore, arrest the person or the property, or by foreign attachment the choses in
action, of the offending party, to answer ex delicto."
The question was elaborately considered by this court in
Manro v. Alneida.t It was unanimously held that the power
existed as an established mode of admiralty procedure, and
an element of admiralty jurisdiction. This case was decided
in 1825.
In 1841, in Clarke v. New Jersey Steam Navigation Company,§
Mr. Justice Story said: "Ever since the elaborate examination of this whole subject, in the case of Manro v. The Almeida, this question has been deemed entirely at rest."
In the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. The Merchants' Bank,j determined by this court in 1848, the defendant was a corporation foreign to the locality of the suit.
Jurisdiction was obtained, as in the case before us, by
attachment. Another question of jurisdiction was argued
with exhaustive learning and ability; but the point here
under consideration was not adverted to either by the court
or the counsel.
Neither in the rules of this coart nor in either of the cases
* Bouysson & Holmes v. Miller & Ryley, Bee, 186.
t 2 Gallison, 41.
Supra.
I1 Story, 537.
VOL. XVIII.

11Supra.

806

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

referred to is there any reference, express or implied, to the
eleventh section of the act of 1789. It does not seem to
have occurred to any one that the limitations in that section
could have any application to proceedings in admiralty.
These facts are full of significance. They are hardly less
effectual than an express authoritative negation upon the
subject.*
The case of Ex parte Grahamt is relied upon by the counsel for the appellee. It was decided by Mr. Justice Washington in 1818. Graham was arrested in Pennsylvania under
process for contempt, issued in a prize case pending in the
District Court of Rhode Island. Mr. Justice Washington
ordered his discharge upon two grounds: (1.) That process
would not run in such a case from Rhode Island into Pennsylvania. (2.) That the prohibitions in the eleventh section
of the act of 1789, as to the locality of arrests and suits, applied as well to suits in admiralty as to other civil actions.
It is a sufficient answer to the second proposition, that it
was clearly overruled by this court in Manro v. Almeida.
Mr. Justice Washington sat in that case, and must then have
changed his opinion. His silent concurrence admits of no
other construction.
The earliest case exactly in point, maintaining the proposition contended for by the appellee, to which our attention
has been called, is Wilson v. Pierce.1 It was decided by the
learned district judge of California in 1852. He adopted
the view of Judge Washington, and ruled accordingly.
This case was followed by two others, one of them being the
case before us.§ The other one arose in the District of
Connecticut and is said not to have been reported. The cases
upon the other side are numerous. We shall refer to but
two of them: Cushing et al. v. Laird,I and Smith v. Milne.
The opinion of the court in each of these cases is learned
:Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheaton, 206.
t 3 Washington's Circuit Court, 456.
: 15 Law Reporter, 137.
J 7 Blatchford, 655.
3 American Law Times Reports, 50.
1 Abbot's Admiralty Reports, 373.

Oct. 1873.]

LAMB V. DAVENPORT.

307

Syllabus.

and elaborate. Two eminent American law writers have
taken the same view of the subject.* They hold that the
prohibition in question does not apply to suits in admiralty.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT REVERSED,

and the case

remanded with directions to
AFFIRM THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

Dissenting, Justices MILLER and STRONG-

NOTE.

At the same time was argued the case of The New England
Mutual Insurance Company and others v. The Detroit and Cleveland Steam Navigation Company, a case from the Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Ohio, and involving the question
arising in the preceding case, under the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789. It was decided in favor of the appellants;
the court referring to the opinion above printed as controlling
it. Dissenting, Justices KILLER and STRONG. The briefs filed
in this last case, by Messrs. Willey, Cary, and Terrill, for the appellants, and by Mr. G. B. Hibbard, contra, were, by leave of the
court, filed also in the preceding case.

LAMB v. DAVENPORT.

1. Unless forbidden by some positive law, contracts made by actual settlers
on the public lands concerning their possessory rights, and concerning
the title to be acquired in future from the United States, are valid as
between the parties to the contract, though there be at the time no act
of Congress by which the title may be acquired, and though the government is under no obligation to either of the parties in regard to the title.
2. The proviso of the Oregon Donation Act of September 27th, 1850, which
forbade the future sale of the settler's interest until a patent should

2 Parsons's Maritime Law, 686, note; 2 Parsons's Shipping and Ad
miralty, 390; Benedict's Admiralty, 425.

