MULHALL

v.

KEENAN.

[Sup. CL

Syllabus.

it of such trust and give to the trustee, or those who represent him in right, any more valid claim in respect to it than
he previously had; and that it makes no difference in reason
or law into what other form, different from the original, the
change may have been made, for the product of, or substitution for, the original thing still follows the nature of the
thing itself, as long as it can be ascertained to be such, and
that the right only ceases when the means of ascertainment
fail.
It is contended that the doctrine of this case does not apply, because the note and mortgage were not purchased with
the proceeds of the bonds taken, but were substituted for
them. We do not think this fact takes the present case
from the principle upon which the other proceeds, that property acquired by a wrongful appropriation of other property
covered by a trust, is itself subject to the same trust. It
cannot alter the case that the newly acquired property, instead of being purchased with the proceeds of the original
property, is obtained by a direct exchange for it. The real
question in both cases is, what has taken the place of the
property in its original form ? Whenever that can be ascertained, the property in the changed form may be claimed by
the original owner or the cestui que trust, and assignees and
trustees in bankruptcy can acquire no interest in the property in its changed form which will defeat his rights in a
court of equity.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

MULHALL

V.

KEENAN ET AL.

1. Where, on a suit to recover a balance of a draft claimed because consignments of cattle against which the draft was drawn, have not proved adequate to protect it, the question is whether the draft was drawn under a
letter of instructions and in behalf of the doings of another person, one
T., an agent of the drawees, or whether it was drawn by the drawer iD

Oct. 1873.]

MULHALL V. K EENAN.

Statement of the case.
behalf of transactions on his own account, a letter from the drawer in
which he says, "I ship you twelve cars of cattle. Imaaybuy some more before
you can," is admissible evidence against him
Mr. T. gets baek. Do the best
account.
own
his
on
was
it
that
to show
2. Entries in the defendant's own books, whose purport was to show that the
transaction was on account of T., are not admissible.
8. When the letter of instructions told the person to whom it was written
to draw "when there is a sufficient margin," evidence as to the fact
whether there was sufficient margin or not is clearly admissible, unless
there be something special to render it not so.
4. The fact that a bill of particulars filed with the declaration is made up of
the debit of the draft sued on, sundry credits and the balance claimed,
does not tend so clearly to show that the only question which the plaintiff meant to raise was whether the transaction was one on account of
T., or an individual one, as that he may not, admitting that the transac,
tion was on account of T., give evidence to show that the recipient of
the letter had not obeyed his instructions to draw only when there was
a sufficient margin.
5. The only remedy for surprise is a motion for new trial, and the refusal of
a court below to grant one is not reviewable here.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case being thus:
Keenan & Co. were residents of Chicago, and commission
dealers in live stock there. On the 7th of July they gave
W. L. Tamblyn, then about to go to St. Louis to buy cattle
for them, a letter of introduction to Joseph Mulhall, a similar dealer of that place, and who previously to this had had
dealing in cattle ol his own account with Keenan & Co.
The letter was in these words:
MR.JOSEPH MULHALL.

CHICAGO, July 7th, 1870.

DEAR Sin: The bearer, W. L. Tamblyn, goes to your city
to buy cattle, and any favors conferred will be reciprocated.
You will make advances on any stock consigned to me, and
draw sight or time drafts when there is sufficient margin, and
Yours, respectfully,
oblige,
KEENAN & CO.

Cattle were accordingly forwarded from St. Louis to Keenan & Co. at Chicago; and at the conclusion of one trans-

action Keenan & Co. claimed a balance of $2336.26, from

MULHALL V. KEENAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mulhall, on account of a draft for $9070.73, drawn by Mulhall on the 20th of July, 1870, and paid by them, which draft
had not been discharged by the price for which the cattle
against which it was drawn had been sold.
That Keenan & Co. by the transaction in this particular
lot of cattle had got out of pocket to the extent asserted by
them was apparently not denied. The question was whether
Mulhall was liable to repay to them the deficit.
He asserted that he was not, that he had drawn on Keenan
& Co. pursuant to the above-quoted letter, for cattle bought
by Tamblyn, and that regard being had to the value of the
cattle sent he had kept his drafts within such limits that
he had left a "sufficient margin;" the inference being, of
course, that if Keenan & Co. were out of pocket, they had
made injudicious sales or had acted negligently. Keenan &
Co. asserted, on the other hand, that Mulhall had not sent
the. cattle under the above-quoted letter, but had sent them
on his own account, and independently of the letter. It
was admitted that Mulhall when forwarding his draft had not
advised Keenan & Co. that it was drawn in pursuance of the
letter of credit, and that the cattle were Tamblyn's. And
further, that after the cattle in connection with which the
draft had been drawn reached Chicago, Keenan & Co. thus
telegraphed to Mulball:
To JosEPn MULHALL,

July 25th, 1870.

St. Louis, Mo.

Sold forty-four tails ($4.40), car natives, 7 cents; balance
unsold; four half best offer. Can ship New York $50 car.
Answer.
W. T. KEENAN & CO.
And that the bookkeeper of Mulhall (Mulhall himself at
the time being ill, and, as the bookkeeper testified, "not
having been consulted," and he the bookkeeper "acting on
his own judgment and responsibility from his general position in Mulhall's office, and never thinking of the cattle
being Tamblyn's, nor looking at the books,") returned a telegram thus:

,Oct. 1873.]

845

MULHALL V. KEENAN.
Statement of the case.

'To W. T.

KEENAN & CO.,
Chicago.

Ship one-half cattle to William Thompson; 100th Street, Now
York; other half to your consignees.
JOSEPH MULHALL.

The questions thus were whether Mulhall had sent the
cattle about which the deficit arose, under the letter.
If he had not, there was, of course, an end of his defence
from that source. If he had, then arose a further question,
to wit:
Whether he did keep his drafts within such limits as that,
regard being had to the value of the cattle, he had left a
"'sufficient margin."
The parties being unable to agree, Keenan & Co. sued
Mulhall in assumpsit, and filed with their narr a bill of particulars thus:
CHICAO, August 6th, 1870.

Joseph Mulhall in account with Keenan & Co.
1870.
DR.
July 26. To draft, .
Aug. 4. " protest on draft,
"
6. " exchange on money dep.,
"
" "
"
" draft drawn,

..

..

$9070
2
3
4

78
60
08
90

$9081 31
CR.

July 26. By account sales, 69 cattle, ..
Aug. 6. "
"
"
126 "
Thompson & Co.,
,, , 9(
It
"
114 " Ranken,
July 30. "
"
1 cow,
Balance due,

$3112
1610
1892
10
2456

28
13
74
00
16

$9081 31

On the trial, the plaintiffs, in order to show that the draft
was drawn on Mulhall's own account, offered in evidence a
letter of Mulhall's thus:
ST. Louis, July 12th, 1870.

W. T.

KEENAN.

DEAR SIR:

I ship you 12 cars of catle Mr. Tamlyn has one

846

[SUp. Ct.

MULHALL v. KENAN.
Statement of the case.

of th catle I will put fibre,
half Entrust* he allso has th cst
th catl and draw for th
thousand Dollars charges or moore on
Tamblyn gets back Dow th
ballens I may by som moore Befor Mr.
yurs truly
best you can
JosEPh MULBALL.

the defendant objected,
To the admission of this evidence
but the court received it.
that the cattle were,
The defendant then, in order to show
in evidence his own
sent on account of Tamblyn, offered
cattle was entered, with
books, in which an account of the
a heading thus:
" PURCHASE CATTLE.

(Tamblyn.)"

and the court exThe plaintiff objected to the evidence,
cluded it.
always the rule in their
Mulball himself swore that it was
another, as he said "in1
for
business where a party advanced
credit," to ship the
this case I did for Tamblyn on Keenan's
who advances, and he
cattle in the name of the person
in my name."
added, "These cattle were shipped
of the trial, offered
close
the
near
The plaintiff, then,
the cattle were sent on
evidence to show that assuming that
of July 7th, 1870,
account of Tamblyn, and under the letter
shrinkage of the,
for
allowed
Mulhall in his drafts had not
and for bad markets; in,
cattle on their way to Chicago,
letter of July 7th he had
other words, had not left, as in the
margin."
been directed to leave, a "sufficient
but the court
To this evidence the defendant objected,
received it.
of the parties the.
The court, to which by a stipulation
the plaintiffs $2386.26,
case had been submitted, found for
interest.
the amount claimed, with
filed affidavits,
The defendant and his counsel thereupon
It was perhaps explained by
to St. Louis, Mulhall bought,
got
he
what Tamblyn swore, to wit, that after
of them to him ; though,
one-half
resold
then
some cattle for himself and
for."
sued
the cattle
Tamblyn swore that these "were not
clear.
* The meaning of this is not quite

.Oct. 1873.]

MULHALL V. KEENAN.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

very full to the point, that they had been completely takenl
by surprise by the admission of the testimony to prove that
the margin was not sufficient; that they had supposed that
the only issue was whether Mulhall was liable for the draft
as his individual transaction. The counsel swore that he
had so informed Mulhall near the close of his trial; and that
no question as to margin could arise. Mulhall swore that
in point of fact there was sufficient margin, and that he had
informed his counsel when evidence was given to the contrary, that he could prove this, and that the deficit sued for
had arisen from the negligence of Keenan & Co., but that
the counsel informed him that the case was closing, and that
the witnesses (who were at stock-yards between one and two
miles from the place of trial) could not be got in time. He
swore further that he could still prove all that he thus,
alleged, if opportunity was given to him. The affidavits of
other persons were filed to show that there was a sufficient
margin. A new trial was accordingly moved for; but the
court refused it.
The case was now here on exceptions by the defendant:
1st. To the admission of his letter of July 12th.
2d. To the exclusion of the entries in his own books.
3d. To the admission of testimony about margins.
Objections were also made here that the court below had
improperly disregarded the affidavits of Mulhall and his counsel about surprise, which it was argued it ought not to have
done, since the bill of particulars filed with the declaration
showed that the claim was on Mulhall as for an individual,
transaction, and naturally led to the belief that no question,
about margins would be raised.
Messrs. A. Blair and F. A. Dick, for the appellants,insisting,
chiefly on the first and third exceptions; Mr. J. M. Krum, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error, under the name of Keenan & Co.,,
sued Mulhall to-recover a balance alleged to be due to thei
upon a draft drawn by him and accepted and paid by them.

MULHALL V. KEENAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The parties waived the intervention of a jury, and submitted
the cause to the court. The court found for the plaintiffs, and
assessed their damages at $2336.26. Judgment was entered
accordingly. There was no special finding of facts. A bill
of exceptions in the record shows, that during the progress
of the trial, the defendant excepted to the admission of
evidence offered by the plaintiffs, and to the rejection of
evidence offered by himself. Three specific errors have
been assigned in this court.
(1.) The admission in evidence of the letter of Mulhallof the 12th of July, 1870-to the plaintiffs.
(2.) The exclusion of certain entries on the defendant's
books.
(3.) The admission of the testimony relating to margins.
The second assignment has been virtually abandoned, and
,need not, therefore, be considered. It is too clear to admit
of doubt that the ruling to which it relates was correct.
The letter of the 12th of July, 1870, stated, among other
things, that Mulhall might buy more cattle before Tamblyn
got back. It said nothing of Tamblyn having any interest
in such purchase, or in any further purchase the defendant
might make. Mulhall testified that the cattle were shipped
to Keenan & Co., in his name. When consulted by them
,about the disposition of the cattle unsold, his authorized
agent directed them to be shipped to New York. The draft
was drawn after the cattle were shipped to Chicago. No
explanation whatever accompanied it to Keenan & Co. Mulhall insisted that the cattle belonged to Tamblyn, subject to
his advdnces upon them, and that the advances were made
and the draft drawn upon the faith of the letter of credit
addressed to Muihall in favor of Tamblyn, which Keenan &
Co. had given to the latter. Keenan & Co. claimed that
they believed, and, under the circumstances were warranted
in believing, that the cattle belonged to Mulhall, and that
the draft was drawn solely on his own account. The letter
in question was an important link in the plaintiffs' chain of
evidence touching this issue. As such, it was clearly con-

Oct. 1873.]

MULHALL V. KEENAN.
Opinion of the court.

petent and proper to be received in evidence. Its weight
and effect, in connection with the other testimony upon the
subject, were questions for the jury. There was no error in
this ruling.
Whether it was incumbent upon Mulhall, when the draft
was forwarded, to notify Keenan & Co. that it was drawn in
pursuance of the letter of credit, and that the cattle were
Tamblyn's, is a point not raised and upon which we need,
therefore, say nothing.*
The third assignment remains to be considered. It relates
to the admission of testimony as to the margins.
The letter of credit authorized Mulhall "to make advances
on any stock consigned" by Tamblyn to Keenan & Co., and
to " draw sight or time drafts when there was sufficient
margin." The limits within which the authority to draw
was given, were thus distinctly marked. Beyond them it
did not subsist, and Keenan & Co. were in no wise liable to
the drawer. The case presented four questions:
Whether the draft was drawn by Mulhall for his own
account.
If not, whether he was estopped from denying that it was
so drawn.
Whether it was drawn in pursuance of the letter of credit.
If so drawn, whether there was such margin in respect to
the value of ;he cattle, as conformed to the requirement of
the letter of credit, and made it obligatory on Keenan & Co.
to pay the draft.
In the view presented by the last inquiry, the testimony
was clearly admissible.
This is not denied by the counsel for the plaintiff in error;
but it is insisted that this phase of the case took the defendant and his counsel by surprise, and that they did not come
to the trial prepared to meet it.
It is insisted further, that this proposition is not consistent
with the bill of particulars filed with the declaration. The
bill of particulars is made up of the debit of the draft in
* Lent v.

Padelford, 2 American Leading Cases, note, 59 and post.

GALPIN. V.

PAGE.

[Sup..Ct,

Syllabus.

question, sundry credits, and the balance claimed by Keetan & Co. It is alike consistent with either phase of the
case. If the plaintiffs were entitled to recover in any view
of the facts to be developed upon the trial, the amount to be
recovered was thus shown. The ground or grounds upon
which the recovery was to be insisted upon were in nowise
indicated. That was not the purpose of the paper. If there
were surprise, the only remedy for it was a motion for a new
trial. Such a motion was made, supported by the affidavits
of Mulhall, his counsel, and others, and was overruled by
the court. With that motion and its result we have nothing
to do. They cannot be made the subject of review by this
court. Our duty is to ascertain whether there is any error
in the record of which we can take cognizance. We have
AFFIRMED.
found none, and the judgment is

GALPIN V. PAGE.
1. Where in suits brought in a State court to settle an alleged copartnership
between the plaintiffs and a deceased partner, the Supreme Court of the
State decided that there had been no sufficient service on an infant defendant who had succeeded to an undivided interest in the property of
the deceased partner, and consequently that the lower court had had no
authority to appoint a guardian ad litem for such infant, and therefore
reversed a decree directing a sale of the property of the deceased, such
adjudication is the law of the case, and is binding upon the Circuit
Court of the United States in an action brought by a grantee of the
heirs of the deceased against a purchaser at a sale under such decree.
2. A superior court of general jurisdiction, proceeding within the general
scope of its powers, is presumed to have jurisdiction to give the judgments it renders until the contrary appears; and this presumption embraces jurisdiction not only of the cause or subject-matter of the action
in which the judgment is given, but of the parties also. The rule is
different with respect to courts of special and limited authority: their
jurisdiction must affirmatively appear by sufficient evidence or proper
averment in the record, or their judgments will be deemed void on
their face.
8. [he presumptions which the law implies in support of the judgments of
superior courts of general jurisdiction only arise with respect to jurisdictional facts, concerning which the record is silent. When the record

