EUNS0N

v. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

EUNSON v. DODGE.
Where a person during the original term of a patent bought from one who
had no right to sell it, a machine which was an infringement of the
patent, and afterwards himself bought the patent for the county where
he was using the machine, held that on an extension of the patent the
owners of the extension could not recover against him for using the
machine after the original term had expired; but that such purchase
of the interest in the patent, removed, as to the purchaser, all disability
growing out of the wrongful construction of the machine then used by
him, and rendered the use of it legal.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case being this:
On the 23d of May, 1854, the United States granted to
Myers et al. a patent for a sawing machine for fourteen
years, in other words, till the 23d of May, 1868.
About two years after the grant of the patent, that is to
say, in April, 1856, the patentees assigned to one Schureman, for himself, his legal representatives, and assigns, all
their right, title, and interest in and to the same for, in, and
to Hudson County, New Jersey, to the end of the term for
which the patent had been granted.
In May, 1865, and subsequently to the assignment just
mentioned, Dodge & Co., a firm of the same Hudson County,
New Jersey, already mentioned, bought from strangers who
had no right or license to make or vend it a sawing machine
which was an infringement of the patent. Dodge & Co.
used this machine for about fifteen months, in good faith
and without knowledge that it was an infringement. When
receiving notice from Schureman that it was so, and that he
was assignee of the patent for Hudson County, they, on the
22d of September, 1866, purchased of him the letters and all
his right and interest therein for the said county. This invested them, of course, with all the rights of the patentee,
fbr Hudson County, during the term of the patent, in other
words, till the 23d of May, 1868.
On the 13th of May, 1868, after the transfer by the paten-

Oct. 1873.]

EuNsoN

v. DODGE.

Argument for the appellants.

tees to Schureman and by him to Dodge & Co., the patent
was extended to Myers and the other patentee, from the 23d
,of May, 1868, until the 23d of May, 1875.
Their right in this extensidn these parties transferred to
IEunson et a].
Hereupon, in July, 1871, these last-named parties finding
-that Dodge & Co. were still using this machine, originally
made as already said, without license and unlawfully, and con,ceiving that in thus using it, after the date when the original
patent had expired and in the term of the extension which
had been assigned to them, Dodge & Co. were infringing
their rights, filed this bill to enjoin the use and to recover
compensation.
Dodge & Co. set up that they were protected in the use
of the machine by the terms of the eighteenth section of the
Patent Act of July 4th, 1836. That act, after providing for
renewals or extensions, enacts that"The benefit of such renewal shall extend to assignees and
grantees of the right to use the thing patented, to the extent of
,their interest therein."
The court below held that the defendants were thus protected, and a decree having been given accordingly, the com,plainants brought the case here.
Mr. F. H. Betts, for the appellants:
We concede that if the defendant's machine had been one
which was lawfully constructed by or purchased from the
patentees or their assignees, the defendants would be protected under the rule established in Wilson v. Rousseau,* and
,other cases in this court.t
This rule is founded upon the doctrine stated in one of
,these cases,t that the patentee should " be entitled to but
,one royalty for a patented machine, and consequently when
4 Howard, 646.
t Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 Howard, 539; Chaffee v. Boston Belting
,Company, 22 Id. 217, 223; Bloomer v. Millinger, 1 Wallace, 840.
1 Chaffee v. Boston Belting Company.
*

EUNSON V. DODGE.

[Sup. C..

Opinion of the court.

a patentee has himself constructed the machine, or author-ized another to construct and sell it, or to construct and useand operate it, and the consideration has been paid to him
for that right, he has then to that extent parted with his
monopoly and ceased to have any interest in the machine."
By the lawful sale of a machine, the right to use it has
passed to the purchaser in perpetuity, or so long as the machine exists.
But this case is distinguished from the cases referred to.
by the absence of the very fact that in each of those casesbrought these defendants within the permission of the statute, viz., the fact that the machine had been "lawfully
made," and the patentee had sold it, and with it ipso facto,
the perpetual right to use it; in the present case the defendant's machine was not "lawfully made." It was "built
and sold without right or license under said patent." The
patentees never have been paid for the perpetual right to,
use it. The defendants, therefore, do not come within the
terms of the eighteenth section, as construed by this court.
Mr. S. D. Law, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
This court has decided many times that the eighteenth,
section of the Patent Act of 1836 gives to an assignee of the,
patent during the original term the right to continue during,
the extended term the use of a machine used by him during
the original term.*
The complainants seek to distinguish the present from
the cases cited in this manner: In those instances they say
the machines were lawfully constructed by the patentees, or
purchased from the patentees or their assignees, whereasthe machine purchased by the defendants in this case wasnot a lawfully made machine, and was never purchased from
the owner of the patent.
* Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 Howard, 646; Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 1d..
539; Chaffee v. Boston Belting Company, 22 Id. 217; Bloomer v.Millinger,,
1 Wallace, 340.

Oct. 1873.]

Ex PARTE STATE INSURANCE COMPANY.

417

Statement of the case.

We are of the opinion that this distinction is not well
taken. That the purchase of the machine was made from
an infringer, and a wrong done, is true. When informed
of the offence, the purchaser at once corrected the evil by
purchasing the entire right of the patentees for the county
where his machine was then used, and where it has since
been used. This was equivalent to an original lawful purchase or manufacture of the machine. By the purchase of
the right for Hudson County, and from the moment of that
purchase, the defendants held and used the machine by a
lawful title, as perfect and complete against the patentees as
if the original purchase had been from them. They then
became, in the language of the statute, "grantees of the
right to use the thing patented," so continued to the time
of the expiration of the original patent, and the right so to
use was, in the further language of the statute, "the extent
of their interest therein."
We are of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court
was correct, and that it should be
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice STRONG took no part in this judgment, not
having sat in the case.

Ex

PARTE STATE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

I Prior to the act of March 3d, 1873, the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama was possessed of circuit court
powers, and among these was the right to hear and decide cases properly removable from the State courts within the limits of that district.
2 An order of a State court within those limits ordering the removal of a
case into the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Alabama was,
therefore, void, and that court was right in refusing to proceed in such
case when the papers were filed in it.

petition for a mandamus to the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Alabama, at Mobile. The case was
thus:
Between December 14th, 1819, when Alabama was adON

VOL. XVIII.

27

