516

CHAFFEE

& Co.

v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

violation of the usages or the laws of war. Assuming for
this case that these statutes are not liable to any constitutional objection, they do not change the rules of pleading,
when the defence is set up in a special plea, or dispense with
the exhibition of the order or authority upon which a party
relies. Nor do they cover all acts done by officers in the
military service of the United States simply because they
are acting under the general authority of the President as
commander in chief of the armies of the United States.
They only cover acts done under orders or proclamations
issued by him, or under his authority; and there is no difficulty in the defendants setting forth such orders or proclamations, whether general or special, if any were made,
which applied to their case.
The views thus expressed render it unnecessary to consider any other objections taken by the plaintiff to the pleas
before us.
The questions certified must be ANSWERED IN THE NEGATIVE, and the cause
REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

CHAFFEE & CO. V. UNITED STATES.

i. The action of debt lies for a statutory penalty, because the sum demanded
is certain, but though in form ex contractu it is founded in fact upon a
tort. The necessity of establishing a joint liability in such cases does
not exist; it is sufficient if the liability of any of the defendants be
shown. Judgment may be entered against them and in favor of the
others, whose complicity in the offence for which the penalty is prescribed is not proved, as though the action were in form as well as in
substance ex delicto.

2. The general rule which governs the admissibility of entries in books
made by private parties in the ordinary course of their business, requires that the entries shall be contemporaneous with the facts to which
they relate, and shall be made by parties having personal knowledge of
the facts, and be corroborated by their testimony, if living and accessible, or by proof of their handwriting if dead, or insane, or beyond the
reach of the process or commission of the court.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO. v.

UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.
,8.The cases of Fennerstein'sChampagne and Cliquot's Champagne, reported
in the 3d of Wallace, commented upon and explained, and distinguished
from the present case.
4. It is error to instruct a jury, in an action for penalties for alleged frauds
upon the revenue, that after the government has made out aprimafacie
case against the defendants, if the jury believe the defendants have it in
their power to explain the matters appearing against them, and do not
do so, all doubt arising upon such prima facie case must be resolved
against them. The burden rests upon the government to make out its
case beyond a reasonable doubt.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
(Ohio; the case being thus:
The forty-eighth section of the act of June 30th, 1864,
"To provide internal revenue to support the government,"
.&c.,* thus enacts:

"All goods, wares, merchandise, . . . on which duties are imposed by the provisions of law, which shall be found in the possession or custody, or within the control of any person . . . for
the purpose of being sold or removed by such person . . . in
fraud of the internal revenue laws, or with design to avoid payment of said duties, may be seized by any collector . . . who
shall have reason to believe that the same are possessed, had,
,or held for the purpose or design aforesaid, and the same shall
'be forfeited to the United States.
"And also all articles of raw materials found in the possession
of any person . . .intending to manufacture the same for the
purpose of being sold by them in fraud of said laws, or with de,sign to evade the payment of said duties, and also all tools, implements, instruments, and personal property whatsoever, in the
place or building, or within any yard or inclosure where such
;articles on which duties are imposed, as aforesaid, and intended
to be used by them in the fraudulent manufacture of such raw
materials, shall be found, may also be seized by any collector or
deputy collector, as aforesaid, and the same shall be forfbited as
aforesaid.
"And any person who shall have in his custody or possession any
such goods, wares, merchandise, . . . subject to duty as aforesaid,for
the purpose of selling the same with the design of avoiding payment
* 13 Stat. at Large, 240.

518

CHAFFEE

& CO. V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

of the duties imposed thereon, shall be liable to a penalty of $500, ot
not less than double the amount of duties fraudulently attempted to
be evaded, to be recovered in any court of competent jurisdiction.
"And the goods, wares, merchandise, which shall be so seized
by any collector, may, at the option of the collector, during the
pendency of such proceedings, be delivered to the marshal of said
district, and remain in his care and custody and under his control until final judgment in such proceeding shall be rendered."
This statute being in force, Sidney Chaffee, Highland
Chaffee, and Rue Hutchins, trading as Chaffee & Co., were
distillers, at Tippecanoe, a small town upon the Miami
Canal, a canal which traverses the State of Ohio from Cincinnati on the south line of the State, by a course north and
south, to Toledo in the north. The custom of Chaffee & Co.
was to ship whiskies in both directions; that is to say, northward towards Toledo and southward to Cincinnati. Going
north such whiskies had to pass through a place called
Piqua, which was the first place on the canal at which toll
was payable when the vessel was going from Tippecanoe in
the direction named. Going south, towards Cincinnati, the
whiskies had to pass through Dayton, the first place at
which toll was payable when the vessel was going from
Tippecanoe south. There was no other distillery at Tippecanoe. There were, however, in the whole distance between
Piqua and Dayton three others.
The Miami Canal, on which these whiskies were transported, had been made and for some years was managed by
the State of Ohio. And a statute for "the regulation of the
navigation thereof and for the collection of tolls," enacted
that no boat should be permitted to pass on it unless the
master had first obtained a clearance for each voyage from
the collector of tolls, which clearance the collector nearest
to the place at which the boat began her voyage was required to issue. To enable the collector to issue clearances
that should truly represent what cargo was on board, the
act made it obligatory on the master to exhibit to the collectors "a just and true account or bill of lading" of" each
and every article of property on board," when the boat

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO. V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

should depart on her voyage, or which should be taken on
board afterwards; and further, to insure accuracy, every
collector receiving a bill of lading might require the master
to verify it by his oath. The knowingly delivering any false
bill was made an indictable offence, punishable with fine in
three times the value of the property omitted or falsely
stated in the bill. The bill of lading thus required was to
be exhibited to the collector where any portion of the cargo
should be unladen. The act proceeded:
"It shall be the duty of every collector to whom bills of lading
are required to be presented, in order to obtain a clearance for
any voyage, to make out from such bill or bills of lading, in a
book, a certificate, containing a pertinent description of the articles composing the cargo of the boat, for which clearance is

about to be issued, properly classified and designated with reference
to the rates and amount of tolls chargeable thereon; which certificate shall be signed by the master, who shall also attest on oath
or affirmation to the correctness thereof, if required by the collector, before the clearance shall be issued.

"In every case where a certificate is required to be made out
and signed, the collector shall enter upon the clearance a correct
list or statement of all articles of lading contained in such certificate, properly classified and designated, with the amount of
tolls charged and received thereon, and shall sign his name
thereto.
" On the arrival of any boat at the place of destination, or at
any place in the course of the voyage where there is a collector's
office, the master thereof shall immediately present to the collector the bill or bills of lading together with the clearance.
"No boat shall proceed on its voyage until the bill or bills of
articles of lading on board thereof, together with the clearance
and list of passengers, shall have been presented to the collector,

nor until all necessary examinations and comparisons of such bills
of lading, clearance, and cargo, shall have been made, nor until all
tolls payable at such office shall have been paid; and the col-

lector may detain both the bills of lading and clearance until
the necessary entries shall be made on such clearance, and until
all the requisitions of this section shall be complied with.
"No part of the cargo of any boat shall be unladen at the

termination of any voyage until the clearance, together with

.520

CHAFFEE & CO.

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the bill or bills of lading of the whole cargo, shall have been

presented to the proper collector, and a permit obtained from
such collector for such unlading, which permit such collector is
hereby required to grant, after a reasonable time shall have
elapsed for the examination of such clearance, bills of lading
and cargo, and on the payment of all tolls which shall remain
due."
Though, as already said, the canal had been originally
managed by the State, it was not so managed at the time
when the whiskies of Chaffee & Co. were transported. The
State had leased it, the lease containing this provision:
"Such rights, privileges, and franchises now exercised by the
State as may be necessary to manage, control, and keep in repair the public works, and collect tolls for the navigation of the
same, together with the right to appoint superintendents, collectors, &c., who shall have and exercise the same power and
authority in the collection of tolls and water rents, and the levy
of fines, as can now by law be exercised by similar officers and
agents appointed by the State; and said lessee or lessees shall
be governed by the rules and regulations for navigating the
canals now in force, subject to such alterations and additions as
may hereafter be established by law," &c.
The purpose of the company, which had now leased the
canal, apparently was to follow the rules about clearances
that the statute had prescribed. But whether the rules had
been followed with statutory rigor was less clear. Captains
would come, it appeared, to the collector's office and report
for a clearance; the collectors generally, though not always,
knowing them. The bills of lading were usually produced,
but occasionally a captain would happen to have left his
bills behind, and in such case, if he was a person known to
the collector, and a person whose word the collector thought
he could safely take as to what was on board the boat, he
would sometimes dispense with the production of the bills,
and make out the clearance from the captain's verbal report;
though this would not be done ordinarily with any master,
and never in the case of " new men" whom the collectors
did not know. Captains were never interrogated upon their

'Oct. 1878.]

CHAFFEE & CO.

V.

521

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

,oaths; nor did the collector ever overhaul and make personal
linspection of cargoes, or in this way or in any way have actual and personal knowledge whether the representation of
the captains or of the bills was strictly accurate. But however made, the captain would always certify the representation on which the clearance was granted to be true. When,
however, arriving at its destination, the boat came to be unladen, it was testified "to be the duty of the collector at
such place of unlading to see, when the boat is unloading,
that the captain has given in his freight correctly; and if he
isees any freight that is not on the clearance, he then brings
the captain to an account for it."
The certificates which the captains signed on the books
,of the collector would be in this form:
"COLLECTOR'S

OFFICE,

DAYTON, December 2d, 1865.

" I, H. U. French, master of the boat A. Hopkins, do certify
-that the following is a full and true statement of all the cargo
taken on board said boat for transportation on her present passage, and that I have paid toll thereon as follows, to wit, to
Piqua, for original cargo, on clearance No. 893, viz.:
From.

The Boat.

Troy.
-900 bushels barley,

.

-50 barrels high wines,
.
,1645.29 bushels oats,

"

To Dayton.
Tippecanoe.
Troy.

To.

Cincinnati.....
"

43,200

Cincinnati.

18,000
61,314
6

Miles.

Tolls.

104

$2 06
21 60

...

86

7 20
18 68
$49 54

"H.

U.

FRENCH."

These certificates, as the reader will observe, purport to
:show the name of the boat and master, what cargo was on
the boat, where the cargo came from, and where it was
going, the number of miles of the transit, and the amount
,oftoll; but in themselves did not show who owned or who
shipped the cargo.
In the particular case of Chaffee & Co.'s whiskies, af
ithey passed through Dayton, the collector was one Brown.

522

CHAFFEE

&

CO.

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Either he or a young man in his employ kept, for the most
part, the books, Brown directing the manner, and the purpose, as testified to, being to keep them regularly. The
young man, at the time of the suit hereinafter mentioned as,
brought by the United States against Chaffee & Co., was
dead; but the entries not made by Brown himself, were,.
without denial, in his handwriting; a few excepted, which,
were in the handwriting of a grandson of Brown, whose entries Brown represented to be "a l w ays reliable."
The collectors at Piqua and at other points where tolt
was payable, when whiskies were sent in the northern direction, followed the same general mode of making out the,
clearances, that is to say, they were made out in general
from the freight bills, though occasionally where the collector knew the captain, and thought he could trust in his
word, from the captain's verbal representations; no actual
knowledge being had by the collectors here more than at
Dayton, of the truth of what the captain certified to.
At Cincinnati, of course, there were no further clearances.
What the collector then did, or at least what it was his duty
to do, was to check the clearances from other places, and
see that they were right. He made memoranda in a book
of freights as shown by them, or as found by himself, but
these no captain signed.
In one direction or in the other, Chaffee & Co. had sent
large quantities of whisky. They had also paid taxes on.
large quantities, confessedly on as much as 6045 barrels.
In this state of things, and under the forty-eighth section
of the statute of June 30th, 1864, already quoted, the United,
States brought suit in the court below against Highland Chaffee, Sidney Chaffee, Rue Hutchins (all heretofore named),
and William Chaffee, " late partners, doing business under
the firm name of H. D. Chaffee & Co."
The declaration, which was founded on the italicized portion of the section above quoted, of the act of June 30th,,
1864,* charged that the "defendants," from February 1st,
See supra, pp. 517, 618.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO. V.

UNITED STATES.

523

Statement of the case.

1865, to September 1st, 1866, were residents at Tippecanoe,
&e., they, the defendants, then and there did "carry on and
transact the business of distillers of spirits, under said firm
Co., for which they were duly
name of H. D. Chaffee
bound to pay all the revenuethereby
were
licensed," and
and to comply with the act
them,
upon
and taxes imposed
to the spirits by them
reference
passed June 30th, 1864, in
manufactured and distilled; nevertheless, that the defendants,,
with intent to evade the payment of the lawful duties upon
200,000 gallons of distilled spirits, "by them distilled at their
distillery," did, between said dates "unlawfully, knowingly,
and fraudulently, have in their custody and possession, and
under their control, 200,000 gallons of distilled spirits (each
gallon subject to a tax of $2 imposed by law, which is unpaid), for the purpose of selling the same, with the design
of avoiding the payment of the duties imposed by law thereon," and " the defendants did then and there unlawfully and
fraudulently sell, dispose of, and remove the same, so that
the lien of the plaintiff has been lost, and the taxes remain
unpaid; which act of having in their custody and possession,,
and under their control, said distilled spirits, for the purpose
of selling the same, with the design of avoiding the payment
of the duties imposed by law thereon, in fraud of the internal
revenue laws of the United States, by said defendants, was
contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and
provided, whereby the defendants forfeited and became liable
to pay to the plaintiffs, for the offence aforesaid, the penalty
of $800,000, double the amount of the taxes imposed by law
upon said distilled spirits." The declaration concluded with
an allegation that " an action hath accrued to the plaintiffs
to demand and have of the defendants the sum of $1,010,000,"
&c.
The defendants demurred generally: the ground of the
demurrer being, that the penalty prescribed by the act applied only to persons who had at the time of seizure the
goods in their possession, and then held them for sale with
a design to avoid the payment of duty upon them, and not
to those who had held them with that design, but had parted

524

CHAFFEE & CO.

v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

with them. The demurrer was overruled. The defendants
Sidney Chaffee and Hutchins then pleaded not guilty and nil
debet, and the defendant William Chaffee pleaded separately
that he was not a member of the firm of H. D. Chaffee &
Co., or interested in its business. The district attorney filed
the common similiter to the pleas of Sidney Chaffee and
Hutchins, and traversed by replication the plea of William
Chaffee.
The death of Highland Chaffee was then suggested, and
it was ordered that as to him "all proceedings be stayed and
abate."
The case being subsequently called for trial, the government abandoned, in form, the suit against William Chaffee,
the abandonment being entered of record.
On the trial, the defendants having proved that during
the time embraced in the controversy, they had paid taxes
on full 6045 barrels of whisky made by them during that
time, the government, in order to show that the defendants
had in their custody or possession, dutiable whisky, "for
the purpose of selling the same with the qesign of avoiding
payment of the duties imposed thereon," offered in evidence
the books of the collectors at Piqua and Dayton, which the
collectors produced, to show by different certificates in them,
on which clearances had been granted at Dayton or Piqua,
the collection offices nearest to Tippecanoe, at which place,
as already said, Chaffee & Co. were the only distillers, that
200,000 gallons more whisky had been moved from the
said place than duties were paid on. Certificates from the
books at Cincinnati checking the clearances, and showing
what whiskies had arrived there, were also offered.
The collectors at Piqua, Dayton, and Cincinnati were examined. As would be inferable from what has been already
stated, they had little personal knowledge of any facts bearing on the controversy.
The handwriting of Kaufman, the young man who made
some entries at Dayton, and who was dead, was proved, and
the grandson of Brown, who made some others, was pro.
duced and sworn. But the government examined none of

Oct. 1873.]

(CHAFF1E & CO.

V. UNITED STATES.

52

Statement of the case.

the captains whose names were signed to the several certificates in the books at Dayton and Piqua, as to the genuineness of their signatures, nor was proof given of the handwriting or death of any of them. The collector at Cincinnati did not testify from any knowledge of his own that his,
books contained true records of what whiskies had arrived.
Some, but not all, of the captains were examined as witnesses, and testified to the carriage of whisky from Chaffee's distillery on their boats, at dates corresponding, and of
quantities corresponding to their several certificates respectively. The government also offered evidence tending to,
prove that the distillery of Chaffee & Co., at Tippecanoe,.
was of a capacity equal to a production of fifty barrels of
whisky per day when run to its fullest capacity; a larger
number of barrels than it was admitted that duties had been.
paid on.
The defendants objected to the reception of the books, on,
the ground that it was hearsay and res inter alios acta. But
the evidence was admitted, "not as evidence that whisky
came from or belonged to the defendants, but only as competent to show that a given quantity passed a certain point,
on a given day, and if the government, did not connect
this whisky with the defendants, the testimony would be.
stricken out." The defendants excepted. The evidence
was never afterwards stricken out.
For the purpose of showing the quantity of whisky on,
hand on the 26th of October, 1865, the defendants offeredl
the evidence of twenty-three witnesses. This testimony
tended to prove that on the 1st day of July, 1864, when the
distillery stopped, there was a large quantity of whisky on
hand (perhaps 2000 barrels), which was stored in the cellar,.
grain-rooms, and other places in or about the distillery; that
this whisky, or the greater part of it, remained on the
premises until the 26th of October, 1865, the several witnesses testifying to seeing it at different times from the 1st
of July, 1864, until the 26th of October, 1865.
The government, in rebuttal, offered the evidence of
eleven witnesses. This testimony tended to prove that from

526

CHIAFEE &

CO. V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the 1st of July, 1864, to the summer of 1865, there was very
much less whisky-certain witnesses said not much more
than fifty barrels-at the distillery than was asserted by the
defendants and testified to by their witnesses; and that, in
the autumn of 1865, up to the 26th day of October, there
'was little if any whisky there.
Sidney Chaffee lived in Tippecanoe, and was about the
distillery most of the time, and attended to making purchases, and to other business of the firm of H. D. Chaffee
& Co., and Hutchins, during the time he was a partner, was
employed about the distillery. He testified that the firm of
H. D. Chaffee & Co. kept ordinary books of accounts. He
was present in court during the entire trial, and Hutchins
was in court at the close of defendant's testimony. Before
the commencement of the trial, to wit, on the 3d of March,
1870, the government had caused this notice to be served
on the defendants:
"TIPPECANOE,

March 3d, 1870.

"The United States v. 11. D. Chaffee & Co.
"The defendants will take notice that the plaintiffs have filed
a motion and have thereby moved the court, that the defendants
are required to produce, on the 8th of March, 1870, the day set
,for trial of this case, the following books, papers, and documents,
now in their possession and under their control, which contain
evidence pertinent to the issue herein, to wit, all books, papers,
and statements required by law to be kept or made by defendants, as distillers, at Tippecanoe, Ohio, from July 1st, 1864, to
October 1st, 1866, and all other books, papers, statements, and
memoranda kept by them, pertaining to their business, during
the same period at Tippecanoe.
"W. M. BATEMAN,
District Attorney of the United States."

At the Close of the defendants' testimony, the books and
papers not having been produced, the counsel for the government called for their production. The counsel for the defendants stated that they were at Buffalo. The counsel for
the government refused to receive the statement as an excuse for the non-production of the books, and demanded

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE &

Co.

V.

UNITED

STATES.

527

Statement of the case.

their production; and that S. L. Chaffee should be called
as a witness for the defence to explain why they were not
produced, and to testify generally in the case. The defendants did not produce the books and papers, and did not call
either S. L. Chaffee or Hutchins as a witness in the case.
Before charging, the court informed the counsel that it
would allow evidence to be introduced at any stage of the
case, to supply any omission or by way of explanation.
It then proceeded to charge. Commenting on the books
of the different collectors which had been received by it,
and relying on the case of Fennerstein's Champagne, reported
along with the case of Cliquot's Champagne, in 3 Wallace,* it
said:
"So far as the nature of this testimony is concerned there
has been, in modern times, a very great change of opinion; and
I do not know that if' I should search all the books I ever read,
or call to mind all my experience at the bar, I could select a
more fitting instance to illustrate my own opinion of the respective values of these two classes of testimony than the contrast
between the persuasive effect of memoranda, made in the ordinary course of business by those who have no motive to falsifywhose duty it was to record them at the time the transactions
t ook place-on the one hand, and on the other the grossly conflicting verbal testimony given in this cause as to the amount
of whisky on hand in October, 1865. Compare the two and see
upon which, in its own nature, as men of common sense, you
can repose your credence with most confidence. The one is
plain, simple, and direct, without a motive of falsification. The
other presents a spectacle like this: A phalanx of twenty men
swearing on their oaths to some two thousand barrels of whisky,
at a given time, in a given place, and two-thirds as many, equally
intelligent and equally respectable, with equal opportunities of
knowledge, swearing there is not fifty barrels there. It is a
hapless conflict, leaving the mind in uncertainty, with nothing
whatever to rest upon.
"It is, however, before you, and you will look carefully over its
details, and give due weight to the ingenious and able criticisms
* Pages 145, 114.

528

CHAFFEE

& CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

.vbich have been made by the distinguished counsel for the de-fendants."
Passing to the proofs generally, and to the effect to be
given to the non-production of the books of the firm, and'
relying on Clifton v. United States,* in 4 Howard, it instructed&
the jury among other things, as follows:
" The proof in the outset may be defective. It may not be,
sufficient to enable you, without any doubt or hesitation, to find
against the defendants, and still it may be your duty, nevertheless, so to find; for although I instruct you that the case must
be made out beyond all reasonable doubt in this, as well as in,
criminal cases, yet the course of the defendants may have supplied, in the presumptions of law, all which this stringent rnledemands. In determining, therefore, in the outset whether a
case is established by the government, you will dismiss from.
your minds the perplexing question, whether it is so made out.
beyond all doubt. It needs not, in the exigencies of this case.
be so proved in order to throw the burden of explanation upon,
the defendant, if from the facts you believe he has within his.
reach that power. In the end all reasonable doubt must be removed; but here, at this stage, you need say only 'is the case,
so far established as to call for explanation ?'
"If, then, you conclude that, unexplained and uncontroverted
by any testimony, the opening proof' would enable you to find,
against the defendants for the claim of the government, or any
material part of it, you will then take up their testimony in,
view of the principle announced. Although the counsel for the
defence, when this principle was announced, with spirit and,
energy begged leave to differ with the court in reference to the
effect of not producing the books, and not swearing the defendants, still the presumption of law is that client and counsel have
deliberately, and with full knowledge of the law and all its presumptions, elected to withhold this proof, and you will not in
the smallest degree abate the full application of the principle on,
any notion that it may have been misapprehended. The rule
is one which I am confident will commend itself to your common reason. It is this: ' Without exception, where a party has
proof in his power, which, if produced, would render certain
* Page 242.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & Co. v. UNITED STATES.

529

Argument for the distillers.

material facts, the law presumes against a party who omits it,
and authorizes a jury to resolve all doubts adversely to his defence. The same rule is applicable in a case where a party once
had proof in his power which had been voluntarily destr6yed
or placed beyond his reach.'
" If you believe the books were kept which contained the
facts necessary to show the real amount of whisky in the hands
of the defendants, in October, 1865, and the amount which they
had sold during the next ten months, or that the defendants, or
that either of them, could, by their own oath, resolve all doubts
on this point; if you believe this, then the circumstances of this
case seem to come fully within this most necessary and benefi.
cent rule."
To the instructions thus given the defendants excepted.
The jury found that " the defendants owe to the plaintiff
the sum of $285,680, in manner and form as the plaintit
have complained against them."
Motions by the defendants for a new trial and in arrest
of judgment were overruled, and the court entered judgment on the verdict.
The defendants now brought the case here, alleging that
the court had erred among other ways1. In overruling the defendant's demurrer.
2. In overruling the motion in arrest of judgment.
3. In admitting the entries contained in the certificate.
book of the collectors at Dayton, Piqua, and Cincinnati.
4. In instructing the jury as it had done.
The case was thoroughly and interestingly argued on both
sides, with a full citation of authorities.
Messrs. G. Hoadly and J. F. Follett (with whom were E. X.
Johnson and J. D. Cox), for the plaintiff in error:
1. The demurrer should not have been overruled, and the
judgment should still be arrested for a misconception of the
meaning of the section of the act on which the suit is
brought. The whole section on which the suit is brought
is homogeneous; its purpose was to insure the forfeiture of
dutiable articles, "found" in the possession or custody or
VOL. XVIII.

84

630

CHAFFEE & CO.

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the distillers.

within the control of any person for this unlawful purpose,
and the punishment of the person in the custody or possession of "such goods." The act does not refer to a design
merely conceived or entertained by the owner of dutiable
property, to sell it with the design of defrauding the government. It is aimed at an overt act, a fraudulent attempt,
and this is defined as custody, possession, or control, for the
purpose of selling or removing, and not merely possession
or control coincident with such purpose. In other words,
the punishable possession is not that which is simultaneous
with, but that which is "for the purpose" of fraud.
2. Independently of this the judgment should be arrested.
The action is debt brought against Highland Chaffee, Sidney
Chaffee, William Chaffee, and Rue Hutchins, partners, as H.
D. Chaffee & Co. During the progress of the cause Highland Chaffee died. William Chaffee, by plea traversed the
averment that he was a partner, and the jury having been
sworn and testimony given, the government abandoned the
claim against him.
This verdict, therefore, which was given, that "the defendants" owe, was bad in law. The action being ex contractu, upon an issue made up in part by the plea of nil debet,
and the verdict expressing, not that the defendants are
guilty, but that they owe, there could be in law no judgment
against less than the whole number of those original defendants who were surviving, except upon a plea of personal
disability of the acquitted defendant, not inconsistent with
the truth of the declaration, as of lunacy, coverture, infancy,
bankruptcy.
Sir William Blackstone,* speaking of implied contracts,
says :
"Of this nature are such as are necessarily implied by the
fundamental constitution of government, to which every man
is a contracting party. And thus it is that every person is
bound and hath virtually agreed to pay such particular sums of
money as are charged on him by the sentence, or assessed by
3 Commentaries, 159.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO.

v. UNITED STATES.

531

Argument for the distillers.

the interpretation of the law. .

.

. Whatever, therefore, the

laws order any one to pay, that becomes instantly a debt which
he hath beforehand contracted to discharge."
Chief Baron Comyn* says:
"Debt lies upon every contract, in deed or in law. As if an act
,of Parliament gives a penalty, and does not say to whom nor
by what action it shall be recovered, an action of debt lies upon
,such statute by the party grieved."
So also Smith Thompson, J. :t
"Actions for penalties are civil actions, both in form and in
-substance, according to Blackstone. The action is founded upon
that implied contract which every person enters into with the
-state to obey its laws."
So also the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in Burnham
,v. Webster,t in which Parsons, C. J., says:
"But if debt qui tam be sued against several, demanding a
joint forfeiture, on a plea of nil debet all the defendants ought
to be found indebted, because the form of the action and plea is
on a joint contract, although the debt arises from a tort."
The action in Burnham v. Webster was brought, in debt, to
recover four penalties of $15 each, for taking fish by a seine
or drag-net, against the form of the statute. A passage in
Chitty, and the case of Bastard v. Hancock, in Carthew, may
indeed be cited, opposed to this view; but the great authority of Comyn, Blackstone, Thompson, and Parsons,ยง
the first names on either side of the Atlantic, cannot be set
-aside by a passage of Chitty on Pleading, sustained by a
case in Carthew, a reporter, the accuracy of whose work
Lord Thurlow questioned.
3. The court erred in its rulings upon the admission of
testimony. The Cincinnati book being a record of arrivals,
while the Dayton and Piqua books are records of clearances,
* Comyn's Digest, Title, Debt, A, 1.

f Stearns et al. v. United States, 2 Paine, 801, 811.
t 5 Massachusetts, 270; and see Stilson v. Tobey, 2 Id. 621; and Hill t.
D)avis, 4 Id. 140.
J Wallace's Reporters, 246.

532

CHAFFEE & CO. V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the distillers.

different questions would present themselves as to each, if
each was admissible. But no one of the books was a public
record, nor as such had any one superior value, or any freedora from the ordinary conditions of admissibility of private,
books of entry. The collector at Cincinnati was not bound
to keep any record of discharges. He gave no clearances
after a vessel arrived. His books certainly were not made
in pursuance of statute.
By specifying the required contents of the certificates,
viz., a pertinent description of the articles composing the
cargo "properly classified and designated, with reference to
the rate and amount of tolls chargeable thereon," the statute of
Ohio shows that the State meant to keep only such a record
of the movement of property on its canals as might be necessary to secure its tolls. The same barrel, if it went forward and back on the canal, would be regarded and entered,
on clearances as two barrels. But was it two barrels, and!
is the distiller to be charged for two ?
The entries here were secondary evidence. The bills of
lading from which they were made were the primary sources
of knowledge; but no foundation was laid for the introduction of secondary evidence in the case.
Again, the entries were not competent as the declarations
of collectors, for the collectors had no knowledge on the subject. They merely prepared the records from an examination,
of the bills of lading, or from what was a much less certain
source, the recollections of captains as stated to them orally.
Nor were they competent as the certificates of the captains,.
because the certificates, considered as entries or declarations
of the captains, were incompetent without proof of the'
death or non-accessibility of the captains, if they were not
called. In the Cincinnati cases the captains signed nothing.
It will not be argued that any of these certificates would
be admitted in any English court; they do not come within
the leading case of Price v. Lord Torrington,* nor any of the
later cases.
1 Salkeld, 285; 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 890.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO. V.

UNITED STATES.

533

Argument for the government.

4. As to the errors in the charge. In substance, the
charge was this: That while, in the end, the government
must prove its claim true beyond a reasonable doubt, yet if
before the defendants gave any proof it made out a plausible,
reasonably-proved case, so far established as to call for explanation as to any material part of its claim, then, if the
defendants failed to produce their books and to testify in
their own exculpation, the law presumed against them, resolving all doubts adversely to their defence; and all reasonable doubts having been thus removed by their fatal
omission to prove their innocence by their own testirnony
and their books, it became the duty of the jury to resolve
all doubts against the defendants in ascertaining the amount
of the penalty to be assessed, by starting with the government's primal facie case for $750,000, or whatever other sum
such case established, and marking out any or all of it, as
far only as the jury could so do without any doubt or hesitation.
This is no caricature, but a fair summary of the charge.
Such a charge substantially withdrew from the defendants
their constitutional right of trial by jury, and converted
what at common law and in equity would have been their
protection, viz., the right to refuse to testify to their own
conviction, into the machinery for their sure destruction,
actually placing them in no better position than if they had
failed to plead and the jury had been sworn to assess the
debt and damages upon default.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor- General, contra:
1. The clause in the forty-eighth section, upon which the
declaration was framed, and which in the section as quoted
supra, p. 517, is italicized, differs from the preceding clause
in that it does not require a present possession for the institution of proceedings. On the contrary, such proceedings
may be founded upon any previous possession. The draftsman of the section commences by providing punishments
for two specific offences, and then reverts to the first-named
punishment for the purpose of providing for certain details

CHAFFEE & Co. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the government.

in the proceedings incident to the enforcement of such punishment.
Legislators often use the word shall for shall have. It is
rarely that they provide punishment for a man who shalt
have committed crime; on the contrary, they almost always
say (ex. gr.) he who shall commit treason shall suffer death,
&c.
2. The action being debt upon a penal statute against three,
two only of whom are found indebted, judgment may well
be given against the two. The particular distinction, first
taken in Bastardv. Hancock,* reported by Carthew, between
debt upon penal statutes and other forms of debt, was not
under consideration by Blackstone, or Comyn, or Smith
Thompson, J., referred to on the other side. The authorities relied on by the other side are, therefore, no authorities
against that distinction. There remains for the plaintiffs in
error the great authority of the elder Parsons. The case in
Carthew, however, was not cited before him. And even
Parsons, C. J., must yield a point of pleading to the extraordinary authority of Chitty and Sergeant Williams.t The
passage in Chitty has stood the test of twenty editions without change. The case in Carthew is the leading authority,
and according to the reporter, it was decided on the point of
the proper entry, "after great debate" in the C. B. Lord
Thurlow was fond of undervaluing persons who stood in his
way. His judgment of a common-law reporter like Carthew
may be questioned. Two better common-lawyers, Willes
and Kenyon, speak highly of Carthew as a reporter.1
3. As to the admissibility of evidence. Conceding that
the entries in the canal books are but ordinary entries in
books kept in the course of official duty, how do they stand ?
The canal books had been kept at three different offices,
Piqua, Dayton, and Cincinnati; the first, of clearances northwardly from the place where the distillery was located; the
second, of those southwardly; and the third, of arrivals at the
* Page 861.

f For the latter, see Coryton v. Lithebye, note, 2 Saunders, 117, c.
I Wallace's Reporters, 246, 3d edition.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO. V. UNITED STATES.

535

Argument for the government.

southern termination of the canal. The course of business
made it the duty of three persons to keep such books at the
above places, respectively. The books of the latter were a
check upon those of the former for all freight coming down
from, or from above, those points; and it was the duty and
practice of collectors at such points to inspect the freight as
the boat was unloaded, above, for the purpose of checking the
books at the clearing offices, &c. For all entries at Dayton
there are corresponding ones at Cincinnati.
So far as entries were made by persons whose duty it was,
and who are living, and shown not to have known the truth
of those entries, the principle which underlies the competency of this class of evidence is a confidence in the general
honesty and truthfulness of such entries, like that felt in the
general uniformity of all natural phenomena. All intelligent
business persons feel great confidence in its revelations, irrespective of any inquiry into the intelligence of the officer
who made the entries. It is enough to know that these are
the freight books, say of such and such a steam navigation,
or railroad, or canal company, to cause one to conciliate at
once favor for their contents.
Much evidence quite as reliable as that of most other
classes will be excluded, if it be required of clerks of companies doing transportation business by ships, railways, or
canals, that they shall have a personal knowledge of the
truth of every detail of freight entered by them in the course
of duty; or, otherwise, that their books, kept in the only
practicable way, shall not be competent evidence of such
matters. A vast mass of facts intimately connected with
commercial business, and therefore of great importance in
litigation, is every day recorded in such books, in cases
where it is impracticable, not to say impossible, that the
entry-maker should know their truth.
The principle in Price v. Lord Torrington was as great a
shock to the conservative thought of the profession at the
beginning of the last century as its development administered by the court below is claimed to be to such thought
now. It may well be said that such development is as nec.

536

CHAFFEE & CO. V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

essary to the condition of commerce now as the form in
which it originated was to the business of 1704. Such seems
to be the tendency of those views of this court in Fennerstein's Champagne and Cliquot's Champagne, the former of
which cases especially the court considered as making these
entries evidence.
4. As to the exceptions to the charge. In considering
any paper piecemeal,-taking particular passages and excepting to them-risk is run of doing injustice to its meaning
by tearing connected passages asunder. Certain words attributed to the learned judge below may not have been just
the words which he would have selected in his study, with
opportunity for weighing them and fixing their exactest import, but the general drift is intelligible, and as reflected in
the whole (the practical import of which is, that the jury
was authorized to resolve all doubts against a party who
continued silent when he ought to speak) is correct. The
abstract rule laid down is not only applicable to the present
case but universally applicable, and as the court had already
announced that it would at any stage of the case allow evidence
to be introduced by way of explanation or to supply an
omission, objection to it seems unreasonable.*
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The object of the demurrer to the declaration was to raise
the question whether the penalty prescribed by the fortyeighth section of the Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864, was
intended to apply to any persons except those in whose possession, custody, or control the goods seized are found, and
who then hold them for the purpose of sale, with design to
avoid the payment of the duties. That section authorizes the
forfeiture of dutiable goods when held for sale with that design, and of the raw materials and tools intended for use in
the manufacture of such goods, and imposes a penalty upon
the person who, with that purpose and design, has the goods
* See what is said by Alderson, B., in Boyle v. Wiseman, 10 Exchequer,

66)

'Oct. 1873.]

CHAFIEE

&

CO. V. UNITED STATES.

537

Opinion of the court.

in his possession or custody, or under his control. It is the
,possession with the unlawful purpose that the act was intended to reach by a forfeiture of the goods found with the
party, and the punishment of such party. The defendants
,contend that such possession must exist when the seizure is
made; the government insists that it is immaterial when the
possession existed, if it was accompanied at the time with
the unlawful purpose.
When this case was argued the court consisted only of
eight judges, and upon the question raised by the demurrer
they are equally divided in opinion, and therefore no de.cision can be had thereon.
It does not appear by the record on what special grounds
the motion in arrest of the judgment was made, but it was
assumed in the argument of counsel that not only the question, which we have already mentioned as arising upon the
demurrer, was presented on the motion, but also the further
question, whether the action, being debt against several, and
the plea being nil debet, judgment could be entered against
.any less than the whole number surviving, except upon a
plea of personal disability of the acquitted defendant, not
inconsistent with the truth of the original declaration, such
as coverture, infancy, or bankruptcy. The action was originally brought against four defendants, Highland Chaffee,
Sidney Chaffee, William Chaffee, and Hutchins, who are
described as late partners doing business under the firm
name of H. D. Chaffee & Co. During the progress of the
cause Highland Chaffee died. William Chaffee pleaded that
he was not, at the time designated in the declaration, or at
any other time, a member of the firm of H. D. Chaffee &
,Co., or interested in its business, and on the trial the plaintiffs abandoned their claim against him and allowed judgment to pass in his favor. Sidney Chaffee and Hutchins
pleaded both not guilty, and nil debel, and the verdict of the
jury was that the defendants owed the plaintiffs the sum of
two hundred and thirty-five thousand and six hundred and
eighty dollars, in manner and form as they had complained
against them. Now the argument is, that as the declaration

CHAFFEE & CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

alleges a joint liability of all the defendants, the plea of nil,
debet by two of them-that they were not indebted to the
plaintiffs in manner and form as alleged-puts in issue such
joint liability, and the finding against the two with the acquittal of the other, showed that the plea of nil debet was true,
and that there was no such joint liability, but the contrary
established; and, therefore, the judgment should be arrested.
The answer to the argument is, that the rule stated as to the,
effect of the plea of nil debel only applies where the action is
debt upon a simple contract. The action of debt lies for a
statutory penalty, because the sum demanded is certain, but
though in form ex contractu, it is founded in fact upon a tort.
The necessity of establishing a joint liability in such cases
does not, therefore, exist; it is sufficient if the liability of
any of the defendants be shown. Judgment may be entered
against them and in favor of the others, whose complicity in
the offence, for which the penalty is prescribed, is not proved,
precisely as though the action were in form as well as in
substance ex delicto.
The testimony admitted on the trial, to which the defendants specially excepted, consisted of the certificate-books of
certain collectors of tolls on the Miami Canal. That canal,
extends from Cincinnati to Toledo, in Ohio, passing through,
Tippecanoe. The nearest collector's office north of this place
was at Piqua, the nearest south of it was at Dayton. Between these points there were four distilleries, three besides.
that of the defendants. The canal belongs to the State, but
was leased in 1861 to private parties for ten years, which
term was extended, in 1867, for ten years more. The act
of the legislature authorizing the lease provided that it
should vest in the lessees such rights, privileges, and franchises then exercised by the State, as might be necessary to,
manage, control, and keep in repair the canal and collect
tolls for its navigation, with the right to appoint superin.
tendents and collectors, who should exercise the same power,
and authority in the collection of tolls and water rents and
the levy of fines, as could then be exercised by similar officers
and agents appointed by the State; and that the lessees.

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE

&

CO.

V. UNITED STATES.

5W

Opinion of the court.

should be governed by the rules and regulations for navigating the canals then in force, subject to such alterations:
as might thereafter be established by law. By an act of the
State then in force, passed in 1840,* no boat or float wasallowed to start on a voyage on the canal without having a.
clearance from the collector at the nearest point of departure, or to pass any collector's office on the canal without
producing the clearance with its bills of lading. In order
to obtain the clearance, the master of the boat or float was
required to present the bills of lading to the collector, and
before it could be issued, it was the duty of the collector to
make out from the bills of lading, in a book to be provided
for that purpose, a certificate containing a description of the
articles composing the cargo of the boat or float, properly
classified and designated with reference to the rates and
amount of tolls chargeable thereon; and that certificate was
to be signed by the master, and, if required, its correctness
was to be attested by his oath or affirmation. On the arrival
of the boat or float at its place of destination, no part of the
cargo could be unladen, landed, or removed from the canal
until the clearance and bills of lading were presented to the'
collector at the place and his permit obtained.
It was proved on the trial that, between the dates mentioned in the declaration, the defendants had paid taxes on
over six thousand barrels of whisky manufactured by them.
But the plaintiffs endeavored to prove that a larger quantity
was transported by vessel or rail from Tippecanoe between
these dates, and that there was no other distillery at that
place, except the one owned by the defendants, from which,
it could have been ieceived; and thus show that the defendants had had in their possession or custody within that
period, distilled spirits for sale with the design of avoiding
the payment of duties thereon, as alleged in the declaration.
For this purpose they gave in evidence, against the objection
of the defendants, the certificate-books of the collectors of
of the Stater
* Entitled " An act to provide for the protection of the canals

of Ohio, the regulation of the navigation thereof, and for the collection of
tolls ;" approved March 28th, 1840.

540

CHAFFEE & Co. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tolls at Piqua, above Tippecanoe, and at Dayton, below it;
and also a certificate-book kept by the collector at Cincinnati, showing the arrivals of freight at that port. The
certificates stated the place from which the whisky was
received, and its quantity, but not the parties to whom it
belonged, or by whom it was shipped. The collector at
Dayton testified as to the sources of information from which
he made up the certificates, and it was admitted that the
collectors at the other points would testify substantially to
the same effect as to the sources of the information on which
they acted. These were generally the freight bills presented
by captains of boats, as required by the act of 1840; but
sometimes the bills were not presented, and then the simple
statements of the captains were received, if they were well
known. The collectors had no personal knowledge of the
truth of the statements contained in the certificates; and
though when a clearance was wanted they were at liberty
to require the oath or affirmation of the captains signing the
,certificates to their correctness, it does not appear that either
oath or affirmation was ever exacted. Some of the captains,
but not all of them, were produced as witnesses at the trial
as to their carriage of whisky from the distillery of the defendants, but they were not examined as to the genuineness
of their signatures to the certificates; nor were the signatures of the other captains, who were not produced, proven,
nor their death shown or absence accounted for. All the
certificates were admitted without distinction. When the
books were offered, objection was taken to their introduction, on the general ground that they were hearsay evidence
and transactions between third parties. Subsequently a
:similar objection was taken to each of the certificates on a
motion to exclude them from the jury.
The books were not public records; they stood on the
,same footing with the books of the trader or merchant.
The fact that the lease was from the State did not change
the character of the entries made by the collectors, who
were simply agents of the lessees, and not public officers of
the State. Their admiksibility must, therefore, be deter-

Oct. 1873.]

CHAFFEE & CO.

V. UNITED

STATES.

541

Opinion of the court.

mined by the rule which governs the admissibility of entries
made by private parties in the ordinary course of their
business.
And that rule, with some exceptions not including the
present case, requires, for the admissibility of the entries,
not merely that they shall be contemporaneous with the facts
to which they relate, but shall be made by parties having
personal knowledge of the facts, and be corroborated by
their testimony, if living and accessible, or by proof of their
handwriting, if dead, or insane, or beyond the reach of the
process or commission of the court. The testimony of living
witnesses personally cognizant of the facts of which they
speak, given under the sanction of an oath in open court,
where they may be subjected to cross-examination, affords
the greatest security for truth. Their declarations, verbal
or written, must, however, sometimes be admitted when
they themselves cannot be called, in order to prevent a
failure of justice. The admissibility of the declarations
is in such cases limited by the necessity upon which it is
founded.
We do not deem it important to cite at length authorities
for the rule and its limitation as we state it. They will be
found in the approved treatises on evidence, and in the
numerous cases cited by counsel on the argument. In this
court the case of Nicholls v. Webb, reported in 8 Wheaton,*
and that of Insurance Company v. Weide, reported in 9 Wallace,t are illustrations of the rule. In the first case, it was
held that after the death of a notary, his record of protests
was admissible upon proof of his death and handwriting,
the court observing that it was the best evidence the nature
of the case admitted of, that the party being dead, his personal examination could not of course be had, and that the
question was, whether there should be a total failure of justice or secondary evidence should be admitted to prove the
facts. In the second case, the books and ledger of the plaintiffs were admitted in evidence to show the amount and value
*Page 826.

t Page 677.

CHAFFEE & CO.

v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

,of goods lost by the burning of their store, upon the testimony of the parties who made the entries that they were correct, the court holding that the books "would not have been
'evidence per se, but with the testimony accompanying them,
all objections were removed;" and referring to cases decided
in the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals of New York,
in support of the ruling. In both of these eases the entries
were made by parties personally cognizant of the facts.
This knowledge of the party making the entry is essential
to its admissibility. His testimony, if living, would be rejected if ignorant of the facts entered, and it would be
,strange if his death could improve its value in that respect.
The cases of Fennerstein's Champagne and Cliquot's Champagne, reported in the 3d Wallace,* do not infringe upon
this rule. Those were cases where it became necessary to
,establish the market value of certain wines in France, and
such value could only be ascertained by sales made by
-dealers in those wines in different parts of the country, and
the prices at which they were offered for sale, and circumstances affecting the demand for them. It would not be
proved by a single transaction, for that may have been exceptional; the sale may have been made above the market
price, or at a sacrifice below it. Market value is a matter
,ofopinion which may require for its formation the consideration of a great variety of facts. To arrive at a just conclusion prices-current, sales, shipments, letters from dealers
and manufacturers, may properly receive consideration. A
party, without having been previously engaged in any mercantile transaction, may be able to give with great accuracy
the market value of an article the dealing in which he has
watched, and in stating the grounds of his opinion as a witness, he may very properly refer to all these circumstances,
and even the verbal declarations of dealers.t Now in the
cases in 3d Wallace, statements of dealers in the champagne,
or of agents of dealers, made in the course of their duties
as agents, and letters from dealers and prices-current, were
*Pages 114, 145.

j Alfonso v. United States, 2 Story, 426.

Oct.

1873.]

CHAFFEE

& CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

548

Opinion Of the court.

.admitted as bearing upon the point sought to be established,
the market value of the wines. There is no analogy between these cases and the one at bar. What was the market
value of the wines in France was, as already said, a matter
of opinion. Whether the defendants had in their possession
,or custody, between certain dates, 200,000 gallons of distilled
spirits, or any other quantity, for the purpose of selling the
:same with a design to avoid the payment of duties thereon,
was a question of fact and not of opinion.
If now we apply the rule which we have mentioned to the
certificate-books of the canal collectors their inadmissibility
is evident. They were not competent evidence as declarations of the collectors, for the collectors bad no personal
knowledg6 of the matters stated; they derived all their information either from the bills of lading or verbal statements
of the captains. Nor were the books competent evidence
as declarations of the captains, because it does not appear
that the bills of lading were prepared by them, or that they
had personal knowledge of their correctness, or that their
verbal statements, when the bills of lading were not pro,duced, were founded upon personal knowledge; and besides,
many of the certificates were admitted without calling the
,captains who signed them, and without proof of their death
or inaccessibility.
It remains to consider the exceptions taken to the charge
to the jury. These are sixteen in number, and are directed
,principally to the error which pervades the whole charge,
'consisting in the instruction reiterated in different forms,
that after the government had made out a prima facie case
,against the defendants, if the jury believed the defendants
had it in their power to explain the matters appearing
.against them, and did not do so, all doubt arising upon such
primd facie case must be resolved against them. As we
have stated, the defendants had paid taxes on over six thousand barrels of whisky manufactured by them between the
,dates mentioned in the declaration. Nearly this number
was traced to consignees. By the canal certificates and railroad receipts the government had shown in that way a trans-

544

CHAFFEE & Co. v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,.

Opinion of the court.

portation from Tippecanoe of over two thousand barrels.
more. It was admitted that no charge was to be made to,
the defendants for any amount they had on hand in October,
1865, although the declaration charges the possession with
the unlawful purpose to have been between February 1st,.
1865, and September 1st, 1866. The defendants endeavored
to show that they had on hand at that time between two,
and three thousand barrels, and for that purpose called in a
large number of witnesses, neighbors, and others, who hadi
visited the distillery during that period. The estimates of
the amount by these witnesses differed materially, being,
made from recollection. The defendants were present at
the trial, but were not called as witnesses. It was proved
that they kept books, consisting of day-books, journals, and;
ledgers.
Now the court instructed the jury that it was a rule, without exception, that where a party has proof in his power
which, if produced, would render material facts certain, thelaw presumes against him if he omits to produce it and authorizes a jury to resolve all doubts adversely to his defence;
that although the case must be made out against the defendants beyond all reasonable doubt in this case as well as
in criminal cases, yet the course of the defendants may have
supplied in the presumptions of law all which this stringent
rule demanded. "In determining, therefore, in the outset,"
said the court to the jury, "whether a case is established by
the government, you will dismiss from your minds the perplexing question whether it is so made out beyond all doubt.
It need not, in the exigencies of this case, be so proved in
order to throw the burden of explanation upon the defendant, if from the facts you believe he has within his reach
that power. In the end, all reasonable doubt must be removed, but here, at this stage, you need say only, is the case,
so far established as to call for explanation." . . . "If, then,.
you conclude that, unexplained and uncontroverted by any
testimony, the opening proof would enable you to find against
the defendants for the claim of the government, or any ma.
terial part of it, you will then take up their testimony iii

Oct. 1878.]

CHAFFEE & CO.

V.

UNITED STATES.

545

Opinion of the court.

view of the principle" stated, that of presuming against a
party who fails to produce proofs in his possession. And
again, the court instructed the jury that the law presumed
that the defendants kept the accounts usual and necessary
for the correct understanding of their large business and
an accurate accounting between the partners, and that the
books were in existence and accessible to the defendants
unless the contrary were shown, and then said to the jury,
"If you believe the books were kept which contained the
facts necessary to show the real amount of whisky in the
hands of the defendants in October, 1865, and the amount
which they had sold during the next ten months, or that the
defendants, or either of them, could by their own oath resolve
all doubts on this point; if you believe this, then the circumstances of this case seem to come fully within this most
necessary and beneficent rule."
The purport of all this was to tell the jury that, although
the defendants must be proved guilty beyond a reasonable
doubt, yet if the government had made out a primd facie
case against them, not one free from all doubt, but one
which disclosed circumstances requiring explanation, and
the defendants did not explain, the perplexing question of
their guilt need not disturb the minds of the jurors; their
silence supplied in the presumptions of the law that full
proof which should dispel all reasonable doubt. In other
words, the court instructed the jury, in substance, that the
government need only prove that the defendants were presumptively guilty, and the duty thereupon devolved upon
them to establish their innocence, and if they did not they
were guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
We do not think it at all necessary to go into any argument to show the error of this instruction. The error is
palpable on its statement. All the authorities condemn it.*
The case of Clifton v. United States, in 4 Howard, cited by
the court below, was decided upon a statute which cast the
* Doty v. State, 7 Blackford, 427; State v. Flye, 26 Maine, 812; Common-

wealth v. McKie, 1 Gray, 61.
VOL. XVIII.

35

BOYCE

v. TABB.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

burden of proof upon the claimant in seizure cases after
probable cause was shown for the prosecution, and, therefore, has no application.* The instruction sets at naught
established principles, and justifies the criticism of counsel
that it substantially withdrew from the defendants their constitutional right of trial by jury, and converted what at law
was intended for their protection-the right to refuse to testify-into the machinery for their sure destruction.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause
REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

BOYCE V. TABB.
1. It is no defence to a suit brought on a promissory note executed in Louisiana, in February, 1861, by the holder against the maker, to allege and
prove that such note was given as the price of slaves sold to the maker.
2. That such sale was at the time lawful in the said State was a sufficient
consideration for a note, and the obligation could not be impaired by
laws of the State passed subsequently to the date thereof.
3. No law of the United States has impaired such obligation.
4. The thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, enacting "that the
laws of the several States . . . shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at
common law in the courts of the United States, in oases where they apply,"
does not apply to questions of a general nature not based on a local
statute or usage, nor on any rule affecting the titles to land, nor on any
principle which has become a rule of property.
ERROR to the Circuit -Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
The thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789
enacts:

"That the laws of the several States . . . shall be regarded
as rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the
United States, in cases where they apply."
Tlis provision of law being in force, Boyce, on the 13th
of February, 1861, gave to Tabb a promissory note, as the
I Stat. at Large, 678; Locke v. United States, 7 Cranch, 389.

