'Oct. 1878.]

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL BANK OF MISSOURI.

409

Statement of the case.

,evidently refers to such franchises as are essential to the
'operation of the road sold, without which the ownership of
the road would be comparatively valueless, such as the
franchise to run cars, to take tolls, and the like.
But if we are mistaken in this particular, we are clear
that it never was intended by the ordinance to sanction, by
;the sale of the franchises of a defaulting corporation, the re,newal of an exemption which had once ceased to exist, and
'which the constitution had declared should never thereafter
,be created. The inhibition of the constitution applies in
.all its force against the renewal of an exemption equally as
.against its original creation; and this inhibition the legislature could not disregard in providing for the sale of the
1property which it had purchased.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL

BANK OF MISSOURI.

lUnder the thirtieth section of the National Banking Act, which enacts that
National banks "may take, receive, reserve, and charge on any loan. . . interest at the rate allowed by the laws of the State or Territory where the bank is
located, and no nore; except that where, by the laws of any State, a different
rate is limited for banks of issue, organized under State laws, the rate so limited
sball be allowed for associations organized in any such State under the act:"
National banks may take the rate of interest allowed by the State to
natural persons generally, and a higher rate, if State banks of issue are

authorized by the laws of the State to take it.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.
Tiffany, trustee of Darby, a bankrupt, brought an action
,of debt in the court below against the National Bank of
Missouri, a corporation organized under the National Banking Act of June 3d, 1864, to recover under the provisions
,of the thirtieth section of the act twice the amount of interest paid by the said Darby, on certain loans made by the
bank to him before he was adjuidged a bankrupt. The
.ground of the action was, that the interest reserved and paid
ERROR

410

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL BANK OF MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was 9 per cent.; a rate averred to be greater than the amount
allowed by law, to wit, 8 per cent.
The provisions of the thirtieth section of the act, under
which the suit was brought, are as follows:
"Every association organized under this act, may take, re-ceive, reserve, and charge on any loans . . . interest at the rate,

allowed by the laws of the State or Territory where the bank is located, and no more; except that where, by the laws of' any State,
a different rate is limited for banks of issue organized underState laws, the rate so limited shall be allowed every association,
organized in any such State under this act. And when no rateis fixed by the laws of the State or Territory, the bank may
take, receive, reserve or charge a rate not exceeding 7 per centurn ...
"And in case a greater rate of interest has been paid, the,
person or persons paying the same, or their legal representatives, may recover back, in any action of debt, twice the amount
of interest thus paid from the association taking or receiving:
the same." . . .
In Missouri, the banks of issue, organized under the State
laws, are limited to 8 per cent., but the rate of interest allowed'
by the laws of the State generally is 10 per cent. As already
signified, this bank had taken 9 per cent.
On demurrer the question was, whether the National,
banks in Missouri were allowed to charge more than 8 per
cent. The court below adjudged that they were.
Mr.S. Knox, for the appellant; Mr. J. 0. Broadhead, contra..
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court..
In an action like the present, brought to recover that
which is substantially a statutory penalty, the statute must
receive a strict, that is, a literal construction. The defendant is not to be subjected to a penalty unless the words of
The question, therefore, is,
the statute plainly impose it.
whether the thirtieth section of the act of Congress of June,
3d, 1864, relative to National banking associations, clearly
prohibits such associations in the State of Missouri from re-

Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL BANK OF MISSOURI.

411

Opinion of the court.

serving and taking a greater rate of interest than 8 per cent.,
the rate limited by the laws of that State to be charged by
the banks of issue organized under its laws. Itis only in
case a greater rate of interest has been paid than the National banking associations are allowed to receive that they
are made liable to pay twice the interest. The act of Congress enacts that every such association "may take, receive,
reserve, and charge on any loan or discount made, or upon
any note, bill of exchange, or other evidences of debt, interest at the rate allowed by the laws of the State or Territory where the bank is located, and no more; except that
where, by the laws of any State, a different rate is limited
for banks of issue, organized under State laws, the rate so.
limited shall be allowed for associations organized in any
such State under the act." What, then, were the rates of
interest allowed in Missouri when the loans were made by
the defendants that are alleged to have been usurious? It
is admitted to have been 10 per cent. per annum, allowed to,
all persons, except banks of issue organized under the laws
of the State, and they were allowed to charge and receive
only 8 per cent.
The position of the plaintiff is, that the general provision
of the act of Congress that National banking associations
may charge and receive interest at the rate allowed by the
laws of the State where they are located, has no application
to the case of these defendants, and that they are restricted
to the rate allowed to banks of issue of the State, that is, to
8 per cent. This, we think, cannot be maintained. The act
of Congress is an enabling statute, not a restraining one, except so far as it fixes a maximum rate in all cases where State
banks of issue are not allowed a greater. There are three
provisions in section thirty, each of them enabling. If no
rate of interest is defined by State laws, 7 per cent. is allowed
to be charged. If there is a rate of interest fixed by State
laws for lenders generally, the banks are allowed to charge
that rate, but no more, except that if State banks of issue
are allowed to reserve more, the same privilege is allowed
to National banking associations. Such, we think, is the

412

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL BANK OF

MissouRi.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fair construction of the act of Congress, entirely consistent
with its words and with its spirit. It speaks of allowances
to National banks and limitations upon State banks, but it
does not declare that the rate limited to State banks shall be
the maximum rate allowed to National banks. There can
be no question that if the banks of issue of Missouri were
allowed to demand interest at a higher rate than 10 per cent.
National banks might do likewise. And this would be for
the reason that they would then come within the exception
made by the statute, that is, the exception from the operation of the restrictive words " no more" than the general
rate of interest allowed by law. But if it was intended they
should in no case charge a higher rate of interest than State
banks of issue, even though the general rule was greater, if
the intention was to restrict rather than to enable, the obvious mode of expressing such an intention was to add the
words " and no more," as they were added to the preceding
clause of the section. The absence of those words, or words
equivalent, is significant. Coupled with the general spirit
of the act, and of all the legislation respecting National
banks, it is controlling. It cannot be doubted, in view of
the purpose of Congress in providing for the organization
of National banking associations, that it was intended to
give them a firm footing in the different States where they
might be located. It was expected they would come into
competition with State banks, and it was intended to give
them at least equal advantages in such competition. In
order to accomplish this they were empowered to reserve interest at the same rates, whatever those rates might be, which
were allowed to similar State institutions. This was considered indispensable to protect them against possible unfriendly State legislation. Obviously, if State statutes should
allow to their banks of issue a rate of interest greater than
the ordinary rate allowed to natural persons, National banking associations could not compete with them, unless allowed
the same. On the other hand, if such associations were restricted to the rates allowed by the statutes of the State to
banks which might be authorized by the State laws, un-

Oct. 1873.]

TIFFANY v. NATIONAL BANK OF MIssOuRI.

4117

Opinion of the court.

friendly legislation might make their existence in the State
impossible. A rate of interest might be prescribed so low
that banking could not be carried on, except at a certain
loss. The only mode of guarding against such contingencies was that which, we think, Congress adopted. It was to
allow to National associations the rate allowed by the State
to natural persons generally, and a higher rate, if State banks.
of issue were authorized to charge a higher rate. This construction accords with the purpose of Congress, and carries
it out. It accords with the spirit of all the legislation of
Congress. National banks have been National favorites.
They were established for the purpose, in part, of providing
a currency for the whole country, and in part to create a
market for the loans of the General government. It could
not have been intended, therefore, to expose them to the
hazard of unfriendly legislation by the States, or to ruinous
competition with State banks. On the contrary, much has
been done to insure their taking the place of State banks.
The latter have been substantially taxed out of existence. A
duty has been imposed upon their issues so large as to manifest a purpose to compel a withdrawal of all such issues from
circulation. In harmony with this policy is the construction
we think should be given to the thirtieth section of the act
of Congress we have been considering. It gives advantages
to National banks over their State competitors. It allows
such banks to charge such interest as State banks may
charge, and more, if by the laws of the State more may be
charged by natural persons.
The result of this is that the defendants, in receiving 9
per cent. interest upon the loans made by them, have not
transgressed the act of Congress, consequently they are
under no liability to the plaintiff.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

