BRENT V. MARYLAND.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

be contrary to equity and good conscience, as well as the
law, to permit the plaintiffs in error to cast upon the defendant in error the burden of the loss to which they have
endeavored to subject him.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BRENT V. MARYLAND.
1 Where in a proceeding to sell the real estate of a decedent for the payment of his debts the solicitor who presents the petition for the decree
of sale is himself appointed trustee to make the sale, and himself becomes bound in bonds for the performance of the duties belonging to
such appointment, and himself makes all the motions and procures all
the orders under which the trustee's liability in the matter arises, he
may, if he is liable for the non-payment of money which he was ordered
by the court to pay, be sued without formal notice to him. He has
notice in virtue of his professional and personal relations to the case.
2. Where a trustee in such a case has given bonds with surety in a penal
sum to the State conditioned for the performance of his duties, children,
entitled equally to a share in any surplus remaining after debts, expenses, &c., are paid from the proceeds of the sale, may, by the practice
in the District of Columbia, after the exact amount of such share has
been found by an auditor whose report is confirmed by the court, bring
joint suit against the surety-the trustee being dead-in the name of the
State, on the bond for the penal sum ; and a judgment for that sum to
be discharged on the payment of the shares or sums certain found as
above-said is regular.
S. Such joint suit, though against the surety of the trustee (the trustee in his
lifetime having had notice of everything), may, in the District, be at law.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

Boteler, of Prince George County, Maryland, died pos.
sessed of considerable real estate and of some personalty,
owing to one Warner a debt which the personalty was not
sufficient to pay, and leaving a widow and minor children.
Administration being taken by his widow upon his estate, a
petition was filed by Warner, February, 1853, in accordance
with the laws of Maryland, against the widow and children,
to subject this real estate to the payment of the debts.

Oct. 1878.]

ORENT V. MARYLAND.
Statement of the case.

Daniel Digges, Esquire, was the solicitor of the petitioner,
and as such signed the petition praying for a decree of sale.
The court made the decree prayed for, and appointed the
said Digges, the solicitor, trustee to make it. He was required to give bond in $15,000 for the faithful performance
of his duties as such trustee. This bond he gave with Norah
Digges as one of his sureties; the bond being in the form
usual in Maryland, that is to say, to the State, for the use of
the parties interested in the real estate to be sold. By the
decree ordering a sale the trustee was ordered to bring into
court the money arising from such sale, and the bonds or
notes taken for the same, all to be disposed of under the
direction of the court. The trustee made sale and reported
it to the court, but never brought into court the money,
notes, or bonds.
In June, 1854-Digges still maintaining his relations to
the case-an auditor was appointed to distribute the funds
in the hands of the trustee. The auditor reported that of
this fund there was due to each of the minor children tho
sum of $704.391. Thereupon the court, on the 11th of
April, 1860-Digges still acting as solicitor-confirmed the
report and ordered the trustee to pay over these sums to the
parties entitled. The trustee did not pay over as ordered,
and afterwards, in 1860 apparently, or 1861, died insolvent.
His surety being also dead, and J. C. Brent being his executor, suit was brought at law, on the boud, against Brent, in
the name of the State, by the children jointly. The auditor's
report which was in the record did not mention that Daniel
Digges, the solicitor in the case, had appeared before him or
had notice of the report's being made. Nor did the declaration in the case aver or the evidence show that any service
of any order to pay or any demand of payment had been
specifically made on the said Daniel Digges, the trustee.
The defence was,
1. That the trustee, Daniel Digges, had no sufficient notice of the auditor's report and its confirmation.
2. That the plaintiffs could not jointly maintain their action.
3. That the remedy was in equity alone.

BRENT V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct..

Argument for the surety.

But the court overruled all the defences, and gave judgment for $15,000, the penalty of the bond, to be dischargecl
upon payment of a sum specified to each of the plaintiffs,
therein. Thereupon the defendant brought the case here.
Mr. T. T. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in error:
1. The plaintiffs to sustain their suit ought to aver and
prove a service of the order on the trustee, and a demand of
payment of the sum specified therein. Nothing of that sort
appears. It is, therefore, not pretended that Digges, the,
trustee, had notice of the auditor's report, yet he should,
have had it.
In Oyster v. Annan,* the highest court of Maryland says:
"The trustee, as to the suit, is not in the situation of a common,
debtor who knows his liability, and whose business it is to look
to a compliance with his engagement. The creditors are known,
to the trustee but through the medium of the court of chancery,
where they file their respective demands to be adjusted by theauditor, and where disputes among them are disposed of by the
chancellor, who finally determines what proportion of the sum
of money reported is to be paid to each of them. This proceeding as to the trustee, is res inter alios acta, and it is but reasonable that when it terminates he shall be notified of the result,
before any steps are taken against him, either by attachment or
by action on his trustee's bond, against him and his sureties."
The point which we here make is one of substance, andi
we present it as a chief poiunt of our case.
2. The suit is joint. It should have been several. The'
report found that there was due to each child a sum certain,
to wit, $704.394. Each person could, therefore, have sued
for himself.
3. So too the proceeding should have been in equity. The,
death of the trustee having rendered it impossible to give'
notice to him or to make demand of him, the surety should,
not be placed in a position of responsibility which had not
attached to the principal. The death of the trustee was.
* 1 Gill & Johnson, 452, citing People v. Byron, 8 Johnson's Cases, 68.

Oct. 1873.]

BRENT V.

MARYLAND.

Opinion of the court.

such an accident as entitled the sureties to relief in equity.
Such seems to be the doctrine of State v. Digges,* and of
Brooks v. Brooke,t both of them Maryland cases of authority.
Mr. S. S. Hencle, contra:
1. All that is decided in Oyster v. Annan, is that the trustees should have notice. Digges, the trustee, had it. Numerous cases, English and American,t some of them referring to .Harris v. Ferrand,reported by Hardres,ยง so far back
as the time of Charles II, show that if a party is solicitor in
the case he has notice as of course.
2. That in such a case as this the parties can sue jointly,
appears also by many cases.1I
3. The third point of the opposite counsel rests on an
assumption that the trustee had no notice. The assumption
having been shown to be untrue the point disappears.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The point chiefly insisted upon in the argument of the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, is this: that Digges, the
trustee, had no notice of the auditor's report and of its confirmation, and that for the want of such notice this action
cannot be maintained. We are of the opinion that this
point is not well taken. We recognize the soundness of the
decision in Oyster v. Annan and other decisions in the State
of Maryland, cited to us, that before a suit can be brought
against a trustee, he must have had notice of the duty he is
required to perform, and must have bad an opportunity to
perform it. In the case just named the court say: "The
trustee, as to the suit, is not in the situation of a common
debtor who knows his liability, and whose business it is to
* 21 Maryland, 240.

jt 12 Gill & Johnson, 319.

: Roper v. Holland, 3 Aclolphus & Ellis, 99; Nichols v. Rensselaer, 22
Wendell, 127; Lessee v. Marckel, 2 Ohio, 263; Watson v. Walker, 3 Foster, 471; Lent v. Padelford, 10 Massachusetts, 280.
Page 36.
Hazlehurst v. Dallas, 4 Dallas, 95; McMechen v. The Mayor, 2 Harris
H1

& Johnson, 41; Kiersted v. The State, 1 Gill & Johnson, 281
VOL.

XVIII.

2A

BRENT V.

MARYLAND.

[Slip.C'

Opinion of the court.

look to a compliance with his engagements. . . This proceeding, as to the trustee, is res inter alios acta, and it is but
reasonable that when it terminates, he shall be notified of
the result before any steps are taken against him, either
by attachment or by action on his trustee's bond against him
These remarks are founded in good
and his sureties."
sense, and do not conflict with the authorities cited on the
other side,* to the effect that where the trustee is himself
an actor in the transaction, and has full knowledge of his
duties, such notice and demand are not required.
Daniel Digges, the principal in the bond sued on, was not
only the trustee, but he was the solicitor or attorney who
procured himself to be appointed trustee, and as such solicitor himself procured the court to grant and the clerk to
enter the orders, out of which the liability arises. Thus,
after he had obtained the orders fbr the sale of the property,
had sold the same and received the proceeds thereof, he
caused an order to be entered in November, 1853, ratifying
all that he had done. In June, 1854, he caused an order to
be entered, referring it to an auditor to make distribution
of the trust fund among the creditors and parties thereto
entitled. In the execution of this order, Mr. Hance reported, in 1859, that there was due and payable to each of
On the 11th of April,
the plaintiffs, the sum of '$704.39i.
1860, Mr. Digges causes an order to be entered, finally ratifying the auditor's report, and ordering that the trustee be
directed to pay all the trust fund to the several parties named
in the auditor's report. Here was a positive direction to the
trustee to pay specific sums to persons named, and without
qualification or delay. He became an absolute debtor to
each of them for the amount payable to each. The order
was of his procuring, made and entered through his agency.
That it should be necessary to give a man notice of what he
had himself done, or that a demand of performance should
be required of that which he had himself directed should be
done by himself at once and without condition, would be
See supra, p. 488.

Oct. 1873.]

BRENT V.

MARYLAND.

Opinion of the court.

quite remarkable. No such necessity exists. The case falls
within the other principle referred to, that notice and demand are not necessary where the trustee is himself an actor
and has full knowledge of all that is required to be done.
He was, in the language of the court in Oyster v. Annan, "a
common debtor who knows his liability, and whose business
it is to look to a compliance with his engagements." No
case has been cited to support the views of the plaintiff in
error, and we think none can be found. In State v. Diqges,*
the court place their dismissal of the suit upon other grounds,
and the circumstance that Mr. Digges was both the trustee
and solicitor in the transaction, is not alluded to, either in
the argument of counsel or in the opinion of the court.
The remaining objections, that the bond cannot be sued
upon by the plaintiffs below jointly, and that the action
cannot be maintained in a court of law, but that equity must
be resorted to, are not sustained by the authorities. The
suit in the present form in the name of the State, for the
use of parties interested, is according to the practice in
Maryland and in the District of Columbia.t
In Brooks v. Brooke, it was decided that the action against
the sureties upon the bond could properly be brought in a
court of law; and the circumstance that the trustee died
before notice was given to him, where notice was necessary,
it was held would justify the interposition of a court of
equity. To the same purport is the case of State v. Digges,
where it was held that the death of the trustee without
having received notice of the order and demand of payment, required the action to be brought in a court of equity.
The case is not applicable to an instance like the present,
where notice and demand is not required to be given.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

421

Maryland, 24.

2 See Oyster v. Annan, cited supra.

