Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
Syllabus.

sion of evidence, because, at the most, the evidence, if admitted, would only have been cumulative on the subject of
Darby's insolvency and the defendant's knowledge; and we
have treated the case on the theory that the officers of the
institution knew, when they made the loans and received
payment of them, that Darby was insolvent.
The case will have to go back for the purpose of enabling
the Circuit Court to ascertain in some proper way the excess
of interest over the charter rate paid on the six accommodation notes, and to enlarge the decree so as to cover that sum.
In all other respects the disposition of this case by the Circuit Court was correct.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with directions

to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY

WITH THIS OPINION.

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
A railroad company exempted by the legislature of a State from taxation
accepted bonds for large sums of money from the State by way of loan,
the statute which authorized the transaction declaring that the acceptance by the company of the bonds should operate as " a mortgage of
the road of the company and every part and section thereof, and its appurtenances;" and that if the company did not provide for the payment
of the bonds it should be lawful for the governor to sell " their road and
its appurtenances" at auction to the highest bidder, or to buy in the
same . . . subject to such disposition, in respect to such road or its proceeds, as the legislature might thereafter direct.
Subsequently to this the State made for itself a new constitution, provisions
of which were in these words:
" No property, real or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except suoh
as may be used exclusively for public schools and such as may belong to the
United States, to this State, to counties, or to municipal corporations within this
State.
"The General Assembly shall not pass special laws . . . exempting any prop.
erty of any named person or corporation from taxation."
At the same time it adopted in a separate form "An ordinance for the
payment of State and railroad indebtedness;" which was to "have full
force and effect as a part of the constitution," which ordinance, aftel

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
referring to the particular railroad company now under consideration
and then in default, and to some other railroad companies, ordained
that "the General Assembly shall provide by law for the sale of the
railroad and other property, and the franchises of the company that
shall be in default under the lien reserved to the State." And ordained
further that "whenever the State shall become the purchaser of any
railroad or other property, or the franchises sold as hereinbeforeprovided
for, the General Assembly shall provide by law in what manner the same
shall be sold." It added that no sale should be made " without reserving a lien upon all the property and franchises thus sold."
Subsequently to this the governor took the opinion of the judges of the
Supreme Court of his State (as its constitution authorized him to do)
upon the meaning of parts of this ordinance, but not specially upon the
relations of any of them to the provision already quoted of the constitution; and the judges returned for answer, among other things, that no
sale could be made by the State without reserving a lien, but that " the
legislature was left unrestricted further as to the time, terms, and conditions of sale."
The legislature after this passed a law to foreclose the State lien; the law
enacting that if the State should buy the road in and afterwards sell it
the persons purchasing should have all the rights, franchises, privileges,
and immunities which were enjoyed by the companies for whose default
the road was sold. The road was sold, the State purchased it in, and
afterwards sold it to certain persons, the vendees of whom organized
themselves, as the laws of the State allowed them to do, into a new corporation. A collector of State and county taxes having sought to enforce the payment of State and county taxes from this new corporation,
which preserved the name of the old one, a stockholder in the new one
filed a bill to enjoin him. Held1st. That when the State became the purchaser of the railroad and its appurtenances, and held them, the immunity from taxation previously
granted ceased of necessity, the property belonging now to the State.
2d. That the ordinance did not mean to say that the legislature might
provide for the sale in any manner which the new constitution forbade.
3d. That the new constitution forbade the renewal of an exemption from
taxation as much as it did the creation of one in an original form.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; in which court Trask filed a bill against Maguire,
collector of State and county taxes at St. Louis, to restrain
him from collecting taxes upon the property of the St. Louis
and Iron Mountain Railroad Company, a corporation organized in the State of Missouri, July 26th, 1867, and to have
the property of the said company decreed exempt from lia.
bility to such taxes.

Oct. 1873.]

TR ASK V. MAGUIRE.
Statement of the case.

The case was this:
A general corporation law of Missouri, in force in 1845,
thus ordained :*
"The charter of every corporation that shall hereafter be
granted by the legislature shall be subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal, at the discretion of the legislature."
This provision of general law being in force, the legislature of Missouri, on the 3d of March, 1851, passed "An
act to incorporate the St. Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad
Company." The capital stock of the company was $6,000,000,
and it was enacted that"The stock of said company shall be exempt from all State and
county taxes."
.On the 17th of February, 1853, it was enacted that the
railroad abovementioned as having been incorporated should
be exempted from the provisions of the general corporation
law already quoted. The statute further enacted:
"All the engines, cars, wagons, machines and other property
belonging to said company, shall be deemed a part of the capital
stock of the company, and shall be vested in the respective
shareholdersof the company forever, according to their respective
shares, and transferable by them in the transfer of stock, as personal property."
Subsequently to this, and to aid it in making the road, the
State of Missouri lent to the company (in the shape of bonds,
the principal and interest of which the company agreed to
pay) a large sum of money. The act authorizing the trans.action enacted that none of the bonds should be delivered
to the company until it filed in the office of the secretary of
state certificates of acceptance of them, executed under the
,corporate seal, &c. The act then proceeded:
"SeTION 4. Each certificate of acceptance so executed and
filed as afbresaid, shall be recorded in the said office of the secretary of state, and shall thereupon become and be, to all intents
* Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1846, p. 282.

TRASK

V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and purposes, a mortgage of the road of the company executing
and filing their acceptance, as aforesaid, and every part and section thereof, and its appurtenances,to the people of this State, forsecuring the payment of the principal and interest of the sumsof money for which such bonds shall from time to time be issued,
and accepted.
"SEcTIoN 11. In case the said companies, or either of them,
shall make default in the payment of either interest or principal
of the said bonds . . . it shall be lawful for the governor to sell
their road and its appurtenances, by auction to the highest bidder, or to buy in the same at such sale for the use and benefit
of the State, subject to such disposition in respect to such road
or its proceeds as the legislature may thereafter direct."
On the 4th of July, 1865, the State of Missouri adopted a
new constitution of government. It contained the following provisions:
"No property, real or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except such as may be used exclusively for public schools,
and such as may belong to the United States, to this State, to
counties, or to municipal corporations within the State.
"The General Assembly shall not pass any special laws
exempting the property of any named person or corporation,
from taxation."
At the same time that it adopted this new constitution it,
adopted, in the separate form of AN ORDINANCE, entitled "An,
ordinance for the payment of State and railroad indebtedness," certain provisions which were to have "full force and
effect as a part of the constitution of the State."
The ordinance was thus:
"SECTION 1. There shall be levied and collected from the Pacific Railroad, the North Missouri Railroad Company, and the
St. Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad Company, an annual tax
of 10 per centum of all their gross receipts for the transportation
of freight and passengers .. . from the 1st of October, 1866, to
the 1st of October, 1868, and 15 per centum thereafter; which
tax shall be appropriated by the General Assembly to the payment of the principal and interest now due, or hereafter to become due, upon the bonds of the State, and the bonds guaran.
teed by the State, issued to the aforesaid railroad companies.

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAOUIRE.
Statement of the case.

"SECTION 3. The tax in this ordinance specified shall be col-

lected from each company hereinbefore named only for the payment of the principal and interest on the bonds, for the payment
of which such company shall be liable; and whenever such
bonds and interest shall have been fully paid, no further tax
shall be collected from such company.
" SECTION 4. Should either of said companies refuse or neglect
to pay said tax as herein required, and the interest or principal
of any of said bonds, or any part thereof, remain due and unpaid, the General Assembly shall provide by law for the sale of the
railroad and other property, and the franchises of the company
that shall be thus in default, under the lien reserved to the State,
and shall appropriate the proceeds of such sale to the payment
of the amount remaining due and unpaid from said company.
" SECTION 5. Whenever the State shall become the purchase
of any railroad or other property, or the franchises sold as hereinbefore provided for, the General Assembly shall provide by law in
what manner the same shall be sold, for the payment of the indebtedness of the railroad company in default; but no railroad
or other property, orfranchises purchased by the State, shall be
restored to any such company until it shall have first paid ... all
interest due from said company; and no sale or other disposition
of any such railroad or other property, or their franchises, shall
be made without reserving a lien upon all the property and
franchises thus sold or disposed of, for all sums remaining unpaid; and all payments therefor shall be made in money or in
bonds or other obligations of this State."
On the 1st of November, 1865-soon after the adoption
of the new constitution and of this ordinance-the General
Assembly met, and bills were introduced providing for the
sale of several railroads, including the St. Louis and Iron
Mountain, then in default on its obligations. Pending these
bills, questions as to the effect of the ordinance arose in the
mind of the governor, and on the 27th of the same month
of November he propounded to the judges of the Supreme
Court, as it was his right to do under the constitution of
Missouri, certain interrogatories as to the operation of the
ordinance, and among the rest one as follows:

"If you are of opinion that the sale of the railroads may be

TRASK v. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

,ordered before such refusal or neglect, I request you to say
whether such sale can be made ' without reserving a lien upon
.all the property and franchises thus sold for all sums remaining
unpaid,' as provided by section five of the ordinance. In other
words: Does this clause in the ordinance constitute a condition
,of all sales of railro'ads ordered by the State, or does it refer
-only to sales made, under the ordinance, for refusal or neglect
to pay the tax?"*
To these questions the judges replied. In the course of
their reply they say that one of the things provided for by
the ordinance is a tax to pay the debts of the railroad companies to the State, and another thing provided for is, "in
what manner railroads purchased by the State under her
lien shall be sold again ;" that "the fifth section relates to
all sales of railroads under liens reserved to the State,"
whether sold for the non-payment of the tax or for the nonpayment of the mortgage-debt. "The fifth section," say
the judges, "provides further that no sale or other disposition of any such railroad or other property, or their franlchises, shall be made by the State without reserving a lien

upon the property sold for all sums remaining unpaid-that
is to say by the purchaser, and the purchaser is required to
make all payments therefor in money, or in bonds, or other
obligations of this State; but the legislature is left unrestricted further as to the time, terms, and conditions of sale."
After this, that is to say, on the 16th of February, 1866,
the legislature passed an act "to foreclose the State lien and
to secure the early completion of the road."
By the act it was made the duty of the governor to advertise for sale the different roads in default, "their appurtenances, rolling stock, and property of every description, and
,all rights and franchises." A board of commissioners was to
attend the sale, and on a contingency named purchase for
the State. The commissioners, in case the State should
purchase, were to give notice of their authority to sell, and
,t invite proposals to purchase. The governor, on a sale
* Advisory Constitutional Opinions, 37 Missouri, 129.

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.

397

Statement of the case.

being made by the commissioners, was to make a deed to
the purchaser, which, it was provided, should have "the
effect to convey, transfer, and make over to the purchaser
said road and all of the franchises, privileges and rights, title
and interests appertaining to the road." And the act further
provided, that the purchaser should acquire by his purchase
"all the rights, franchises, privileges, and immunities which
were had and enjoyed by" the original corporation "under
the charter and the laws amendatory thereof."
One month after the passage of the act just quoted, and
pending proceedings thereunder for the sale of the road,.
another act was passed, approved March 20th, 1866, entitled, "An act authorizing the incorporation of the purchaser
or purchasers of any railroad, or of any part, section, or
branch thereof, which has heretofore or may hereafter become forfeited to and sold by the State." That act enacted
thus:
"SECTIoN 4. Each corporation provided under this act shall
have the same power, franchises, rights, and privileges, and be
subject to the same liabilities and restrictions as the corporation
to which it shall become the successor may have had by its
original charter, and the amendments thereto, into and over the
property and franchises forfeited and sold as aforesaid."

At the sale, which the governor advertised, the State
bought the railroad and its appurtenances in: and the commissioners sold it to three persons, who afterwards sold it to
one Allen. Allen, availing himself of the privileges pf the
last above-quoted act, organized himself and certain other
persons, including Trask, already named as the complainant
below, into a new corporation having the name of the old
one.
Hereupon the defendant, Maguire, a collector, as already
said, of State and county taxes in Missouri, having sought
to levy certain State and county taxes on this new corporation, Trask filed a bill in the court below to enjoin him, and
that court dismissed the bill. Trask now appealed from
that decree.

TIRASK V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

. Curtis and Drydens, for the appellant:
That the property of the original corporation was exempt
from taxation is undeniable. It is nearly or quite as clear
that if the purchaser at the sale which was made had been a
private person, or a corporation-any purchaser other than
the State-such purchaser would have held what he bought,
equally exempt. The lien of the mortgage was " on the
road of the company, and every part and section thereof,
and its appurtenances." That by the word appurtenances
it was meant at the time that all rights, franchises, privileges,
and immunities should pass under the lien is hardly questionable. In any but a purely technical sense-the sense in
which the word is used in a deed-appurtenances would
certainly include them. They would certainly do so alike
in the popular and in the legislative sense, and these are the
only important senses to be considered here; for the transaction was between managers of a railroad and a body of
legislators. The State expected to get and the road meant
to give as a security all that it bad. Why retain an immunity from taxation when "the road and every part and section thereof, and its appurtenances," were put in mortgage
and liable to be gone? Of what use would the immunity
be when there was no property to which it could apply?
Further than this, there would be ground to argue that in a
stricter sense the word appurtenances would include the immunity.*
The only difficulty in the case is that the State has purchased; that becoming owner of the road, she held it, of
necessity and independently of any contract with the mortgagors, free from liability to taxation. And then, the further difficulty, that before she sold, the provisions of the new
constitution intervened, and prevented her granting, as she
.undeniably meant to do, free from her own ability to tax.
The difficulty vanishes in the face of the " ordinance,"
which has "the same force and effect" as the constitution.
Messrs. B

Pickering v. Steples, 5 Sergeant and Rawle, 107; Bouvier's Law Dic.
lionary, title " Appurtenances."

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
Argument against the tax.

1. The constitution and the ordinance being parts and
parcels of one law ought not to be construed separately, but
in the construction of the one the other ought to be taken
into consideration.
Inasmuch as the ordinance, by its plain words, intended
to pass to the purchaser all the franchises of the railroad
companies named in it; and as one of the franchises of at
least one of the companies was exemption of its property
from taxation, the ordinance was of necessity an exception,
and intended to be an exception to the general rule established by the constitution, subjecting all property to taxation. There is room for both parts of the law to operate;
the rule and the exception each in its place. And the law
should be so construed as that both may stand and have
effect.
2. The rule and the exception are not inharmonious in
their general objects. The primary object of the rule is
revenue. If revenue was not the primary object of the exception it was at least a prominent one, as a recurrence to
the situation of the State and the history of the times will
show. At the time of the adoption of this constitution and
ordinance, it is matter of common knowledge that the State
was staggering under the burden of an enormous debt, with
resources wasted by a devastating war. In such an exigency
what measure would so likely add to the wealth of the people
and to the resources of the State as the extension of her railroads, then but just begun, into the mineral and agricultural
regions of the State, lying as yet undeveloped? It was in this
view, and in a large degree as a measure of finance, that the
convention resolved upon the project of selling these roads
and extending them to their ultimate destinations. But in
order to the success of the project, privileges and franchises
had to be offered to induce the embarkation of capital apparently, but not really, at the expense of the public revenue.
3. Upon a fair construction of the ordinance, power was
given to the legislature to grant to the purchasers of the
property of the defaulting corporations the exemption insisted upon by the complainant. The fourth section of the

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. OtL

Argument against the tax.

ordinance relates to a period of time prior to the foreclosure,,
while yet the title to the property remains with the mortgagor, and contemplates a then future sale in foreclosure at
which the State might become the purchaser. The fifth
section looks to a period after foreclosure and presupposes
the purchase of the mortgaged property by the State at the
foreclosure sale. Both sections direct that provision be made
by law for sales. What is it that the fourth section requires
to be sold? "The railroad and other property, and the franchises." Not one franchise, merely, but the plural; franchises, all of the franchises of the company. What by the
fifth section is to be sold? The answer is, the same railroad,
the same other property, the same franchises "as hereinbefore
provided for" in the fourth section. All, without exception
or diminution, that the State acquired at the sale under the
fourth section was to be sold by it to its own vendee under
the fifth section ; the vendee of the State was to take every
right that the State acquired at the sale for foreclosure.
The State acquired at the foreclosure sale every right that
the mortgagor had. If the mortgagor had the right to hold!
its property exempt from taxation, that right, by the provisions of the ordinance, would pass by the sale under the
mortgage to the State and then from the State to its vendee..
If it be objected that the franchises of the St. Louis and,
Iron Mountain Railroad Company did not, for want of apt
words, pass by the mortgage, and that therefore the franchises of the company did not pass to the State at the foreclosure sale; we reply: first, as we have already once said,
that the words of the mortgage were and are sufficient in
law to pass the franchises of the mortgagor. But, second,,
this ordinance was the work of the people acting as lawmaker in their sovereign capacity. The sovereign possesses
within himself all fulness of franchises. He is the author
and source of all franchises. The sovereign people professed in this ordinance to possess and to be able to impart
the franchises of these defaulting companies. Their lawfully
appointed agents sold, and for them professed to convey
these franchises, and having done this they will not be per-

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
Opinion of the court.

mitted now to stultify themselves by the plea that they did
not possess the things which they professed to grant. But
if they did not then possess them specifically they must be
held to supply the lack from their original inexhaustible
stores.
It was the clear intention of the convention to give to the
purchaser all that was enjoyed by the companies in default,
and it was just as clearly within the competency of the convention to give what it thus intended to give, whether the
franchises previously given out had come back to the State
or not. And as all parties, vendor and vendee, here contracted upon the idea that the one was giving and the other
receiving the franchises claimed, it is no hardship to hold
nor is it any stretch of judicial authority to decide that in
law the convention gave what it then intended to give, and
had the power to give.
Mr. 1. E. Rombauer, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented for our detei-mination in this case
is, whether the property of the present St. Louis and Iron
Mountain Railroad Company, a corporation created under
the laws of Missouri, is, by an irrepealable legislative grant,
forever exempted from all State and county taxes. Two
corporations bearing that name have existed in Missouri,
the second succeeding the first in the possession and ownership of its road'ahd property. The first was created by an
act of the legislature of the State, passed in March, 1851;
the second was formed in July, 1867, under an act of the
previous year authorizing the incorporation of the purchaser
or purchasers of any railroad, or any part, section, or branch
thereof, which had previously been, or might thereafter be,
forfeited to or sold by the State.
The property of the first corporation was undoubtedly exempt from State and county taxes. The act of incorporation
adopted as part of it a provision of another act, which declared in terms that the stock of the company should be thus
VOL. XVIII.

2A

TRASK V MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

exempt.* It is true that at this time a statute was in existence, passed in 1845, which declared that the charter of
every corporation subsequently granted should be subject to
alteration, suspension, and repeal at the discretion of the
legislature. But from the operation of this provision the
company was expressly exempted by an act amendatory of
its charter, passed in 1853.t From that time at least the
exemption of its stock from State and county taxation was
placed beyond legislative interference. The amendatory
act also declared that all the engines, cars, wagons, machines,
and other property belonging to the company should be
deemed a part of its capital stock, and be vested in its respective shareholders, according to their respective shares.
All the property of the company was thus placed within the
exemption which attached to the original stock; that designated was to be deemed a part of such stock, as well as that
originally embraced by this term.
On the argument some attempt was made, from the use
of the term stock in the original act, and the language of the
amendatory act, that the property should be vested in the
respective shareholders according to their respective shares,
to establish the position that the exemption extended only
to the separate shares of the individual stockholders. But
the argument does not strike us as possessing much force.
The terms "stock of the company," imported the capital
stock of such company, the subscribed fund which the company held, as distinguished from the separate interests of
the individual stockholders. The language of the amendatory act did not qualify this meaning; that only declared
that other property of the company should also be deemed
capital stock, and the additional provision that it should be
vested in the respective shareholders, according to their respective shares, only meant that they should have the interest of shareholders in the property, according to their
respective shares.
The corporation in question was created to construct a
* Laws of Missouri of 1851, p. 479.

t 1b. 1853, p. 296.

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.
Opinion of the court.

railroad from a point in the city of St. Louis to the Iron
Mountain and Pilot Knob, in Missouri, with liberty to extend the road to the Mississippi River, or to the southern
part of the State. This road was constructed from St. Louis
to Pilot Knob, a distance of about eighty-seven miles, with
a branch to Potosi. During the progress of the work, and
in order to aid in its construction, the legislature of the
State, previous to 1860, passed various acts providing for the
loan of the bonds of the State to the company. All the acts
referred for the terms of the loans to an act passed in 1851
to expedite the construction of the Pacific Railroad and of
the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad.* That act provided
that no part of the bonds should be delivered to the company
until it signified its acceptance of them to the secretary of
state, by filing in his office a certificate of such acceptance
under the corporate seal of the company and the signature
of its president; that such acceptance should be recorded,
and upon its record should become to all intents and purposes a mortgage of the road of the company, and every
part and section thereof, and its appurtenances, to the people
of the State, to secure the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds. That act authorized the governor, in
ease default was made in the payment of either the interest
or principal of the bonds, to sell the road and its appurtenances at auction to the highest bidder, or to buy in the
same at such sale for the use and benefit of the State, subject to such disposition in respect to the road or its proceeds
as the legislature might thereafter direct.
Under the different acts bonds of the State to a large
amount were issued to the company; its acceptance of them
in proper form was given to the secretary of state, and the
acceptance was duly recorded, and from the date of such
record the State acquired, for the payment of the principal
and interest of the bonds, a lien upon the road and every
part and section thereof and its appurtenances.
The company failed to pay the interest on these bonds.
Laws of Missouri of 1851, p. 267.

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It does not appear for how long a period the company was
thus in default, nor is this material. It is sufficient to say
that in 1865 the right of the State, under the provisions of
the acts cited, to interfere and sell the property, had become
complete. Before a sale, however, was made the legislature
passed another act for the sale of this and other railroads by
the governor, and the foreclosure of the State lien thereon.
This act, which was approved in February, 1866, among
other things required the governor to advertise for sale the
different railroads, with their appurtenances, rolling stock,
and property of every description, and all rights and franchises thereto belonging; and to sell the same at auction to
the highest bidder, in pursuance of the several acts creating
a lien thereon. It also provided for the appointment of
three commissioners to attend the sale of the different roads
as advertised, and to bid in the same for the use and benefit
of the State for an amount not exceeding the respective liens
thereon; and in case the roads were struck off and sold to
them, to take possession of and hold the same, with their
appurtenances and property, and again, after due advertisement, inviting proposals for the purchase of the different
roads, their lands, appurtenances, and franchises, to resell
the same. Under this act the St. Louis and Iron Mountain
Railroad was advertised for sale, with its rights and privileges, and at the sale was bid in by the commissioners for
the State. However broad the terms of the advertisement,
the interest sold could not extend beyond the property upon
which the State at the time held a lien, and this was the entire road of the company and its appurtenances. But as the
property was sold to the State it is unnecessary to determine
whether, if the sale had been made to a third party, the im.
munity from taxation possessed by the company would have
passed to the purchaser. When the State became the purchaser the immunity ceased; the property stood in its hands
precisely the same as any other unincumbered property of
the State, exempt from taxation, not by virtue of any previous stipulation with the company, but as all property of
the State is thus exempt Subsequently the road and its

Oct. 1873.-]

TRASK r.

MAGUIRE.

Opiniori of the court.

appurtenances, and all the franchises, which, under the new
constitution of Missouri, adopted in 1865, were transferable
by the State, were sold by the commissioners to McKay,
Vogel, and Simmons, who conveyed the same to Thomas
Allen, who with others, in July, 1867, became incorporated
under the name of the St. Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad Company. That company is still in existence, and is
one of the defendants herein. To it Allen transferred all
the rights and privileges acquired by him from his vendors,
and all which they acquired from the State. The act under
which the sale was made provided that the purchasers of the
road should have all the rights, franchises, privileges, and
immunities which were enjoyed by the defaulting company
under its charter and laws amendatory thereof, subject to
the limitations and conditions therein contained, and not
inconsistent with the act authorizing the sale. The new
company thus acquired all the immunity from taxation
which the original company had possessed, if it were competent for the legislature at the time, under the new constitution, to confer this privilege. The question, therefore, is,
whether the legislature was competent to grant the immunity claimed, under that constitution, which went into operation on the 4th of July, 1865, previous to the passage of any
of the acts authorizing the proceedings under which the new
company acquired its rights.
The sixteenth section of the eleventh article of that instrument provides that "no property, real or personal, shall
be exempt from taxation, except such as may be used exclusively for public schools and such as may belong to the
United States, to this State, to counties, or to municipal corporations within this State;" and the twenty-seventh section
of the fourth article declares that "the General Assembly
shall not pass special laws . . . exempting any property of
any named person or corporation from taxation."
These provisions require no explanation; they are absolute prohibitions against the grant of any new immunity
from taxation, unless railroad companies of the State existing at the time are excepted from their operation. Such

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

exception is claimed under the "ordinance for the payment
of State and railroad indebtedness," which accompanied the
constitution and was adopted with it. That ordinance first
provides fbr the levy and collection from different railroads,
and among others from the St. Louis and Iron Mountain
Railroad Company, an annual tax of ten per cent. on all
their gross receipts for the transportation of freight or passengers (not including amounts received from and taxes paid
to the United States) from the 1st of October, 1866, to the
1st of October, 1868, and fifteen per cent. thereafter; and
then enacts that the tax shall be collected from the companies only for the payment of the principal and interest on
the bonds of the State issued for their benefit, or on bonds
guaranteed by the State; that if any of the companies refuse or neglect to pay the tax thus required, and the principal or interest of any of the bonds, or any part thereof,
remain due and unpaid, the General Assembly shall provide
by law for the sale of the railroad and other property and
the franchises of such company under the lien reserved to
the State; and that whenever the State becomes the purchaser of any railroad or other property, or the franchises
thus sold, the General Assembly shall provide by law in
what manner the same shall be sold for the payment of the
indebtedness of the company; that no railroad or other
property or franchises purchased by the State, shall be restored to the defaulting company until it shall have first
paid the interest due from it, and that no sale or other disposition of any such railroad or other property, or its franchises, shall be made without reserving a lien upon the
property and franchises thus sold or disposed of for all sums
remaining unpaid.
N ow, the argument of the appellants is that as the ordinance authorizes the legislature to provide for the sale of
the franchises of a defaulting corporation, it can transfer
under that designation immunity from taxation, if the company ever possessed such immunity; and that this was the
effect of the sale of the St. Louis and Iron Mountain railroad and its franchises to McKay, Vogel, and Simmons.

Oct. 1873.]

TRASK V. MAGUIRE.

407

Opinion of the court.

be found in
And authority for this position is supposed to
Court of
Supreme
the
of
the answers given by the judges
proquestions
certain
Missouri, in November, 1865, to
constituthe
of
pounded by the governor under a provision
on important
tion authorizing him to take their opinion
questions of constitutional law. The questions propounded
were substantially these:
to
1st. Whether the provisions of the ordinance operated
or
named,
roads
the
sell
to
State
suspend the right of the
pay
to
neglect
or
refusal
a
either of them, until there was
the State
the tax imposed by the ordinance; or whether
prior
them,
of
either
might order the sale of the railroads or
to such refusal or neglect;
of the
2d. If the judges were of opinion that a sale
neglect,
railroads might be ordered before such refusal or
a lien
reserving
"without
made
be
could
whether such sale
all sums
upon all the property and franchises thus sold for
clause
this
whether
words,
other
in
remaining unpaid," or,
by
ordered
railroads
of
sales
constituted a condition of all
ordithe
under
made
the State, or referred only to sales
nance for refusal and neglect to pay the tax.
of
3d. If the judges should be of opinion that all sales
rethe
to
railroads by authority of the State were subject
striction mentioned, whether the words "1all sums remaining
sold
unpaid" referred to the sums for which the railroad
not
was in default, or to that portion of the purchase-money
and,
sale;
of
time
paid in cash at the
of
4th. Whether upon a sale of a railroad under a lien
in
receive,
to
State
the
the State the constitution authorized
shares
other
or
preferred
payment of the purchase-money,
of stock issued by a corporation purchasing the road.
None of these questions, as will be perceived, call for any
of a
opinion as to the effect of the sale of the franchises
an
for
road, or the meaning of that term. They call only
of
opinion upon the power of the legislature to order a sale
made,
be
to
payments
the
reserved,
the roads, the liens to be
and the right to receive shares of stock of a purchasing
cot poration. The answer of the judges stated that the fifth

408

TRASK

V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

section of the ordinance related to all sales of railroads,
whether in default for not paying the interest on the bonds
of the State or not paying the tax levied; that when the
State had become the purchaser of any railroad sold under
the lien of the State, the General Assembly could provide
in what manner such railroad could again be sold for the
payment of the indebtedness which the State had incurred
on account of bonds loaned to it or guaranteed for its benefit; that it would have had this power without the aid of the
ordinance, but that no sale or other disposition of any such
railroad, or other property, could be made by the State
without reserving a lien upon the property sold for all sums
remaining unpaid, and that the purchaser was required to
make all payments therefor in money or in bonds or other
obligations of the State; and then adds that the "legislature is left unrestricted further as to the time, terms, and
conditions of the sale." This language is supposed to determine that in the sale of such property the legislature is
not bound by the provisions of the constitution we have
cited.
But we do not think the language used justifies any such
conclusion, but was rather intended to indicate that the
ordinance imposes no other restrictions than those designated, and has no reference whatever to the clauses of the
constitution in respect to which no opinion was asked.
It seems to us that the plain meaning of the ordinance,
when it says that the General Assembly shall provide by
law in what manner the railroad and its franchises shall be
sold, is that they shall be sold in conformity with such law
as the legislature may constitutionally pass, not in conformity with any law which the legislature could devise if it had
unlimited discretion in the matter. It would conflict with
well-settled rules of construction to hold that the language
used authorizes any legislation regardless of the provisions
of the constitution. And there is nothing in the authority
conferred to provide for the sale of its franchises with the
road of the defaulting company, which requires immunity
from taxation to be embraced within them. The language

'Oct. 1878.]

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL BANK OF MISSOURI.

409

Statement of the case.

,evidently refers to such franchises as are essential to the
'operation of the road sold, without which the ownership of
the road would be comparatively valueless, such as the
franchise to run cars, to take tolls, and the like.
But if we are mistaken in this particular, we are clear
that it never was intended by the ordinance to sanction, by
;the sale of the franchises of a defaulting corporation, the re,newal of an exemption which had once ceased to exist, and
'which the constitution had declared should never thereafter
,be created. The inhibition of the constitution applies in
.all its force against the renewal of an exemption equally as
.against its original creation; and this inhibition the legislature could not disregard in providing for the sale of the
1property which it had purchased.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

TIFFANY V. NATIONAL

BANK OF MISSOURI.

lUnder the thirtieth section of the National Banking Act, which enacts that
National banks "may take, receive, reserve, and charge on any loan. . . interest at the rate allowed by the laws of the State or Territory where the bank is
located, and no nore; except that where, by the laws of any State, a different
rate is limited for banks of issue, organized under State laws, the rate so limited
sball be allowed for associations organized in any such State under the act:"
National banks may take the rate of interest allowed by the State to
natural persons generally, and a higher rate, if State banks of issue are

authorized by the laws of the State to take it.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.
Tiffany, trustee of Darby, a bankrupt, brought an action
,of debt in the court below against the National Bank of
Missouri, a corporation organized under the National Banking Act of June 3d, 1864, to recover under the provisions
,of the thirtieth section of the act twice the amount of interest paid by the said Darby, on certain loans made by the
bank to him before he was adjuidged a bankrupt. The
.ground of the action was, that the interest reserved and paid
ERROR

