Oct 1873.]

BATESVILLE INSTITUTE V. KAUFFMAN.

151

Syllabus.

have been just as good as it is with it. Where would then
have been her separate property, about which she was authorized to contract ?
It is clear to me that, to enable a married woman to contract, she must have and own separate property at the time
of making the contract, and that to make that contract valid
it must relate to that property. If the proposition on which
this case is rested be sound, the wife need have no separate
property to enable her to contract; but she can make any
agreement by which she is to receive something, put it in
writing, call the paper which evidences the agreement her
separate property, and the thing is done.
As to the invasions which courts of equity have made on
the rigid and unjust rules of the common law on this subject, they are wise and beneficent, and they were made
because the common law courts afford no remedy, and if this
were a suit in equity by Mrs. Chadwick to recover the value
of her dower after she had legally conveyed it, I would
gladly enforce her right. But that is not the case,,and I do
not think the courts have an unlimited right to overturn the
clearest principles of the common law because legislation
has lagged behind the progress of the age in the jurisprudence which governs the rights of married women.
I regret to have to dissent, but I think the precedent of
making laws in this manner too pernicious to be acquiesced
in by my silence.

BATESVILLE

INSTITUTE V.

KAUFFMAN.

1, Where the assignees of a claim on a third party have parted completely

with their interest in it and, by a transfer, vested the entire title in
others, they are not necessary parties in an equity proceeding by these
others to enforce it.

2. An assignment of a debt carries with it an assignment of a judgment or

mortgage by which it is secured.
8.

Where a trustee is dead the trust being still alive and unexecuted, a court
of equity will carry it out through any other appropriate person ir. whorn

152

BATESVILLE INSTITUTE V. KAUFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
the control of the property may be; or if necessary, through its own
officers and agents without the intervention of a new trustee.
4. The civil war was flagrant in Arkansas from April, 1861, to April, 1866;
and during this time the operation of the statute which limited the duration of liens to three years was suspended.

from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas; the case being thus:
Womach and Welsh, builders, having a mechanics' lien
against all edifice and the grounds on which it stood at
Batesville, Arkansas, owned by a corporation of that State,
known as the Batesville Institute, got judgment on the lien
on the 15th of January, 1861. By the laws of Arkansas
the liens of judgments continue three years from the day
that they are rendered. Having thus got their judgment,
and being indebted by promissory notes to a firm known as
Hirsch & Adler, they assigned their lien by deed to one
Gibbs, in trust, authorizing him to make the lien effectual
in any and all ways, to pay Hirsch & Adler the notes out of
its proceeds, and to return any surplus. Hirsch & Adler, in
turn, assigned the notes to Kauffman & Co., of Louisiana,
and by indorsement on it, in their firm name, all their
" rights and interests" in the deed of trust.
In the spring of 1861 the rebellion broke out in Arkansas,
and continued till the spring of 1866.
In this state of things, and the Batesville Institute having
conveyed the legal title of the ground on which the building
was, to one Cox, Kauffman & Co., setting forth in the same,
" That during the existence of the recent rebellion it was impossible, by reason of the resistance to the laws of the United
States, to have said mechanics' lien foreclosed, all judicial proceedings in the courts of the United States being interrupted
and suspended during a period of several years within the State
of Arkansas; and also that before the close of the said rebellion
the trustee named in the said deed of trust departed this life,
and that there was no one left to execute the same,"APPEAL

now, on the 5th of March, 1868&filed their bilI in the court
below against the Batesville Institute and Cox, tr enforce

,Oct. 1873.]

BATESVILLE INSTITUTE V. KAUFFMAN.

158

Opinion of the court.

.payment of the lien against the edifice and lot, and in default of payment have them sold.
The defendants demurred, assigning as reasons:
1st and 2d. That the complainants showed no title which
authorized a suit by them; the point of the objection being
that the transfer of the notes of Hirsch & Adler did not pass
the title to the judgment obtained on the mechanics' lien;
.and it being insisted that Hirsch & Adler were necessary
parties to the suit.
3d and 4th. That Gibbs, the trustee, was dead, and no
:successor appointed in his place.
5th. That the lien of the judgment had been lost by lapse
of time; the judgment having been recovered in March,
1861, and the present suit brought in March, 1868; an interval of seven years.
Womach, one of the defendants, made a further defence
that the debt of the complainants had been paid by the rents
and profits of the bulding received by them for several years
past, or which they should have received.
The court below overruled the demurrer, and referred the
matter of defence, set up, as just mentioned by Womach, to
a master to take testimony and to report upon the subject.
He took much testimony, and made a report, fixing the
amount due to the plaintiffs at $14,410, for which sum the
lien was ordered to stand, with interest at ten per cent., and
the property decreed to be sold; costs to be paid by the defendants. From this action of the court below the present
appeal was taken.
Mr. A. H. Garland,for the appellants; Mr. W. M. Rose,
contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
'The demurrants object, first, that the complainants show
,no title which authorizes a suit by them. The point of this
objection is that the transfer of the notes of Hirsch & Adler
did not pass the title to the judgment on the mechanics'
lien obtained for the security of the notes. It is further in.

BATESVILLE INSTITUTE V. KAUFFMAN.

[Sup. (t.

Opinion of the court.

sisted, under this head, that Hirsch & Adler were necessary
parties to the suit.
Neither of these objections is sound. Hirsch & Adler
had parted with their interest in the notes and in the judgment, and by their assignment had vested the entire title
thereto in their assignees. The sole right of recovery is in,
the latter parties; and, if equities exist between them and
their assignors, they are to be settled between, them at their
convenience and in their own manner. These defendants
have no interest in that part of the transaction.*
Again, no principle is better settled than this, that the.
assignment of a debt carries with it an assignment of a judgment or mortgage by which it is secured. If a part only of
the debt is assigned, a pro tanto portion of the security follows it.t
The third and fourth points of the demurrer rest upon
the objection that Gibbs, the trustee, being dead, and no,
successor having been appointed, the trust cannot be enforced.
That the court have power to appoint a new trustee, and'
to compel the performance of the trust by him, is, quite certain. It is, however, equally within the power of a court
of equity to decree and enforce the execution of the trust
through its own officers and agents, without the intervention,
of a new trustee.t If by the deed to Cox the legal title to,
the property is now in him or his representatives, a perfect
execution of the trust may be effected through a decreer
that they shall convey the property to the parties entitled to,
it; or, the property may be decreed to be sold, and payment
made from the proceeds of sale.
The remaining point of the demurrer alleges that the lien,
of the judgment has been lost by lapse of time; that the
Allen v. Brown, 44 New York, 228; Danklessen v. Braynard, 3 Daly,
188.
t Pattison v. Hull, 9 Cowan, 747; Jackson v. Blodget, 5 Id. 202; GreeD
v. Hart, 1 Johnson, 680; Martin ex dem. Weston v. Mowlin, 2 Burrow, 97,9;
Prescott v. Hull, 17 Johnson, 284.
1 Story, Equity Jurisprudence, Il 976, 1060, 106.1.

Oct. 1873.]

BATESVILLE INSTITUTE V. KAUFFMAN.

155

Opinion of the court.

judgment was recovered more than three years before the
filing of the bill, and that no good reason appears for not
enforcing the same within the three years. The bill alleges,
"that during the existence of the recent rebellion it was impossible, by reason of the resistance to the laws of the United
States, to have said mechanics' lien foreclosed, all judicial
proceedings in the courts of the United States being interrupted and suspended during a period of several years within
the State of Arkansas." The judgment was recovered in
March, 1861. The present suit was commenced in March,
1868. If from this period of seven years we except the
time when civil war was flagrant in Arkansas, to wit, from
April, 1861, until April, 1866, there remain but two years
in which the statute of limitations was in force against
this judgment. These are the dates at which the war was
officially recognized, and at which it was by proclamation
officially declared to be at an end in Arkansas.* It has been
repeatedly held in this court that the statute of limitations
was suspended in the rebellious States during the existence
of the war.
We perceive no occasion to find fault with the principles
on which the sum of $14,410 was fixed by the master as the
amount due the complainants, or with the rate of interest
given by the court below. No authority is cited to show
that this is a greater rate of interest than may be ordered by
the courts of Arkansas in such cases.
The defendants resisted the complainants' claim, and, as
the court held, unjustly. It was competent to the court to
decree that the defendants should personally pay the cost%
of such resistance.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

See Brown v. Hiatts, 16 Wallace, 182; The Protector, 12 Id. 700.

