LuCAS v. BROOKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

LUCAS v. BROOKS.
1. A person in possession of land who takes a lease from another who has
bought and claims the land leased, is estopped from denying the title of
such other person, or showing that such person was but trustee of the
land for him.
2. The act of Congress of July 2d, 1864. which says that there shall be no,
exclusion of any witness in civil actions because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried does not give capacity to a wife to testify in
favor of her husband.
8. A writing bearing even date with a paper having the form of and purporting to be the last will and testament of the party, and disposing
clearly and absolutely of all his estate,-which writing refers to the
paper as the party's '' will'' and speaks of itself as ''a letter" written
for the information and government of the executors, so far only as
they see fit to carry out the testator's present views and wishes,-bas ne
testamentary obligation, even though it direct the persons to whom it is
written to allow such and such persons to have specific benefits named
in specific items of property.
4. Evidence which may divert the attention of the jury from the real issue
-that is to say, immaterial evidence-should be kept from the jury.
5. The improper exclusion of a record is not error when the party offering
it has proved, in another way, every fact which the record, if it had
been admitted, would prove.
6. Prayers for instructions which overlook facts of which there is evidence,
or which assume as fact that of which there is no evidence, are properly
refused.
7. The question of waiver of a notice to quit is always in part a question of
intent, and there can be no intent to waive notice, when the act relied
on as a waiver has been the act of the party's agent, unknown to theprincipal and unauthorized by him.
8. An assignment of error which alleges simply that the court below erred
in giving the instructions which were given to the jury in lieu of the
instructions asked for-it not being stated in what the error consisted or
in what part of the charge it is-is an insufficient assignment under the
21st Rule of court.
S. Where one writes to a man's wife (there being a relationship by blood
between the party writing and the wife) proposing to her to occupy a
certain farm on which she and her husband were then living, and to,
pay a certain rent therefor, which offer she accepts, and there is nothing
in the correspondence beyond the fact that the property is offered to.
the wife, and that the wife accepts it, to infer a purpose to give it to her
to the exclusion of her husband, the husband is not excluded. The
lease enures to his benefit and brings him into the relation of a tenant
to the lessors.

Oct. 1873.]

LuCAS v. BROOKS.

437

Statement of the case.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of West Virginia; in which court P. C. Brooks brought ejectment
against Robert Lucas fir a farm. The case was thus:
The farm, in 1844, was owned by Edward Lucas, the
father of this Robert Lucas. In the year mentioned one
Towner recovered three judgments against Edward Lucas,
which became liens on the farm. In 1848, Edward Lucas,
being embarrassed, conveyed the farm with general warrantee to his son, the said Robert.
In 1858, Towner (Edward Lucas being now dead) filed a
bill against his executor, against Robert Lucas, purchaser
of the farm, and other heirs, to have satisfaction. Robert
Lucas answered, admitting the liens and his purchase of the
farm from his father; alleging that it was subject to other
liens by judgments and deeds of trust older than these of
Towner, and stating that to enable him to make the purchase he had borrowed $9000 from one R. D. Shepherd
(whose niece Catharine he had married), and paid the same
upon such prior liens; that these were assigned and now
held by the said Shepherd as security for the loan, and should
be paid before the liens of the complainant. The court,
after various references and reports, ordered a sale of the
farm, and it was sold; Shepherd, who in the meantime had
become the owner of all the liens reported by the master as
existing, becoming the purchaser and paying only the costs.
Lucas and his wife, the niece, as already said, of Shepherd,
were at this time in possession.
Shepherd thereupon, by writing, dated August 30th, 1859,
agreed that Lucas (nothing being said about the wife) should
continue on the land as his tenant until the 1st of April, 1861,
at a rent of $600.
Shepherd (lied in November, 1865. His will, proved on
the 12th of March following, ran thus:

"First. Having given property and money at different times
to my family connections, the greater part of which stands
charged on my books under the head of an account there opened
and called 'Family Accounts,' I will and bequeath to each

488

LUCAS

v. BRooKs.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

therein named whatever may have been so given
and charged,
or anything that I may hereafter give during
my lifetime.
" Second. I will and bequeath to my daughter,
Ellen Brooks,
and to her two sons, Peter C. Brooks . . . and
Shepherd Brooks
• . . all my property, real, personal, and
mixed, . . . giving
one-third to each; and I direct that they may
be put into possession of it without delay.
" Third. I appoint my said two grandsons, P.
C. Brooks and
S. Brooks, executors of this my will, giving
them seizin of my
entire estate."
Accompanying this will, and of the same date
with it,was
a sealed letter of the testator to his daughter
and two grandsons named, in which he says:
"I have this day made my will, in original and
duplicate, one
copy with this letter deposited with you, . .
. but write this letter
for your information and government so far only
as you may see fit
to carry out my present views and wishes.
Circumstances frequently change, so as to make what was proper
and expedient
at one time the reverse at another time. I
therefore rely on
your doing what is right, keeping in view what
you believe my
wishes would be were I living."
He mentions that a brother of his, named
James, had died
in 1837, with debts exceeding half a million
of dollars; that
he, the writer, bad wound up his estate,
and after years of
toil and anxiety had worked through and saved
himself from
ruin; that he had derived no benefit whatever
from his said
brother's estate, and had most strictly complied
with all the

requests which his brother had made as to the
residue of it,
after paying certain debts.
He says further:

"I take very little interest in any of my family
connections
here, except Henry Shepherd and J. H. Shepherd,
my two
nephews; for all the others, of both sexes, I
have done as much
as I ever wish done for them, and more than
some of them deserve. Should ever Henry or James require
aid or assistance,
give it to them in such way as you may deem
best."
And after some expression of regard for
a young man,
whom he requests his executors to befriend,
and a request

Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS v.

439

BaooKs,

Statement of the case.

that a ship, which was then named Montgomery, should be
called Alexander Hamilton, a great admiration for which
statesman he avows, he adds:
"As to the plantation in this county, belonging to me and
known as the Lucas farm, allow Catharine Lucas, my niece, to
live upon it during her lifetime, on the condition that she pay
you a small rent of three or four per cent. on its cost, which is
$24,000, but don't sell it unless you get the cost. Then give my
said niece $10,000 out of the proceeds, well secured on her children."

Though the lease by Shepherd to Lucas, mentioned some
distance back, was by its terms limited as there stated to the
1st of April, 1861, Lucas and his wife remained on the thrm
after that time, and were living on it when Shepherd died.
After that event, P. C. and S. Brooks, named by him, R.
D. Shepherd, as his executors, though the will was not yet
proved, wrote to Mrs. Lucas as follows:
I' BOSTON, MASS., November 29th, 1865.

"iDEAR MADAM: As executors of the estate of Mr. R. D. Shepherd, we address you regarding the disposition of the farm belonging to him, on which you live. We have two propositions
to make to you, either of which you can accept. First, to occupy the place and pay therefor to us, or our agent, the yearly
rent of $600, on the 1st of December of each year; the lease to
begin January 1st, 1866. If the rent should be increased, or
any other change made, you are to receive one year's notice of
it in advance; you are to make all repairs and to pay all expenses on the property excepting taxes, not allowing it to deteriorate. Second, the place to be sold as soon as convenient;
to be paid for one-half in cash, to come to us; the other half to
remain on mortgage, which will be put in trust for your benefit
during your life, and go to your children outright at your death.
Meanwhile, until the sale, and as long as you occupy the place,
we expect you to pay rent at the rate of $600 per annum, begin.
ning January 1st, 1866.
"Yours, &c.,

"P. C. BROOKS,
"SHEPHERD

BROOKS."

LUCAS

v.

BROOKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

To this Mrs. Lucas replied:
"ELMwOOD, VA., December 11th, 1865.
"MESSRS.

P. C. AND S. BROOKS.

"DEAR SIRs: Your letter of November 29th was received the

2d instant. I have concluded to accept of your first proposition,
that is, rent this farm at $600 a year. As all property is rented
here the 1st of April, I wish to make one request, which is to
change the date. The rent to be paid the 1st of January, the
lease to begin the 1st of April. My reason for making this request is, in case I should be required to leave the farm, I would
then have time to find another home.
"Yours, &c.,
" CATHARINE LUCAS."

Subsequently, the commencement of the lease was by
mutual agreement fixed for the 1st of April, instead of the
1st of January. After this Mrs. Lucas continued to pay the
stipulated rent until 1868, but the rent subsequent to that
time wvas withheld. On the 19th of May, 1866, Mrs. Ellen
Brooks and Shepherd Brooks, describing themselves as,
with the said P. C. Brooks, equal and only devisees of R. D.
Shepherd, conveyed to P. C. Brooks all their right, title, and
interest in the land, to hold to him in fee simple; and on
the 15th of February, 1869, he gave to Lucas and his wife
notice that he terminated the lease on the 1st day of April,
1870, and required them to surrender possession of the land
on that day. They declining to do this, P. C. Brooks
brought an action of ejectment in the court below to recover it.
The defence was, that the possession and right of possession were in the defendant's wife, as her separate estate,
after the expiration of Mr. Shepherd's lease to him; that is,
after April 1st, 1861. For this purpose the defendant offered
inevidence another lease from Shepherd to his wife for one
year from April 1st, 1861, at the yearly rent of $900, and
offered proof that this was followed by the lease of 1865,
already mentioned. This evidence was received.
The defendant then offered the deposition of his wife to

Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS v. BRooKs.

441

Statement of the case.

prove a part of his case, contending that it was admissible
under the act of Congress of July 2d, 1864,* which enacts
that"In courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion
,of any witness . . . in civil actions because he is a party to, or
interested in, the issue tried."
The court excluded the deposition, and its action herein
was the first error assigned.
He then offered in evidence certain depositions, which
tended to prove the following facts, viz., that James Shepherd (the brother already referred to of R. D. Shepherd)
,died unmarried in 1837, leaving a large estate, and leaving
also several brothers and sisters, one of the brothers being
father of the defendant's wife; that R. D. Shepherd was in
affluent circumstances and a large creditor of the decedent,
whilst the other brothers and sisters were poor; that having
great confidence in the honor and generosity of his brother
R. D. Shepherd, and to secure his debts to him, James Shepherd devised all his estate to his rich brother R. D. Shepherd ; that at the same time he left therewith a sealed letter,
directed to this brother, directing that out of his estate, after
the payment of his debts, his sisters should receive certain
sums named, and his nephews and nieces the residue; that
the estate (probably by reason of good management upon
the part of R. D. Shepherd) yielded a considerable sum
,after paying the debts, and that therefore R. D. Shepherd
paid the amounts to his sisters as directed in the sealed
letter, and for a time aided certain of his brothers and
nephews and nieces by distribution of the surplus, by virtue
of the will and sealed letter aforesaid.
These depositions tended to prove also by admissions of
R. D. Shepherd, that he bought the land in controversy for
the defendant's wife, and as her separate property; that it
was first purchased in 1848, from the father of th( defendant, bi the name of the defendant, but in equity for his wife;
* 12 Stat. at Large, 851.

LucAs v. BRooKs.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

that when it was purchased in 1859, in the name of R. D.
Shepherd, it was purchased for her benefit.
The plaintiff objected to the reception of this testimony,.
"and the court sustained the objection so far as it tended
to prove that Catharine Lucas derived title to the property
in controversy under the will of R. D. Shepherd, and so far
as it referred to conversations and other verbal statementsheld between said witnesses and R. D. Shepherd concerning
his purposes as to said farm, to which ruling the defendant
excepted."
This action of the court was the ground of the defendant's
second assignment of error.
The defendant, for the same purpose of showing the interest of his wife in the land, and the character of their occupancy, offered in evidence the letter already referred to,,
bearing even date with the will of R. D. Shepherd, written
by him, and addressed to the devisees in his will, which the
court permitted to be read in evidence only for the purposeof showing the intention of the executors in executing the,
lease to Catharine Lucas, which restriction of it the defendant assigned as a third error.
The defendant then, for the purpose last stated, and to,
show the recognition of the plaintiff that his wife had and,
controlled the possession of the farm, by the service of a
notice upon her the year previous to the one given in evidence by the plaintiff, and a subsequent waiver thereof,,
offered in evidence a transcript of a record from the Circuit
Court of Jefferson County, duly certified, in a proceeding in,
forcible detainer in the case of P. C. Brooks v. R. A. Lucas,
which contained as the foundation of the suit a notice of
the plaintiff upon the defendant's wife, dated March 16th,.
1867, and giving notice to her that she would be required to
surrender possession of the premises and remove therefrom,
on the 1st of April, 1868. To this transcript the plaintiff
objected, and the objection was sustained and the transcript
excluded from the jury. The defendant excepted; this being
his fourth assignment of error.
The defendant then offered in evidence a transcript of a

Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS

r'.

BROOKS,

Statement of the case.

distress warrant (issued upon the affidavit of W. A. Chapline, representing himself to be agent of P. C. Brooks in the
matter), for rent sworn to be due for the year ending April
1st, 1871, a distress accordingly on the defendant's property,,
and a replevin and forthcoming bond by the defendant.
The transcript was certified by the deputy clerk of the court,.
and was not under the court seal. It was, therefore, objected to and excluded as not properly certified. To this
exclusion the defendant excepted, the same being made hig
fifth assignment of error.
The defendant then proved orally the same thing which
the transcript if received would have shown, but his witness
(Chapline himself) testified also that he had not been authorized by Brooks to issue the said distress warrant.
The defendant also gave in evidence (to show that the
legal title was not in the plaintiff), two deeds of trust with
the bonds secured by them, executed by Edward Lucas and
his wife, whilst he was the owner of the land; one to R. H.
Lee, dated in February, 1847, in trust for Peter Saurwien,
the other to H. Berry, dated in 1843, to secure said bonds
of him the said Edward Lucas, to Saurwien and Douglass,
which had been assigned by them to Robert Lucas, and by
him to J. H. Shepherd, trustee, for the sole and separate use
of Catharine Lucas, wife of the said Robert.
The testimony being closed, the defendant asked for four
separate instructions:
" 1st. That the distress warrant sued out by Chapline, as agent
of the plaintiff, for rent claimed as due for the year ending
April, 1871, levied as it was on the property of the defendant,
who had given a forthcoming bond, and being still pending, constituted a waiver of the notice to quit, and, therefore, that the
defendant was entitled to a verdict.
"2d. That no expression of disapprobation by the plaintiff or
his attorney of the act of the agent in issuing the distress warrant could defeat its operation as a waiver of the notice to qit,
while the proceedings on the warrant were pending, and so iong
as the plaintiff held the forthcoming bond for the property di.trained.

LUCAS V. BROOKS.

[SUP. Ugt.

Statement of the case.
"3d. That if there was an outstanding deed of trust, made
February 18th, 1847, conveying the legal title to the farm in
question to R. 11. Lee, in trust for Peter Saurwein, and if neither
he nor the cestui que trust, nor any one entitled to receive payment of said debt so secured, were made parties to the suit of
Towner v. Lucas, executor, and others, and if the said outstanding
lien was of older date than the lien of Towner's judgment, and
if the said first-mentioned lien was still subsisting and unpaid,
they would find for the defendant.
"4th. That if the debts secured by the deeds of trust from
Edward Lucas to R. H. Lee and H. Berry, were assigned to J.
H. Shepherd as trustee for Catharine Lucas, and if the said R.
D. Shepherd was not the owner of the said debts, at the time
of the sale under the decree of the Circuit Court of Jefferson
County, that proceeding could not defeat the title of the trustees
to the deeds of trust to secure their payment, although they
may have been audited and credited to him in that proceeding,
unless the said J. H. Shepherd and Catharine Lucas were parties to that proceeding."
The court, on its own motion, in lieu of instructions requested, instructed the jury thus:
"The will of R. D. Shepherd grants the land in controversy
to the three devisees and legatees, Ellen Brooks, P. C. Brooks,
and Shepherd Brooks, and the sealed letter accompanying said
will in no wise alters or modifies it, and creates no new estate
in any one, and it having been produced at the instance of the
defendants, and by them offered in evidence, they are bound by
its contents, and are not permitted to impeach the correctness
of its statements.
"The letter of P. C. Brooks and Shepherd Brooks, addressed
to Mrs. Lucas, the wife of the defendant in this cause, and her
reply, and the subsequent agreement by letters changing the
time of the commencement of the lease from the 1st of January
to the 1st of April, as well as the time of the payment of the
rents from the 1st day of January to the 1st of December, constitutes a lease of the premises to her by them, which she may
take, but being a married woman, by operation of law, the lease
becomes the absolute property of her husband, and thereby
creates the relation of landlord and tenant between him and the
'essors; and the fact that no particular time is mentioned in the

Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS v. BROOKS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

contract of lease, when such relation should cease between the
parties, taken in connection with the fact, that the plaintiffs
reserved in the contract the right to increase the rent thereafter, or to make other changes in it, upon giving one year's
notice, creates a tenancy from year to year, which may be terminated upon one year's notice as prescribed by said contract
of lease.
" The relation of landlord and tenant, having been established,
as set forth in the preceding instruction, the tenant is estopped
from denying his landlord's title.
"And the fact that there were outstanding liens upon the said
land, or that the defendant was in possession of the same at the
time that the testator, R. D. Shepherd, became the purchaser
under the decree of the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, at
the suit of Towner v. Lucas, executor, et al., does not warrant the
defendant, under the circumstances of this case, in disclaiming
his landlord's title.
"Before the plaintiff can recover, the jury must be satisfied
that the notice required by the contract of lease was given, and,
if given by the plaintiff, and there was afterwards a distress
warrant sued out to recover rent due and in arrear for the leased
premises, in favor of the plaintiff by his agent Chapline, the
presumption of law would be that it was sued out with the
assent of the plaintiff, in which event he could not maintain this
action, unless the evidence satisfies the jury, that the agent
Chapline exceeded his authority in suing out such warrant, acting without the knowledge or consent of his principal, after his
principal, the plaintiff, had, by notice, according to the contract
of lease, terminated the tenancy, in which event he would be
entitled to recover."
The record adds:
"

To which instructions the defendant excepted."

The instructions were assigned as the seventh error.
Messrs. C. W. B. Allison and D. B. Lucas, for the plaintiff
in error:
As to the first error. Was the testimony of the wife properly excluded? The testimony of the husband himself
would have been competent. But the interest of the wife

LUCAS v. BROOKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Arg ument for the plaintiff in error.

is the interest of the husband. Cases may indeed be well
conceived where, in a suit by her husband, the wife's testi
mony should be excluded upon the ground of public policy,
or of domestic peace. But this rule does not apply here,
because the testimony was given with the assent of the husband, and in entire harmony with his wishes.
As to the second error. The restriction placed upon the
evidence given by the depositions of the witnesses, was calculated to mislead the jury by reason of its indefiniteness.
As a whole the testimony had a bearing upon the questions
of possession, how, when, and from whom obtained, under
what lease, if any; whether held by the defendant or his
wife, as her separate property, whether by an equitable interest in the fee, with the right of possession, or as tenant
for years,*from year to year, at will or sufferance, or for life.
Some of these questions were important to be ascertained
by the jury, before the doctrine of estoppel could be applied.
It was thus competent generally, and if any portions were
incompetent, they should have been pointed out and excluded.
As to the third error. The testamentary letter of Shepherd, dated on the day that his will was, and found with it,
should not have been restricted as it was, but was competent in connection with the other testimony, to go to the
jury to enable them to determine the character of the occupancy of the defendant and his wife, and particularly
whether she had a separate interest in the land. Analyze
the letter of November 29th, 1865, by P. C. and S. Brooks
to Mrs. Lucas, and then place in juxtaposition with it this
testamentary letter.
The former letter (November 29th, 1865), begins thus:
"As
you."

EXECUTORS

of the estate of R. D. Shepherd, we address

Now, does not this offer, made as executors, naturally cause
us to recur to the will, whence all their representative authority was derived? But, upon recurring to the will, as
probated, we find no such authority as this letter would in-

(Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS

v.

BROOKS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

,dicate. We must look beyond the formal will for any such
,power in the executors. We find it in the letter accompa,hying the will, and bearing even date. Here then, we have
;the key to the action of the executors; the authority under
which, as executors, they were proceeding to dispose of the
Lucas farm. Here is the trust, which the executors (who
:are also, with Ellen Brooks, the only devisees) accepted, in
favor of Catharine Lucas, and which they proceeded to
execute. It matters not, as far as the present question is
-concerned, whether this letter were mandatory or only
.advisory. The present question is: Did the executors in,tend, in their letter to Catharine Lucas of November 29th,
1865, to offer to her, substantially, the alternative proposilions which the sealed letter sets out?
If they did, the court below erred in pronouncing the
lease from year to year only.
But if we be wrong, still, was not this duty of construing
and comparing separate papers, with a view to extract therefrom the true intent of the contracting parties, a labor for
the jury, of which the court could not relieve them? Did not
this duty, if it devolved upon the jury, correspond to a right
on the part of the appellant, of which the court below erroneously deprived him ?
As to the fourth error. The transcript of the record of pro,ceedings in forcible detainer, commenced by the plaintiff in
1868, was proper evidence to show that the plaintiff; when
ie gave the notice therein shown, looked upon and treated
the defendant's wife as the tenant in her own right, by giving
the notice to her alone, and the abandounment of the suit
when she paid the rent.
As to the fifth error. Was the transcript of the proceedings under the distress warrant properly excluded? We
understand it to be settled, that in the courts of the United
States no other certificate or authentication is required, than
is required in the courts of the State in whch the Federal
-court is sitting. If this transcript was excluded because the
,attestation was by the deputy, and not the clerk himself, or
for want of the seal of the court, the ruling in either case

LUCAS v. BROOKS.

[Sup. Cto

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

was erroneous.* Now, when the court erroneously excluded)
primary evidence, and drove us to prove by secondary andi
inferior testimony the same facts which we proposed so to.
prove by the record, we were substantially injured. Wewere driven to examine the plaintiff's agent, who stated that
what he did was unauthorized. Were we not thus injured ?
If the record had been received the authority of the agent
could not have been drawn in question, without the principal's first dismissing the proceeding.
As to the sixth error. 1. The first instruction asked by the.
defendant should have been given, because the jury from,
the evidence before them would and should have found thefacts stated therein, that such facts did constitute a waiver,.
upon the part of the plaintiff, of the notice to quit which he,
had given in evidence.
2. So, too, the defendant's second instruction asked for
was proper. The plaintiff should have repudiated the act
of the agent by a positive act, in discharging the forthcoming,
bond and dismissing the proceeding.
8. The third and fburth instructions asked for should havebeen given. They seem to have been refused because the
court was of the opinion that the defendant "under the circumstances of the case," that is, that by reason of some one
or more of the leases was estopped denying the plaintiff'&
title and right of possession, and that the question of estoppel
under the facts proved should not be left to the jury, but
should be settled by the court. We treat of this matter
further on.
As to the seventh error. I. The first instruction given by
the court was calculated to mislead the jury.
Both the legal title and right of possession must be in the
plaintiff to entitle him to recover in this action. By the
second clause of the will it would seem to be vested in the
daughter and grandchildren in equal proportions. But by
the third it is vested in the executors as such. " Seizin"
(the term used in the third clause) means the legal title, or
Cooke v. Hunter, 2 Overton, 113; Code of West Virginia, p. 615, J 5,

Oct. 1873.]

LuCAs

v. BROOKS.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

lawful right of possession. What else could the testator
have meant by the sentence "giving them seizin of my entire
estate ?"

Both clauses should be construed together and reconciled
if possible. This can be done by giving to the executors
the possession or right of possession and control for a time,
and the legal title, and making the devisees the sole beneficiaries with the right to receive the possession from the
executors. If the two clauses cannot be reconciled by reason
of being in conflict, then, by the rule for construction of
wills, the last clause must prevail.* The plaintiff below
recognized the right of the executors to rent, control, and
dispose of the land under the will, by the correspondence
with Mrs. Lucas and the lease in the name of the executors.
II. The court erred in its second instruction. The lease
should be construed in connection with the other evidence,
showing her former interest in the land derived from the
testator, and thus construed. The lease to Mrs. Lucas was
her separate estate and not the property of the husband by
operation of law or otherwise. No particular phraseology
is necessary to create a separate estate for a feme covert.t
There was enough here to show the purpose.
This second instruction is erroneous on several other
grounds:
1. It removed and precluded from the consideration of
the jury an important question of fact depending upon the
interpretation of a series of documents, including the sealed
letter, viz.: was this a lease from year to year, or for life ?
2. It wrongly stated the law, in saying that " a lease to
the wife by operation of law becomes the absolute property
There must be proof of his assent exof the husband."
pressed or implied; and his property in it is only qualified,
there being a right of survivorship in the wife.
Again, the lease from the executors did not create a ten
ancy from year to year.
* hvrra~t V. Bentley, 2 Mylne & Keen, 149; 2 Jarman on Wills, 741,
Rule 7.
t Prout v. Roby, 15 Wallace, 471.

voL. xv111.

29

LUOAS

v. BROOKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

If the rent should be increased, or any other change
made, Mrs. Lucas was to have one year's notice of it in advance. It will be seen that no limit is made to the term,
but it contemplates a continuance for years. Power is reserved to increase the rent after a year's notice, and also to
make other changes after a like notice. Does the reservation
of the power to make a change authorize a termination of the
lease, as held by the court below?
III. The third instruction of the court is erroneous, because:
1. It touched on the province of the jury; it declared
that the relation of landlord and tenant had been established
[proved], and that the tenancy was established [proved], to
be from year to year.
2. A person having entered under a lease is estopped from
denying it. The rule is founded on the importance which
the law attaches to good faith. But there was no such entry
here. Lucas and wife were already in possession under another title. The lease was at best but an acknowledgment
of tenancy by one previously in possession, and the court
should have so qualified the application of the doctrine of
estoppel as to have allowed the jury to determine whether
the acknowledgment of tenancy was not procured by fraud
or undue influence, or made by mistake, or through ignorance.
There was no deed, and hence no technical estoppel ; and
where possession is not derived from the lease, a mere acknowledgment of tenancy is no equitable estoppel.
The
alleged landlord has not been placed in any worse position,
and the question is whether, all things considered, the supposed tenant, by such acknowledgment, ought to be precluded from asserting a superior title in himself.
IV. The fourth instruction was erroneous, because:
1. An outstanding unsatisfied mortgage is a good defence
in an action of ejectment, when the defendant has an equitable title.*
* Peltz v. Clarke, &c., 5 Peters, 481; Marsh v. Brooks, 8 Howard, 222.

Oct., 1873.]

LUCAS v. BROOKS.

Opinion of the court.

2. The court repeats the error of deciding upon the "circumstances [facts] of this case," which ought to have been
left to the jury.
Mr. C. .. Faulkner, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Before proceeding to a consideration of the several errors
assigned, it may be remarked that if the defendant was in
possession under a lease from the plaintiff, or from any one
to whose reversion the plaintiff had succeeded, he was not
at liberty to controver.t the title of the plaintiff or of that
reversioner, while he remained in possession. In view of
this undoubted principle it is impossible to see how he could
have resisted a recovery, if in fact he was the tenant of the
plaintiff, or if the plaintiff had succeeded to the title of R.
. Shepherd. But it is very plain that during the lease of
1859, lie was Shepherd's tenant, and that after its expiration
he continued a tenant from year to year under that lease;
unless the one made in 1861, or that made in 1865, supplanted it. Both the later leases were made to his wife.
As he did not dissent, they became her chattels real, and
during the coverture they belonged to him. Necessarily,
therefore, his possession was in law under those leases, or
one of them, or it was as a tenant of Mr. Shepherd from
year to year, in virtue of his holding over after the expiration of the lease of 1859. How then he could show, so long
as he retained that possession, that Shepherd had no title,
or that Shepherd held in trust for his wife, or that any one
who had succeeded to Shepherd's title, or- one, though not
thus succeeding, to whom he had attorned by the payment
of rent, had no title or held in trust for his wife, we are not
infoamed, nor can we be. That was a defence which he was
not At liberty to set up, even upon his own showing of the
facts. That the plaintiff had succeeded to Shepherd's title
is, we think, very certain. The will, as we have seen, devised and bequeathed to Ellen Brooks, the testator's daughter, and to her two sons, all his property, real, personal, and

LUCAS

v.BROOKS.

[Sup. CtL

Opinion of the court.

mixed, and directed that they should be put into possession
of it without delay. If this stood alone, it could not be
doubted that the devisees named took the entire estate of
the testator. The third item of the will, however, it is insisted, gave the estate to the executors. Its language is:
"I constitute and appoint my two grandsons, Peter C.
Brooks, the younger of that name, and Shepherd Brooks,
executors of this my will, giving them seizin of my entire
estate." But this clause must be construed consistently, if
possible, with the other provisions of the will, so as to give
effect to all its parts. Hence, it is clear that the testator intended by the word " seizin," possession; and that he gave
it to his executors for the purposes which he had in view
when he constituted them executors. The will exhibits no
reason why they should be invested with the title to the testator's real estate, and such an investiture is directly in conflict with the second item, which casts the title by apt words
upon his daughter, the plaintiff, and Shepherd Brooks.
Hence, it must be held that by force of the will and the deed
from Mrs. Brooks and Shepherd Brooks, the plaintiff had
succeeded to the reversion of Mr. Shepherd, and to all the
right which his co-devisees ever had. His title, therefore,
was unassailable by the defendant, and his right to the possession as against the defendant was unquestionable, if notice of the termination of the lease, and of his intention to
resume possession, was duly given.
This view of the case makes the consideration of the speific errors assigned very easy. So far as they are aimed at
showing that the defendant did not stand in the relation of
a tenant of the plaintiff, or of one to whose reversion the
plaintiff had succeeded, they are material, but unless that
was shown, they can have no effect upon the judgment which
has been obtained.
The first is, that the court refused to admit in evidence
the deposition of Catharine Lucas, the wife of the defendant.
That it is a rule of the common law, a wife cannot be re.
ceived as a witness for or against her husband, except in
suits between them, or in criminal cases where he is prose.

,Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS

v.

BROOKS.

Opinion of the court.

.cuted for wrong done to her, is not controverted. But it is
argued, because Congress has enacted that in civil actions in
the courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion
.of any witness because he is a party to, or interested in the
issue tried, the wife is competent to testify for her husband.
Undoubtedly the act of Congress has cut up by the roots all
'objections to the competency of a witness on account of interest. But the objection to a wife's testifying on behalf of
her husband, is not and never has been that she has any
interest in the issue to which he is a party. It rests solely
upon public policy. To that the statute has no application.
Accordingly, though statutes similar to the act of Congress
'exist in many of the States, they have not been held to remove the objection to a wife's competency to testify for or
Against her husband. And in West Virginia it has been
expressly enacted that a husband shall not be examined for
,or against his wife, nor a wife for or against her husband,
'except in an action or suit between husband and wife.*
Were there any doubt respecting the question, this statute
would solve it, for the act of Congress of July 6th, 1862,t
-declares that the laws of the State in which the court shall
be held, shall be the rules of decision as to the competency
'of witnesses in the courts of the United States.
The second assignment of error is, that the court sustained
the plaintiff's objections to certain other depositions offered
by the defendant, so far as they tended to prove that Catharine Lucas obtained title to the property in controversy
,under the will of R. D. Shepherd, and so far as they referred
to conversations of the witness with Mr. Shepherd concerning his purposes respecting the farm. The objection sustained by the court was to the subject-matter of the testimony, and it was sustained because it was inadmissible for
the defendant to introduce evidence to impeach his landlord's title. There can be no doubt the ruling was correct.
For the same reason the ruling complained of in the third
assignment was unobjectionable. Indeed, it is difficult to
*Civil Code of 1868, page 620.

l-12 Stat. at Large, 588.

LUCAS

v..BROOKS.

[Sup. ct

Opinion of the court.

perceive what 'possible bearing upon the case the letter of
Mr. Shepherd to his daughter and grandsons could have.
Certainly it contained nothing that tended in the slightest
degree to support any defence the defendant was at liberty
to set up.
Nor can we perceive that the record of the
proceeding for
a forcible detainer, commenced by the plaintiff in 1868, was
pertinent in any degree to any matter in controversy in this
case. It was, therefore, properly excluded. A judge well
performs his duty when he guards the jury against having
their attention diverted from the real issue by the introduction of immaterial evidence.
The fifth assignment is, that the court erred in excluding
what is called a transcript of a distress warrant issued by
Chapline, agent for the plaintiff, against the defendant, and
also in excluding the forthcoming bond. They were offered
apparently to show that the notice to quit on the 1st of April,
1870, had been waived by the plaintiff, but they were rejected by the court because not properly certified. Whether
the court erred in this or not is of no importance, for the
fact that such a distress warrant was issued the defendant
was allowed to prove by other evidence, and he had the full
benefit of such proof. There was not a fact stated in the
transcript which did not otherwise appear, and the facts
were not controverted. The error of the court, therefore,
if there was an error, was perfectly harmless, and it would
not justify directing a new trial.
The remaining assignments which require any notice all
relate to the charge. The first instruction asked by the defendant and refused by the court was, in substance, that the
distress warrant sued out by Chapline, as agent of the plaintiff, for rent claimed to be due for the year ending April,
1871, levied as it was on the property of the defendant, who
had given a forthcoming bond, and being still pending, constituted a waiver of the notice to quit, and, therefore, that
the defendant was entitled to a verdict. The prayer over.
looked the fact, of which there was evidence, that Charline
had no authority from the plaintiff to issue the distress war-

Oct. 1873.]

LUCAS v.

BROOKS.

Opinion of the court.

rant, and that his act had been disapproved by the plaintiff's
attorney. The second prayer was, in effect, that no expression of disapprobation by the plaintiff or his attorney of the
act of the agent in issuing the distress warrant could defeat
its operation as a waiver of the notice to quit, while the proceedings on the warrant were pending, and so long as the
plaintiff held the forthcoming bond for the property distrained. This prayer assumes as a fact that of which there
was no evidence. It assumes that the plaintiff held the
forthcoming bond. But it is very manifest that the defendant was not entitled to have either of these instructions
asked for by him given to the jury. It is true the notice to
quit might have been waived, and doubtless should have
been regarded as waived by the distress warrant if it had
been issued by the plaintiff, or by his authority. But waiver
is always in part a question of intent, and there could have
been no intent to waive if the act claimed to have been a
waiver was either unknown to the plaintiff, or unauthorized
by him, or not ratified by him. That the distress warrant
was unauthorized, and, indeed, disavowed, is a fact of which
there was evidence, and no attempt was made to show that
it had ever been ratified. The defendant has, therefore, no
reason to complain that his prayer for the instruction mentioned was refused. The court did charge that notice to
quit was necessary to entitle the plaintiff to recover, and
that if notice was given, and afterwards a distress warrant
was sued out to recover rent due and in arrear for the leased
premises, the presumption of law would be that it was sued
out with the assent of the plaintiff, in which event he could
not maintain the action unless the evidence satisfied the jury
that the agent, Chapline, exceeded his authority in suing
out such warrant, acting without the knowledge and consent of his principal. More than this the defendant had no
right to ask.
The third and fourth instructions asked for were also
properly denied. They were in keeping with the effbrts
made by the defendant throughout the trial to attack the
title unler which he had held as tenant. If not still retain,,

LUCAS

v.

BROOKS.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

ing possession under the first lease made to him, he was in
under a subsequent lease made to his wife, which he himself had given in evidence. It was not open to him, therefore, to show that some other person had the legal title, or
a better title than that of the landlord.
It would be sufficient to say of the seventh assignment of
error that it has been made in entire disregard of the rules
of this court. It avers simply that the court below erred in
giving the instructions which were given to the jury, on its
own motion (that is, in the general charge), in lieu of tile
instructions asked for by the parties, but in what the error
consisted, or in what part of the charge it is contained, is
not specified. That under the twenty-first rule this is an insufficient assignment is very plain. Were it, however, made
as directed by our rule it could not be sustained. We have
already said that, under the will of R. D. Shepherd, his
daughter and two sons took the legal estate in the lands devised by him. We might have added that the sealed letter
accompanying the will was not testamentary, and that it in
no respect created any estate, legal or equitable, in any one.
It has been conceded in the argument, as it should have
been, the court properly ruled that the letter of P. C. Brooks
and Shepherd Brooks, executors, to the defendant's wife,
dated November 29th, 1865, with her reply to it, and the
subsequent modification agreed upon, constituted a lease of
the premises to her. But it is denied that the lease enured
to the benefit of her husband, and brought him into the
relation of a tenant under the lessors, because, as it is
claimed, it was a lease for her separate use. This claim,
however, is without any foundation in the contract. There
is no word that looks to. the exclusion of the husband. No
particular phraseology, it is true, is necessary for the creation of a separate estate for a feme'covert, but there must
be something to show an intent to create it, and nothing of
the kind appears in this case. The court, therefore, correctly charged the jury, in the absence of any proof of dissent by the defendant, that the lease became his property,
and that in force of it be became the tenant of the lessors.

Oct. 1873.]

THOMPSON V. WHITMAN.

457

Statement of the case.

'That the lease created a tenancy from year to year is too
plain to need argument.
There is nothing more in the record or in the assignments
of error that requires notice. We fail to perceive anything
of which the defendant below, now plaintiff in error, can
justly complain, and the judgment is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

THOMPSON V. WHITMAN.
1. Neither the constitutional provision, that full faith and credit shall be
given in each State to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings
of every other State, nor the act of Congress passed in pursuance thereof,
prevents an inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court by which a judgment offered in evidence was rendered.
2. The record of a judgment rendered in another State may be contradicted
as to the facts necessary to give the court jurisdiction ; and if it be shown
that such facts did not exist, the record will be a nullity, notwithstanding it may recite that they did exist.
S. Want of jurisdiction may be shown either as to the subject-matter or the
person, or, in proceedings in rem, as to the thing.
4. By a law of New Jersey non-residents were prohibited from raking clams
and oysters in the waters of that State under penalty of forfeiture of the
vessel employed; and any two justices of the county in which the seizure
of the vessel should be made were authorized, on information given, to
hear and determine the case: Held, that if the seizure was not made in
the county where the prosecution took place, the justices of that county
had no jurisdiction, and that this fact might be inquired into in an
action for making such seizure brought in New York, notwithstanding
the record of a conviction was produced which stated that the seizure
was made within such county.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
.New York; the case being thus:
A statute of New Jersey, approved April 16th, 1846, and
,commonly known there as the Oyster Law, thus enacts:
ERROR

" SE cTION

7. It shall not be lawful for any person who is not

.atthe time an actual inhabitant and resident of this State, . ..
to rake or gather clams, oysters, or shell-fish, .. . in any of

