Oct. 1873.]

THE SAPPHIRE.
Statement of the case.

THE SAPPHIRE.
1. The rule in admiralty that where both vessels are in fault the
sums representing the damage sustained by each must be added together
and the
aggregate divided between the two, is of course applicable only
where
it appears that both vessels have been injured.
2. And although a cross-libel may not always be necessary in
such case, in
order to enable the owners of the vessel libelled to set off or recoup
the
damages sustained by such vessel if both it and the other vessel
be found
in fault, yet if it be meant to set off or recoup such damages,
it ought
to appear in some way that the libelled vessel was injured, and
if such
injury is not alleged by a cross-libel, it may well be questioned whether
it ought not to appear in the answer.
8. At all events where, in neither the District nor in the Circuit
Court, the
libellee has set up an allegation that there were other damages sustained
than those which the libellant alleged had been sustained by his
vessel,
the libellee cannot make a claim in this court for damages which
he
alleges here, for the first time, have been sustained also by him.
4. Accordingly, where a decree in the Circuit Court which, assuming
that
the fault in a collision case was with the libelled vessel alone,
gave
$15,000 damages to the libellant, was reversed in this court, which
held
"that both vessels were in fault, and that the damages ought
to be
equally divided;" and remanded the case with a mandate,
directing
that a decree should be entered "in conformity with this
opinion,"
held, there having been no allegation in any pleadings, nor any
proofs
that the libelled vessel had sustained injury, that a decree was
rightly
entered against her for $7500.
5. The libellant, in such a case, held entitled to his costs in the
District and
Circuit Court as given originally in those courts; deducting from
them
the costs of the appellant on reversal ; the matter of costs in
admiralty
being wholly under the control of the court giving them.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of California.
In December, 1867, in the District Court of California,
the Emperor of the French, Napoleon III, filed a libel in the
admiralty against the ship Sapphire, averring that shortly
before, a collision bad occurred between the Euryale, a vessel belonging to the French government, and the Sapphire,
by which the former was damaged to the extent of $15,000;
that the collision was occasioned wholly by the negligence
and inattention, and want of proper care and skill on the

52

THE SAPPHIRE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

part of the ship Sapphire, her master and crew, and not
from any fault, omission, or neglect on the part of the
Euryale, her master and crew.
The owners of the Sapphire in their answer, admitting
the collision, denied that it had been caused by the fault of
those on board the Sapphire; and averred that the Sapphire
had her full complement of men and officers on board, was
fully and properly manned and equipped, that the officers
and crew, before and at the time of the collision, were on
deck ready to adopt and use any and all measures to prevent any danger or accident happening to her; and they
averred that on the contrary the Euryale ran into and collided
with the Sapphire,without any fault or negligence on the part
of the officers, or any of them, or the crew, or any of them,
of the Sapphire; that whatever damage was done to the
Euryale or the Sapphire, was occasioned solely and excluvsiely by reason of the fault and negligence of the officers of the
Euryale. Wherefore they prayed that the court would pronounce against the libel and condemn the libellant in costs,
and otherwise law and justice administer in the premises.
No cross-libel was filed, and as the reader will have observed
the answer put in, though denying the alleged fault of the
Sapphire, and averring that whatever damage was done was
due solely to the fault and negligence of the libellant's vessel,
made no averment that any injury had been sustained by
the Sapphire.
Upon the pleadings, as thus mentioned, the case went to
trial, and decree was that the libellant recover the amount
of his damages sustained by him in consequence of the collision described in his libel. A commissioner was then
appointed to ascertain and compute the amount of the damages due to the libellant, and to make report to the court.
Subsequently that commissioner reported the amount of
those damages to be $16,474, whereupon the court decreed
that the claimants and owners of the Sapphire pay to the
libellant the sum of $15,000, a part of the sum thus reported
and the amount claimed in the libel.
This decree was affirmed in the Circuit Court, and the

Oct. 1873.]

THE SAPPHIRE.
Statement of the case.

case being brought here for review this court was of the
opinion that "both parties were in fault, and that the damages ought to be equally divided between them ;" and sent down
a mandate directing that a decree should be entered "in
conformity with this opinion."*
The Circuit Court thereupon reversed its prior decision,
and decreed that the libellant recover against the Sapphire
and her claimants the sum of $7500, the same being onehalf of the damages decreed by this court in favor of the
libellant and against the claimants. It further decreed that
the libellant recover against the ship the costs in the District Court taxed at $115.50, together with his costs in the
Circuit Court taxed at $299.70, amounting in all to $415.20,
less the sum of $137.43, costs of the claimants expended in
the prosecution of their appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States. From this decree the owners of the Sapphire again appealed to this court, alleging that this last
decree also of the Circuit Court was erroneous, and did not
conform to the mandateFirst. In that it decreed in favor of the libellant for $7500,
being one-half of $15,000, the sum previously awarded to
the libellant, by the Circuit Court, as and for damage sustained by the libellant as owner of the Euryale, without
taking into consideration the damage sustained by the Sapphire.
Second. In that the Circuit Court did not ascertain the
amount of damage which had been sustained by the Sapphire, without which ascertainment the court could not
divide the damages sustained by the two vessels equally between them.
Third. In that it allowed the libellant his costs in the District and in the Circuit Courts, to which he was not entitled.
Fourth. In that it did not enter a decree in favor of the
claimants for $137.43, the costs allowed them by the Supreme Court, and in deducting this amount from the costs
allowed the libellant.
* 11 Wallace, 164.

54

THE SAPPHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

Mr. C. B. Goodrich, for the appellants:
1. The Supreme Court did not direct the Circuit Court to
enter a decree in favor of the libellant for the sum of $7500,
nor for any other specified sum. The mandate and the
opinion of the Supreme Court settled that the libellant was
not entitled to recover upon the case stated in the libel, which
was based upon the supposed exclusive fault and wrong of the
claimants; it decided that both parties were in fault, and
remanded the suit to the Circuit Court with directions to
proceed and dispose of the same upon the principles applicable to such case.
Now in a cause of collision between two vessels resulting
from the fault of both parties, the damages sustained by
each of the vessels are to be ascertained, and the entire
aggregate sum divided between them. This is the well-settled law of the admiralty which has been recognized and
established by this court.*
It appears by the pleadings in this case that distinct issues
were presented, each vessel charging the other as solely and
exclusively in the wrong; and each asking the court to administer law and justice in the premises. This invited an
investigation into the whole case. But neither inthe District Court, nor in the Circuit Court had the claimants an
opportunity to show the nature, extent, or amount of damage sustained 63y the Sapphire, because of the interlocutory
decree of the District Court holding the claimants alone as
in the wrong, which was carried into the final decree, and
a decree subsequently affirmed by the Circuit Court. It
follows that upon a reversal of the decree of the Circuit
Court and a remand of the cause, the claimants had a right
to: show the nature, extent, and amount of their damage
under the pleadings as they now stand, and if necessary to
protect themselves they were at liberty in the court below
to specify more particularly their damage or to file an
amended or supplementary answer stating the amount and
* The Gray Eagle, 9 Wallace, 505; The Mabey, 10 Id. 420; The Sap.
phire, 11 Id. 171; The Maria Martin, 12 Id. 31; The Ariadne, 13 Id. 47&

Oct. 1873.]

THE SAPPHIRE
Opinion of the court.

character of the damages sustained by the Sapphire in the
collision.
2. In a case of collision, in Which both parties are.in fault,
each party pays his own costs.* In the case at bar, the
original decree was reversed, and the cause after the mandate required the court below to act upon a new state of
facts; so that the question of costs arises subsequent to the
mandate.
3. The claimants were entitled to the costs awarded them
on their appeal to the Supreme Court, because they were
compelled to appeal to protect their rights; these costs
stand upon grounds distinct from those applicable to the
costs of the parties in the District and Circuit Courts. The
Circuit Court should have entered judgment therefor, instead of deducting the amount from the costs allowed to the
libellant.
4. Finally, we submit that the Circuit judge mistook the
import and requirements of the mandate and opinion to
which it refers, and that the decree of the Circuit Court
should be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions
to ascertain the nature, extent, and amount of the damages
sustained by the Sapphire, and thereupon to render such
judgment as will carry the mandate into effect.
Mr. Caleb Cushing, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The question now presented is whether the new decree
which the Circuit Court has made conforms to our mandate.
Our mandate was not an order to take further proceedings
in the case, in conformity with the opinion of this court (as
was directed in The Schooner Catharinet), or to adjust the loss
upor the principles stated in our opinion (as was directed in
Cashing et al. v. Owners of the Ship John .Frazeret al.),J but
it was specially to enter a decree in conformity with the
The Monarch, 1 William Robinson, 21.
t 17 Howard, 170.
: 21 Id. 184; see also Rogers v. Steamer St. Charles, 19 Id. 108.

THE SAPPHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

opinion of this court. Of what damages did we order an
equal division ? There were no others asserted or claimed
than those sustained by the libellant. We do not say that
a cross-libel is always necessary in a case of collision in
order to enable claimants of an offending vessel to set off
or recoup the damages sustained by such vessels, if both
be found in fault. It may, however, well be questioned
whether it ought not to appear in the answer that there
were such damages. It is undoubtedly the rule in admiralty
that where both vessels are in fault the sums representing
the damage sustained by each must be added together and
the aggregate divided between the two. This is in effect
deducting the lesser from the greater and dividing the remainder. But this rule is applicable only where it appears
that both vessels have been injured. If one in fault has
sustained no injury, it is liable for half the damages sustained
by the other, though that other was also in fault. And, so
far as the pleadings show, that is the case now in hand.
But, without deciding that the claimants of the Sapphire
were not at liberty to show that their ship was damaged by
the collision, and to set off those damages against the dam.
ages of the libellant, it must still, we think, be held they
have waived any such claim. If our mandate was not a
direction to enter a decree for one-half the damages of the
libellant, if its meaning was that a decree should be made
dividing the aggregate of loss sustained by both vessels,
which may be conceded, it was the duty of the respondents
to assert and to show that the Sapphire had been injured.
This they made no attempt to do. When the cause went
down they neither asked to amend their pleadings, nor to
offer further proofs, nor to have a new reference to a commissioner. So far as the record shows, they set up no claim,
even then, or at any time before the final decree, that there
were any other damages than those which the libellant had
sustained. It is not competent for them to make such a
claim first in this court. We cannot say, therefore, the
court below did not decree in accordance with our mandate.
The appellants further complain that it was erroneous to

'Oct. 1873.]

WEBER v. HARBOR COMMISSIONERS.

57

Syllabus.

,allow the libellant his costs in the District and Circuit Courts,
,deducting therefrom the costs allowed them by this court,
i. e., the costs of the reversal of the former decree. We do
not perceive, however, in this any such error as requires our
interposition. Costs in admiralty are entirely under the
,control of the court. They are sometimes, from equitable
,considerations, denied to the party who recovers his demand, and they are sometimes given to a libellant who fails
-to recover anything, when he was misled to commence the
suit by the act of the other party.* Doubtless they gener.ally follow the decree, but circumstances of equity, of hard,ship, of oppression, or of negligence induce the court to
depart from that rule in a great variety of cases.t In the
present case, the costs allowed to the libellant were incurred
by him in his effort to recover what has been proved to be
*a just demand, and a denial of them, under the circumstances of the case, would, we think, be inequitable.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

WEBER

v.

THE BOARD OF HARBOR COMMISSIONERS.

1. Upon the admission of California into the Union upon equal footing with
the original States, absolute property in, and dominion and sovereignty
over, all soils under the tidewaters within her limits passed to the State,
with the consequent right to dispose of the title to any part of said soils
in such manner as she might deem proper, subject only to the paramount right of navigation over the waters, so far as such navigation
might be required by the necessities of commerce with foreign nations
or among the several States, the regulation of which was vested in tho
General government.
.2. The legislature of California, on the 26th of March, 1851, at its first session after the admission of the State into the Union, passed an act granting to the city of San Francisco for the term of ninety-nine years the
use and occupation of portions of the lands covered by the tidewaters
of the bay of San Francisco in front of the city, lying within a certain
designated line, described according to a map of the city on record in
the recorder's office of the county, and declared that the line thus desig.
Benedict's Admiralty, . 549.

t Id. J 649.

