Oct. 1873.]

Ex PARTE STATE INSURANCE COMPANY.

417

Statement of the case.

We are of the opinion that this distinction is not well
taken. That the purchase of the machine was made from
an infringer, and a wrong done, is true. When informed
of the offence, the purchaser at once corrected the evil by
purchasing the entire right of the patentees for the county
where his machine was then used, and where it has since
been used. This was equivalent to an original lawful purchase or manufacture of the machine. By the purchase of
the right for Hudson County, and from the moment of that
purchase, the defendants held and used the machine by a
lawful title, as perfect and complete against the patentees as
if the original purchase had been from them. They then
became, in the language of the statute, "grantees of the
right to use the thing patented," so continued to the time
of the expiration of the original patent, and the right so to
use was, in the further language of the statute, "the extent
of their interest therein."
We are of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court
was correct, and that it should be
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice STRONG took no part in this judgment, not
having sat in the case.

Ex

PARTE STATE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

I Prior to the act of March 3d, 1873, the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama was possessed of circuit court
powers, and among these was the right to hear and decide cases properly removable from the State courts within the limits of that district.
2 An order of a State court within those limits ordering the removal of a
case into the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Alabama was,
therefore, void, and that court was right in refusing to proceed in such
case when the papers were filed in it.

petition for a mandamus to the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Alabama, at Mobile. The case was
thus:
Between December 14th, 1819, when Alabama was adON

VOL. XVIII.

27

418

Ex

PARTE STATE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

mitted into the Union, and the 3d of March, 1873, various
statutes were passed fixing the judicial districts of the State
and the powers of District Courts established for them.
Among them were two acts, one of March 10th, 1824,* and
the other of February 6th, 1839,t whose conjoint effect apparently was to divide the State into three districts, a northern, a middle (this latter embracing Barbour County, one
of the counties of Alabama), and a southern, whose terms
and sessions were to be held at Mobile. These acts gave to
these different District Courts, in general terms, the jurisdiction and powers of Circuit Courts.t
With these various acts in force, one Kolb, a citizen of
Barbour County, already mentioned as in the judicial district designated by Congress as the middle one, sued the
State Insurance Company of Missouri, by process in attachment, in a State court sitting at Euphala, in the county of
Barbour aforesaid. On the 11th December, 1872, the insurance company applied to the said State court where the
suit was brought, alleging its incorporation by and citizenship in Missouri, and praying for the removal of the suit
"into the next Circuit Court of the United States to be held
in this the district where the suit is pending." This petition
was made, of course, pursuant to the right given in the
twelfth section of the Judiciary Act, which says:
"If a suit be commenced in any State court . . . by a citizen
of the State in which the suit is brought, against a citizen of
another State, . . . and the defendant shall . . . file a petition

for the removal of the cause from that into the next Circuit
Court to be held in the district where the suit is pending, &c.,
. . . the cause shall there proceed as if it had been brought there
by original process."
The State court, on the 11th of January, 1873, made an
order that the cause be removed out of this court into the
4 13tat. at Large, 9.
j 5 Id. 315.
: The briefs of the petitioner's counsel referred to many acts having more
or less bearing on the case. The Reporter refers to those which he deems
specially pertinent; though he cannot affirm that it was on these that this
court based its judgment.

Oct. 1873.] Ex

PARTE

STATE INSURANCE COMPANY.

419

Opinion of the court.

Circuit Court of the United States at Mobile, Alabama, that
being the Circuit Court of the United States for this district.
And, on the 18th following, the proper papers were filed
with the clerk of the Southern District.
On the 3d of March, 1873, after all this had been done,
Congress passed an act relating to the Circuit and District
Courts for the .Middle and Northern Districts of Alabama,
one section of which enacted, "that so much of any act or
acts of Congress as vested in the District Court for the Middle District of Alabama, . . . the power and jurisdiction of
a Circuit Court be and the same is hereby repealed." The
act, which in two places spoke of the Circuit Court at Mobile as the Circuit Court for the District of Alabama, made
several important changes in previously existing things.
On the 23d of December, 1873-after the passage of the
statute just mentioned-Kolb, the plaintiff in the 4uit, appeared in the Circuit Court and moved to have the case
stricken from the docket for want of jurisdiction, which
order was made by the court, the circuit judge presiding.
The insurance company now applied to this court for a
mandamus to the said Circuit Court, requiring it to proceed
to try and determine the case.
Messrs. P. Phillips and J. T. Morgan,for the petitioner, made
an elaborate examination of different statutes, including
specially that of March 3d, 1873, and argued that in view
of this legislation the Circuit Court at Mobile had original
circuit court jurisdiction over the entire State, or made the
State, so far as said Circuit Court was concerned, but one
district. The learned counsel conceded that the act of
March 3d, 1873, did not, in express terms, confer such jurisdiction upon the Circuit Court at Mobile, nor expressly
enact that the State should constitute but one district for
circuit court purposes.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Much argument is addressed to us on the construction of
the act of March 3d, 1873, concerning the District and Cir-

420

Ex

PARTE STATE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cuit Courts of Alabama, especially whether by that act the
Circuit Court sitting at Mobile has circuit court jurisdiction
over the whole State or not. In the view we take of the
present case it is not necessary for us to decide that question.
Prior to that time the District Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama was a court invested with
circuit court powers. Among those powers, in our opinion,
was that of receiving and exercising jurisdiction over cases
removed from the State courts within its territorial limits.
The case before us was of that class. No question is raised
that the requirements of the law for the removal were complied with. The order for the removal was made on the,
11th day of January, 1873, and the papers filed in the office
of the clerk of the Circuit Court for the Southern District
on the 18th day of the same month.
The order of the State court was that "this cause be removed out of this court into the Circuit Court of the United
States at Mobile, Alabama, that being the Circuit Court of
the United States for this district." The county of Barbour,
in which the State court sat and made this order, was in the
Middle District of Alabama, and as, in our judgment, the
case, if to be removed at all, should have been removed to
the District Court for that district, to be disposed of in the
exercise of its circuit court powers, we think the order of
the State court was void. That it conferred no jurisdiction
of the case on the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Alabama, because it could take none as the law then stood.
Whatever may be the effect of the subsequent act of March
3d, 1873, on the jurisdiction of all these courts, there is
nothing in it which removes the difficulty in the present
case.
The Circuit Court at Mobile was, therefore, right in refusing to hear the case, and ordering it to be stricken from
the docket, and the mandamus now asked for is
DENIED.

