Ttm, FAVOIRITA.

[Sup. Ct

8tatement of the case.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment and opinion of the court in
this case for the reasons assigned in the opinion delivered by
me in the case of Jcniqht et al. v. Bank, decided in the Circuit
Court, Rhode Island District, June Term, 1871, which I still
believe to be correct, and consequently refer to that case as
a full expression of the reasons of my dissent in the present
case.

THE

FAVORITA.

1. A large ocean steamer, running at the rate of eight or ten miles an hour,
and close in with the Brooklyn shore, on the East River, and across the
mouths of the ferry slips there, in order to get the benefit of the eddy,
condemned for a collision with a New York ferry-boat coming out

of her dock on the Brooklyn side, and which, owing to vessels in the
harbor, did not see the ocean steamer.
2. Demurrage charged also against the ocean steamer for the time that the
ferry-boat was repairing, though her owners, a ferry company, had a

spare boat which took her place on the ferry.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
New York; this being the case:
Among the numerous ferries between Brooklyn and New
York is that known (from the name of its New York dock)
as the Catharine Street Ferry. The dock on the Brooklyn
side is at Main Street, not opposite to Catharine Street, but
considerably to the east of it; so that all ferry-boats coming
out of it and on their way to the Catharine Street dock on
the New York side have, after getting out of their dock, to
turn considerably to the westward, and so run over to New
York. To the west of Main Street the Brooklyn shore projects somewhat and then falls off towards the south.
On the afternoon of April 14th, 1865, the Manhassett, a
ferry-boat belonging to the Union Ferry Company, a company having several other ferries between New York and
Brooklyn, was coming out of her dock at Main Street, on

Oct. 1873.]

THE, FAVORlTA.
Statement of the case.

one of her regular trips. A good deal of shipping was
lying at anchor outside and to the southwest of the dock,
in a way that intercepted the view westward by a boat coming
out.
At the same time that the Manhassett was thus coining
out of her dock, the ocean steamship Favorita was coming
up the river (eastwardly or northeastwardly), and with a view
of getting or keeping the eddy was running, as this court
assumed on the weight of the evidence, " close in with the
Brooklyn shore and across the mouths of the ferry slips,"
which line it.
A statute of New York makes it obligatory on all vessels
passing up or down this part of the river to keep the centre
and to move slowly. The Favorita was not at her full speed
at all, but was still running at the rate of eight or ten miles
an hour.
The pilot of the Manhassett, on account of the shipping
lying adjacent to the pier, and perhaps in part from the curve
in the shore, was unable to see the Favorita until he had
passed out of the slip. As soon as this was done, and the
vision to the southwest was unobstructed, he discovered the
Favorita coming up the river within such close proximity
to the Brooklyn side as to render the danger of collision imminent. Acting oii the exigency of the moment, he rang
his bell to stop, then to back, and blew two whistles, indicating to the Favorita his wish that she should sheer to the
New York shore, and endeavored by a pressing signal to his
engineer " to back her strong," so as to get his boat again
into her slip. The Favorita, if she heard the whistles, did
not respond to them, and if she changed her course at all
it was in the direction opposite to that called for by the
signal. A collision ensued; the Manhassett was struck forward of her port wheel-house, and suffered material injury.
The owners of the ferry-boat put another boat, which they
owned, on the ferry, and sent the Manhassett for repairs.
These it took ten days to make. They then libelled the
Favorita for damages.
A good deal of testimony was taken, and it conflicted in

THE F-AVORITAo

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

certain parts, including especially that as to whether the
Manhassett had executed the proper mancuvres when she
saw her peril-that is to say, whether she ought not to have
gone straight on-and as to what the distance was at which
the Favorita was running from the Brooklyn shore. The
court, as already said, assumed that the Favorita was running "close to the Brooklyn shore and across the mouths of
the ferry slips."
The District Court decided that both boats were in fault,
and apportioned the damages, while the Circuit Court, imputing no fault to the Manhassett, fixed the blame on the
Favorita alone, and decreed accordingly, and decreed also a
certain sum, based upon the evidence, for demurrage. From
that decree the present appeal was taken.
Mr. R. D. Benedict, for the appellant; Mr. B. D. Silliman,
contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not necessary for the proper disposition of this case
to reconcile conflicting testimony, as is frequently required
in causes of collision. It is true the witnesses differ in
opinion on the question whether the Manhassett pursued
the proper course when threatened with danger, and also
in the matter of distances, but these differences do not affect
the main points on which we rest our decision.
It is manifest, on account of the extent of the shipping
constantly passing through the East River at this point of it,
that the greatest vigilance is required in the navigation of
the stream by vessels passing up or down it. More especially is this so by reason of the constant passage of ferryboats across the river. The extent of this business can
hardly be overstated. Millions of passengers are transported between Brooklyn and New York annually, and, of
necessity, the boats must make their trips with regularity
by night as well as by day, and in all kinds of weather.
All persons who seek the waters of this river must observe
the rules which tend to the safety of navigatior. This ob-

Oct. 1873.]

THE FAVORITA.
Opinion of the court.

eervance involves no hardship, and does not assert any ex1elusive or prior right in behalf of ferry-boats. It is necessary for the protection of all the different interests centring
in this great harbor, and these interests are all to be recognized and considered in determining what is or is not good
navigation under the circumstances. Manifestly the rules
.of navigation must vary according to the exigencies of business and the wants of the public. The rule which would be
applicable in a harbor where the business was light and the
passage of vessels not liable to be impeded, would be inapplicable in a great thoroughfare like the East River. In the
former it might be that vessels could with safety run across
the mouths of ferry slips in going to or from their wharves,
while in the latter such navigation would necessarily be
hazardous. It is hazardous, because ferry-boats are constantly emerging from their slips, and their masters generally unable, on account of the shipping moored about the
piers, to discover approaching vessels until they have got
their boats out into the open river. Common prudence,
therefore, requires that vessels in the situation of the Favorita should occupy as near as possible the middle of the
river. This is necessary for the mutual safety of all concerned in its navigation, and is required for the protection
of life as well as property. If the middle of the river be
previously occupied, and the ship is obliged to go nearer to
shore in order to avoid other vessels pursuing the same
track, she must run at such a slow rate of speed as to be
,tasily stopped, so as not to endanger boats pursuing their
.* gular and accustomed occupation. Any other rule than
this would tend to the confusion rather than the safety of
,navigation, and put in jeopardy the lives of hundreds of
people. The great and varied business interests conducted
in this harbor require the rigid enforcement of this rule.
Indeed, the necessity for it was so apparent that the legislature of New York, doubtless in order to render it more
.effective, embodied it in a statute. The Favorita, without
excuse, violated this rule. It is plain from all the evidence
that her object in going where she did was to seek and

THE FAVORITA.

[Su'p. Gt.

Opinion of the court.

keep the eddy. This may have made her navigation easier,
but she cannot escape in this way, for there was no difficulty
in running the boat out in the river, and the excuse that
she went close in shore to avoid other vessels is not sustained by the evidence. There were no more vessels than
usual in the river at the time, and no reason given why a
departure from the usual path was necessary under the circumstances. Besides, suppose there was, the Favorita is
condemned by her rate of speed. If she was placed in the
predicament which compelled her to take the shore track,
obviously her speed should have been lowered, so that the
boat could have been readily stopped, and on a moment's
warning changed to the right or left, as the necessities of
the case may have required. It may be that in the middle
of the river she could have been safely run at eight or ten
miles an hour (a point on which we express no opinion),
but clearly, running along across the pier ends and ferry
slips of the East River at such a rate of speed is at all times
dangerous, and the result proves that it was particularly so
at this time.
There is a good deal of testimony bearing on the point
of the distance of the Favorita from the shore at the time
of the collision, but it is unnecessary to consider it, for the
estimate of witnesses in times of sudden peril on such a
subject is mere conjecture, and necessarily inconclusive.
That the ship was out of the path she should have occupied,
and improperly close to the Brooklyn shore, is evidsmt
enough, because both vessels were in perilous proximity the
moment the Manhassett emerged from her slip. Had she
been at a suitable distance from the shore, or going with a
materially lessened speed, the collision would not have happened, and the inquiry arises whether she must alone suffer
for the loss that occurred. On a consideration of the whole,
evidence we are unable to see in what respect blame can be
cast on the Manhassett.
It is clear that the officers of the Manhassett did not see
the Favorita, on account of intervening vessels, until theformer had ermerged from her slip, and equally clear that

Oct. 1873.]

THE FAVORITA.
Opinion of the court.

they had no right to expect the Favorita to be in the wrong
place in the river. The peril was imminent as soon as the
Manhassett had cleared her slip, and both vessels were in
full view of each other. Both at once applied the means
and took the course deemed proper by their officers to prevent the catastrophe. It is said if the Manhassett had advanced instead of stopping she would have cleared the
steamship. This may or may not be true, but if true, she
is not in fault for this error of judgment. It was a question
whether to advance or to stop and back, and the emergency
was so great that there was no time to deliberate upon the
choice of modes of escape. In such a moment of sudden
danger, caused by the misconduct of the Favorita, the law
will not hold the pilot of the Manhassett, acting in good
faith, guilty of a fault, if it should turn out after the event
that he chose the wrong means to avoid the collision, unless
his seamanship was clearly unskilful. And this we do not
find to be the case. On the contrary, if there were error at
all, it was such a mistake of judgment as would likely be
committed by any one in similar peril. If the Favorita had
been where good navigation required her to be, or had she
slackened her speed so as to be able to stop as soon as she
discovered the Manhassett, the danger would not have existed, nor the accident happened. She is, therefore, in our
opinion, chargeable with all the consequences that flow
from this collision.
The appellants object to the allowance of demurrage by
the commissioner on the ground that the ferry company
suffered nothing by the loss of the use of the Manhassett
while undergoing repairs, because her place was supplied
by a spare boat kept for emergencies, and which would
otherwise have been idle. This subject was fully discussed
in the case of The Cayuga* by the learned circuit judge of
the second circuit, who sustained a similar allowance, and
as that case was affirmed on arg~iment in this court,4 and
7 Blatchford, 886.

t 14 Wallace, 278.

604

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNAI.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

his views adopted, we must consider the question as no
longer open to discussion.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Espy

V. BANK OF CINcINNATI.

ft -heck drawn by S. & M. on the bank for $26.50, in favor of H., was
raised to $3920, and the payee's name changed to E. H. & Co., and
cffered to the latter by a stranger in payment for bonds and gold purchased by him. F. H. & Co. sent the check for information to the bank,
whose teller replied "It is good," or " It is all right." In a suit brought
by the bank against E. H. & Co. a judgment was given for plaintiff.
On error to this court it was heldI That where money is paid on a raised check by mistake, neither party
tweing in fault, the general rule is that it may be recovered back as paid
without consideration.
2. But that, if either party has been guilty of negligence or carelessness
by which the other has been injured, the negligent party must bear the
loss.
S. That where a party to whom such a check is offered sends it to the
bank on which it is drawn for information, the law presumes that the
bank has knowledge of the drawer's signature and of the state of his
account, and it is responsible for what may be replied on these points.
4. That unless there is something in the terms in which information is
asked that points the attention of the bank officer beyond these two
matters, his response that the check is good will be limited to them, and
will not extend to the genuineness of the filling-in of the check as to
payee or amount.
5. Qucere: Would the indorsement of the word "good," with the officer's
initials, under such circumstances, make the bank liable beyond the
genuineness of the signature and the possession of funds to meet the
check as certified?
6. Where a check is certified for the purpose (known to the bank) of giving
it credit for negotiation or circulation, to be used as money, and it is so
passed into the hands of third persons, the bank would be bound, though
the case might be otherwise when it was only certified to give the party
presenting it assurance that it was good for his own satisfaction in
taking it.
7. But a verbal reply that a check is good, given for the information of
the party about to receive it, extends only to matters of which the bank
had knowledge, or is presumed to have by the law, unless he is told that
more extended information is expected or asked for as to the validity of
the check.

