604

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNAI.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

his views adopted, we must consider the question as no
longer open to discussion.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Espy

V. BANK OF CINcINNATI.

ft -heck drawn by S. & M. on the bank for $26.50, in favor of H., was
raised to $3920, and the payee's name changed to E. H. & Co., and
cffered to the latter by a stranger in payment for bonds and gold purchased by him. F. H. & Co. sent the check for information to the bank,
whose teller replied "It is good," or " It is all right." In a suit brought
by the bank against E. H. & Co. a judgment was given for plaintiff.
On error to this court it was heldI That where money is paid on a raised check by mistake, neither party
tweing in fault, the general rule is that it may be recovered back as paid
without consideration.
2. But that, if either party has been guilty of negligence or carelessness
by which the other has been injured, the negligent party must bear the
loss.
S. That where a party to whom such a check is offered sends it to the
bank on which it is drawn for information, the law presumes that the
bank has knowledge of the drawer's signature and of the state of his
account, and it is responsible for what may be replied on these points.
4. That unless there is something in the terms in which information is
asked that points the attention of the bank officer beyond these two
matters, his response that the check is good will be limited to them, and
will not extend to the genuineness of the filling-in of the check as to
payee or amount.
5. Qucere: Would the indorsement of the word "good," with the officer's
initials, under such circumstances, make the bank liable beyond the
genuineness of the signature and the possession of funds to meet the
check as certified?
6. Where a check is certified for the purpose (known to the bank) of giving
it credit for negotiation or circulation, to be used as money, and it is so
passed into the hands of third persons, the bank would be bound, though
the case might be otherwise when it was only certified to give the party
presenting it assurance that it was good for his own satisfaction in
taking it.
7. But a verbal reply that a check is good, given for the information of
the party about to receive it, extends only to matters of which the bank
had knowledge, or is presumed to have by the law, unless he is told that
more extended information is expected or asked for as to the validity of
the check.

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

605

Statement of the case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
Stall & Meyer were grocers of Cincinnati, and kept a deposit account in the First National Bank there. Espy,
Heidelbach & Co., were brokers in the same city, dealing in
government bonds and gold. On the 26th of April, 1870, a
well-looking stranger entered the office of these last, and
proposed to purchase of them certain bonds and a specified
quantity of gold. They agreed to sell both to him at a price
named, $3920. He then told them that he would go to Stall
& Meyer, with whom he represented that he had dealings,
get their check for the amount, and return in about two
hours. He went away and returned in about two hours
with a check of Stall & Meyer, drawn apparently to the
order of Espy, Heidelbach & Co., and for the sum of $3920,
which he offered to them for the bonds and gold that he had
bought. The firm sent one of their clerks, named Snarenberger, to the bank with directions to ascertain if the check
was good, and to say that it was presented by a stranger.
Snarenberger presented the check to the teller of the bank,
a person named Sanford, who examined it, looked at the account of Stall & Meyer on the bank books, and said to Snarenberger, "It is good," or "It is all right" (the witnesses
did not agree which), " send it through the clearing-house."
According to Snarenberger's account, he told Sanfbrd that
the check was offered by a stranger. Sanford denied that
he was told this; but he asserted notwithstanding that he
told Snarenberger that if the check was offered to Espy,
Heidelbach & Co. by a stranger, he would advise them to
have nothing to do with him, no matter how well-looking
he was.
After this interview, examination, and answers, Snarenberger went back to the office of Espy, Heidelbach & Co.,
and informed them that the teller had said, "It is all right,
send it through the clearing-house." They thereupon delivered to the stranger the bonds and the gold that he,
had contracted for, and he went his way and was no more
heard of.

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

The check was put through the clearing-house and paid.
But on the next day it was discovered that it was an altered
or " raised" check; that the stranger had gone to Stall &
Meyer professing to purchase some groceries for a Mrs. E.
Hart; that having purchased $23.50 worth, he handed them
a $50 bill in payment, asking them to pay him the difference, $26.50, by a check of their own, so that Mrs. Hart
might see that he had taken no commission, which they
accordingly did, the check being drawn to the order of Mrs.
E. Hart; and that the stranger had very ingeniously altered
the instrument by substituting as the sum to be paid $3920
instead of $26.50, and by substituting the name of Espy,
Heidelbach & Co., fir that of Mrs. E. Hart as payee.
Espy, Heidelbach & Co. not being willing to pay back the
money got upon the check, the bank sued them in assumpsit to recover the amount improperly paid.
On the trial the plaintiff called one Goodman, who, having testified that he had been a banker in Cincinnati all his
life, and was familiar with the customs and usages of banks
and bankers there, was asked,
"When a check is sent by a bank, to which it is offered, to
the bank upon which it is drawn, to know whether it is good or
not, and the answer is, ' That is good,' or ' All right,' has that
answer. . . acquired any peculiar or limited meaning? If so,
state what that meaning is, and to what it is limited."
The court allowed the question under objection and exception, and the witness having testified that this language had
acquired a peculiar or limited signification, and was understood to refer to the genuineness of the signature, and
whether the money was in bank to meet the check; and on
cross-examination, that he had never heard the meaning of
the terms discussed, or any question made as to the same, or
know of any transaction requiring a decision as to their
meaning before April 26th, 1870,-and having further testified that the terms "It is good," or "It is all right; send
it through the clearbig-house," had not acquired any peculiar
or limited meaning-the defendants moved to exclude the

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

607

Statement of the case.

;answer given to the question last aforesaid, as incompetent
and irrelevant, which motion the court overruled, and the
-defendants excepted.
Similar evidence from other witnesses was received, under
,objection and exception.
The plaintiff made ten requests for charges, including as
a fifth and sixth, these two:
"Fifth. If the defendants, before receiving this check, sent
-their messenger to the plaintiffs' bank to examine the check
,carefully, and if it appears from the evidence that among bankers
at that time such a request was understood to refer to the
genuineness of the signature and state of the account, this in,quiry must be presumed to be intended to refer to those parts
of the check to which they had the means of giving accurate
information, and nothing else; and if as to these matters true
answers were given, and the plaintiffs' teller gave his honest
judgment as to the general character of the check, and had no
,knowledge of and could not readily discover this alteration by
;an inspection of the check, then the plaintiffs are not estopped
from recovering this money.
"Sixth. If at the time of this transaction the words ' good'
or ' all right' among bankers was simply understood to refer to
the genuineness of' the signature and the state of the account,
and the said words were so used and intended to be used by Mr.
Sanford at that time when he said the check was ' good' or ' all
right,' and if the said check had a fraudulent alteration, so
,skilfully done as not to be readily discovered by an inspection,
and which was not known to either party at the time the said
,check was presented to Mr. Sanford, and if the signature of the
,check was genuine, and the account good, then the plaintiffs are
not estopped from recovering the said money in this action by
,reason of the said answer given by Mr. Sanford."
The two, thus above given, were refused.
The defendants made eight requests for charges, including
this one as a fourth, which the court gave.
"Fourth. A verbal certification of a check is equally valid
with a written certification, and constitutes a contract, obliga.
tory on tie party giving the certification, the consideration of

Espy

v. BANK OF CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
which is the property parted with by the party receiving the
certification on the faith of the certification."
The whole ten instructions requested by the plaintiff were
given, with the exception of the fifth and sixth ones, quoted
supra, p. 607, which two, as already said, were refused.
On the other hand, the eight instructions requested by the
defendants were refused (or granted only in modified forms),
with the exception of the fourth one, as above quoted.
To the grant of the eight requests of the plaintiff granted,
and to the refusal (or grant only in modified forms) of the
seven not granted or only so granted, and requested absolutely by the defendants, the defendants excepted.
However, neither the instructions which, at the plaintiff's
request, were granted, nor those which in face of the de.
fendants' request were denied, or granted only in modified
forms, need here be set out; since the court, of its ownt
motion, summed up (as this court considered) the substance
of every instruction given at the request of the plaintiff, and
of all its denials of requests by the defendants, in certain
propositions made thus in a charge of its own:
"1. If the object of the defendants in sending the check to
the plaintiff was to have them examine the same and pass upon
the genuineness of the signature of the drawers, and the state of
their account with them, and the plaintiff so understood their
object, and returned to them the answer, that ' It is good,' or 'All
right; send it through the clearing-house,' such answer would
be a parol certification of the check, as to the genuineness of
the signature, and that the drawers had funds in their hands to,
meet it, and the plaintiff by such parol certification would be
estopped from denying either that the signature was genuine or
that the drawers had funds to meet the check.
"2. If the defendants, in order to test the genuineness of the
signature of the drawers, that they had funds in their hands to
meet it, and to test its genuineness in all other respects, sent it
to the plaintiff for inspection and examination, and the plaintiff,
knowing the full extent of the object for which it was sent,
sent back the reply, 'It is good,' or ' It is all right,' and if the
defendants relied upon that answer, and were induced to act

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v. BANK OF CINCINNATI.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

upon it, and parted with their bonds and gold upon the assur.
ance of the answer, the plaintiff will be estopped from setting
up the fact that the check was a raised check.
"3. If the defendants had no suspicion of the check being a
raised check, and sent the check to the plaintiff for the purpose
of examination, without specifying the particulars to which
they wished the examination directed, the plaintiff had a right
to presume that such examination was desired in relation to
such points of which the law presumed them to have knowledge, to wit, the genuineness of the drawers' signature, and the
state of their account, and if in good fhith they made examina.
tions in regard to these points, and they had no knowledge of
the raising of the check, or had no particular means not common to the defendants of knowing that it had been raised,
their answer to the inquiry must be confined to the genuineness
of the signature of the drawers and the state of their account,
and cannot be extended as an assurance or guarantee that the
check is not a raised check, and plaintiffs are not estopped from
setting up such fact.
"4. If the defendants and the plaintiffs were mutually ignorant of the fact of the raising of the check, and neither party
had any suspicion that it had been so raised, and the parties
having within their power equal means of ascertaining that fact,
the law did not impose upon the plaintiff more than upon the
defendant the duty of calling upon the drawers to ascertain
,vhether such check had been so raised, and if the plaintiff
under such circumstances paid the amount of said check to the
defendants, such payment is not an adoption of the check as
genuine, and the plaintiffs are not bound by said payment, and
are not estopped from showing that the check was so raised."
To the part three of these instructions the defendants excepted.
Messrs. G. Iloadly and E.
error:

l. Johnson, for the plaintiff in

I. As to the admission of incompetent testimony.
This consists of several particulars, among them may be
mentioned the allowing Goodman to testify to a peculiar
meaning attributed, by usage of Cincinnati bankers, to the
words, "that is good," or "all right;" no one having pro,
VOL. XVIII.
39

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

tended that those were the words used; and he testifying
that the words, which were in fact used,-"It is good," or
"Tt is all right; send it through the clearing-house,"-had not
acquired a peculiar meaning, and further, that before the
day of the transaction in controversy, April 26, 1870, he had
never known of a transaction requiring a decision as to the
meaning of the words, "It is good," or "All right," and had
never heard their meaning discussed, or any question made
as to the same.
II. As to the legal effect of the words used by plaintiff's teller
to the defendants' messenger.
Both parties agreed that the check was shown to Sanford;
that he was the proper officer to certify checks, or furnish
information of their value; that he knew it was offered to
Espy, Heidelbach & Co., and that the offer was pending and
undetermined, awaiting his reply; that he examined the
check, and said, with the design of having the statement
repeated to the defendants, and that they should act upon
it, "It is good," or "All right," "send," or "put it through
the clearing-house."
1. 7hese words constituted a verbal certification, equivalent in
law to a written certfication of the check.
In the leading case of Merchants' Bank v. State Bank,* the
form of certification adopted was,
"Good.

C.

11. SMITH,

Cashier."

In Meads, Receiver, &c., v. The Merchants' Bank of Albany,t
the form adopted was,
"Good.

KIRTLAND,

Teller."

Not only is the form of words thus used for written certification almost identical with those in the present case, but
in essential meaning it is quite the same. Both the written
and spoken phrase assures the holder that the check, in the
form in which it then appears, is good, and will be paid to
the holder on presentation. It is an engagement by the
10 Wallace, 604.

t 25 New York, 148.

Oct. 1873]

Espy v.

611

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

bank, upon which will rest the duty of paying the check,
that it will comply therewith.
Wherein does, or can the written "certificate of the bank
that a check is good," differ, in legal effect, from the same
certificate by parol? The form of words is the same; the
consideration the same; the intent and meaning the same.
The authorities concur in holding a verbal certification
equivalent to a written, or to acceptance.*
2. Being equivalent to a written certification, the examination
and statement of the teller constitute an original obligation, in the
nature of an acceptance, which the certifying bank must comply
with by payment, and cannot recover back after payment.
In Merchants' Bank v. State Bank, this court says :
"The certification of a check, is an undertaking that the
check is good then, and shall continue good, and this agreement is as binding on the bank as its notes of circulation, a
certificate of deposit payable to the order of the depositor, or
any other obligation it can assume. The object of certifying a
check as regards both parties, is to enable the holder to use it
as money. The transferee takes it with the same readiness and
sense of' security that he would take the notes of the bank. It
is available also to him for all the purposes of money. Thus it
continues to perform its important functions until in the course
of business it goes back to the bank for redemption, and is extinguished by payment."
This authority is of course conclusive, and it is in full
accord with the other decisions.t
3. The certifying bank cannot escape its duty of payment, or,
having paid, recover back the money, under pretence of a fraudulent alteration of the check before certification.
Robson v. Bennett, 2 Taunton, 388 ; Barnet v. Smith, 10 Foster, 256..
t Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank v. Butchers' and Drovers' Bank, 16
N ew York, 125; Barnes v. Ontario Bank, 19 Id. 159; The Girard Bank v.
The Bank of Penn Township, 39 Pennsylvania State, 92 ; Bickford v. First
National Bank of Chicago, 42 Illinois, 238; Brown v. Leckie et al., 43 Id.
497; Clarke National Bank v.

Bank of Albion, 52 Barbour, 599;

Springs Bank v. Syracuse Savings Institution, 62 Id. 108-9 ....

, -

Salt

612

Espy

v. BANK OF CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Alteration after execution will discharge the maker or
other party to a promissory note, bill of exchange, or check
But alteration before execution is quite different.
In Sanderson v. Collm.an,* Tindal, C. J., says:
"The first point in this case is whether the drawee, after ac..
cepting and thereby giving an apparent validity to a bill, has a
right in an action against him as acceptor to set up as a defence
that the name of the drawer was forged, or other matter invalidating the bill. And it appears to me that he has no such right."
In "assumpsit by the indorsee against the acceptor of a
bill of exchange, the plea was that before the bill became
due, and whilst it was ' in full force and effect,' the date of
it was altered by the drawer, whereby it became void:
Reld, that the plea was bad, because it did not allege the
alteration to have been made after acceptance." t
In Ward v. Allen,T the court say:
" It is no defence to an action by a bona fide holder of a bill
of exchange against the acceptor, that the bill was fraudulently
altered before acceptance."
It seems clear from these considerations and authorities,
that the theory of law applied to the case by the court
below was founded in error.
III. As to the plaintiff's supposed right to recover for money
paid by mistake.
It is obvious that this right does not extend to every case
of mistake. At law, the right to recover money paid by
mistake is limited to the cases where no consideration
passed.ยง In the case at bar, there was a consideration ; the
consideration consisting of the detriment to the defendant
in receiving the check, and delivering the gold and bonds,
upon the faith of the plaintiff's representation that the
* 4 Manning & Granger, 218.

1 2 Metcalf, 58.
Langton v. Lazarus, 6 Meeson & Welsby, 629.
Hoffman v. Bank of Milwaukee, 12 Wallace, 181; Ellis & Morton v.
Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Co., 4 Ohio State, 628 ; Koontz v. Central
t

.
National Bank, 51 Missouri, 279.

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

618

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

check was good, and its promise to pay at the clearinghouse.
In equity, a complainant seeking to set aside and Cancel
a transaction, and recover moneys paid or other property
transferred or conveyed, can succeed only on condition that
he replace the defendant in statu quo, by returning him the
consideration he parted with. If part of this consideration
consists of money paid at the complainant's instance to a
third person, that money must be restored, as a condition
of decree.
This rule is recognized even at law, in Pennsylvania.
Chief Justice Gibson in Boas v. Updegrove,* states it thus:
"Money voluntarily paid by mistake cannot be recovered
back where the parties cannot be placed in statu quo; for where
the blunder necessarily imposes a loss on some one, it must be
borne by the author of it."
Who was the author? Certainly no one but the plaintiff, whose teller, after careful inspection of the check, replied, "The check is good, or all right; send it through the
clearing-house." Upon the faith of this representation and
promise the defendants parted with their gold and bonds.
Return the value of this gold and bonds, or cease to press
for a rescission of the dealings between the parties.
Concede that the whole matter was a blunder, that both
parties were equally ignorant, and that neither of them
suspected, or could have discovered it was a raised check,
the first blunderer was the plaintiff, and therefore it was II
law the author of the blunder. This principle was recognized and enforced in the Irving Bank v. Wetherald.t
IV. The plaintiff is estopped in pais to dispute its liability
upon the acceptance.
A case quite similar to that under discussion was disposed of in Alabama by the principle of estoppel.1 The
court say:
"If the maker of a promissory note tells one seeking to
* 6 Pennsylvania State, 518.

Brooks v. Martin, 43 Alabama, 360.

t 36 New York, 885.

614

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

[Sup. (t

Opinion of the court.

trade for it, and desirous to know if he has any defence against
it that it is ' all right,' he will not be permitted afterwards te
dispute this admission when sued on the note by the party to
whom the admission was made."
The principle of estoppel in pais was thus stated by Lord
Denman in Pickard v. Sears.*
"Where one by his words or conduct wilfully causes another

to believe the existence of a certain state of things, and induces him to act on that belief so as to alter his own previous
position, the former is concluded from averring against the
latter a different state of things as existing at the same time."
The word "1 wilfully " as here used has since been construed to mean " voluntarily :"t
Had Sanford refused to answer, or said, "1Inquire of Stall
& Meyer," or, " The amount stands to their credit, and the
signature is genuine," there would have been no dispute.
He chose not thus to limit his assurance, but preferred
rather the enlarged statement, "the check is good;" not
" the signature and amount," but "the check is good, or all
right; send it through the clearing-house." Thus he created
the possibility of injury, giving to the stranger the opportunity of fraud, and his principal should bear the loss.
Mr. T. D. Lincoln, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Stall & Meyer, customers and depositors with the First
National Bank of Cincinnati, made their check on that
bank for the sum of $26.50, payable to the order of Mrs.
E. Hart, and delivered it to a stranger to all the parties to
the transaction, out of which this controversy arose. This
man erased the name of the payee and the amount for
* 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 475.

t Cornish v. Abington, 4 Hurlstone & Norman, 549; and see Dezell v.
Odell, 3 Hill, 215; Eldred v. Hazlett's Administrator, 38 Pennsylvania

State, 809; and Weaver v. Lynch, 25 Id. 451; Buchanan v.Moore, 1 Ser.
geant & Rawle, 306; Jorden v. Money, 5 House of Lords Cases, 212 .

Oct. 1878.]

Espy v. BANK

OF CINCINNATI.

Opinion of the court.

which it was given and inserted the name of Espy, Heidelbach & Co., bankers and brokers, and also the sum of
$3920, and passed it to Espy, ileidelbach & Co., in payment of bonds and gold which he purchased from them.
The check was paid by the bank through the clearing-house,
and the next day the fraud was discovered, and the bank
made a demand on Espy, Heidelbach & Co., for the amount
as paid through a mistake.
If this were all the case there could be no doubt of their
right to recover. The principle that money so paid under
a mistake of the facts of the case can be recovered back is
well settled, and in the case of raised or altered checks so
paid by banks on which they were drawn there are numerous well-considered cases where the right to recover has
been established, when neither the party receiving nor the
party paying has been in any fault or blame in the matter.
Of course if there is fault on the part of the party receiving
pay for such a check it strengthens the right of recovery.
But in the case before us the rights of the parties are to
be determined by what took place between themselves before the check was paid. It appears by the bill of exceptions that the man who perpetrated the fraud, having ascertained from Espy, Heidelbach & Co. the price of the bonds
and gold which he proposed to buy of them, told them that
he had dealings with Stall & Meyer and would get their
check for the amount, and after an absence of two or three
hours returned with the check in question. Not wishing to
take it from this stranger without further information, they
sent Mr. Snarenberger, one of their clerks, to the bank with
instructions to ascertain if the check was good, and to say
that it was presented by a stranger. Snarenberger presented
it to Mr. Sanford, the proper officer of the bank, who, after
examining the check and the state of Stall & Meyer's account,
said, "It is good," or "It is all right; send it through the
clearing-house."
There is a slight disagreement between Snarenberger and
Sanford as to the precise words used, but we do not deem
the difference of any importance. But there ip difference in

Espy v.

BANK OF CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

another point between these two, which with the jury might
have had some weight. Snarenberger testifies that he told
Sanford that the check was offered to his house by a stranger, which Sanford denies; and Sanford says that he told
Snarenberger that if the check was offered by a stranger he
would advise them to have nothing to do with him; that he
would be careful and not pay so large a check to a stranger,
no matter how good-looking he was.
On the return of Snarenberger, Espy, ileidelbach & Co.
delivered the bonds and gold to the stranger and received
the check in payment, and in the language of the record the
stranger went his way and was heard of no more. Espy,
ileidelbach & Co. indorsed the check, and it was paid, as
stated already, through the clearing-house.
In a suit brought by the bank to recover the money it had
a judgment, to reverse which this suit is brought.
The defendants excepted to the admission of certain testimony given by the plaintiffs on the trial for the purpose of
proving that the words " all right," "it is good," when used
in reference to a check presented at the bank on which it is
drawn, had, by the custom and usages of the bankers of
Cincinnati, acquired a limited and well-understood meaning,
namely, that it had reference exclusively to the genuineness
of the drawer's signature and to the state of his account at
the bank. The objections made to this evidence were that
in its nature it was inadmissible; that the person testifying
showed his want of knowledge on the subject, and that the
expressions "all right" and "it is good" were not the precise expressions used. But we need not inquire whether
the court was right in admitting this testimony, because in
the subsequent progress of the trial it became immaterial.
The court refused to charge the jury, as requested by the
plaintiffs in their fifth and sixth prayers, that if there was
such an understanding among bankers as to the use of the
terms mentioned, it limited the responsibility of the bank
to these two matters; and in the charge of the court of its
own motion it placed the case beyond the influence of such
testimony, by instructing the jury that as matter of law such

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v. BANK

OF

CINCINNATI,

617

Opinion of the court.

was the effect of the words supposed, when used under the
-circumstances suggested by the interrogations of plaintiff's
ouiisel in regard to the understanding of them among
bankers.
We are relieved also, by an attentive qonsideration of the
instructions given by the court, from another very grave
,question much discussed by counsel in this court, that is,
whether a verbal statenent by the proper officer to certify
,checks that the one presented is good, is, or is not, the
equivalent of a written certification of the check in the usual
maniner. For the fourth instruction asked by the defendants
,and granted by the court is precisely what is claimed by
couiisel here as to the effect of such verbal statement, as will
be seen at once by its inspection. It is as follows: "A verbal certification of a check is equally valid with a written
,certification, and constitutes a contract obligatory on the
party giving the certification, the consideration of which is
the property parted with by the party receiving the certification on the faith of the certification." The plaintiff in error,
:against whom the jury rendered their verdict, notwithstanding the instruction thus given, must be held to have had
the benefit of the principle thus asserted with the jury,
whether the court was right in giving it or not.
The plaintiffs on the trial below prayed ten distinct instructions to the jury, all of which were granted except the
fifth and sixth, which we have considered. The defendzants prayed eight instructions, all of which were refused
'or modified except the fourth, to which attention has just
,been called. Upon all these rulings of the court as well as
upon the charge of the court of its own motion, errors are
assigned.
But we are of opinion that the whole case turns upon the
latter charge of the court. This consisted of four distinct
propositions:
1. That if defendants below sent the check to the bank
-for the purpose of having the latter pass upon the genuine'ness of the signature and the state of the account of the
,drawer, the statement that it was good, or all right, would

618

Espy r.BANK

OF CINCINNATI.

[Sup. (t,

Opinion of the court.

estop them from denying that the signature was genuine,.
and there were funds to meet it.
2. If defendants sent the cheek for the purpose of testing:
the genuineness of the signature of the drawers, the state of
their account, and, to test its genuineness in all other respects, and plaintiff. knowing the full extent of the object for
which it was sent, replied "It is good," or "It is all right,"
plaintiff is estopped to set up that the check was raised.
3. That if the defendants had no suspicion that the check
was raised, and sent it to plaintiffs for examination without
specifying the particulars to which they wished the examination directed, the plaintiffs had a right to presume that it
was desired in relation to such points as the law presumed
them to have knowledge, namely, the genuineness of the
drawer's signature and the state of his account, and if they
answered in good faith and had no means other than thoseof defendants of knowing that the check was raised, they
were not estopped from setting up that fact.
4. That if the parties were mutually ignorant and unsuspicious concerning the check being raised, the law did not
impose upon plaintiffs more than the defendants, the duty
of calling on the drawers for information on that subject.
The plaintiffs in error, defendants below, can have no
cause to complain of the first and second proposition laid
down by the court below.
If the bank officers had their attention turned to the matter of the raising of the check, or even had notice that it)
applying to them for information the parties presenting it
did so for the purpose of getting information which would
include that subject, they could have limited their general,
statement that it was good so as to exclude its application to
that point, or might have declined ansvering altogether.
If, with this notice, says the court, they gave a general stateuent that the check was good, or all right, these words
must be held to have reference to all the matters on which
they knew that the other party asked or desired their
opinion. Unless we are prepared to hold to the fullest extent the principle asserted by the plaintiffs in error, that the

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v. BANK

OF

CINCINNATI.

619

Opinion of the court.

general statement that the check is good binds the party
making it as to everything connected with its validity, this
charge of the court is as favorable to theni as it should
have been, and is only doubtful as it militates against the
bank,
We think it is equally clear on principle that there was
no error in the fourth proposition of the court. Undoubtedly, where there exists a suspicion that the check has been
altered in the amount, or in the name of the payee, the
proper party to be inquired of is the maker of the check.
He and he alone has the means of settling that question,
conclusively. The bank, as a general rule, can know this
no better than the party to whom it is presented for negotia.
tion. It is the latter who first parts with his money or property on the faith of the check, and he is as much bound to,
diligent inquiry on that question as the bank. The latter is
held by the law to know the drawer's signature and the state
of his account. He is no more bound to know or to answer
beyond these two matters than the party who presents it for
information. So if there be no suspicion of the fraud in
raising the check, the parties are equally innocent, and no,
question of the relative degree of diligence in making inquiry on that subject arises between them. This is certainly
true unless the bank, if it consents to give any information,
at all about the validity of the check, is bound to answer as
to everything which may affect its validity. As this contention is the turning-point of the case and is the one which is,
responded to in the third of the propositions laid down by
the court, we turn now to consider that.
This assunies that neither party had any suspicion that
the check was raised and that no special reference was made
to that point in the inquiry of the defendants below. It is
also to be considered that the bank was not asked to certify
it in the usual way by indorsing it as good, and that the.
party who asked information was the one whose name was
in the check as payee. We do not propose to decide herv
what would have been the legal effect in the present case it
the bank officei had, uler precisely these circumstances,

620

Espy V.

BANK OF

CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been requested to indorse the check as good, and had done
so, affixing his name or his initials in the ordinary way.
The strong argument of the plaintiff in error is that such
an indorsement would bind the bank for the entire validity
of the check, and that what was said verbally by Sanford was the legal equivalent of such an indorsement. If
this latter point were conceded no case precisely in point
has been produced where this would be held to bind the
bank under the circumstances of the present case. The authorities relied on are mainly acceptances of drafts or bills
of exchange; and it is the same class of cases that are relied
on to show that a verbal acceptance, or promise to accept,
is equivalent to a written acceptance. The highest courts
in this country and England have* regretted the decisions
which gave original sanction to this latter proposition.*
Bank checks are not bills of exchange, and though the
rules applicable to each are in many respects the same, they
differ in important particulars.t Among these particulars
is that a check is drawn against funds on deposit with the
banker, and the indorsement that it is good implies that
when the indorsement is made there were fhnds there to pay
it. A bill of exchange is not drawn on such deposits necessarily, and its acceptance raises no implication that the
drawer has such funds to meet it. It is a new promise by
the acceptor to pay, funds or no funds. In both cases the
bank is supposed to know the signature of its correspondent,
and cannot, after indorsing it as good or accepted, dispute
the signature. But as one of the main elements of utility
in a bill of exchange is that it shall circulate freely, and it
may thus pass through many hands on the faith of the acceptor's signature, it may possibly be that he should be
responsible fbr the promise contained in it, as it came from
his hands, for it was drawn on no special fund, and the possession of such fund by him does not affect his liability. By
such acceptance he becomes primarily liable, as if he were
Boyce v. Edwards, 4 Peters, 122 ; Johnson v. Collings, I East, 103.
t Merchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wallace, 647.

Oct. 1873.]

Espy v. BANK

OF CINCINNATI.

621

Opinion of the court.

the maker of a promissory note. How far these reasons
should be applied to a certification that a check was good
seems extremely doubtful, both on principle and authority.
Where the object is to use the indorsement to put the check
in ci'culation, or raise money on it, or use it as money, and
this object is known to the certifying bank, it may be argued
with some force that the bank should, as in the case of an
acceptance of a bill of exchange, be held responsible for the
validity of the check as it came from the hands of the certifying bank. Such a rule would seem to be just when checks
are certified, as we know they often are, without reference
to the presence of funds by the drawer, and when the wellknown purpose is to give the drawer a credit by enabling
him to use the check as money by putting it in circulation.
But such a verbal statement as was made in the present
case cannot come within that principle. There was no design or intent on the part of the bank to assume a responsibility beyond the funds of the drawer in their hands, nor
to enable the payee of the check to put it into circulation.
Nothing was said or done by the bank officer which could
be transferred with the check as part of it to an innocent
taker of it from the payee. Such subsequent taker would
have no right to rely on what was said by the bank officers,
any further than the payee would.
We are of opinion that the court was entirely right in
treating the case as one in which information was sought
and obtained by Espy, Heidelbach & Co. for their own use,
and to govern their own action. For such information
as the bank was willing to give, and did give, it was, no
doubt, responsible, because it had reason to believe that the
other party would act upon it. But only to this extent and
only on this principle is it liable. It is not liable as for accepting or indorsing a draft or check with intent that it
might go upon the market for general use and negotiation
with the credit of its name attached to the paper, just as it
was placed on the market.
Under these circumstances we are of opinion that the Cir
cuit Court was right in holding that in the absence of any.

Espy v.

BANK OF

CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

thing tending to direct his attention to other matters, the
bank officer had a right to suppose that information was desired of him only in regard to the signature of the drawers
and the state of their account. These were material facts
to be known, which both common sense and commercial
law presumed to be within his knowledge. The answer he
gave that the check was good or was all right must be supposed to be responsive only to these two points. The genuineness of the payee's name and of the sum filled in the
body of the check were as well known and as easily ascertainable by the payees themselves as by the bank officer, and
unless the inquiry was so framed as to call his attention to
these points, he had no reason to suppose, in the nature of
the transaction, that he was expected to give information in
regard to them. So the response of "good" should not on
sound principle be held to extend to them. He was under
no moral or legal obligation to give an opinion on these
points. He had no reason to suppose that he was asked for
such an opinion, and because he did give an opinion that the
check was good in the only points of which he knew anything,
it would be illogical to hold the bank liable on the ground
that the response meant good absolutely and for all purposes.
The court told the jury very clearly that if the bank officer
had any reason to believe that the defendants were seeking
informatiot in regard to the general validity of the check,
or if they had been asked any question which related to the
genuineness of the check as to amount or the names of the
payees, his statement that it was all right would bind the
bank. This was as far as the court ought to have gone in
that direction, for they were not bound to answer such.a
question, nor, as we have already said, does the law or the
nature of the business imply that they had any superior
information on these points to that which the defendants
had.
The case was certainly very fairly put before the jury, so
far as the rights of the plaintiffs in error are concerned, if the
views here advanced are sound, and the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

