Oct. 1873.]

BULLARD

v.

BANK.

Statement of the case.

BULLARD V. BANK.
1. A National bank, organized under the National Banking Act of 1864,
cannot, even by provisions framed with a direct view to that effect in its
articles of association and by direct by-laws, acquire a lien on its own
stock held by persons who are its debtors.
2. Where a thing is against the spirit and policy of a statute (as this sort,
of lien is here declared to have been contrary to the spirit and policy
of the Banking Act of 1864), a permission in favor of it cannot be implied from general expressions; even supposing that liberally construed
they embraced the case.
8. A by-law giving to a bank a lien on stock of its debtors is not " a regulation of the business of the bank, or a regulation for the conduct of its
affairs," within the meaning of the National Banking Act of 1864, and,
therefore, not such a regulation as under the said act National banks
have a right to make.
ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges.
of the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the
case being thus:
Congress in February, 1863, passed an act authorizing
voluntary associations for the purpose of banking; the act
by which a system of National banks was established.*
The eleventh and twelfth sections of the act gave to these
associations power to make by-laws, not inconsistent with
the provisions of the act for the management of their property, the regulation of their affairs, and for the transfer of

their stock.
The thirty-sixth section enacted:
"No shareholder in any association under this act shall have
power to transfer or sell any share held in his own right so long
as he be liable, either as principal debtor, surety, or otherwise,
to the association for any debt which shall have become due and
remained unpaid."
In June, 1864, Congress passed a new act on the same
subject of the National banks.t This new act retained or
re-enacted many or most of the provisions of the old one,
* 12 Stat. at Large, 665.

t 18 Id. 99.

[Sup. Ct.

BULLARD V. BANK.

Statement of the case.

but did not retain or re-enact the thirty-sixth section abovequoted. On the contrary, the new act by its thirty-fifth
section enacted,
"That no association shall make any loan or discount on the
security of the shares of its own capital stock, nor be the purchaser nor holder of any such shares, unless such security or
purchase shall be necessary to prevent loss upon a debt pre.
viously contracted in good faith."
The new act in terms repealed the old act.
however,

It provided,

"That such repeal shall not affect any appointments made,
acts done, or proceedings had, or the organization, acts or proceedings of any association organized or in the process of organization under the act aforesaid."
And provided also,
" That all such associations so organized or in process of organization, shall enjoy all the rights and privileges granted, and
be subject to all the duties, liabilities, and restrictions imposed
by this act . . . without prejudice to any right acquired . . .

under any act hereby repealed."
The new Banking Act, that, namely, of 1864,-after providing by its fifth section, that associations for carrying on
banking might be formed "by any number of persons not
less than five, who shall enter into articles of association
which shall specify, in general terms, the object for which
the association is formed, and may contain any other provisions
not inconsistent with the provisions of this act which the association
may see fit to adopt for the regulation of the business of the assoeiation, and the conduct of its affairs,"-enacted:
"SECTION 8. That every association formed pursuant to the
provisions of this act, shall from the date of the execution of

its organization certificate be a body corporate .

.

. and its

board of directors shall have power to define and regulate by
by-laws not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, the manner
in which its stock shall be transferred . . . its general business

.conducted, and all the privileges granted by this act to associa
tions organized under it shall be exercised and enjoyel.

Oct. 1873.]

BULLARD V. BANK.
Statement of the case.

"SECTION 12. That the capital stock of any association formed
under this act shall be divided into shares of $100 each, and be
deemed personal property and transferable on the books of the
.association in such manner as may be prescribed in the by-laws
,or articles of association."
Under this said new act, a bank styled the National Eagle
Bank was formed at Boston on the 29th of March, 1865.
The articles of association constituting it, referring to the
;act of 1864, contained a provision that the directors of the
association shall
"ifHave the power to make all by-laws that it may be proper
;and convenient for them to make under said act, for the general
regulation of the business of the association, and the entire
management and administration of its affairs; which by-laws
may prohibit, if the directors so determine, the transfer of stock
,owned by any stockholder who may be liable to the association,either
.as principal debtor or otherwise, without the consent of the
,board."
Subsequently, on the 22d of November, 1871, at a meeting
of the directors, the following by-law was adopted:
"In pursuance of one of the articles of association, and to
carry the same into effect, and in the exercise of an authority
conferred by an act, under which the bank was organized, to
define and regulate the manner in which its stock may be transferred, it is hereby declared,
"'All debts actually due and payable to the bank (days of grace for pay,ment being passed) by a stockholder, as principal debtor or otherwise, requesting a transfer, must be satisfied before such transfer shall be made,
unless the board of directors shall direct to the contrary.' "

And on the 7th of December, 1871, this by-law was
:amended by adding the words,
"And no person indebted to the bank shall be allowed to sell
,or transfer his or her stock without the consent of a majority
,of the directors, and this whether liable as principal or surety,
:and whether the debt or liability be due or not."
Of this bank, one Clapp became a stockholder, purchasing one hundred and fifty shares. He afterwards (in July,

BULLARD

v.

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the trustee.

August, September, and October) borrowed money from
the bank on several notes, having different dates of maturity. On the 8th of November he failed to pay some of
it then due, and on the 19th of January, 1872, was decreedi
a bankrupt therefor. His trustee in bankruptcy, one Bullard, claiming the stock as part of the assets in bankruptcy,.
demanded of the bank a transfer of it to him. The bank,.
asserting a lien to the extent of the notes held by it, refused
to allow the transfer asked for. Certain of the notes given
in October, 1871, had not fully matured when Bullard madehis application.
Bullard now brought suit against the bank for refusing to,
allow the transfer asked for. The judges in the court below
differed in opinion as to what judgment should be given,.
and certified to this court for answer these questions :
.First.Whether a National bank organized under and controlled by the act of 1864 can acquire a valid lien upon theshares of its stockholders by the articles of association or'
by-laws, as proved in this case?
Second. Whether if such articles of association and bylaws, or both, created any valid lien upon the shares of the.
stockholders in a national bank organized under the act of
1864, such lien attached to the shares before the time when
there was an existing debt, from the stockholders to thebank, due and unpaid?
Third. Whether the National Eagle Bank is entitled to,
hold the interest of Clapp, in the stock mentioned, by way
of lien or security, for all or any of the notes mentioned?
Mr. B. R. Curtis relied on the case of Bank v. Lanier,*as decisive against the lien now set up by the bank; arguing, moreover, that even in a general view of the matter, a
by-law giving the bank a lien upon the stock of its debtors
was not "a regulation of the business of the association and
the conduct of its affairs," but, on the contrary, was an
attempt to derogate from the rights of the stockholders as,
* 11 Wallace, 369.

Oct. 1873.]

BULLARD V. BANK.
Opinion of the court.

such, and to create a lien on their property, while in view
of the whole spirit of the act of 1864, against a lien, it was
especially not so to be considered; and arguing, finally, that
as the by-law was passed after the act of bankruptcy was
committed, it contravened the Bankrupt Act.
Mr. C. B. Goodrich, contra, sought to distinguish this case
from the one just mentioned. He argued that though the
act of 1864 (herein unlike the act of 1863) did not itself and
directly create a lien, yet that it did, in its fifth section, au.
thorize the creation of such a lien by the articles of associa.
tion and by-laws made under them; that the difference was
that now the matter was left to the good judgment of the
stockholders and directors alone. And he referred the court
to a printed opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford, in the case of
Knight v. The Old National Bank of Providence, in the Circuit
Court for the District of Rhode Island, A.D. 1871, in which
case, after a long and elaborate consideration of the question,
the said learned justice ruled in favor of the validity of such
a lien as the bank here sought to maintain.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The extent of the powers of National banking associations
is to be measured by the act of Congress under which such
associations are organized. The fifth section of that act enacts that the articles of association "shall specify in general
terms the object for which the association is formed, and
may contain any other provisions, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this act, which the association may see fit to
adopt for the regulation of the business of the association
and the conduct of its affairs." And the eighth section of
the same act empowers the board of directors "to define
and regulate by by-laws, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this act, the manner in which its stock shall be transferred." There are other powers conferred by the act, but
unless these confer authority to make and enforce a by-law
giving a lien on the stock of debtors to a banking associa.
tion, very plainly it has not neen given.
VOL. XVIII.

88

PUI.IARD

v.

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

What, then, were the intentions of Congress respecting
the powers and rights of banking associations? The act of
1864 was enacted as a substitute for a prior act, enacted
February 25th, 1863, and in many particulars the provisions
of the two acts are the same. But the earlier statute, in its
thirty-sixth section, declared that no shareholder in any association under the act should have power to transfer or sell
any share held in his own right so long as he should be
liable, either as principal debtor, surety, or otherwise, to the
association for any debt which had become due and remained unpaid.
This section was left out of the substituted act of 1864,
and it was expressly repealed. Its repeal was a manifestation of a purpose to withhold from banking associations a
lieu upon the stock of their debtors. Such was the opinion
of this court in Bank v. Lanier.* In that case it appeared
that a bank had been organized under the act of 1863, and
that it had adopted a by-law, which had not been repealed,
that the stock of the bank should be assignable only on its
books, subject to the provisions and restrictions of the act
of Congress, among which provisions and restrictions was
the one contained in the thirty-sixth section, that no shareholder should have power to sell or transfer any share so
long as he should be liable to the bank for any debt due and
unpaid. And when the bank was sued for refusing to pernit a transfer of stock, it set up, in defence, that the stockholder was indebted to it, and that under the by-law he had
no right to make the transfer. But this court said, " Congress evidently intended, by leaving out of the act of 1864
the thirty-sixth section of the act of 1863, to relieve the
holders of bank shares from the restrictions imposed by that
section. The policy on the subject was changed, and the
directors of banking associations were, in effect, notified that
thereafter they must deal with their shareholders as they
dealt with other people. As the restrictions fell so did that
part of the by-law relating to the subject fall with them."
11 Wallace. 369.

Oct. 1873.]

BULLARD v. BANK.

Opinion of the court.

But this could have been only because the restriction was
regarded as inconsistent with the policy and spirit of the act
of 1864. It cannot truly be said that the by-law was founded
upon the thirty-sixth section, though it doubtless referred to
that section. It was not in that the power to make by-laws
was given. The eleventh section was the one which authorized associations to make by-laws, not inconsistent with the
provisions of the act, for the management of their property,
the regulation of their affairs, and for the transfer of their
stock; and that was substantially re-enacted in the act of
1864. Moreover, the sixty-second section of the latter act,
while repealing the act of 1863, enacted that the repeal
should not affect any appointments made, acts done, or proceedings had, or the organization, acts, or proceedings of
any association organized, or in the process of organization
under the act aforesaid, and gave to such associations all
the rights and privileges granted by the act, and subjected
them to all the duties, liabilities, and restrictions imposed
by it. It is, therefore, manifest that it was not the repeal
of the thirty-sixth section which caused the by-law to fall.
It fell because it was considered a regulation inconsistent
with the new Currency Act, the policy of which was to permit no liens in favor of a baik upon the stock of its debtors.
It is impossible, therefore, to see why the decision in the
case of The Bank v. Lanier does not require that the certified
question should be answered in the negative.
An attempt was made in the argument to distinguish that
case from the present by the fact that the articles of association of the Eagle Bank contain the provision to which we
have referred, namely, that the directors should have the
power to make by-laws which may prohibit the transfer of
stock owned by any stockholder, who may be a debtor to
the association, without the consent of the board, a provision
which, it is said, the associates were justified in making by
the fifth section of the act of 1864. The argument is that,
though the act of Congress does not itself create a lien on a
debtor's stock (as did the act of 1863), it does by the words
of its fifth section authorize the creation of such a lien by

596

BULLARD v. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the articles of association, and by by-laws made under them.
This leads to the inquiry whether the fifth section does authorize any provision in the articles of association that bylaws may be made prohibiting the transfer of stock of debtors
to a bank, for if it does not the foundation of the argument
is gone. Certainly there is no express grant of authority to
make such a prohibition contained in that section. There
is no specification of such a power. And if such a grant
could be implied from the words used by Congress, the irnplication would be in direct opposition to the policy indicated by the repeal of the thirty-sixth section of the act of
1863, and the failure to re-enact it, as well as by the provisions of the thirty-fifth section, which prohibit loans and
discounts by any bank on the security of the shares of its
own capital stock, and prohibit also every bank from purchasing or holding any such shares, unless such security or
purchase shall be necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith. Surely an implication is
inadmissible which contradicts either the letter or the spirit
of the act. Surely when the statute has prohibited all express agreements for a lien in favor of a bank upon the stock
of its debtors, there can be no implication of a right to create
such a lien from anything contained in the fifth section.
But were there no such policy manifest in the act, the words
of the fifth section would not bear the meaning attributed
to theni. The articles of association required by that section to be entered into must specify in general terms the
object for which the association is formed, and may contain
any other provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of
the act, which the association may see fit to adopt for the
regulationof its business and the conduct of its affairs. To us it
seems that a by-law giving to the bank a lien upon its stock,
as against indebted stockholders, ought not to be considered
as a regulation of the business of the batik or a regulation
for the conduct of its affairs. That Congress did not understand the section as extending to the subject of stock transfers is very evident in view of the fact that in another part
of the statute express provision was made for such transfers.

Oct. 187,:?.]

BULLARD V]. bSANK.

Opinion of the court.

The eighth section empowers the board of directors of every
banking association to define and regulate by by-lais, not
inconsistent with the provisions of the act, the manner in
which its stock shall be transferred. This would be superfluous if the power had been previously given in the fifth
section. That Congress considered it necessary to make
such an enactment is convincing evidence that they thought
it had not elsewhere been made. Whatever power, therefore, the directors of a bank possess to regulate transfers of
its stock, they derive, not from the fifth section of the act,
and not from the articles of association, but from the eighth
and twelfth sections by express and direct grant. It cannot,
therefore, be maintained that the present case is not governed by the decision made in Bank v. Lanier, because the
articles of association for the Eagle Bank authorized the directors to make a by-law restricting the transfer of stock.
In that case there was a by-law prohibiting the transfer, as
in this. Independent of the thirty-sixth section of the act
of 1863, there was as much authority to make and enforce
such a by-law as is given by the act of 1864. The eleventh
and twelfth sections of the act of 1863 enacted that associations formed under it might make by-laws, not inconsistent
with the laws of the United States or the provisions of the
act, for the transfer of their stock, and that the stock should
be transferable on the books of the association "in such
manner as might be prescribed in the by-laws or articles of
association." These powers given to the associates under
that act are quite as large as those given by the act of 1864.
Yet this court held that after the passage of the latter act a
by-law giving a lien upon a debtor's stock was inconsistent
with its provisions and invalid. Of course, if the act destroyed an existing by-law, it must prevent the adoption of
a new one to the same effect.
We hold, therefore, on the authority of Bank v. Lanier,
that the first question certified must be answered in the negative, and consequently the same answer must be given to
the other two questions.
ANSWERED IN THE NEGATIVE.

Ttm, FAVOIRITA.

[Sup. Ct

8tatement of the case.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment and opinion of the court in
this case for the reasons assigned in the opinion delivered by
me in the case of Jcniqht et al. v. Bank, decided in the Circuit
Court, Rhode Island District, June Term, 1871, which I still
believe to be correct, and consequently refer to that case as
a full expression of the reasons of my dissent in the present
case.

THE

FAVORITA.

1. A large ocean steamer, running at the rate of eight or ten miles an hour,
and close in with the Brooklyn shore, on the East River, and across the
mouths of the ferry slips there, in order to get the benefit of the eddy,
condemned for a collision with a New York ferry-boat coming out

of her dock on the Brooklyn side, and which, owing to vessels in the
harbor, did not see the ocean steamer.
2. Demurrage charged also against the ocean steamer for the time that the
ferry-boat was repairing, though her owners, a ferry company, had a

spare boat which took her place on the ferry.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
New York; this being the case:
Among the numerous ferries between Brooklyn and New
York is that known (from the name of its New York dock)
as the Catharine Street Ferry. The dock on the Brooklyn
side is at Main Street, not opposite to Catharine Street, but
considerably to the east of it; so that all ferry-boats coming
out of it and on their way to the Catharine Street dock on
the New York side have, after getting out of their dock, to
turn considerably to the westward, and so run over to New
York. To the west of Main Street the Brooklyn shore projects somewhat and then falls off towards the south.
On the afternoon of April 14th, 1865, the Manhassett, a
ferry-boat belonging to the Union Ferry Company, a company having several other ferries between New York and
Brooklyn, was coming out of her dock at Main Street, on

