Oct. 1873.]

MILTENBERGER V. COOKE.

421

Statement of the case.

MILTENBERGER

V. COOKE.

1. When a collector of internal revenue in a rural district of Mississippiwhere, owing to the lawless condition in which the rebellion, then but
recently suppressed, had left the region, it was not safe to have gold and
silver in one's house-in violation of the provisions of the Independent
Treasury Act, but with an apparently good motive-openly and without
indirection, and because he thought it more safe thus to act than to
take gold and silver-took in payment of taxes on cotton, accepted
drafts drawn by the shippers of it on consignees of it in New Orleans
(which was the place of deposit for taxes collected in Mississippi), afterwards (the drafts not being paid, and he having in his accounts with the
government charged himself and been charged by it with the tax a6 if
paid in gold and silver), sued the acceptors, the fact that in taking the
drafts instead of gold and silver, he had acted in violation of the statutes
of the United States, does not so taint his act with illegality as that he
cannot recover on them; the government not having repudiated his act
nor called on the shipper to pay, but on the contrary, leaving the account of the collector open to see if he could not himself get the amount
from the acceptor of the drafts.
2. As between the parties the collector's charging himself with the tax and
reporting it to the government as paid, would be payment by the collector
of the tax.
S. Where a party authorized another to draw different drafts on him upon
different consignments to be made, and this other made different consignments and drew different drafts, the party authorizing the drafts accepts
them in advance, and should set aside and hold enough money from the
proceeds of the consignments to pay them, come in for payment when
they may. If after such promise to accept, drafts are drawn through a
term beginning in October of one year and running into February of
another (the drawee as the drafts are drawn being advised of the fact
that the drafts have been drawn), it is no excuse when the drafts do
come in, as, ex. gr., in the middle of April of the second year, for the
drawee to say that from their not being presented in due course, he supposed that the drawer had taken them up, and that on this assumption
he had closed accounts with him and paid over to him the balance found.
He is bound to pay the drafts.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being
thus:
An act of August 6th, 1846,* commonly known as the
"'Independent Treasury Act," thus enacts:
"SECTION

18. All duties, taxes, .. . debts, and sums of money
* 9 Stat. at Large, 59.

MILTENBERGER

V.

COOKE.

[Sup., Ct.

Statement of the case.

accruing or becoming due to the United States, . . . shall be paid
in gold or silver coin only, or in treasury notes..
'SEOTION 19. Any receiving . . . officer or agent, who shall
neglect, evade or violate the provisions ... of the last preceding
section of this act, shall by the Secretary of the Treasury be immediately reported to the President of the United States with the
facts of' such neglect, evasion, or violation, and also to Congress."
Other sections of the act most carefully provide that no
officers with whom money is deposited shall iii any manner
alter the condition of this money. They.are not to use it,
lend it, exchange it, deposit it with other persons or depositories except those described in the act. The sixteenth section of the act provides for exact entries of every official
transaction of receipt, payment, or transfer, and provides
that all irregular or unclean dealing with this public money
shall be deemed a felony.
An act of July 13th, 1866,* after enacting that subsequently to the 1st of August following "there shall be paid
* . . a tax of three cents per pound on cotton,"
proceeds:
"And said tax shall be paid to the collector of internal revenue within and for the collection district in which said cotton
shall have been produced, and before the same shall have been
removed therefrom. And every collector to whom any tax upon
cotton shall be paid shall mark the bales ... upon which the tax
shall have been paid in such manner as may clearly indicate the
payment thereof, and shall give to the owner or other person
having charge of such cotton a permit for the removal of the
same, stating therein the amount and payment of the tax, the
time and place of payment, and the weight and marks upon the
bales ... so that the same may be fully identified."
These statutes being in force, Cooke, resident at Hazlehurst, Mississippi, some one hundred and fifty miles north of
New Orleans, and collector of internal revenue for the district of Mississippi, in September, 1866-at which date, the
rebellion having been suppressed only within about eighteen
months, and the whole rural districts of Mississippi being
* 14 Stat. at Large, 98.

Oct. 1873.]

MILTENBERGER

V.

COOKE.

Statement of the case.

still more or less in a disorganized and lawless condition, it
was not desirable for either collectors in them or their deputies to have on hand large sums of money,-gave public
notice in newspapers that the owners or holders of cotton in
Mississippi might bring it to the usual shipping-places, adding that as the amount received for taxes on all this cotton
would have to be deposited in New Orleans [which was the
place of deposit for the Mississippi District], it would suit
him and might afford facilities to shippers if he received
the amount by draft of the shipper on the consignees in
New Orleans, and that he would receive such drafts if the
consignees would recognize them so as to make the amount
available to him, the collector, at his place of deposit, New
Orleans.
Thereupon, Caruthers & Co., residents at Osyka, in the
interior of the State, and about half-way between Hazlehurst
and New Orleans, having certain cotton which they wished
to ship to Miltenberger & Co., their correspondents at New
Orleans, wrote to these last:
"October 24th, 1866.

"Please to inform us whether it would suit you if we were to
give a draft on you for the internal revenue tax; the collector
here preferring the same to money."
To this Miltenberger & Co., in two days after, replied:
"October 26th, 1866.

"We have no objection to your drafting to us in payment of
the internal revenue tax on cotton shipped to us. Your drafts
for same will, therefore, be duly honored."
Hereupon Caruthers & Co., shipping cotton to Miltenberger & Co., at different times, did at or about these same
times, draw on them to the order of Cooke, the deputy,
some eight or ten drafts, most of then at sight, others at
short date, for the taxes chargeable on it. These drafts were
given to the deputy collector,-he having seen the letter of
Miltenberger & Co., promising to accept, &c.,-the bales
were marked in the way that the above-quoted statute of 1866
required when the tax was paid, and a permit was given for

MILTENBERGER V.

COOKE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the removal of the cotton to New Orleans. The collector
charged himself with the tax as paid; reported it to the
government as paid to him; and was charged with it by
the government accordingly. His commissions were 5 per
cent. on all amounts paid over. Caruthers & Co. shipped
the cotton to Miltenberger & Co. at the city named, and
advised them, as they drew the different drafts,, of the fact
that they had done so. All the drafts drawn were indorsed by the deputy collector, to whom they were given,
to Cooke, the principal collector, and two of them went in
at once and were paid; but either from the deputy's not
sending them to his principal as he got them, or from the
principal's not sending them on in regular course to New
Orleans for collection, or from some other cause, six of
them-drawn between October, 1866, and February, 1867did not go in for payment till April of the latter year. Miltenberger & Co. then refused to pay, alleging that they now
had no cotton belonging to Caruthers & Co., that the nonpresentment of the drafts, in due course, had led them to
suppose that Caruthers & Co. had themselves in some way
taken them up, and that the account of the house had been
settled upon that assumption.
Hereupon Cooke sued Miltenberger & Co. to recover on
the drafts, and upon what was alleged to be an acceptance
of them made in the letter of the said Miltenberger & Co.,
of October 26th, 1866.
Miltenberger & Co. set up as defence the matters already
indicated, and more particularly:
That the laws of the United States did not authorize or
permit the collectors of revenue to take or accept drafts
for the payment of taxes, or any other thing, except the
lawful money of the United States; but, on the contrary,
particularly and explicitly prohibited the mode of collection
set forth and described in the petition of the plaintiff, and
that what had been done was a violation of the acts of Congress in this behalf.
The court below gave judgment for the plaintiff, and the
defendants took this writ of error.

,Oct. 1873.]

MILTENBERGER

V. COOKE.

Argument for the acceptor.

It was testified to by Cooke himself, on the trial of the case
below, that while the Treasury Department had not "sanctioned" what he had done, it authorized him "to avail
'himself of exchange ;" that he had collected, through drafts
by shippers of cotton, on its consignees, nearly all the reve!nue of his district, $500,000 or more; that in the then
condition of Mississippi he deemed it safer so to collect it
,than to collect it in any other way; and that the Treasury
Department had left his account open to see whether he
could get this money.
Messrs. J. A. and D. G. Campbell, for the plaintiff in error:
A collentor of taxes charged with the duty of receiving
gold or silver or treasury notes, or notes of the National
banks, for the taxes imposed upon cotton, and upon the receipt of the amount, to enter the fact upon his books; stamp
it upon the bales of cotton; declare it as a fact in the permit for the removal of the cotton from the district; and
faithfully report it to the government,-neglects, evades, and
violates his duty when he takes a draft on a commission mer,chant at a distance, upon a promise contained in a letter to
a taxpayer, for the amount of' the tax, and treats that draft
,as lawful money, and allows the removal of the cotton and
facilitates its removal and sale by false stamps and false
!statements in his permits, and does not pay the taxes to the
United States.
And the question is, whether a collector of the United
.States who neglects, evades, and violates his duty, can
through the courts of the United States get the benefit of
,his neglect, evasion, and violation of duty, when he finds
that they have failed to secure to him the benefits of com:pliance with, conformity to, and performance of duty?
The interest of the United States as declared in the acts
of Congress is that the collecting, receiving, and disbursing
,officers of the United States shall know, that all the money
whicl' shall pass through their hands as public officers, belong. to the United States, and under no conditions or cir,cu'z"ftances shall they presume to deal with it as if they had

426

MILTENBERGE]

V.

COOKE.

[Sup. Ct

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

any sort of ownership, estate, or authority to make any other
disposition of it than the law prescribes. The danger
from persons in fiscal offices is their forgetfulness of this
essential knowledge. The statutes permit no use of the,
government money, nor exertion of the powers for its collection, receipt or disbursement for any private object. A.
slight deviation from the austere and self-denying habit prescribed in the rule of the treasury is treated as an infamous,
offence, a felony. By the light of these statutes it is apparent that this collector's acts are reprobated acts. He has.
assumed to dispense with the fundamental principle of the
acts of Congress relative to the currency in advance. He
establishes commercial relations with mercantile partnerships, and the factors of country dealers, on behalf of thetreasury of the United States. If he had farmed the revenues in his district from the government by contract, his
control over the tax collections could not have been mor
decidedly that of an owner.
If Cooke had acted with motives the best, the most completely above suspicion, all these observations would apply.
But it is not difficult to assign a motive for what was his.
confessedly irregular and illegal conduct. In the first place
his commissions depended upon the amount of his collections and was not limited by a maximum; then there were
incidental advantages, supposed to arise from a dispensation on his part, of the laws and the treasury regulations.
We find that these drafts were not presented regularly or
promptly.
Mr. 0. D. Barret, contra
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court..
The question presented for our determination is whether
the securities upon which the judgment was recovered, are.
fatally tainted with illegality.
Cooke was the collector of internal revenue for one of the
collection districts of Mississippi. Curtis was his deputy..
New Orleans was the designated place of deposit for the-

Oct. 1873.]

MILTENBERGER V.

COOKE.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

revenue collected. In the state of things then existing in
Mississippi, it was dangerous for the collector to have money
about him. He, therefore, advertised that he would receive
payment of the tax upon cotton by drafts upon New Orleans.
He took such drafts instead of money as a matter of safety.
Nearly all the revenue paid was thus collected. He received
a half million of dollars or more in this way. All the drafts
taken were paid, except those in question in this case and
one or two others. None were received but such as were
considered good. The collector was authorized to transmit
to New Orleans the moneys collected by buying exchange.
When the drafts were given the bales were marked as if the
tax had been paid, and the requisite permit for their removal
was delivered. The drafts in question were taken by Curtis,
by the authority of Cooke, and indorsed by the former to
the latter. They were all received for the tax not otherwise
paid, upon cotton shipped to Miltenberger & Co. by Caruthers & Co., the drawers of the drafts. Caruthers & Co.
drew them pursuant to a letter from the plaintiffs in error,
which, under such circumstances, authorized them to be
drawn, and promised to accept and pay them. Curtis took
the drafts upon the faith of this letter. Miltenberger & Co.
were advised at the time of the drawing of each draft and
of the shipment of the cotton, upon which it was founded.
Cooke, in these as in all other instances of the kind, reported
the tax to the government as paid, and charged himself accordingly, and was so charged upon the books of the Treasury Department. He considered the tax paid by such
transactions, and the drafts wholly at his risk. The proper
officers of the revenue bureau, with knowledge of the facts,
have left his account open as to the amount of these drafts,
and given him time to collect them.
Such is the case upon the facts as presented in the record.
The act of August 6th, 1846,* requires all taxes and duties
accruing to the government to be paid in gold and silver, or
treasury notes. The act of July 18th, 1866,t imposed a tax
* Brightly's Digest, 888.

t14 Star. at Large, 98.

428

MILTENBERGER V.

COOKE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of three cents per pound upon all cotton raised in the United
States, and required the tax to be paid in the district where
it was produced before its removal, with an exception which
does not affect this case. The collector, upon receiving payment, was required to mark the bales and packages accordingly, and to give the owner or person in charge of the
cotton a permit for its removal, stating the amount and payment of the tax, the time and place of payment, and the
marks upon the bales and packages, so that they could be
identified; and it was made his duty to keep an account of
all cotton inspected and of the marks and identifications,
and of all permits for removal issued, and of all his trans.
actions in relation thereto, and to make full returns monthly
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
The judgment of the court below must be sustained upon
several grounds:
As between the parties, the tax was paid by Cooke for
,Caruthers & Co. His marking the bales, giving the permit,
charging himself with the amount, and reporting it to the
government as paid, had that effect. The result was the
same to Caruthers & Co. as if so much money had been advanced at their request, and so applied for their benefit.
They were permitted to ship the cotton to the plaintiffs in
error, in all respects as if the money had been actually paid
and the requisite vouchers had been given upon the basis of
such payment. The assumpsit of the collector supplied the
place of the money. No demand has been made by the
government against Caruthers & Co. They have had the
full benefit of the arrangement. As between them and
Cooke, the transaction is as if Cooke had lent Caruthers &
Co. the amount in gold or silver, or treasury notes, with one
hand, and received it back with the other. It has been held
that promissory notes given under such circumstances can
be enforced by the payee.*
* St. Alban's Bank v. Dillon & McGowan, 80 Vermont, 122; Kelley v.
Noyes, 43 New Hampshire, 211; see also Smith v. Mawhood,. 14 Meeson &
Welsby, 468.

Oct. 1873.1

MILTENBERGER

V.

COOKE.

Opinion of the court.

Conceding that the transaction was illegal, the statutory
provisions relied upon by the plaintiffs in error are for the
protection and benefit of the United States, and it was for
the latter to object or not as they deemed proper. In this
view of the case, they could have repudiated the transaction
and called upon Caruthers & Co. for payment. With full
knowledge of the facts they chose not to do so. The matter
was one between them and their agent. The option to object belonged to the government and cannot be exercised by
those who have not and could not have been injured.
The written promise of the plaintiffs in error to accept
these drafts was equivalent to acceptance. No question is
raised upon that subject by their counsel. After notice of
the drawing of the drafts, and the sale of the cotton, they
had so much money in their bands to be applied according
to their engagement. There was no stipulation between,
them and Cooke. Their contract was with Caruthers & Co.
When the money was received for the cotton they held it in
trust for Cooke, and their sole duty and business in relation
to it was to pay it over upon the drafts when called for, according to their agreement. If they paid it to Caruthers &
Co. they did so in their own wrong. The fact in no wise
affected their liability to Cooke and is not an element in the
case to be considered. In no view can they be permitted to,
keep the money for their own use, or avail themselves of a
payment made in violation of Cooke's rights and their duty.
They can no more object to the consideration of the draft&
than if the money were still in their hands. For the pur.
poses of this case, it must be regarded as there when payment of the drafts was demanded.
It is a consideration of weight, though not controlling,
that there is nothing disclosed which looks like fraud on the
part of the defendant in error. There was neither concealment, indirection, nor oppression. Nothing beyond the tax
was demanded or stipulated to be paid. Caruthers & Co.
received in full the consideration upon which the drafts
were drawn, and the defendants in full the considerationi
upon which they agreed to accept and pay them. It would

BRENT V. MARYLAND.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

be contrary to equity and good conscience, as well as the
law, to permit the plaintiffs in error to cast upon the defendant in error the burden of the loss to which they have
endeavored to subject him.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BRENT V. MARYLAND.
1 Where in a proceeding to sell the real estate of a decedent for the payment of his debts the solicitor who presents the petition for the decree
of sale is himself appointed trustee to make the sale, and himself becomes bound in bonds for the performance of the duties belonging to
such appointment, and himself makes all the motions and procures all
the orders under which the trustee's liability in the matter arises, he
may, if he is liable for the non-payment of money which he was ordered
by the court to pay, be sued without formal notice to him. He has
notice in virtue of his professional and personal relations to the case.
2. Where a trustee in such a case has given bonds with surety in a penal
sum to the State conditioned for the performance of his duties, children,
entitled equally to a share in any surplus remaining after debts, expenses, &c., are paid from the proceeds of the sale, may, by the practice
in the District of Columbia, after the exact amount of such share has
been found by an auditor whose report is confirmed by the court, bring
joint suit against the surety-the trustee being dead-in the name of the
State, on the bond for the penal sum ; and a judgment for that sum to
be discharged on the payment of the shares or sums certain found as
above-said is regular.
S. Such joint suit, though against the surety of the trustee (the trustee in his
lifetime having had notice of everything), may, in the District, be at law.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

Boteler, of Prince George County, Maryland, died pos.
sessed of considerable real estate and of some personalty,
owing to one Warner a debt which the personalty was not
sufficient to pay, and leaving a widow and minor children.
Administration being taken by his widow upon his estate, a
petition was filed by Warner, February, 1853, in accordance
with the laws of Maryland, against the widow and children,
to subject this real estate to the payment of the debts.

