Oct. 1878.] (CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

553

Statement of the case.

court, AFFIRMING THE JUDGMENT below, because, upon the

case as above given, there was nothing in the record which
'raised any question of law which this court could consider.

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.
A case in which the plaintiff is a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought and two of the defendants are citizens of other States, a third
defendant being a citizen of the same State as the plaintiff, is not removable to the Circuit Court of the United States under the act of
March 2d, 1867, upon the petition of the two foreign defendants.

ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts.
The Florence Sewing Machine Company, a Massachusetts
-corporation, sued, in assumpsit, in the court just named,
three other sewing machine companies; one of them, like
itself, a Massachusetts corporation, another a Connecticut
-corporation, and the third a New York corporation. The
writ was returnable to April Term, 1871.
The purpose of the suit was to recover of the three de-

fendant corporations an alleged overpayment which the
plaintiff company alleged that it had made to them, under a

license agreement which they had granted to it. Service of
the writ was made upon all the defendants, according to the
laws of Massachusetts; upon the two foreign corporations
by attachment of the property of each within the State, &c.

The Massachusetts corporation which was thus sued appeared at the April Term, 1871, by counsel, and filed its
answer, and at the April Term, 1872, the Connecticut and
New York corporations did the same.
At the said April Term, 1872, and before the trial of the
case, the Connecticut corporation filed a petition, under the
act of March 2d, 1867, hereinafter particularly set forth,* for
the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
'

Infra, p. 557-8.

554

CASE OF THE SEWMiu

MACHINE COMPANINS.

[SUp. ('t

Statement 6f the case.

States for the District of Massachusetts, assigning as a reason
that the plaintiff corporation was a citizen of the State of
Massachusetts, and that it the defendant corporation was a
citizen of the State of Connecticut; that a controversy existed between them in the said suit, and that the petitioner
had reason to believe, and did believe, that from prejudicel
and local influence it would not be able to obtain justice in,
the State court. An affidavit to this effect was also made in,
its behalf, by its president, and filed; and also a bond with
sufficient sureties as required by law.
On the same day, a similar petition, affidavit, and bond
were made and filed by and in behalf of the New York corporation.
Subsequently, at the same term, and before the trial of
the cause, these petitions were heard before the presiding
judge. The judge (Ames, J.) refused to grant the petitions,
and ordered the case to proceed to trial, reserving the question, whether his refusal was right, for the consideration of
the whole bench. The defendants excepted. A verdict was
given for the plaintiff.
The exception was afterwards heard before the whole,
bench of the court below, which held that the petition to:
remove the case was rightly refused. Final judgment having been entered accordingly, the case was now brought
here by the three defendant corporations.
The question thus presented was whether a case in which
the plaintiff is a citizen of the State where the suit is brought
and two of the defendants are citizens of other States, a third
defendant being a citizen of the same State as the plaintiff,
is removable to the United States Circuit Court upon the,
petition of the two foreign defendants under the statute of
March 2d, 1867, upon their complying with the several requirements of that statute.
To understand the arguments of counsel and the opinion
of the court, it is necessary to refer to certain clauses of the
Constitution, and of two acts of Congress preceding that of
1867: one, the Judiciary Act of 1789; the other, an act of
1866.

Oct. 1873.] CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

555

Statement of the case.

The following clauses of the Constitution are referred to:
III.-SEcTION 2. The judicial power shall extend:
"To all cases in law and equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made or which
shall be made under their authority.
"To all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls.
"To all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
"To controversies to which the United States shall be a party.
"To controversies between two or more States; between a
State and citizens of another State; between citizens of different
States; . . . between citizens of the same State, claiming lands
under grants of different States, and between a State or the
citizens thereof and foreign states, citizens, or subjects.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other
cases beforementioned the Supreme Court shall have appellate
jurisdiction," &c.
"ARTICLE

The following are the acts of Congress which bear on the
case:

First. The Judiciary Act of 1789, which thus enacts:
"SECTIoN 11. The Circuit Courts shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all
suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, where . . .
the suit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, and
a citizen of another State.
"SECTION 12. If a suit be commenced in any State court
against an alien, or by a citizen of the State in which the suit is
brought against a citizen of another State, and the matter in dispute exceeds the aforesaid sum of $500, . . . and the defendant
shall at the time of entering his appearancein such State court file
a petition for the removal of the cause for trial into the next
Circuit Court, to be held in the district where the suit is pending, . . . and offer good and sufficient surety for his entering in
such court, on the first day of its session, copies of said process
against him, and also for his there appearing, . . . it shall then
be the duty of the State court . . . to proceed no further n the
cause, . . . and the said copies being entered as aforesaid in

1b56

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
such court of the United States, the cause shall there proceed
in the same manner as if it had been brought there by original
,process," &c.
[These sections, as interpreted by this court,* have been
always understood to apply only to those cases in which all
the individuals making up the plaintiffs are citizens of the
.State where the suit is brought; and all the individuals
making up the defendants are citizens of another State or
States.]
Next came an act of July 27th, 1866, entitled "An act for
the removal of causes in certain cases from State courts."t
It was thus:
If in any suit . . .in any State court against an alien, or by
-aitizen of the State in which the suit is brought against a citizen
of - nother State, and the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of
$5110, . . .a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought is
or shall be a defendant, and if the suit, so far as relates to the
alien defendant, or to the defendant who is the citizen of a
State other than that in which the suit is brought, is or has
been instituted or prosecuted for the purpose of restraining or
,enjoining him, or if the suit is one in which there can be a final
determination of the controversy, so far as it concerns him,
without the presence of the other defendants as parties in the
cause, then, and in every such case, the alien defendant, or the
defendant who is a citizen of a State other than that in which
the suit is brought, may, at any time before the trial orfinal hearing of the cause, file a petition for the removal of the cause as
against him into the next Circuit Court of the United States, to
be held in the district where the suit is pending, and offer good
and sufficient surety for his entering in such court . . . copies
of said process against him, and of all pleadings, depositions,
testimony, and other proceedings in said cause affecting or con.
cerning him, and also for his there appearing, . . . and it shall
be thereupon the duty of the State court to accept the surety
and proceed no further in the cause as against the defendant so
applying for its removal, . . . and the said copies being entered
* Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267; Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11
Wallace, 172.
t 14 Stat. at Large, 306.

Oct. 1873 ]

CASE OF TIE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

557'

Statement of the case.

as aforesaid in such court of the United States, the cause shall'
there proceed in the same manner as if it had been brought there.
by original process against the defendant who shall have so filed
a petition for its removal as above provided ...
"And such removal of the cause, as against the defendant
petitioning therefor, into the United States court, shall not be,
deemed to prejudice or take away the right of the plaintiff to,
proceed at the same time with the suit in the State court as
against the other defendants, if he shall desire to do so."
Finally came the act of March 2d, 1867,* upon which the
application for removal in the case was made. Its title is,
"An act to amend an act entitled ' An act for the removal of
causes in certain cases from State courts,"' approved July 27,.
1866.
It runs thus:
"Be it enacted, That the act entitled ' An act for the removal
of causes in certain cases from State courts,' approved July 27th,
1866, be and the same is hereby amended as fbllows: That
where a suit is now pending, or may hereafter be brought in
any State court, in which there is controversy between a citizen
of the State in which the suit is brought and a citizen of anotherState, and the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of $500, . . .
such citizen of another State, whether he be plaintiff or defendant,
if he will make and file in such State court an affidavit, stating
that he has reason to and does believe that from prejudice or
local influence he will not be able to obtain justice in such State
court, may, at any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit,
file a petition in such State court for the removal of the suit
into the next Circuit Court of the United States, to be held in.
the district where the suit is pending, and offer good and sufficient surety for his entering in such court, on the first day of
its session, copies of all process, pleadings, depositions, testimony,
and other proceedings in said suit, and doing such other appropriate acts as, by the act to which this act is amendatory, are
required to be done upon the removal of a suit into the Unitedi
States court; and it shall be, thereupon, the duty of the State.
court to accept the surety and proceed no further in the suit;;
14 Stat. at Large, 558.

558

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. CtL

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

and the said copies being entered as aforesaid in such court of
the United States, the suit shall there proceed in the same man.
ner as if it had been brought there by original process," &c.*
The plaintiff in error asserted that under the last-named
act the case was removable upon the petition of the two
foreign defendants, and that it was error in the State court
to retain and try it.
The defendants in error, on the other hand, asserted that
under this act, as under the eleventh and twelfth sections of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, the right of removal was confined
to cases where the parties on one side were all citizens of
one State and the parties on the other were all citizens of
another State.
Messrs. J. G. Abbot, B. R. Curtis, and E. Merwine, for the
plaintiff in error:
Three inquiries are involved:
1. The extent of the judicial power of the United States
under the Constitution of the United States.
2. The extent to which Congress has made provision for
the exercise of that power, by the act of March 2d, 1867.
8. Is the present case within the terms of that act.
I. The provision of the Constitution is as follows:
"The judicial power shall extend .
,itizens of different States."

to controversies between

That by the word "controversies" the Constitution meant
something different from "cases," is to be inferred from the
fact that after using the word cases in certain instances, it
uses the word controversies in others. The language of
the provision is very comprehensive, and the jurisdiction
which it confers necessarily includes any and every judicial
controversy which may exist between citizens of different
,States. Speaking, as this provision of the Constitution does,
* It was settled by this court in Railway Company v. Whitton (18 Wal'lace, 270) that this act was constitutional, and also that corporations were
,embraced within the constitutional provision relating to controversies between citizens of different States.

Oct. 1873.] CASE OF 'IRE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

559

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

in reference to judicial matters, we may say that interpreting
it rightly, a "case" between parties is a "suit" between
parties. There is a plaintiff and there is a defendant; and
who the parties to that "case" or to that "suit" are, appears by a memorial kept in courts and known as the docket.
But one party to the case or suit may have little or no interest in the controversy. A., a citizen of Pennsylvania, may
sue B., another citizen of Pennsylvania, when B. is but a
nominal defendant, and when the only person really interested as a defendant in the controversy is C., a citizen of New
York, not a party to the "case," to the "suit," at all. The
,case or the suit is between A. and B.; the controversy is
between A. and C.
Our case does not require us to say that such a case could
'be removed; we mean but to illustrate. But certainly a
-controversy between citizens of different States is none the
less a controversy between citizens of different States be,cause others are also parties to it. Therefore to confine the
Federal jurisdiction to cases wherein the controversy is between citizens of different States exclusively, is to interpolate
into the Constitution a word not placed there by those who
,ordained it, and one which materially limits and controls its
express provisions.
One object of this article of the Constitution was to allay
apprehensions of injustice from State prejudice, and to
"form a more perfect union," by holding out to every citizen of the United States the assurance that in all judicial
,controversies between himself and a citizen of any other
-State, his controversy might be tried and determined by an
impartial tribunal, and one in reference to which no fear
could exist that it would be biased in favor of his adversary,
by any local prejudices or considerations.
. The terms of the grant of judicial power are full, general,
and uneqnivocal, and were made so designedly, in order
that the power might be commensurate with every possible
exigency. The Constitution does not descend to details. It
remits to Congress the duty to create (with one exception)
the necessary Federal tribunals; to prescribe under what

560

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

circumstances and in what mode their jurisdiction shall be
exercised; and also to determine from time to time, in view
of the condition of the country, under what restrictions it
shall be exercised; and whether or not the necessary or unnecessary joinder of other parties shall deprive a citizen
of the opportunity to have his controversy with the citizen,
of another State tried by the National tribunal. The Federalist, in discussing this article of the Constitution, first
treats of the absolute necessity of a National tribunal for
the decision of controversies in which foreigners are concerned, and then proceeds thus:
"In order to the inviolable maintenance of that equality of
privileges and immunities to which the citizens of the Union,
will be entitled, the National judiciary ought to preside in all
cases in which one State or its citizens are opposed to another
State or its citizens. To secure the full effect of so fundamental
a provision against all evasion and subterfuge, it is necessary that
its construction should be committed to that tribunal, which,
having no local attachments, will be likely to be impartial between the different States and their citizens, and which, owing.
its official existence to the Union, will never be likely to feel,
any bias inauspicious to the principles on which it is founded."*
A construction which would forever preclude the possibility of a resort to a Federal tribunal in controversies between citizens of different States, simply for the reason that
in the same case there was also a controversy between citizens of the same State, would be in derogation of the terms.
of this provision of the Constitution, and subversive of the
purposes which it intended to secure. Such a construction
would put it in the power of the plaintiff always to deprive,
the citizen of another State of the right to a trial of his controversy in the Federal tribunal, by merely joining with
him as co-defendant a citizen of the plaintiff's State. And
thus the power to determine in which tribunal the controversy shall be tried, whether in the local and prejudiced one,
or in the Federal and impartial one, is forever committed to,
Federalist, No. 80.

Oct. 1873.] CASE

OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

561

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

the very party against whom it was the sole purpose of this
constitutional provision to afford protection.
As already said, the language used in other clauses of this
judicial article of the Constitution confirms the view that
the term "controversies," as used in this particular clause, was
so employed for a purpose, and in distinction to the word
4 suit" or 1" case." A controversy between citizens of different States must exist in the suit,-and, if so, the jurisdiction will attach,-but the suit or case may not be between
them exclusively. There may be other parties to it.
The same rule of construction which is applied to this
clause, must govern the other clauses of this section. They
are in pari materid. A reference to these clauses will show
that the proposed limitation cannot be engrafted on this
article without in effect annulling it.
One clause provides that the judicial power shall extend
"to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls." Can it be pretended that this jurisdiction
can be defeated by joining some one else as a party with an
ambassador, public minister, or consul; or because the case
may affect some one else than those officers?
Another clause provides that the judicial power shall extend "to all controversies between two or more States."
Can this jurisdiction be defeated, by joining as a party defendant a private person or corporation ?
Another clause provides that, "the judicial power shall
extend to all cases in law and equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority."
Does the jurisdiction cease to exist in a case because other
questions are involved in it than those arising under the
Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States ? It was
settled in Osborne v. Bank of the United States,* that the jurisdiction did not cease to exist in such a case. The question
there was, whether the act of Congress, so far as it authorized the bank (created by a law of the United States) to sue
* 9 Wheaton, 7,98; and see Railway Company v. Whitton, 18 Wallace, 288.
VOL. XVIII.

.16

562

CASE OF THE SKWINo MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

in any Circuit Court of the United States, was constitutional.
The defendant contended that it was not, and that the suit
in question was not a " suit," or " case," within the meaning of the Constitution, or of the act of Congress, because
several questions might arise in it which would depend on
the general principles of the law, and not on any act of Congress. In other words, it was there attempted, as it is now
attempted by the defendants in error, to add to this clause
of the Constitution, the word "1exclusiv ely." But what said
Marshall, C. J. ?
"If this were sufficient to withdraw a case from the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, almost every case, although involving the construction of a law, would be withdrawn; and a clause
in the Constitution relating to a subject of vital importance to
the government, and expressed in the most comprehensive terms,
would be construed to mean almost nothing. .

.

. If the exist-

ence of other questions be sufficient to arrest the jurisdiction
of the court, words which seem intended to be as extensive as
the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the Union, which seem
designed to give the courts of the government the construction
of all its acts, so far as they affect the rights of individuals,
would be reduced to almost nothing."
This decision applies to the provision now under discus.
sion, and furnishes the true rule for its construction. The
cases are parallel. The Federal jurisdiction is made by the
Constitution to depend upon one of two things, either the
nature of the subject-matter of the controversy or the character of the parties to the controversy. It extends to every
case in which a question arises under its own laws, or in
which a controversy exists between citizens of different
States. Either one of these conditions confers the jurisdiction, and it cannot be defeated because other questions or
other parties are involved in the controversy.
The decisions made upon the eleventh and twelfth seetions of the Judiciary Act of 1789, do not conflict with the
views here presented. Those cases all relate to the proper
construction of the Judiciary Act, and not of the clause of
the Constitution.

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

563

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

The eleventh section limited the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to suits where an alien is a party, "or the suit is
between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, and
a citizen of another State."
And the twelfth section limited the right of removal to
"a suit commenced in any State court, against an alien, or
by a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought against
a citizen of another State."
The Judiciary Act industriously employed the word
"suit" throughout, in distinction from the broader term
"controversy," used in the Constitution; and it was also
expressly confined to a suit between a citizen of the State
where the suit is brought, and a citizen of another State.
Nor can it be argued for this act that it was a contemporaneous declaration of the view entertained by Congress as
to the extent of the judicial power created by the Constitution. It has never been so held or understood. On the
contrary, it is obvious, as has been frequently stated in judicial opinions, that the Judiciary Act did not exhaust the
judicial power; and that it went only so far as the condition
of the country, in the opinion of Congress, then seemed to
require or render expedient.
II. Construction of the statute of March 2d, 1867.
Having ascertained that the provision of the Constitution
confers Federal jurisdiction over cases like the present, the
next question is whether Congress has provided for the exercise of that jurisdiction by the act of March 2d, 1867.*
The language of this act-differing from that of the Judiciary Act, which gave the right of removal when the "suit"
was by "a citizen of the State in which the suit was brought
against a citizen of another State "-gives the right where
there is a "controversy between a citizen of the State and
a citizen of another State." Now, if we have ascertained
the true meaning and scope of the words in the Constitution, "controversies between citizens of different States,"
there can be no doubt as to the true meaning of the act of
See it, supra, p. 557 -8.

564

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE CONPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

1867, nor of its application to the present case. For that
act, departing from the limited and technical phraseology
employed in the preceding statutes, employs, for the first
time, the more comprehensive language of the Constitution
and legislates concerning "controversies between citizens of
different States."
That our construction of the act of 1867 is the true one is
apparent, from the language of the act itself, and from the
previous legislation upon this subject.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 confined the right of removal
to suits commenced "by a citizen of the State in which the
suit was brought against a citizen of another State;" and
also required that the petition for removal should be filed
by the defendant at the time of entering his appearance.
This provision, as was uniformly held, applied only to a suit
between a citizen of the State in which the suit was brought
and a citizen of some other State, and clearly did not apply
to a case where a resident defendant was also a party. In
1866, however, a very important change took place in the
legislation upon this subject, and Congress then began,
under the pressure of a new exigency, to secure more completely, by appropriate legislation, to non-resident defendants their constitutional right to have their controversies
tried in the Federal tribunals. The act of 1866* for the
first time made provision for the removal of a suit to the
Federal court by a non-resident defendant, although a citizen of the State where the suit was brought was also a defendant therein. That act made two changes in the previous
law. First, it allowed the cause to be removed to the Federal court so far as the non-resident defendant was concerned, "if the suit was one in which there could be a final
determination of the controversy, so far as it concerned him,
without the presence of the other defendants as parties in
the cause," but leaving the suit in the State court so far as
it related to the resident defendant; and secondly, it allowed
the petition for removal to be filed at any time before the
* See it, 8upra, p. 566.

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

565

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

trial, instead of requiring it to be filed with the defendant's
first appearance, as in the Judiciary Act.
It was soon apparent that this act could not effect much
practical change or relief, as the number of cases to which
it could be applicable was very limited indeed; as cases seldom arise "in which there can be a final determination of
the controversy as to one co-defendant without the presence
of the other defendants as parties in the cause." Accordingly, in pursuance of the policy indicated by that act, to
provide what was supposed to be a more impartial tribunal
for non-resident defendants in every case, Congress passed
the act of March 2d, 1867, to supply the obvious deficiencies
of the statute of 1866, and to allow a non-resident to remove
the cause to the Federal tribunal, whenever be had reason
to believe that from prejudice or local influence he would
be unable to obtain justice in the State courts, although
there were other co-defendants who were residents of the
State in which the suit was brought. The act was a fruit of
the rebellion.
The statute of 1867 cannot be confined to those cases
where non-residents are the. only defendants without violating its language and intent.
(a.) It is an act " to amend the act of 1866." Now, the sole
purpose of the act of 1866 was to provide for a removal of
suits in behalf of non-resident defendants in those cases in
which resident parties were also defendants. The obvious
purpose of the statute of 1867 was to add another case to the
list, which might be removed by non-resident defendants,
although resident parties were also defendants; and it was
thus, as it professed to be, and thus only could it be, an
amendment of the act of 1866.
Neither the act of 1866 nor the Judiciary Act, section
twelve, is repealed by the statute of 1867. All subsist and
each provides for a distinct case, thus:
The statute of 1789, for removal where the defendants are
all non-residents; the statute of 1866, where part only are
non-residents, but the cause is divisible as to them; the
statute of 1867, where part only are also non-residents, but

566

CASE OF TIE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of removal.

where local prejudice exists, and for that reason the entire
cause is made removable.
(b.) Under the statute of 1789, non-residents (if tk only
parties defendant) can now remove a ease to the Federal
tribunal, under the provisions of that act, without affidavit,
and without the cause of local prejudice. If the statute of
1867 is also to be confined to the same class of cases (where
all the defendants are non-residents), then, as it requires
cause and affidavit for removal, it is a restriction upon the
right of removal as originally given by the statute of 1789;
a result which is obviously absurd.
(c.) The peculiar phraseology of the statute of 1867 fairly
admits of no other interpretation than that which we give it.
The language is, that " w-here a suit is now pending, or
may hereafter be brought in any State court, in which there is
controversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State," &c.
The language italicized is used for the first time in this
act, and is significant.
The language of the statute of 1789 was, "if a suit be
commenced by a citizen of the State, &c., against a citizen of
another State," &c.; but here the striking phrase is, "where
a suit is now pending, . . in which there is controversy between
a citizen," &c. This language excludes the idea that the
suit must necessarily be one in which all the parties on one
side are citizens of one State and all the parties on the other
are citizens of another State. It is enough, however the
parties may be distributed as to citizenship, if in the suit
there is controversy between a citizen of one State, as plaintiff, and a citizen of another as one of the defendants. If
there are these parties to the controversy, the right of removal exists, although there may be other parties to the
suit and the controversy. The statute does not limit the
right of removal to the case where a citizen of one State, as
plaintiff, and the citizen of another State, as defendant, are
the only parties to the controversy.*
•* Johnson v. Monell, Woolworth, 390; Fields v. Lamb et al., Deady, 430,
Sands v. Smith, 1 Dillon, 290.

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

567

Argument against the right of removal.

Messrs. E. R. boar and A. L. Soulg, contra:
I. The act of March 2d, 1867, did not mean to authorize
the removal from the State court of a suit against joint defendants, one of whom, with the plaintiff, is a citizen of the
State in which the suit is brought.
II. If it had so meant its purpose would have been unconstitutional.
1. The word "controversies," as used in the Constitution,
is a general term, broad enough to cover all branches and
technical forms of litigation, being equivalent to "suits or
cases at law and in equity." It cannot have any other
meaning or force than as a designation of judicial proceedings, whether those proceedings be called suits, actions, petitions, or bills in equity. "The judicial power," says Marshall, C. J., in Osborne v. Bank of the United States, "is capable
of acting only when the subject is submitted to it by a party
who asserts his rights in the form prescribed by law. It
then becomes a case." There is no "controversy" known
to the judicial power under the Constitution, except the case
or suit which is instituted according to the forms prescribed
by law. Therefore the phrase " suit in which there is controversy between" is equivalent to the phrase "suit between." Any other interpretation would involve the idea
that the courts of the United States have jurisdiction in controversies between parties outside of and apart from the
suits which are in those courts.
If we are right in the interpretation of the words of the
act, it results that the meaning and effect of the act have
already been settled by the construction given to sections
eleven and twelve of the Judiciary Act.
But it is argued that this cannot be so, because the act of
1867 is an amendment of the act of July, 1866, which provides for the removal of suits in which the plaintiff and a
part of the defendants are citizens of the State in which the
suit is brought.
Undoubtedly the title of an act is of value in determining
what are its purpose and effect. But it is not to be used to
wrest the language of the amendatory act, to a meaning

668

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the right of removal.

contrary to that which has been given by judicial authority
to language substantially the same in former acts. And it
is manifest, on reference to the title of the act of 1866, that
no such strained construction is necessary to satisfy the call
of the title of the act of 1867. The act of 1866 is entitled
"An act for the removal of causes in certain cases from
State courts." An act in amendment thereof may be in
effbct an act for the removal of other causes in certain cases,
quite as well as an act to remove the same causes in certain
other cases. And the act of 1867 has as real and as wide an
operation, if construed as the defendant in error contends
that it should be construed, as it would have if construed as
applying only to the class of cases described in the act of
1866; indeed a much wider operation. As understood by
the defendant in error, the act of 1867 works a large addition
to the power of removal. The Judiciary Act provided for a
removal at the time of ente'ing appearance, by the whole
party defendant, citizen of another State, the whole party
plaintiff being citizen of the State in which the suit is
brought. The act of 1866 provides for a partial removal at
any time before final hearing or trial, when the interest of
the defendants is separate and distinct, on petition of an
alien defendant, if a part of the defendants are citizens of
the State where the suit is brought, wherever the plaintiff
may have citizenship; and on petition of a defendant, citizen
of another State, where the plaintiff, and a part of defendants, are citizens of the State where the suit is brought.
The act of 1867 provides for the removal, at any time before
trial or final hearing, of the whole suit by the whole of
either plaintiff or defendant, citizen of another State, when
the whole of the adverse party has citizenship in the State
where the suit is brought; this being the first provision
made for removal of suit by a plaintiff.
Moreover, to adopt the construction of the act of 1867,
contended for by the plaintiffs in error, would be to give to
the Circuit Courts of the United States jurisdiction in a
large class of cases originally brought in State courts, in
which they would have no jurisdiction if originally brought

,Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

569

Argument against the right of removal.

in the Circuit Courts. And it cannot be supposed that it
was the purpose of the act to extend and enlarge the juris,diction of the courts by indirection.
There is no analogy between the question here and that
decided in Osborne v. Bank of the United States. In that
case, Marshall, C. J., said that, inasmuch as the bank was
chartered by the United States, with specified powers and
rights, and the question on which the case arose was a question as to its powers and rights, the grant in the charter of
the right to sue in the Circuit Courts was within the provi-sion of the Constitution which extends the judicial power to
all cases arising under the laws of the United States; and
that the fact that other questions might arise in the progress
'of the case did not oust the court of its jurisdiction.
2. If the act of 1867 is construed as authorizing the renioval of suits in which the plaintiff and a part of the individuals making up the party defendant are citizens of the
State where the suit is brought, the act is, in that regard,
unconstitutional. It provides for removing the suit, as to
:all the parties, to the Federal court, and that after the petition is filed, with proper surety and the proper aflidavit, it
-shall be the duty of the State court to proceed no farther
in the suit. This construction presupposes a jurisdiction in
the United States courts of controversies between citizens
'of the same State, and a power to oust the State courts of
jurisdiction in controversies between its own citizens, at
the request of citizens of another State; and even against
the will of both plaintiff and those of the defendants who
are citizens of the State where the suit is brought. We say
,' controversies" between citizens of the same State, because
this construction of the act can be maintained only on the
ground that in it the word "controversy" is used in another
and more popular sense than that in which it is used in the
Constitution.
The Constitution provides for jurisdiction in the United
States courts in a few great classes.
1st. In all cases arising under the Constitution, the laws
of the United States, and treaties.

570

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the right of removal.

2d. In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public minis.
ters and consuls.
3d. All cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
4th. Controversies in which the United States shall be a
party.
5th. Controversies between States.
6th. Controversies between a State and citizens of another
State.
7th. Between citizens of different States.
8th. Between citizens of the same State, claiming lands.
under grants of different States.
9th. Between a State or the citizens thereof, and foreign,
States, citizens or subjects.
In the first, second, third, and fourth of these classes, the
jurisdiction in nowise depends on the citizenship of individuals.
The fifth class relates only to States.
The sixth class relates only to controversies in which a
State is a party.
In the seventh class the jurisdiction depends entirely on,
the citizenship of the parties.
In the eighth, on the subject-matter of the controversy.
In the first three classes, citizens of the same or of different States may be both plaintiffs and defendants.
In the fourth class, citizens of the same and of different
States may be joined together in the same party to the controversy.
But it is submitted that in the seventh class, the individuals on one side of the controversy must all be citizens
of the State in which the suit is brought; on the other, all.
citizens of another State or States.
As we have already seen, "the judicial power under the
Constitution is capable of acting only when the subject is
submitted to it by a party who asserts his rights in the brm.
prescribed by law," that is to say, in a suit of some kind.
The suit is the "controversy" contemplated by the Constitution. And in order that the Federal courts may have
jurisdiction, the suit, if the interpretation of the Constitu-

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

571

Argument against the right of removal.

tion is to be consistent with the interpretation already and
repeatedly given to the Judiciary Act, must be between
citizens of one State, and no one else, on the one side, and
citizens of other States, and no one else, on the other side.
We have not a separated controversy with any of the
three defendants; no more than in a suit against a corporation we should have a controversy with each one of the
corpor'ators. The suit might affect each, but that would not
make the suit a controversy with each. We have a controversy with the opposing parties to the suit, that is to say,
with the three corporations. The controversy is the entire
controversy between the parties who are parties to the suit;
,
one side of them being a composite body over which the
Constitution does not authorize the Federal courts to take
jurisdiction.
Nor does the interpretation of the clause which we assert
impair the end which it was designed to attain. It leaves
uninterfered with, the power to legislate as to all the cases
which come fully within the language of the clause; that is
to say, as to all controversies which are fully and completely
described as being between citizens of different States.
Nor is it to be inferred that the word "controversies " is
used in this clause in any other sense than that which is
here contended for, from the fact that it is used in a different sense by the legislative branch of the government in
1866 or 1867. The meaning of the Constitution is not dependent on subsequent acts of Congress. But those acts
are operative or invalid as they accord with or violate the
provisions of the Constitution. Nor should the clause be
given a wider and larger operation than its language naturally imports, under the assumption that the construction
contended for by the defendant in error, impairs the end
which it was designed to attain. It is said that the clause
in question had for its end to protect citizens of different
States from danger of injustice in the State courts through
local influence or prejudice; and that viewed as a permanent
grant of power to legislate, the end may be seriously impaired if the power to legislate is arrested merely by the

572

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument against the right of removal.

joinder of other parties. But, non constat, that it was the
intention of the Constitution to throw this protection over
citizens suing or sued in another State than their own, when
citizens of the State where the suit is brought, are suing or
;sued with them. To assume that this is the intention of
the Constitution is to beg the question. And there is no
reason why such should be the intention of the Constitution.
'The danger to be avoided, exists only when all the individuals on one side of the suit are citizens of the State
where the suit is brought, and all the individuals on the
other side are citizens of another State. When citizens of
the State where the suit is, are on both sides in the suit, the
local prejudice or influence is destroyed, or balanced. It
f avors one side as much as the other.
When it is remembered that the powers not delegated to
'the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it
to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to
the people, it seems clear that the construction of the clause
in question by the plaintiffs in error is erroneous. That
,clause does not purport to extend the judicial power of the
United States to controversies between citizens of the same
;State, and it is only by asserting that when there are defendants, citizens of the same State with the plaintiff in a
suit, they must be regarded as merely incidental parties,
that the clause can be held broad enough to reach the case
at bar. It is plain, however, that the suit is just as much a
controversy between citizens of the same State, as it is a
-controversy between citizens of different States. The in.
terest of the defendants is joint and inseparable. The defendant, citizen of the State, is no more incidental to the
controversy, than the defendants, citizens of another State.
There seems to be no principle nor rule under which the
suit can be described as a controversy between citizens of
different States.
If the meaning of the clause in question were doubtful
in itself, it is made clear by the clause which immediately
;succeeds it, and which specifies the cases in which the judi.
,cial power shall extend to controversies between citizens of

Oct. 1873.] CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

573

Opinion of the court.

the same State, being the eqhth class in the enumeration
hereinbefore given. The rule of expressio unius exclusio ese
alterius applies.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Original cognizance of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, is given to the Circuit Courts by the
eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, concurrent with the
courts of the several States, where the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500, ...
and an alien is a party, or the suit is between a citizen of
the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another
State, subject, however, to the restriction that no civil suit
shall be brought before any Circuit Court against any inhabitant of the United States by any original process in any
other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant or in,
which he shall be found at the time of serving the writ.*
Suits commenced in a State court against an alien, or by
a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought against a
citizen of another State, may, under the twelfth section of
the same act, be removed for trial by the defendant into the
Circuit Court for the same district if the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum or value of $500, provided the defendant
.
file a petition requesting such removal at the time of entering his appearance in the State court, and offer good and
sufficient surety that he will enter copies of the process.
against him in such Circuit Court on the first day of its next
session, and for his appearance, and that he will give special
bail in the case if such bail would be requisite in the State
court.t
Jurisdiction in such a case is concurrent between the
proper State court and the Circuit Court for the same district, and the provision is that such a suit, if commenced in
the State court, may be removed by the defendant for trial
into the Circuit Court, subject to the conditions before mentioned, the privilege being given to the defendant only, as
*1 Stat. at Large, 78.

t 1b. 79.

574

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMSANIES.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the plaintiff, when he institutes his suit, may elect in which
of the two concurrent jurisdictions he prefers to go to trial.
These expressions in the act of Congress, where an alien
is a party or the suit is between a citizen of a State where
the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, says Marshall, C. J., the court understands to mean that each distinct
interest should be represented by persons all of whom are
entitled to sue or may be sued in the Federal courts; or, in
other words, that where the interest is joint each of the persons concerned in that interest must be competent to sue or
be liable to be sued in the court to which the suit is removed.* All of the complainants in that case were citizens
of Massachusetts, and so also were all of the respondents,
except one, who, it was admitted, was a citizen of Vernont.
Due service was made upon the resident respondents, and
the record showed that the subpcona had also been served
upon the other respondent in the State where he resided.
Want of jurisdiction was set up by the respondents in the
Circuit Court, and the judge presiding in the Circuit Court
entered a decree dismissing the bill of complaint. Appeal
was taken to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court
unanimously affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court. Repeated decisions have since been made by this court and by
many other courts, State and Federal, to the same effect.
Prior to the case of Railroad v. Letson,t it had frequently
been held by this court that a corporation aggregate, as such,
was not properly included in the word citizen, as used in the
Judiciary Act, and consequently that such a corporation, if
regarded merely as an artificial being, could not sue in the
Federal courts, yet the court decided, in several cases, that
the court would look beyond the corporate character of such
an artificial being to the individuals of whom it was composed, and if it appeared that they were citizens of a different State from the party sued, that the suit, whether an
action at law or a suit in equity, could be maintained in the
Strawbridge et al. v. Curtiss et al., 3 Cranch, 267; Conolly v. Taylor, I
Peters, 564; Curtis's Commentaries, 76.
t 2 Howard, 550.

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

575

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

proper Circuit Court. Cases of that description are quite
numerous, and yet in all of them it was held by this court
that all of the corporators must be citizens of a different
State from the party sued, else the jurisdiction could not be
sustained.* Corporations, it is true, are now regarded by this
court as inhabitants of the State by which they are created
and in which they transact their corporate business, and it
is also held that a corporation is capable of being treated as
a citizen for all purposes of suing and being sued in a Circuit
Court, but the rule as modified, in that regard, does not
diminish the authority of those cases as precedents to show
that by the true construction of the Judiciary Act it requires
that each of the plaintiffs, if the interest be joint, must be
competent to sue each of the defendants in the Circuit
Court to sustain the jurisdiction under the eleventh section
of that act.t
Certain sums of money, it is alleged, in excess of what could
properly be exacted by the defendant corporations, had been
paid to those corporations by the plaintiffs, and the corporation defendants refusing to refund the amount of such alleged
excess the corporation plaintiffs instituted an action at law,
in the Supreme Judicial Court of the State, against the corporation defendants, to recover back the amount of the
alleged overpayments. Patent rights, it seems, are owned
by the three corporation defendants, for the exclusive privilege to construct, use, and vend certain patented sewing
machines, and the inference is that the corporation plaintiffs
are or have been licensees of the corporation defendants.
What the precise terms of the license are or were does not
very satisfactorily appear, but it may be inferred that the
plaintifTi covenanted to pay to the defendants a certain pat* Bank of the United States v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61; Railroad Bank v.
Slocomb, 14 Peters, 63; Irvine v.Lowry, lb. 299; Breithaupt v. Bank, 1 Id.
238; West v. Aurora City, 6 Wallace, 142.
t Marshall v. Railroad, 16 Howard, 325; Railroad v. Wheeler, 1 Black,
295; Drawbridge Company v. Shepherd, 20 Howard, 227; Same Case, 21
Id. 112; Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wallace, 172.

576

CASE OF THE SEWING MAOHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Mt..

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

ent rent or tariff for the use of the patent right, subject to be.
reduced in amount in case the defendants granted licenses,
to other parties at a lower rate, and the charge is that the,
defendants did grant licenses to others at a lower rate without making to the plaintiffs the stipulated reduction; that
the corporation defendants have ever since exacted the
higher patent fee or tariff in violation of the terms of the,
license. Payments having been made the plaintiffs commenced this suit to recover back the amount. They joined!
as defendants the Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company, which is a corporation established under the laws of
Massachusetts; the Wheeler & Wilson Manufacturing Company, which is a corporation established under the laws.
of Connecticut; and the Singer Manufacturing Company,.
which is a corporation established under the laws of New
York. Seasonable appearance was entered by the company
first named at the return term, and they filed an answerwithin the time required by the rules of the court. Neither
of the other corporation defendants entered a general appearance at the return term, but the plaintiffs caused an
order of notice to issue to those corporations respectively to,
appear at the next term of the court, and subsequently filedA
proof that the order of notice was duly served by publication. By the return of the marshal it appears that personal,
property of those respective corporations was attached on
the original process, and the plaintiffs claim that by virtue
of the attachment and the due service of the order of notice
the State court acquired jurisdiction of all the parties. Subsequently, however, both of the non-resident corporations
appeared and, having obtained the leave of the court for the
purpose, filed their answers to the action, and on the same
day they filed their several petitions for the removal of the
cause for trial to the Circuit Court for that district. Each
of the petitions was accompanied by an affidavit executed
by the president of the company, and by a bond of the company in usual form as required by law in such a case. Hearing was had and the State court refused to grant the prayer
of the respective petitions, and directed that the parties;

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

577

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

should proceed to trial, to which rulings the defendants then
and there excepted, and the verdict and judgment were for
the plaintiffs. Exceptions were also taken by the defendants to the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial
and to certain instructions given by the court to the jury,
but it will not be necessary to re-examine the exceptions
taken during the trial, as the only question to be determined
under this writ of error is whether the rulings of the court
in overruling the respective petitions for the removal of
the cause into the Circuit Court, and in directing that the
parties should proceed to trial in the State court were or
were not correct.
Circuit Courts do not derive their judicial power, imme.
diately, from the Constitution, as appears with sufficient
explicitness from the Constitution itself, as the first section
of the third article provides that ' the judicial power of the
United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court and in
such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time
ordain and establish." Consequently the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court in every case must depend upon some act of
Congress, as it is clear that Congress, inasmuch as it possesses the power to ordain and establish all courts inferior
to the Supreme Court, may also define their jurisdiction.
Courts created by statute can have no jurisdiction in controversies between party and party but such as the statute
confers.* Congress, it may be conceded, may confer such
jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts as it may see fit, within
the scope of the judicial power of the Constitution, not
vested in the Supreme Court, but as such tribunals are
neither created by the Constitution nor is their jurisdiction
defined by that instrument, it follows that inasmuch as they
are created by an act of Congress it is necessary, in every
attempt to define their power, to look to that source as the
means of accomplishing that end.t Federal judicial poweri
* Turner v. Bank, 4 Dallas, 10; Sheldon v. Sill, 8 Howard, 448; Meln,
tire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 506; Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 616.
J, Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 246.
VOL. XVIII.

37

578

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

beyond all doubt, has its origin in the Constitution, but the
organization of the system and the distribution of the subjects of jurisdiction among such inferior courts as Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish, within the
scope of the judicial power, always have been, and of right
must be the work of the Congress.
Attempt is made in argument to maintain the right,
claimed by the defendants, to remove the cause for trial in
this case from the State court where it was commenced into
the Circuit Court, as being derived under the act of the 2d
of March, 1867, which is entitled an act to amend a prior
act entitled an act for the removal of causes, in certain cases,
from State courts.
Reference will first be made to the prior act referred to
in the title of the amendatory act, as the prior act followed
the Judiciary Act in many respects and, like that act, limits
the right of removal to the alien defendant and the defendant who is a citizen of a State other than that in which the
suit is brought. Subsequent to those preliminary recitals
it provides, in effect, that where the suit is commenced in
the State court against an alien, or by a citizen of the State
against a citizen of another State, the non-resident defendant or the alien defendant, as the case may be, may remove
the cause from the State court into the Circuit Court, even
though it appears that a citizen of the State where the suit
is brought is also a defendant, if the suit, so far as it relates
to the alien defendant or the non-resident defendant, was
instituted and is prosecuted for the purpose of restraining
or enjoining such defendant; or if the suit is one which, so
far as it respects such alien or non-resident defendant, can
be finally determined without the presence of the other defendant or defendants as parties in the cause, then and in
every such case the alien or non-resident defendant may, at
any time before the trial or final hearing of the cause, file a
petition for the removal of the same, as against the petitioner, into the Circuit Court; but the provision in the
same act also is, that such removal of the cause shall not be
deemed to prejudice or take away the right of the plaintiff

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

579

Opinion of the court.

to proceed, at the same time, with the suit in the State
court, if he shall see fit, against the other defendants.*
Remarks to show that the act referred to contains nothing
to support the view that Congress intended by it to depart
from the essential principle embodied in the Judiciary Act
are hardly necessary, as it is obvious that the language of
the act does not empower any defendant, unless he be an
alien or non-resident, to remove the cause or to elect any
other forum for the trial of the same than the one to which
the suit is returnable, nor does it give any sanction whatever
to the proposition that the resident defendant shall be compelled or permitted under any circumstances to go elsewhere
to answer the suit. Defendants in certain cases may sever,
after final judgment, for the purpose of prosecuting an appeal or writ of error, which is effected by a proceeding usually called summons and severance, which will enable one
of several defendants, or any number less than the whole, to
sue out a writ of error or take an appeal in a case where the
other defendants or respondents refuse to join in the petition
for the same.t Modes of effecting a severance among executors, so that less than the whole number may sue, were
also known at common law, but in such a case it was necessary that such a proceeding should be perfected before the
suit was instituted.t By virtue of the provision under consideration the alien defendant or the defendant who is a
citizen of a State other than that in which the suit is brought
is empowered, subject to the conditions specified, without
any summons and severance, to remove the cause, as be.
tween him and the plaintiff, into the Circuit Court for trial,
leaving the cause, as between the plaintiff and the other defendants, to proceed in the State court where the suit was
commenced, wholly unaffected by such removal, the only
effect of the removal in such a case being to sever to that
* 14 Stat. at Large, 306.

t Williams v. Bank, 11 Wheaton, 414; Wilson's Heirs v. Insurance Co.,
12 Peters, 140; Todd v. Daniel, 16 Id. 621.
$ 2 Williams on Executors, 4th Am. ed. 1186, note t; Goodyear v. Rub.
ber Co., 2 Clifford, 368.

580

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

extent the defendants in the cause for the special purpose
provided in the enactment, but the provision affbrds no support whatever to the theory set up by the defendants in the
case before the court.* Before the passage of that act no
removal could be made in such a case, as some of the defendants are by that act supposed to be citizens of the State
where the suit is brought, and all the courts, Federal and
State, had uniformly decided that unless the cause was removable as to all the defendants it could not be removed at
all, as the act of Congress contained no provision warranting
any such proceeding as summons and severance for any
purpose.t Unlike the Judiciary Act,. however, the alien
defendant or the defendant who is a citizen of a State other
than that in which the suit is brought may, under the "Act
for the removal of causes in certain cases from State courts,"
have the cause removed, as to himself, subject to the condition that such severance or partial removal shall not prejudice or take away the right of the plaintiff to proceed, at the
same time, with the suit in the State court as against the
other, defendants, showing that the right of removal is still
confined to the alien and non-resident defendant, and that
no removal of the cause as to any other defendant can be
made under that enactment.
Grant all that, still it is insisted by the defendants that
the rulings of the State court in refusing to grant the prayers
of their petitions and in directing that the parties should
proceed to trial was erroneous, as the petitions were filed
under the later act of Congress, which, as they contend, very
much enlarges the right to remove causes from the State
courts into the Circuit Courts for trial.
Important changes undoubtedly are made by that act in
the law upon that subject, as it clearly extends the privilege
* Smith v. Rines, 2 Sumner, 388; Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine, 410;

Sayles v. Insurance Co., 2 Curtis, 212; Hazard v. Durant, 9 Rhode Island,
608; Beardsley v. Torrey, 4 Washington, 286.
t Moffat v. Soley, 2 Paine, 103; Bissell v. Horton, 3 Day, 281; Tucker.
man v. Bigelow, 21 Law Reporter, 208; Herndon v. Ridgway, 17 Howard,
424; Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13 Wallace, 289.

Oct. 1873.]

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

581

Opinion of the court.

to a non-resident plaintiff as well as to a non-resident defendant, subjecting both, however, to a new condition, wholly
unknown in the prior acts of Congress, vesting such a right
in an alien defendant or in a defendant who was a citizen of
a State other than that in which the suit is brought. Where
a suit is now pending or may hereafter be brought in any
State court in which there is controversy between a citizen
of the State in which the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, such citizen of another State, whether he be
plaintiff or defendant, if he will make and file in such State
court an affidavit stating that he has reason to believe and
does believe that, from prejudice or other local influence, he
will not be able to obtain justice in such State court, may,
at any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit, file a
petition in such State court for the removal of the suit into
the next Circuit Court to be held in the district where the
suit is pending. Aliens it will be seen are not included in
the provision, but the right to petition for the removal is
extended to the non-resident plaintiff as well as to the nonresident defendant, in a case where it appears that a resident
defendant is sued by a non-resident plaintiff, as in such a
case there is controversy between a citizen of the State in
which the suit is brought and a citizen of another State,
just as much as there is in a case where a resident plaintiff
sues a non-resident defendant in his own district, the defendant being found within the same district and served there
with the original process.
Under the Judiciary Act and the succeeding act for the
removal of certain causes, the plaintiff, if he elected to commence his suit in a State court, whether he was resident or
non-resident, was bound by his election, nor was it ever supposed that he could subsequently be permitted to remove
the cause from the State court into the Circuit Court in
ordinary circumstances, as neither of those acts of Congress
vest in the plaintiff any such right, nor do they contain any
language to warrant the conclusion that Congress ever intended to confer upon a plaintiff any such power. Nonresident defendants and alien defendants might cause such

582

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct:

Opinion of the court.

removal to be made, but under the Judiciary Act the condition was that such a defendant must file his petition requesting such removal at the time he entered his appearance
in such State court; which condition is relaxed in this act,
so far as it respects non-resident defendants and non-resident
plaintiffs, and it is provided that the right may be exercised
"at any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit."
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is clear that it
is a mistake to suppose that the act will operate to limit the
right conferred by the Judiciary Act unless the court give
it the broad construction assumed by the defendants, as it
extends the right to a non-resident plaintiff as well as to a
non-resident defendant, and allows both to file the necessary
petition at any time before the final hearing or trial of the
suit, leaving the case of the alien defendant unaffected by
any of its provisions.
Mere regulation, such as requiring the cause of removal
to be stated, and that the petition should be supported by
an affidavit, is not sufficient change in the principle of the
Judiciary Act to support the proposition, as the great purpose of the new enactment is to extend the right to a nonresident plaintiff as well as to a non-resident defendant, and
to enlarge the time within which the petition may be filed,
leaving the alien defendant wholly unaffected by the new
regulations.
Apply these rules of construction to the three acts of
Congress referred to in this case, and it is clear that they
will work out the following results: (1) In a case where the
suit is commenced by a plaintiff in the court of a State of
which he is a citizen, against a defendant who is a citizen
of another State, the defendant may remove the cause into
the Circuit Court of that district for trial. (2) Where the
plaintiff brings his suit in the court of a State other than
that of which he is a citizen, against a defendant who is a
citizen of the State where the suit is brought, the plaintiff
may remove the cause into the Circuit Court under the last.
named act.*
* Beery v. Irick, 22 Grattan, 485.

Oct. 1873.] CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

583

Opinion of the court.

Suppose, however, the plaintiff brings his suit in the
court of a State other than that of which either he or the
defendant is a citizen, the defendant having been found
therein and been duly served with the original process, then
neither the plaintiff nor the defendant can remove the cause
from the State court into the Circuit Court for trial under
any existing act of Congress, as in that case there is not
controversy between a citizen of a State in which the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State, nor is the suit one
commenced by a citizen of a State in which the suit is
brought against a citizen of another State, as the condition
is as provided in the Judiciary Act. Both plaintiff and defendant being non-residents, the acts of Congress make no
provision for the removal of such a cause into the Circuit
Court for trial.
Unaffected as the Judiciary Act is by the latest of the three
acts mentioned, the law still is that if the suit is commenced
against an alien in a State court, he may file a petition for
the removal of the same for trial into the next Circuit
Court to be held in the district, at the time of entering his
appearance in such State court. Non-resident defendants
or alien defendants may also remove certain causes from a
State court into a Circuit Court for trial, under the intermediate act of Congress, as before explained. Where the suit
is commenced in a State court against an alien, or by a
citizen of the State in which the suit is brought against a
citizen of another State, the non-resident defendant or the
alien defendant, as the case may be, may remove the cause
from the State court into the Circuit Court for trial, even
though it appears that a citizen of the State where the suit
is brought is also a defendant, if the suit, so far as it relates
to the non-resident or alien defendant, was instituted and is
prosecuted for the purpose of restraining or enjoining such
defendant, or if the suit is one which, so far as it respects
such defendant, can be finally determined without the presence of the other defendants as parties in the cause. Considering the stringent conditions which are embodied in the
last-named act, it is doubtful whether it will prove to be one

584

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

of much practical value, but as it remains in full force it
cannot be properly overlooked in this investigation. Suggestion is made that it is a step in advance of the Judiciary
Act, but the force of the suggestion is not perceived, as it
makes no provision that any party shall go into the Circuit
Court for trial except such as may go or be sent there under
the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act. Divest that act
of the feature which provides for the severance of the defendants and that which empowers the plaintiff to proceed
with the suit in the State court as against the other defendants, and it is exactly the same as the corresponding feature of the Judiciary Act, except that it extends the time
for filing the petition for the removal of the cause from the
time the petitioner enters his appearance in the State court
to the time of the trial or final hearing of the cause. Separately considered the language employed in the "act for the
removal of causes in certain cases from the State courts "
to describe the parties and the suit in which the alien defendant or the non-resident defendant may remove the cause
into the Circuit Court for trial, is identical with the language employed in the Judiciary Act, the two provisions
differing only in the particulars heretofore sufficiently ex.
plained, showing that the well-established rule applies in
construing the later act, that words and phrases, the meaning of which in a statute have been ascertained by judicial
interpretation, are, when used in a subsequent statute, to be
understood in the same sense.* Such a construction in the
case supposed becomes a part of the law, as it is presumed
that the legislature in passing the later law knew what the
judicial construction was which bad been given to the
words of the prior enactment. Support, therefore, to the
theory put forth by the defendants cannot be derived either
* Potter's Dwarris, 274; Bacon's Abridgment, title "Statute," I; Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 18; Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Id. 280; McCool v.
Smith, 1 Black, 469; Commonwealth v. Hartnett, 3 Gray, 450; Ruckmaboye v. Mottichund, 32 English Law and Equity, 84; Bogardus v. Trinity
Church, 4 Sandford's Chancery, 633; Rigg v. Wilton, 13 Illinois, 15;
Adams v. Field, 21 Vermont, 256.

Oct. 1873.]

IJASEO F THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

585

Opinion of the court.

from the Judiciary Act or from the later act entitled An
act for the removal of causes in certain cases from State
courts.*
Admit that and still it is insisted by the defendants that
they had the right to remove the cause from the State court
under the act to amend the act called the Removal Act.t
Much stress is placed upon the particular language of that
act, which is that " when a suit is now pending or may
hereafter be brought in any State court, in which there is controversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State." Instead of that the corresponding language of the Judiciary Act is, if a suit be cornmenced in any State court by a citizen of the State in which
the suit is brought against a citizen of another State.
Different words are certainly employed in the two provisions, but it is difficult to see in what particular the jurisdiction of the State court is lessened by the last act or in
what respect the difference of phraseology supports the
theory of the defendants, as "a suit by a plaintiff against a
,defendant " must mean substantially the same thing in the
practical sense as " a suit in which there is controversy between the parties," as each provision includes the word suit,
which applies to any proceeding in a court of justice in
which the plaintiff pursues his remedy to recover a right or
,claim.t Indubitably they differ in this, that it is the defendant only who can remove the cause under the Judiciary
Act, but the last-named act empowers the non-resident
,plaintiff, in a proper case, as well as the non-resident defendant, to exercise the same privilege, as in the former
-case, as well as in the latter, there is a suit pending in which
there is controversy between a citizen of the State in which
the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, and the
,express enactment is that in the case supposed "such citizen
,of another State, whether he be plaintiff or defendant," if
h-e will comply with the conditions stated, may, at any time
14 Stat. at Large, 306.

j lb. 559.

7 2 Bouvier's Law Dictionary, 558; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Peters, 449;
1 Curtis's Commentaries

73, p. 85; Webster's Dictionary, 1 Suit."

686

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.'

Opinion of the court.

before the final hearing or trial of the suit, file a petition
for the removal of the cause.* Real parties only are empowered to claim that right under either act, Lnd it is
equally clear that the right of the defendant cannot be defeated by joining with him a mere nominal party in the action.t
Special attention is also invited to the fact that the judicial power conferred by the Constitution extends -o controversies between citizens of different States, and the proposition is submitted in argument that it would be compotent
for Congress to pass a law empowering one of a number of
plaintiffs, or one of a number of defendants, to remove,
such a suit for trial from a State court into the Circuit
Court for the same district, if it appeared that the petition, r.
whether plaintiff or defendant, was a citizen of a State
other than that in which the suit was brought, even though,
all the other plaintiffs or other defendants were citizens of
the State in whose court the suit was pending, but the court
is of the opinion that the quostion does not arise in thiscase, as the act of Congress in question, in the judgment of
the court, does not purport to confer any such right. Were
it true that the Circuit Courts derive their judicial powerimmediately from the provisions of the Constitution, it
might be necessary to examine that proposition, but inasmuch as it is settled law that the jurisdiction of such courts.
depends upon the acts of Congress passed for the purpose,
of defining their powers and prescribing their duties, it is,
clear that no such question can arise in a case like the,
present, unless it first be ascertained that Congress has.
passed an act purporting to confer the disputed power.
Courts are disinclined to adopt a construction of an act of
Congress which would extend its operation beyond what is;
warranted by the Constitution, but the suggestion that
Cooke v. Bank, 1 Lansing, 502; Bryant v. Rich, 106 Massachusetts, 191;,
Cooke v. Bank, 52 New York, 96.
t Dodge v. Perkins, 4 Mason, 435; Rateau v. Bernard, 3 Blatchford, 246;,
Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine, 410; Wormley v. Wormley, 8 Wheaton, 461;:

Curtis's Commentaries,

74.

Oct. 1873.] CASE

OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

587

Opinion of Miller and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

Congress possesses the power to confer a new privilege is
not a sufficient reason to induce the court to extend an existing enactment by construction so as to embrace the privilege, unless the words of the enactment are of a character
to warrant the construction.
Either the non-resident plaintiff or non-resident defendant may remove the cause under the last-named act, provided
all the plaintiffs or all the defendants join in the petition,
and all the party petitioning are non-residents, as required
under the Judiciary Act, but it is a great mistake to suppose that any such right is conferred by that act where one
or more of the plaintiffs or one or more of the petitioning
defendants are citizens of the State in which the suit is
pending, as the act is destitute of any language which can
be properly construed to confer any such right unless all the
plaintiffs or all the defendants are non-residents and join in
the petition.*
Two cases only, besides the opinion given in this same
case in the Circuit Court, to wit, Johnson v. Monell,t Sands
v. Smith,T are cited to support the assumed theory, neither
of which necessarily involved any such question, and the
reasons given for the conclusion by the learned circuit judge,
on the motion to dismiss the case in the Circuit Court, are
not satisfactory.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Justices MILLER and BRADLEY dissented from the
preceding opinion of the court in reference to the construction of the act under consideration, and for this reason dissented from the judgment.
* Bryant v. Scott, 6 North Carolina, 392; Hazard v. Durant, 9 Rhode

Island, 609; Waggener v. Cheek, 2 Dillon, 565; Case v. Douglas, 1 Id. 299;
Bixby t. Couse, 8 Blatchford, 73; Ex parte Andrews, 40 Alabama, 648;
Peters v. Peters, 41 Georgia, 251; Cooke v. State Bank, 52 New York, 113.
t 1 Woolworth, 390.
1 1 Dillon, 290.

