STUART V. UNITED STATES.

84

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case,
holding that this court should adhere to its former decision,
as it appears that the State statute when the bonds in that
case were issued had not been construed by the State court.
Where the construction of a State statute is involved in a
case presented here for decision, and it appears that the
statute in question has not been construed by the State
court, I hold that it is the duty of this court to ascertain and
determine what is its true construction, and that this court,
under such circumstances, will not reverse its decision in
the same or a subsequent case, even though the State court
may afterwards give a different construction to the same
statute.

STUART

V. UNITED STATES.

1. A contractor with the government to transport from post to post, remote
from any seat of war, stores and supplies not forming any portion of
the stores or supplies of an advancing or retreating army, is not a person "in the military service of the United States" within the second
section of the act of March 3d, 1849, " to provide for the payment of
horses and other property lost" in that service.
2. A petition which represents that a party transporting, &c., was "attacked
by a band of hostile Indians," who, without any fault of the party trans-

porting or his agents, captured certain oxen part of the property in
transit, which had never been recovered, is not sufficiently full and specific to answer the requirement of the said section, which provides compensation for "damage sustained by the capture or destruction by an
enemy.)"

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
An act of March 3d, 1849,* entitled "An act to provide
for the payment of horses and other property lost or destroyed in the military service of the United States," makes
provision, in its first section, for payment for horses killed
APPEAL

9 Stat. at Large, 414.

Oct. 1878.]

STUART V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

or wounded in battle, or which shall have been injured or
destroyed by dangers of the seas on a United States transport vessel, or which shall have been abandoned for want
of forage by order of a superior officer, with certain provisions respecting deductions from future pay, which apply
to enlisted men. The payment is limited by the words of
this section to "officers, volunteers, rangers, mounted militiamen, or cavalry engaged in the military service of the United
States."
The second section is as follows:
"That any person who has sustained, or shall sustain, damage by the capture or destruction by an enemy, or by the abandonment or destruction by the order of the commanding general, the commanding officer, or quartermaster, of any horse,
mule, ox, wagon, cart, boat, sleigh, or harness, while such property was in the military service of the United States, either by impressment or contract, except in cases where the risk to which
the property would be exposed was agreed to be incurred by
the owner;
"And any person who has sustained, or shall sustain, damage
by the death or abandonment and loss of any such horse, mule,
or ox, while in the service aforesaid, in consequence of the
failure on the part of the United States to furnish the same
with sufficient forage, and any person who has lost, or shall
lose, or has had, or shall have, destroyed by unavoidable accident, any horse, mule, ox, wagon, cart, boat, sleigh, or harness,
while such property was in the service aforesaid, shall be allowed and paid the value thereof at the time he entered the
service:
" Provided, It shall appear that such loss, capture, abandonment, destruction, or death was without any fault or negligence
on the part of the owner of the property, and while it was
actually employed in the service of the United States."
This statute being in force, Stuart entered into a contract
with the United States.
By the first article thereof it was agreed that he "should
receive such military stores and supplies as may be offered
or turned over to him for transportation,and to transport the
eame with all possible dispatch," between the months of

STUART V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

April and September, from Forts Riley and Leavenworth
and the town of Kansas to New Mexico or Colorado; re.
ceiving for such transportation $1.97 per hundred pounds.
By the second article, that he should transport "any number of pounds of military stores and supplies from and between one hundred thousand pounds and ten millions of
pounds in the aggregate."
By the tenth article, that he should be furnished with a
"suitable escort for the protection of the supplies, should he
be reqpired to transport in any one train a less quantity than
one hundred and twenty-five thousand pounds, but whenever required to transport one hundred and twenty-five thousand pounds, or more, then no escort shall be furnished."
Other articles, as the fburth, fifth, sixth, eighth, eleventh,
twelfth, thirteenth, and sixteenth, described the duty of the
contractor as that of transporting and delivering.
Stuart while executing his contract having, as he alleged,
been attacked by a " band of hostile Indians," and having
so lost fifty-six oxen, filed a petition in the Court of Claims,
making claim under the second section, above quoted, of
the act of 1849, for indemnity by the United States ...
The petitioner setting forth the particulars of his case in his
petition alleged:
"That in the month of July, 1864, while he was proceeding.
in execution of his contract, with a train of wagons from Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas, to Fort Union, New Mexico Territory,
the said train was, on the 12th day of July, 1864, in the vicinity
of Cow Creek, Kansas, attacked by a band of hostile Indians, and
without any fault or neglect on the part of the petitioner or of
his agents, fifty-six head of oxen, employed in moving the said
train, were captured by the said band of hostile Indians, and no
part thereof has been recovered."
To the claim thus set forth the United States demurred;
and the Court of Claims having sustained the demurrer and
decreed against the petitioner, he brought the case here.
Mr. T. . Durant,for the appellant; Mr. C. II. -Hill,Assist.
ant Attorney-General, contra.

Oe . 1873.]

STUART V.

UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
Three questions arise upon the case:
1st. Was the capture of the property made "by an eneity," within the meaning of the statute?
2d. Was the property, at the time of its capture, "in the
military service of the United States ?"
3d. Does the tenth article of the contract, made in the
case, impose upon the owner the risk to which the property
was exposed?
So far as it may be necessary, these questions will be considered.
_irsl. The allegations of the petition respecting the character, numbers, nation, or position of the capturing party
are quite meagre. It is said merely, that the train "was
attacked by a band of hostile Indians," and that the oxen
"were captured by the said band of hostile Indians." A
"band" means a company of persons, perhaps a company
of armed persons, as we may well assume to have been the
case in this instance. We have no means of knowing how
many persons composed this band, what was their organization if any, or under what pretence, name, or authority they
made the attack and capture. We know only that they
were Indians, and that they were hostile. The fact that
they were Indians gives no light. Many Indians, both in
tribes and as individuals, were friendly to the United States
in its late civil contest, as others were hostile. The Indian
tribes and individuals are subject to the laws of the United
States, and of the States in which they are located.* The
claimants do not even state to whom or to what these Indians
were hostile. They may have been hostile to the government of the United States, they may have been hostile, inimical, or unfriendly to the owners of the cattle only. The
hostility may have been from the enmity of an organized
community to the United States as a party engaged in war,
or it may have been a hostility to the owners of cattle, because they had the cattle and because the Indians desired
* The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wallace, 619.

STUART V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the animals for their own use. In the one case the capture
would have been that of an enemy, in the other that of marauders and plunderers only. The petition should have
been more full and more specific in its statements. The
law assumes that these deficien'cies in it exist because the
petitioner could not with advantage to his case supply them.
Second. Was the property thus captured in "the military service of the United States ?" By his contract of the
25th of July, 1864, did Stuart enter into the military service
of the United States, and was he acting in such military
service when his property was captured, or was he a transporter, a carrier, a contractor merely? By the first article
of his contract he undertakes to " transport" "all such military stores or supplies as may be turned over to him for
transportation,"from Forts Riley and Leavenworth, and the
town of Kansas, to New Mexico or Colorado. In the second,
fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and
sixteenth articles the duty is clearly pointed out and named
as that of transporting and delivering. A contractor or carrier is in no sense a soldier. In no just sense is he engaged
in war, although he may transport the articles used in war.
He carries forth and he carries back supplies and stores for
those who are engaged in war, but takes no personal part in
it. He carries, in the present case, during the period between April and September, of the year 1864, from the
points to the points named. There is no allegation that in
the month of July, when the capture took place, actual war
was going on in Kansas, or in the region between Kansas
and New Mexico, or Colorado, or that the train from which
the capture was made was a part of a military expedition.
The stores, supplies, baggage trains, the "im p edimen ta " of
an army, are undoubtedly a portion of the army, and those
engaged in the management and control of them are in the
military service. These are indeed vital to its existence, and
their collection and protection are among the most anxious
duties of a careful commander. But the collection and
transportation from post to post of stores and supplies, remote from the seat of actual war, not forming a portion of

Oct. 1873.]

STUART V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

an advancing or retreating army, is quite another thing.
'These latter duties are those of a commissary or quartermaster, and not of a commanding officer. They may be
performed by soldiers or by civilians, by the army or by
,contractors. Those engaged in them may or may not form
;a portion of an army.
That the statute of 1849, under which this claim is made,
was intended for the indemnity of those engaged in the
.actual military service of the United States, that is, for enlisted men while in the performance of their duties as such,
is plain enough.
This second section, under which the present claim is
made, provides in its first clause for an indemnity for the
.loss of any horse, mule, ox, wagon, &c., arising from capture
,or destruction by an enemy, or where the property has been
abandoned or destroyed by the order of a commanding officer, while such property was in the military service of the
United States, either by impressment or by contract. This
military service is the same as that spoken of in the first
section, to wit, in battle, or service as soldiers under the
command of officers of the army. The destruction, abandonment, or capture is that of the same enemy, to wit, an
,organized hostile force. And the same rule is applicable
whether the pioperty was in such actual service by the contsent and agreement of the owner, as by hire, or whether it
had been forcibly seized by the government, that is to say,
" either by impressment or contract," unless the owner
bad
agreed himself to bear the hazard of the loss.
The next paragraph of the section provides for a loss by
ideath or abandonment in consequence of failure on the part
,ofthe United States to supply sufficient forage, or where the
loss has occurred "by unavoidable accident" while such
property "was in the service aforesaid." In each case the
value of the article to be paid, is its value at the time such
person "entered the service."
To all these provisos is added the final and sweeping
-qualification, in these words: "Provided, it shall appear that
,such loss, capture, abandonment, destruction, or death was

STUART V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

without fault or negligence on the part of the owner of the
property, and while it was actually employed in the service
of the United States."
Was the claimant personally in the service of the United
States, and when did he enter it, if at all, and what were his,
duties? It does not appear that he was obliged to be with
the train in person, or even that he was with it at the time
of the loss.
Upon the claimant's construction of the statute, if his
whole train had been destroyed by lightning or by tempests,
by unexpected drouth or overwhelming heat, his claim for
indemnity would have been perfect. A destruction "by
unavoidable accident" of any horse, mule, ox, wagon, or
cart is provided for with equal clearness as where the loss
occurs by abandonment or by the capture of an enemy.
This construction is not admissible. The claimant was a.
carrier or transporter of stores or supplies for the United
States, which stores and supplies were of a military character, and which would be used by the United States as their
convenience or necessity required. He contracted to carry
the stores, and the government contracted to pay him $1.97
per hundred pounds. He was not in the military service of
the United States, and can, therefore, claim no benefit under
the statute of 1849.
It is not perceived that the claimant's case is aided by the
statute of 1863.* That statute enacts that the provisions of
the act of 1849 shall be "applicable to steamboats and other
vessels, to railroad cars and engines, when destroyed under
the circumstances provided for in the said act."
We know, from the recent events of our history, that
steamboats and railroad trains were actually and usefully
employed as adjuncts of the army, that they were used in,
military expeditions, and on some occasions that the trains
were captured and destroyed by the enemy. These engines,
both of war and of peace, when employed in the actual
military service of the United States, are entitled to the
same indemnity as the other property referred to.
12 Stat., 748,

5.

Out. 1873.]

WILLETT

v.

FISTER.

Statement of the case.

The tenth article of the contract requires no discussion.
It is quite immaterial in any view of the case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WILLETT V.

FISTER.

The testimony of a wife and daughter, undertaking to swear from mere
memory after a lapse of several years, as to the exact year (as ex. gr.,
whether 1865 or 1866) when they saw a particular paper, discredited;
there being circumstances leading to the inference that they were mistaken as to the year; and the purpose of the suit which their testimony
was brought to sustain being to disturb, in favor of the husband and
father, after a lapse of nearly five years, and after the death of one of
the opposite parties to it, a settlement apparently fair.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
John Fister, a butcher, had a stall in market where be sold
pork. He bought his hogs of V. Willett and W. E. Clark,
trading as V. Willett & Co., and there was a pass-book held
by Fister in which the debits and credits were entered of
the transactions between the parties; the originalentries being
made on the commercial books of Willett & Co. On Fister's
pass-book, under date of 21st November, 1865, was the following entry:
" By cash, on 30th of October, $1500."
APPEAL

And on Willett & Co.'s books:
" 1866, October 30th, by cash, for proceeds of stall, $1500."

The account on the pass-book, as well as the account on
Willett & Co.'s books, were all closed on December 14th,
1865, by "a note, at four months from this date, for
$1726.69."
The pass-book and the defendant's commercial books were
all in the handwriting of Willett, who died in 1869.
On the 15th of June, 1866, Fister confessed to V. Willett
& Co. a judgment for $6226, the amount of several notes

