Oct. 1873.J

HERSHFIELD V. GRIFFITH.
Statement of the case.

this state of things, Congress has it in its power at any
time to establish such regulations on this, as well as on any
other subject of legislation, as it shall deem expedient and
proper.
The judgment is
AFFIRMED.

CLIFFORD, DAVIS, and STRONG, JJ.: We dissent
from the judgment in this case for the reason that this court
has several times decided that claims at law and claims in
equity cannot be united in one action even in the Territorial
courts. And we think, if a change in the rule is to be made,
that it should be made by Congress.

HERSHFIELD V. GRIFFITH.
The preceding case affirmed, the case here having been a proceeding to
obtain satisfaction of a mortgage.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Mon-

tana.
Griffith sued Starr in one of the District Territorial courts
of Montana, on a mortgage on certain property; the suit
being brought under the Civil Practice Act, quoted in the
preceding case; an act passed under circumstances there
set forth, and which it is necessary for the reader to possess
himself of in order to understand at all this case. One
Hershfield intervened, asserting that he had a mortgage on
the property, of a date prior to that sued on by Griffith.
The court gave judgment in favor of Griffith, and Hershfield took the case to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which affirmed the judgment below. Hershfield now brought
the case here by appeal, assigning among other errors the
blending of equity and common-law jurisdiction.
VOL. XVIII.

42

HERSHFIELD

v. GRIFFITH.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Lyman Trumbull, for the appellant,adverting to the seventh amendment to the Federal Constitution, the Process
Act of 1792, the organic law of the Territory, and the Civil
Practice Act-all set forth in the preceding case (supra, p.
648-650),-and to the same cases as Mr. Leech referred to
in the argument there, argued, that a foreclosure of a mortgage-a proceeding in its essence equitable-had been per.
formed through common-law means, and argued further, as
Mr. Leech did in the preceding case, that it was not competent for the Territorial legislature of Montana to abolish, as
it had sought to do by its Civil Practice Act, the distinction
between chancery and common-law proceedings, which the
organic act, adopting the Process Act, had recognized; and
that this court had in numerous cases so decided.
Messrs. J. Habley Ashton and N. Wilson, contra, contended
that a proceeding to obtain satisfaction of a mortgage was
not necessarily a proceeding in equity, and adverted to the
practice in Pennsylvania, where regarding a recorded mortgage as in the nature of a judicial record, a seire facias was
by statute allowed to be issued thereon through commonlaw courts; the only courts which, with rare exception, the
State of Pennsylvania had ever had. It was not necessary,
therefore, to assume that the proceeding below had been an
equitable one. Being had in courts not courts of chancery,
it was to be regarded as a common-law proceeding, and
proper. If, therefore, the appeal was not to be dismissed,
the decree should be affirmed.
But the appeal should be dismissed. The proceeding
having been, as shown above, one at law, a writ of error was
the only proper means to bring it here.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The only point made in this case is, that being one of
equity jurisdiction it was tried by jury as an action at law.
This being so it would seem that, under the seventh article
of amendments to the Constitution, it should have been removed by writ of error and not by appeal. But that aside,

Oct. 1873.]

DAVIS

v. BILSLAND.

Statement of the case.

we have just decided in Btornbuckle v. Toombs that equitable
as well as legal relief may be pursued by the form of action
prescribed by the Territorial legislature. There is no complaint that this was not done, or that substantial justice was
not administered between the parties.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Justices CLIFFORD, DAVIS, and STRONG.

DAVIS v. BILSLAND.
1. The case of Hornbuckle v. Toombs (supra, p. 648), affirmed.
2. Under the mechanic's lien law and Civil Practice Act of Montana, a me.
chanic who has completed his claim by filing a lien, may assign it to
another, who may institute a proceeding on it in his own name.
8. Under the first-mentioned law the liens secured to mechanics and material-men have precedence over all other incumbrances put upon the
property, after the commencement of the building.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
A mechanic's lien law of the Territory, just named, enacts:
"SECTION 8. The liens for work or labor done, or things furnished, as specified in this act, shall have priority in tile order
of filing the accounts thereof, as aforesaid, and shall be preferred to all other liens and incumbrances which may be attached
to or upon the building, erection, or other improvement, and to
the land upon which the same is situated, to the extent aforesaid, or either of them, made subsequent to the commencement of
said building, erection, or other improvement."
Under this act Bilsland filed a petition in the Territorial
District Court to enforce a mechanic's lien against the International Hotel in the town of Helena, Montana, and the lot
on which it is situated, by a sale of the same to pay the
plaintiff's claim, and to foreclose the liens and claims of all
other parties. The building of the hotel was begun on May
1st, 1869, and one McKillican was employed by the owner to

