OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Syllabus

401 U. S.

DYSON, CHIEF OF POLICE OF DALLAS, ET AL. V.
STEIN
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

No. 41.

Argued April 30, 1970-Reargued November 16, 1970Decided February 23, 1971

Appellee newspaper publisher, who had been charged with violating
a Texas law prohibiting the possession of obscene materials,
brought this action in a federal district court for an injunction to
prevent the Dallas police from arresting him and seizing his property on obscenity grounds without a prior judicial determination
of obscenity and for a declaration of the rights of the parties with
respect to the statute. A three-judge court was convened and
issued declaratory and injunctive relief, holding two parts of the
statute unconstitutional and ruling that another -part would be
constitutional only if the obscenity definition was changed. Held:
There was no finding of irreparable injury to appellee and hence
no proper basis for federal interference with the pending state
criminal prosecution. Younger v. Harris, ante, p. 37; Samuels v.
Mackell, ante, p. 66.
300 F. Supp. 602, vacated and remanded.

Lonny F. Zwiener, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, reargued the cause for appellants. With him on
the brief were' Crawford C. Martin, Attorney General,
Nola White, First Assistant Attorney General, Pat Bailey,
Executive Assistant Attorney General, Robert C. Flowers,
Assistant Attorney General, Henry Wade, pro se, Wilson
Johnston, N. Alex Bickley, Thomas B. Thorpe, and
Preston Dial.
David R. Richards reargued the cause for appellee.
With him on the briefs was Melvin L. Wulf.
Stanley Fleishman filed a brief pro se et al. as amici
curiae urging affirmance.

DYSON v. STEIN
200

Per Curiam

PER CURIAM.

The appellee, Stein, published a bi-weekly newspaper,
the Dallas Notes. Stein was charged with two violations of Art. 527, § 1, of the Texas Penal Code, which
then prohibited, among other things, the possession of
obscene materials.* While these two cases were pending
*Texas Penal Code, Art. 527, 1961 Tex. Gen. Laws, c. 461, § 1,
provided:
"Section 1. Whoever shall knowingly photograph, act in, pose for,
model for, print, sell, offer for sale, give "away, exhibit, televise,
publish, or offer to publish, or have in his possession or under his
control, or otherwise distribute, make, display, or exhibit any obscene
book, magazine, story, pamphlet, paper, writing, card, advertisement,
circular, print, pictures, photograph, motion picture film, image, cast,
slide, figure, instrument, statue, drawing, phonograph record, mechanical recording, or presentation, or other article which is obscene,
shall be fined not more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) nor
imprisoned more than one (1). year in the county jail or both.
"Sec. 2. Whoever shall knowingly offer for sale, sell, give away,
exhibit, televise, or otherwise distribute, make, display, or exhibit
any obscene book, magazine, story, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, pictures, photograph, motion picture
film, image, cast, slide, figure, instrument, statue, drawing, phonograph record, mechanical recording, or presentation, or other article
which is obscene, to a minor shall be fined not more than Two Thousand, Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500) nor imprisoned in the county
jail more than two (2) years or both.
"See. 3. For purposes of this article the word 'obscene' is defined
as whether to the average .person, applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as
a whole appeals to prurient interests. Provided, further, for the
purpose of this article, the term 'contemporary community standards' shall in no case involve a territory or geographic area less
than the State of Texas.
"Sec. 4. Whoever shall be convicted for the second time of a
violation of this article shall be deemed guilty of a felony and shall
be punished by confinement in the State penitentiary for not more
than five (5) years or by a fine of not more than Ten Thousand
Dollars ($10,000) or by both such fine and imprisonment.
"See. 5. It shall be a defense to any charges brought hereunder
if such prohibited matter or act shall be regularly in use in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Per Curiam

401 U. S.

in state courts, Stein brought the present action in a
federal district court under 42,,-. $.',C. §§ 1983, '1985,
representing himself and a class consisting of present
and future employees of and contributors to his newspaper. The defendants were the district attorney of Dallas County, and the Dallas chief of police. He sought:
"[P]ermanent injunctive relief against the Dallas
Police Department, requiring that ... there be no
arrest of plaintiff, nor seizure of his property on.
grounds of obscenity without a prior judicial determination of the obscene character of the material in
question; . . .
That the Court adjudge, decree and declare the rights of the parties with respect to the
application of Article 527 of the Texas Penal Code;
".... That the Court grant such other and further relief as is just and equitable."
A three-judge court was convened. 28 U. S. C.
§ 2284. That court refused to require a hearing on the
bona fide, religious, educational or scientific institution or the subject
of a bona fide scientific investigation.

"The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any motion pictures
produced or manufactured as commercial motion pictures which
(1) have the seal'under the Production Code of the Motion Picture
Association of America, Inc.; or (2) legally move in interstate
commerce under Federal Law; or (3) are legally imported from
foreign countries into the United States and have been passed by a
Customs Office of the United States Government at any port of
entry.
"The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any daily or weekly
newspaper.
"Sec. 6. The district courts of this State and the judges thereof
shall have full power, authority, and jurisdiction, upon application
by any district or county attorney within their respective jurisdictions, to issue any and all proper restraining orders, temporary
and permanent injunctions, and any other writs and processes
appropriate to carry out and enforce the provisions of this Act."

DYSON v. STEIN
Per Curiam

200

obscene character of the material before its seizure and
the arrest of the plaintiff. It held that the request for
such relief was "based on the alleged harassment and...
not an attack upon the constitutionality of a statute."
The court went on to emphasize that its consideration did
"not in any way involve an appraisal of the constitu-.
tionality of the application of Article 527 to Plaintiff.
Our sole concern is the determination of whether the
statute is constitutionally defective on its face." The
three-judge court then turned to the statute itself, and
held that §§ 1 and 2 were unconstitutional, and that
§ 3 would be constitutional only if the definition of
obscenity were changed somewhat. The court issued appropriate declaratory and injunctive relief effectuating
its cohiclusions. 300 F. Supp. 602 (1969). Texas officials
appealed, and we noted probable jurisdiction. 396 U. S.
954 (1969).
Today we have again stressed the rule that federal
intervention affecting pending state criminal prosecutions,
either by injunction or by declaratory judgment, is proper
only where irreparable injury is threatened. Douglas v.
City of Jeannette, 319 U. S. 157 (1943). The existence
6f such injury is a matter to be determined carefully under
the facts of each case. In this case the District Court
made no findings of any irreparable injury as defined by
our decisions today; therefore, the judgment of the District Court is vacated and the case is remaonded for reconsideration in light of Younger v. Harris, ante, p. 37,
and Samuels v. Mackell, ante, p. 66. See also Boyle v.
Landry, ante, p. 77.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTIcE

WHIiTE concurs in the result.

[For concurring opinion of MR. JusTIcE STEWART, see
ante, p. 54.]

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DouGLs,

J., dissenting.

401 U. S.

MR. JUSTIcE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL joins, concurring in the result.

My Brother DOUGLAS' dissenting opinion describes
graphically the police conduct upon which appellee rested
his allegations of bad faith and harassment. If proved,
these allegations would justify federal intervention.
The mass seizure of some two tons of the issues of
the newspaper without a prior judicial determination
of the alleged obscenity of the issues was unconstitutional. Marcus v. Search Warrant, 367 U. S. 717
(1961); Bantam Books, Inc. v. Sullivan, 372 U. S. 58
(1963); A Quantity of Books v. Kansas, 378 U. S. 205
(1964). Similarly, the mass seizure of the tools and
equipment required to'prepare the newspaper-insofar
as it disabled appellee from publishing future issues--infringed the principle of Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697
(1931).
But these questions are not before us. The threejudge court below remanded to a single judge for determination all questions advanced by appellee except the
contention that the Texas statute was unconstitutional
on its face, and the appellee does not challenge this
order of remand here. I, therefore, would reverse the
judgment of the District Court, except for paragraph 4,
for the reasons stated in my separate opinion in Perez v.
Ledesma, ante, p. 93:
AIR. JusTiCE DOUGLAS,

dissenting.
I

The two raids in this case were search-and-destroy
missions in the Vietnamese sense of the phrase. In
each case the police came at night. The first search
warrant authorized a search and seizure of "obscene
articles and mateifials, to-wit: pictures, photographs,
drawings and obscene literature" concealed at a given

DYSON v. STEIN
200

DouGLAS, J., dissenting

address. The seizures included: two tons of a newspaper
(Dallas Notes), one photograph enlarger, two portable
typewriters, two electric typewriters, one camera; "numerous obscene photographs," and $5.43 in money.'
The second warrant was issued 16 days later, in re-

sponse to a claim that marihuana was concealed on
the premises. It authorized the officers "to search for
and seize the said narcotic drug and dangerous drug in
accordance with the law in such cases provided." Not
finding any marihuana on the premises, the sergeant
asked instructions from his lieutenant. He was told to
seize pornographic literature and any equipment used to
make it. He "didn't know what to seize and what not to
seize so [he] just took everything." "Everything" included a Polaroid camera, a Kodak Brownie, a Flocon
camera, a Kodak lamp; a flodting fixture lamp, a threedrawer desk containing printers' supplies, a drafting
square, a drafting table, two drawing boards, a mailing
tube, two telephones, a stapler, five cardboard boxes containing documents, one electric typewriter, and one typewriter desk. A poster of Mao Tse-tung, credit cards,
costume jewelry, cans of spices, a brown sweater,-and
iThis indiscriminate ,seizure- is hardly surprising since none of
the officers knew what to seize, as the questioning of the lieutenant
in charge of the raid shows:

"Q.What instructions did you give the officers in effecting this
search and seizurg as to what they were to do?
"A. They were to search for any obscene material they could
find. All of our officers know what obscene material is.
"Q. What is obscene material?
"A. Well, I wish you hadn't ask [sicl that. I take that back.
They don't know, neither do I.
' Q. What instructions had you given them in terms of what they
were to do?
"A. To search for obscene material and seize it.
S"Q. What definition, if any, did you give them- as to obscene
material?
"A. I didn't."

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

401 U.,S.

a -statue of a man and woman in an embrace were also
seized. Thus the newspaper Dallas Notes, a bi-monthly,
was effectively put out of business.2
It would be difficult to find in our books a more lawless search-arnd-destroy raid, unless it be the one in
Kremen v. United States, 353 U. S. 346. If this searchand-destroy technique can be employed against this
Dallas newspaper, then it can be done to the New York
Times, the Washington Post, the Seattle Post Intelligencer, the Yakima Herald-Republic, the Sacramento
Bee, and all the rest of our newspapers. For, as I shall
point out, the Texas statute governing "obscenity" 3 is
plainly unconstitutional.
2

Appellee Stein has since reached an agreement with the Dallas
Police Department by which it returned most of the property
to him in return for his execution of an Indemnity and Release
Agreement. The binding effect of such an agreement, which
required Stein to choose between the return of his property so that
he could continue publishing, and assertion of his civil rights under
such provisions as 42 U. S. C. § 1983, is not at issue here.
The Dallas Police Department still holds "film negatives, eight
or ten photographs, one movie advertisement poster, one litho copy
of paper, and a representative number of back issues of paper
entitled 'Dallas Notes' or 'Notes from the Underground."
3
Article 527 defined "obscene" as follows in § 3:
"[W]hether to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a
whole appeals to prurient interests. Provided, further, for the purpose of this article, the term 'contemporary community standards'
shall in no case involve a territory or geographic area less than the
State of Texas."
After the three-judge court decision, Art. 527 was amended to
define "obscene" as "material (a) the dominant theme of which,
taken as a whole, appeals to a prurient interest; (b) which is patently offensive because it affronts contemporary community standards relating to the description or representation of sexual matters;
and (e) which is utterly without redeeming social value."
Aud "prurient interest" was defined as "a shameful or m3orbid
interest in nidity, sex, or excretion, 'which goes substantially beyond

DYSON v. STEIN
200

DouGIo, J., dissenting

Government certainly has no power to close dowi
newspapers. Even censorship-whether for obscenity,
for irresponsible reporting or editorials, or otherwiseis. taboo. As Chief Justice Hughes said in Near v. Min-'
nesota, 283 U. S, 697, decided in 1931:
"[T]he administration of government has become
more complex, the opportunities for malfeasance
and corruption have multiplied, crime ha grown-to
most serious proportions, and the danger of its protection by unfaithful officials and of the impiirment
of the fundamental securitf of life and property by
criminal alliances and.official neglect, emphasizes the
primary. need of a vigilant and courageous press,
especially in great cities. The fact that the liberty of
the press may be abused by miscreant purveyors of
scandal does not make any the less necessary the
immunity of the -press from previous restraint in
dealing with official misconduct. Subsequent punishment for such abuses- as may exist. is the appropriate remedy, consistent with constitutional
privilege." Id., at 719-720.
I agree with that view.
It is said, however, that these issues are not before, us
as the case has been remanded to a sihgle judge to pass
on them. But we deal with plain error, as the state
statute is unconstitutional on its face and we-should put
an end to lawless raids under it0
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such

matters. If it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination that the subject matter is designed

for a specially susceptible audience, the appeal of the subjet

matter shall be judged with reference to such audience."

Tex. Penal

Code, Art. 527,§ 1 (Supp. 1970-1971).

4The appellee did not appeal from the decision of the District
Court to remand the issue of harassment to a one-judge court,
apparently since the ruling that the statute was unconstitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

II

The constitutional mandate that government
make no law ...

'

"shall

abridging the freedom of speech, or of

the press" prec:udes in my view any form of censorship.
Vicious, irresponsible, and depraved as the press often is,
the constitutional remedy is not censorship.' The antidote is education, pinning our faith to the Jeffersonian
creed that by education we may in time become a mature
people.'
made such further relief unnecessary, as all the harassment resulted
from the enforcement of the statute. In this Court appellee has
argued that his "constitutional rights [are] threatened by the existence of the Texas obscenity statute and the overbearing means chosen
to enforce it." He has raised the issue of harassment here and the
documentary evidence in support of his claim is overwhelming.
5The First Amendment, originally applicable only to the Federal
Government, was by virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment made
applicable to the States in 1931 in Stromberg v. California,283 U. S.
359.
6
Thomas Jefferson wrote, "I deplore ...the putrid state into
which our newspapers have passed, *nd the malignity, the vulgarity,
and mendacious spirit of those who write them .... It is however
an evil for which there is no remedy, our liberty depends on the
freedom of the press, and that cannot be limited without being lost."
Jefferson, Democracy, selected and arranged by S. Padover 150-151
.(1939).
7
Mr. Justice Brandeis, concurring in Whitney v. California, 274
U. S. 357, 375-376, said:
"Those who won our independence . ..believed that freedom
to think as you will 'and to speak as you think are means indispensable to the discovery ind spread of political truth; that without free speech and assembly discussion would be futile; that with
them, discussion affords ordinarily adequate protection against the
dissemination of noxious doctrine; that the greatest menace to
freedom is an inert people; that public discussion is a political
duty; and that this should be a fundamental principle of the American government .
Believing in the power of reason as applied
B..
through public discussion, they eschewed silence coerced bv law-

DYSON v. STEIN
200

DouGLAs, J., dissenting

I have set forth my views over and over again as to
why the First Amendment should be strictly construed;
and they need not be repeated here. It is difficultindeed impossible-to read the constitutional mandate
that government "shall make no law" abridging freedom
of the press to mean that government "may nake some
laws" abridging that freedom. Certainly a strict constructionist cannot so read it.,
"The Court says it has been trying to balance the
interests of society in protecting itself from the
supposed evils of obscene material with the real
interest in freedom of expression. There is ample
evidence that the clear and definite language of the
first amendment was intended to preclude the very
problem of balancing assumed by the Court. The.
first amendment holds that the interest of society
in freedom of expression 8 is more important than the
harm that might flow from obscene material. The
very interest in protection from injury from obscene
material would be better served by allowing each
individual to make a free appraisal of pornographic
material. A hallmark of an immature and insecure
society is the censorship of ideas. ,Censorship, which
insulates all from what some suppose to be evil,
merely magnifies that insecurity. If society does
such a poor job of educating itself so that four letter
words and explicit pictures are dangerous; the
remedy is to improve the educational process, not
the argument of force in its worst form. Recognizing the occasional
tyrannies of governing majorities, they amended the Constitution
so that free speech and assembly should be guaranteed."
8 We deal with a large and considerable problem. There are those
who believe that an "ethic of sexuality joined with an ethic of the
wholeness of life" (F. Darling* Wilderness and Plenty 75 (1970)) has
a close relation not only to population control but to a reverence for
both the land and animal life.
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DouGLAs, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

to outlaw certain publications. While the first
amendment does not mandate better education it
does prohibit the censorship of ideas. This use of
a balancing test evidences a misconception of the
constitutional nature of society. There is nothing
to balance. Society's security flows directly and
solely from the freedom and security of each individual." 31 Albany L. Rev. 143, 151 (1967).
If I am correct in concluding that a State can make
"no law" censoring the press because of obscenity, then
a publisher threatened by such a law can go into a
federal court to enjoin state officials from enforcing the
law, as I made clear in my dissent in Younger v. Harris,
ante, at 59. The special circumstances where such federal intervention is permissible are not restricted to bad
faith on the part of state officials or the threat of multiple prosecutions. As Mr. Justice Butler, writing for the
Court, said in Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.197, 214:
"Equity jurisdiction will be exercised to enjoin thie
threatened enforcement of a state law which contravenes the Federal Constitution wherever it is essential in order effectually to protect property rights
and the rights of persons against injuries otherwise
irremediable; and in such a case a person, who as
an officer of the State is clothed with the duty of
enforcing its laws and who threatens and is about
to commence proceedings, either civil or criminal,
to enforce such a law against parties affected, may
be enjoined- from such action by a federal court of
equity."
And see Watson v. Buck, 313 U. S. 387, 402.
No bossible construction of this state law can save it.
This is not a situation where mere overbreadth of a state
statute may have chilling or crippling effects on Ikrst
Amendment rights. This is a case where Texas has

DYSON v. STEIN
DouGLAs, J., dissenting

200

entered a field which the Constitution bars all the States
and the Federal Government from entering.
The Texas obscenity statute, as I 'view it, meets pre-,

cisely the hypothetical statute we discussed in Watson v.
Buck, 313 U. S. 387, 402:
"It is of course conceivable that a statute might be
flagrantly and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions ir* every clause, sentence and
paragraph, and in whatever manner and .against
whomever an:-effort might be made to apply it."
No clearer case justifying federal intervention to prevent a state criminal trial"can be imag'ied.
No pending prosecutions are sought to be enjoined, only
future ones 9 Such an injunction is not impermissible
under 28 U. S. C. § 2283. See Dombrowski v. PAter,.
380 U. S. 479, 484 n. 2, and my dissent in Younger v.
Harris, ante, at 65. Appellee also asked for declaratory
relief. 'If Zwickler'v. Koota, .389 U. S.241, means anything, it means that such relief cai also be granted.m
if a publication deemed "obscene" is not under the
umbrella of the First Amendment, then I do not see how
it enjoys many constitutional 'safeguards. That which
is out from under the First Amendment. would normally
be subject to the police power of the States. Yet the
Constitution contains'no standards or suggestions of
standards respecting the vast trray of subjects that
various vocal groups would like to have- supprssed'obscenity, sacrilege, un-Americanism, -anti-clerical ideas,
atheistic or anti-ecclesiastical ideas, Communism, racism,
gThe amended complaint asked for an injunction only against
future arrests and prosecutions under the Texas statute, Art.. 527,
and a declaration that the statute was unconstitutional. See n. 3,
supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOuGLAS, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

and so on. Under the Constitution as written there are
no standards of "good" or "bad" for the press. Since
there is no constitutional definition of obscenity, the definition must be largely, if not exclusively, for legislative
determination. Absent a controlling constitutional
standard, I would think that a legislature could treat
literature as it treats sewage effluent or infectious disease.
That is not a happy prospect, for some would put even
the Song of Solomon under the ban. It is, I fear, where
we end once we lose our First Amendment moorings.
Administrative censorship, however, is one thing. Criminal punishment is quite another. Publishing "obscene"
literature cannot, as I view it, be made a crime under our
constitutional standards.
"Whatever 'obscenity' is, it is immeasurable as a crime
and delineable only as a sin. As a sin, it is present only
in the minds of some and not in the minds of others.
It is entirely too subjective for legal sanction. There
are as many different definitions of obscenity as there
are men; and they are as unique to the individual as
are his dreams." Note, The Substantive Law of Obscenity: An Adventure in Quicksand, 13 N. Y. L. F. 81,
131 (1967).
What appeals to "prurient interests" describes sin to
some but not to others and seems to me to be far too
vague to pass muster as a criminal, as distinguished from
an administrative, statute."0
10 This business of leveling the power of the Federal or State Government against a person in a criminal prosecution is an "awesome"
power as MR.JUSTICE BLAcm has stated:
"Experience, and wisdom flowing out of that experience, long ago
led to the belief that agents of government should not be vested with
power and discretion to define and punish as criminal past conduct
which had not been clearly defined as a crime in advance." Ginzburg
v. United States, 383 U. S. 463, 477 (dissenting opinion).

DYSON v. STEIN
200

DouGLAs,

J., dissenting

I see no help on the vagueness problem even if the test

"utterly without redeeming social importance" were
added to the criminal standard, as it was in Jacobellis v.
Ohio, 378 U. S. 184, 191." That is a measurement-which
again is wholly subjective. It cannot be related to anything but the judge's or jurors' sophistication or stage
of cultural development. Nor do I think the problem
is helped by introducing the concept of "contemporary
community standards" whether that refers to the public
at large or a local county or town standard. Id., at 193.
The two tests-this Court's and that of Texas-seem
to me to be substantially identical. I do not see how
either can be held to be constitutional. The standard
of guilt is wholly subjective. The jurors can convict
or acquit according toxtheir own personal tastes, their
cultural standard, their literacy, and their tolerance for
opposed ideas. And the same would be true of judges.
It means that a book that is hailed as wholesome in one
county may be the cause of punishment in another
county of the same State.
The evidence in obscenity prosecutions is usually expert testimony. Analysts, English literature scholars,
and others often have helpful and informed views, one
way or the other. It seems impossible, if we continue to
sanction the use of these vague standards in criminal
prosecutions, that verdicts will be rendered which are
based on the record and not on the emotional factors
reflecting the prejudices of the judge or jurors.
Uncertainty, rather than certainty, is the standard.
The book, play, poem, or movie is approved or condemned on the basis of the personal beliefs of the judge
or jurors, not on the ban of _astatute containing clear
and objective standards.
11 See n. 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLS, J., dissenting

'401 U.S.

The concept of "utterly without redeeming social
importance" will divide even the experts. It is risky and
peilous business to send men to prison on such provocative issues, which confuse people and create irreconcilable
differences eyen among the judges who sentence them
or approve their convictions;
In these criminal cases dealing with obscenity, we
leave people confused and in the dark as to whether
they are or are nQt criminals. Criminal laws must give
fair warning; and a person receives no real warning
when he crosses the fine between the lawful and the
unlawful, under the Texas statute 1 or under the standard
approved by the Court.
Where constitutional rights may be infringed, Winter8
v. New York, 333 U. S. 507, should be our guide. There
an "obscene" magazine was defined to indlude those
which "massed" stories of bloodshed and lust to incite
crimes. Id., at 513. .We held that standard to be too
vague to satisfy constitutional standards. s
"The standards of certainty in statutes punishing
for offenses is higher than in those depending primarily upon' civil sanction for enforcement. The
crime 'must be defined with appropriate definiteThere must be* ascertainable standards
ness.'...
of guilt. Men of common intelligence cannot be
required to guess at the meaning of the enactment.
the police have no guidance as to the kind of books to
be seized. See n. 1, supra.
%2 Even

.is
Even where First Amendment or other constitutional rights are
not involved, no one may be required "to speculate as to the
meaning of penal statutes." Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306 U. S. 451,
453. Chief Justice Marshall said in United States v. Wiltberger,
5 Wheat. 76, 105, that in determining the certainty needed in a
penal law for its validity the "probability" that the legislature may
have desired, to include a species of activity within an Act, is not
enough. And see United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S.624, 628;

Pierce v. United States, 314 U. S.306.

DYSON v. STEIN
200

DouGLAs, J., dissenting

The vagueness may be from uncertainty in regard
to persons within the scope of the act, . .. or in
regard to the applicable tests to ascertain guilt."
Id., at 5i5-516.
And see Wright v. Georgia, 373 U. S. 284, 292; Smithv.
California,361 U. S. 147, 151; United States v. Harriss,
347 U. S. 612; Beauharnaisv. Illinois, 343 U. S. 250, 264;
Williams v. United States, 341 U. S. 97; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296.
My view, however, is that any regime of censorship
over literature whether expressed in a criminal statute 1 '
or an administrative'" procedure is unconstitutional by
reason of the command of the First Amendment.

1

4See MR. JUSTICE BLcK's opinion in Kingsley International
Pictures Corp. v. Regents, 360 U. S. 684, 690 (concurring).
See my opinions in Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476, 508
(dissenting); Smith v. California, 361 U. S. 147, 167 (concurring);
Ginzburg v. United States, 383 U. S. 463, 482 (dissenting).
"5See MR. JUSTICE B cK's separate opinion in A Quantity of
Books v. Kansas, 378 U. S. 205, 213.

