OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Syllabus

401 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. WELLER
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

No. 77. Argued December 10, 1970-Decided February 24, 1971
Appellee, who claimed conscientious objector status, was refused representation by his attorney at the time of his personal appearance
-before his draft board on the basis of a Selective Service regulatiozi prohibiting such representation. Subsequently indicted for
refusing to submit to induction, appellee filed a motion to dismiss,
contending that the denial of counsel had deprived him of due
process. The District Court granted appellee's motion on the
ground that the regulation was not authorized by the Military
Selective Service Act of 1967. The United States filed a notice of
appeal to this Court, but, after reconsidering and concluding that
this*Court lacked jurisdiction to entertain its direct appeal from
the District Court's order, the United States moved for a remand
to the Court of Appeals. Appellee contends that the "construction
of the statute" dismissal provision or the "motion in bar" pravision of the Criminal Appeals Act gives this Court jurisdiction
of the appeal. Held:
1. This Court has no jurisdiction of the appeal under the "construction of the statute" provision since the interrelation of the
regulation and the statute fell short of that required for the dismissal to have been based upon the construction of the statute.
United States v. Mersky, 361 U. S. 431, distinguished. Pp. 257259.
2. The "motion in bar" provision applies only when a defendant,
while not denying the commission of the offense, claims that an
extraneous factor forecloses prosecution. That provision is inapplicable here since appellee contends that his refusal to submit
to induction was not a crime because of the denial of counsel by
his draft board. Pp. 259-261.
309 F. Supp. 50, remanded.
STEWART,

J., delivered thd opiuion of the Court, in which

BURGER, C. J.,.and BLACK, HARLAN, BRENNAN, WHITE, MARSHALL,

and BLAcKmuN, JJ., joined. DOUGLAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion,
post, p. 261,

UNITED STATES v. WELLER
"254

, Opinion of the Court

James van R. Springer argued the cause for the United
States. On the brief were Solicitor General Griswold,
Assistant Attorney General Wilson, Beatrice Rosenberg,
Philip R. Monahan, and Roger A. Pauley.
Marvin M. Karpatkin argued the cause for appellee.
With him on the brief were Michael N. Pollet, Melvin L.
Wulf, and Rhoda H. Karpatkin.
MR. JusTidE STEWART delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case we are called upon once again to construe
the elusive provisions of the Criminal Appeals Act, 18
U. S. C. § 3731.1 Somewhat ironically, the argument
that we have no jurisdiction over this appeal is made by
the appellant, the United States. The appellee, on the
other hand, insists the case is properly here.
A grand jury in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California indicted the appellee
for refusing to submit to induction into the Armed
Forces, a violation of 50 U. S. C. App. § 462 (a) (1964 ed.,
The end of our problems with this Act is finally in sight. The

Omnibu Crime Control Act of 1970, §'14 (a), 84 Stat. 1890, amended
the Criminal Appeals Act to read in pertinent part as follows:
"In a criminal case an appeal by the United States shall lie to
a court of appeals from a decision, judgment, or order of a district
court dismissing an indictment or information as to any one or more7
counts, except that no appeal shall lie where the double jeopardy clause of the United States Constitution prohibits further
prosecution."
This Court's appellate jurisdiction of Government appeals in federal criminal cases has thus been eliminated. Pending cases, however, are not. affected, since subsection (b) of the amending section
provides:
"The amendments made by this section shall not apply with
respect to any criminal case begun in any district court before the
effective date of this section."
The Omnibus Crime Control Act of 1970 took effect on January 2,
1971. The appellee in this case was indicted onl January 15, 1969.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

Supp. V).2 In the Selective Service proceedings leading
up to his induction notice, the appellee sought conscientious objector status. He specifically requested that his
lawyer be allowed to accompany him at the time of his
personal appearance before his local board, but the board,
relying on 32 CFR § .1624.1 .(b), denied the request and
conducted the personal appearance without the appellee's counsel present.3 Subsequently, the board declined
to reopen the appellee's I-A classification, and the appellee'unsuccessfully exhausted administrative review. His
order to report for induction, his refusal to submit, and
this prosecution followed.
The appellee moved before trial to dismiss his indictment on the ground, among oithers, that the denial of
counsel at the time of his personal appearance before
the board deprived him of due process of law under the
Fifth Amendment. The District Court did not squarely
decide this constitutional claim, but granted the motion
to dismiss on the ground that the regulation prohibiting
representation by counsel at a registrant's personal appearance was not authorized by the Military Selective
Service Act. 309 F. Supp. 50. The court relied primarily upon Greene v. McElroy, 360 U. S. 474, in which
our opinion underscored "the Court's concern that traditional forms of fair procedure not be restricted by
2Military Selective Service Act of 1967, § 12 (a), 50 U. S. C.
App. § 462 (a) (1964 ed., Supp. V), provides in pertinent part:

"[A]ny person . . . who . . . refuses . . . service in the armed

forces . . . or who in any manner shall knowingly fail or neglect
or refuse to perform any duty required of him under or in the
execution of this title ... shall, upon conviction in any district
court of the United States'of competent jurisdiction, be punished
by imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine of not more
than $1Q,000, or byboth such fine and imprisonment .. .
3 32 CFR § 1624.1 (b) (1970) provides in pertinent part:
"[N]o registrant may be represented before the local board by
anyone acting as attorney or legal counsel."

UNITED STATES v. WELLER
254

257

Opinion of the Court.

implication or without the most explicit action by the
Nation's lawmakers,..even in areas where it is possible
that the Constitution presents no inhibition." 360. U. S.,
at 508. Viewing the personal appearance as "a critical
stage of an administrative process at which substantial
rights are adjudicated," 309 F. Supp., at 51, the District
Court found the various proisions of the Selective Service Act conferring rulemaking power on the Executive
insufficient to authorize a r~gulation denying-counsel at
-local board hearings.
The United States filed a notice -of appeal to this
Court. Subsequently, the Government reconsidered its
position and concluded that this Court lacked jurisdiction
over the appeal. Accordingly, the Solicitor General filed
a motion asking us to remand the case to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. We postponed, further consideration of the question of jurisdiction until the hearing of the case on the merits. 397
U. S. 985. We now conclude that this appeal is not
properly here and, pursuant to thie provisions of the
Criminal Appeals Act, remand the case to the Court of
Appeals.'
The appellee urges that we have jurisdiction under
either of two sections of the Act, -ofie relating to dl*4

The District. Court cited Military Selective Service Act

§ 10 (b.)(3), 50 U. S. C. App. §460 (b)(3) (1964 ed., Supp. V), and
§ 1 (c)of the Act, 50 U. S. C. App. § 451 (c). See also Military
Selective Service Act §§ 5 (a) (1), 10 (b) (1), 50 U. S. C. App.
§§ 455 (a) (1) (1964 ed., Supp. V), 460 (b) (1).
5

See 18 U. S. C. §3731:

"If hn appeal shall be taken, pursuant to this section, to the
Supreme Court of the United States which, in the opinion of that
Court, should have been taken to a court of appeals, the Supreme
Court shall remand the case to the court of appeals, which shall
then have jurisdiction t6 hear and determine the iame as if the.
appeal had been taken to that- court, in the first instance."

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

missal of an indictment based on the construction of the
statute on which the indictment is founded and the other
to motions in bar. Considering first the "construction
of the statute" provision, the controlling precedent is this
Court's decision in United States v. Mersky, 361 U. S.
431. In that case, as in this one, there were in issue
both a statute and a regulation promulgated pursuant to
it. In finding jurisdiction in Mersky, however, the Court
noted that "neither the statute nor the regulations are
complete without the other, and only together do they
have any force. In effect, therefore, the construction of
one necessarily involves the construction of the other....
When the statute and regulations are so inextricably
intertwined, the dismissal must be held to involve the
construction of the statute." 361 U. S., at 438./
The relation between the Selective Service Act and
the regulation forbidding representation by counsel before local boards is wholly different from the situation
in Mersky. The regulation is not at all "called for by
the statute itself," 361 U. S., at 438. Indeed, so independent are the statute and the regulation that it would
be entirely possible for a regulation covering the same
subject matter to provide exactly the reverse of what
the present regulation requires. It cannot be said here
6 Ibid.:
"An appeal may be taken by and on behalf of the United States
from the district courts direct to the Supreme Court of the United
States in all criminal cases in the following instances:
"From a decision or judgment . . . dismissing any indictment . . .
where such decision or judgment is based upon the . . . construction
of the statute upon which the indictment . . . is founded.

"From the decision or judgment sustaining a motion in bar, when
the defendant has not been put in jeopardy."
7The dissenting opinions would have found jurisdiction wanting
in Mersky.

361 U. S., at 444,453.

UNITED STATES v. WELLER
254

Opinion of the Court

that "the construction of one necessarily .involves the
construction of the other." Since this statute and this
regulation fall so far short of being "inextricably intertwined," we conclude that the dismissal of the appellee's
indictment was not."based upon the . . . construction
of the statute." 8
We turn, accordingly, to the "motion in bar" provision
of the Criminal Appeals Act. Two preliminary observations are necessary. First, a "motion in bar" must be
taken to mean whatever was meant by 9 "special plea in
bar" in the Act as originally passed in 1907.1 Second,
this Court has never settled on a definitive interpretation
of what constitutes a "motion in bar." 10
During its debates on the Criminal Appeals Act in
1907, Congress paid relatively little attention to the
"special plea in bar" section of the Act. The clearest
statement of its meaning was given by one of the bill's
cosponsors, Senator Patterson:
"A special plea in bar is that which is set up as a
special defense notwithstanding the defendant may
be guilty of the offenses with which he is charged;
8

It is suggested in dissent that we have jurisdiction because of
the language in 50 U. S. C. App. § 460 (b) (3) (1964 ed., Supp. V)
conferring upon local boards the power "to hear and determine"
claims for exemption and deferment from military service. The record does not indicate that this statutory language was mentioned by
the appellee in the District Court, and the court did not rely upon the
"hear and determine" clause in dismissing the indictment. The
theory of the dissent was not urged before this Court, perhaps be.cause the parties realized that it can hardly be said that a di misskl
of an indictment was "based upon" a construction of a statutory
provision that the District Court never even considered:
9 United States v. Sisson, 399 U. S. 267, 292-293, n. 22; Note 4 of
Advisory Committee to Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 54 (c), reprinted
following Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 54, 18 U. S. C. App.
10 United States v. Sisson, 399 U. S., at 300 and nn. 53-54.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

it is for some outside matter; yet it may have been
connected with the case."
The tenor of this definition accords with traditional usage,
for at common law the most usual special plea in bar
took the form of confession and avoidance. 1 J. Chitty,
Treatise on Pleading and Parties to Actions *551-552
(16th Am. ed. 1883). In criminal cases the most common special pleas in bar presented claims of double
jeopardy or pardon, 2 J. Bishop, New Criminal Procedure § 742 (2d ed. 1913), and sometimes the statute of
limitations, id., at § 799 (5).
A characteristic common to all these definitions is that
a special plea in bar did not deny that a defendant had
committed the acts alleged and that the acts were a crime.
Rather, it claimed that nevertheless he could not be
prosecuted for his crime because of some extraneous
factor. A situation in which the defendant claims that
his act was simply not a crime would be beyond the scope
of this test.
Our decisions are consistent with this reading of the
"motion in bar" provision. In early cases under the section, the most familiar plea in bar interposed the statute
of limitations. E. g., United States v. Goldman, 277 U. S.
229, 236-237; United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78,
83-84, In other cases defendants have claimed immunity
because of prior self-incriminatory testimony or a statutory grant of immunity. UnitedStates v. Blue, 384 U. S.
251; United States v. Hoffman, 335 U. S. 77, 78; United
States v. Monia, 317 U. S. 424. See also United States
v. Ewell, 383 U. S. 116 (speedy trial); United States v.
Hark, 320 U. S. 531 (governing regulation revoked after
violation but before indictment); United States v.
Thompson, 251 U. S. 407 (first grand jury refused to
indict; charges submitted to second grand jury without
"41 Cong. Rec. 2753.

UNITED STATES v. WELLER
254

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

court 'approval); United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S.
278 (challenge to federal jurisdiction).2
Testing the appellee's motion to dismiss by this standard, we think it plain that it cannot qualify as a "motion
in bar." The appellee did not deny that he refused to
submit to induction, but he claimed that his conduct was
not a crime because of the prior denial of counsel. He
has not confessed to a crime and claimed immunity from
prosecution; he argues that he has committed no crime.
We conclude, therefore, that we have no jurisdiction
over this appeal under either the "construction of the
statute" or "motion in bar" provisions of the Criminal
Appeals Act. Accordingly, this case is remanded to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for
further proceedings in that court.
It is 'so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.,

I believe that the appeal is properly here and I
believe that United States v. Mersky, 361 U. S. 431, is
a precedent that sustains my view And may not properly,
be distinguished as the Court undertakes to do.
In Mersky a statute governing the labeling of imported
articles was involved. The Act made it mandatory td
label articles of foreign origin with "the English name
of the country of origin." It also said that the Secretary of the Treasury "may" determine the "words and
phrases or abbreviations" which. were acceptable "as
indicating the country of origin." 19 U. S. C. § 1304 (a).
12

Only two cases' appear difficult to reconcile with the test
adopted in text, and these are of dubious parentage. In United
States v. Covington, 395 U. S. 57, and United States v. Murdock,
284 U. S. 141, defendants were being prosecuted for refusals to
answer which they justified on grounds of Fifth Amendment privilege. Murdock itself, however, said that the plea was not appropriately presented as one in'bar. 284 U. S., at 151. In Covington,
we cited Murdock in assuming jurisdiction. 395' U. S., at 59 n. 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting .

401 U. S.

We held that the Act and the regulation were "so
inextricably intertwined" that dismissal of the information "must be held to involve the construction of the
statute." 361 U. S., at 438.
In the present case the Court concludes that the
provision of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967 in
issue and the regulations are "far short" of being "inextricably intertwined." But, with all respect, the only section of the Act quoted.is the penal provision defining the
crime of refusing to be inducted.' The more relevant
section is § 10 (b) (3), 50 U. S. C. App. §460 (b) (3)
(1964 ed., Supp. V), which reads in relevant part:
"Such local boards, or separate panels thereof each
consisting of three or more members, shall, under
rules and regulations prdscribed by the President
[§ 10 (b) (1)], have the power within the respective
jurisdictions of such local boards to hear and deter_mine, subject to the right of appeal . . . ,all questions or claims with respect to inclusion for, or

exemption or deferment from, training and service
under this title . .

.

."

(Emphasis added.)

The question turns on the meaning of "to hear and
determine." President Truman, pursuant to his rulemaking power granted by § 10 (b) (1),- promulgated on
August 20, 1948, a regulation, ,now 32 CFR § 1624.1,
which described the kind of "hearing" to which a registrant is entitled.2 More precisely does the power "to
.1 As we noted only last Term in dealing with this same statute,
"As a matter of sound construction, however, 'statute upon which
the indictinent .

.

. is founded' should be read to include the entire

statute, and not simply the penalty provisions." United tates v.
&sson, 399 U. S. 267, 280 n. 9.
2The predecessor of 32 CFR § 1624.1, as promulgated by President
-Truman, provided in relevant part:
"(a) Every registrant, after his classification is determined by
the local board (except a classification which is itself determined

UNITED STATES v. WELLER
254

.263

DouGTLs, J., dissenting

hear and determine" include the right of a registrant personally to appear? Does it include the right of a registrant to appear through an attorney or with an attorney?
Is the question to be resolved "under the rules and regulationg prescribed by the President" or is the Act to be
read as including constitutional requirements of counsel?
In my view the power "to hear and determine," granted
by the Act, may indeed be more intertwined with the
regulations than was the Act in the Mersky case. For
in the latter, the Act, as noted, made it mandatory to
label articles of foreign origin with "the English name
of the country of origin." The power of the Secretary
of the Treasury to promulgate regulations was therefore
a power merely to fill in details. In contrast, the present
Act leaves to "rules and regulations prescribed by -the
President" the scope and nature of the power of a local
board "to hear and determine" the claims of a registrant.
" Is that constitutionally permissible?
upon an appearance before the local board under the provisions of
this part), shall have an opportunity to appear in person before
the member or members of the local .board designated for the
purpose if he files a written request therefor within 10 days after
the local board has mailed a Notice of Classification (SSS Form
No. 110) to him. Such 10-day period may not be extended, except

when the local board finds that the registrant was unable to file
such request within such period because of circumstances over
which he had no control.
"(b) No person other than a registrant shall have the right to
appear in person before the local board, but the local board may,
in its discretion, permit any person to appear before it with or
on behalf of a registrant: Provided,That if thq. registrant does not

,speak English adequately he-may appear with a person to act as
interpreter for him: And provided further, That no registrant may
be represented before the local board by anyone acting as attorney
or legal counsel." 13 Fed. Reg. 4858..
Section 1624.1 (a) was amended by President Johnson by 'Executive Order No. 11350 on May 3, 1967, in respects not material here.
32 Fed. Reg. 6961.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting

401-U. S.

This case, rather than Mersky, is more nearly the one
where the Act and the regulations are "so inextricably
intertwined" that dismissal of the present indictment
"must be held to involve the construction of the-statute."
The .District Court construed "hear and determine"
claims of registrants- "under rules and regulations pre-.
scribed by the President," as those words are used in § 10
(b) (3) of the Act, not, to authorize "the constitutionallysuspect action of removing the right to be represented by
counsel." 309 F.. Supp., at 52. The District Court in
granting the motion to dismiss accordingly concluded
that it was "loathe to hold that the administrative denial
of tuch a right is either authorized by C6ngress or is
constitutional." Id., at 56. I therefore cannot say that
the dismissal of the indictment was not based on a
construction of the statute that the District Court never
considered.
I would not remit the case to the Court of Appeals
but would decide here and now Whether in the circumstances here presented the -registrant was entitled to the
aid of counsel at the hearing before the board.

