UNITED STATES v. FREED
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. FREED

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

No. 345. Argued January 11, 1971-Decided April 5, 1971

In Haynes v. United States, 390 U. S. 85, the Court held invalid
under the Self-Incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment provisions of the National Firearms Act, which-constituted parts of an
interrelated statutory scheme for taxing certain classes of firearms
primarily used for unlawful purposes, and made the potentially incriminating information available to state and other officials. To
eliminate the defects revealed by Haynes, Congress amended the
Act so that only a possessor who lawfully makes, manufactures,
or imports firearms can and must register them. The transferor
must identify himself, describe the firearm, and give the name and
address of the transferee, whose application must be supported by
fingerprints and a photograph and a law enforcement official's certificate identifying them as those of the transferee and stating that
the weapon is intended for lawful uses. Only after the transferor's
receipt of the approved application form may the firearm transfer
be legally made. A transferee does not and cannot register, though
possession of an unregistered firearm is illegal. No information or
evidence furnished under the Act can be used as evidence against
a registrant or applicant "in a criminal proceeding with respect
to a violation of law occurring prior to or concurrently with the
filing of the application or registration, or the compiling of the
records containing the information or evidence," and no information filed is, as a matter of administration, disclosed to other federal, local, or state agencies. Appellees, who had been indicted
under the amended Act for possessing and conspiring to possess
unregistered hand grenades, filed motions to dismiss, which the
District Court granted on the ground that the amended Act, like
its predecessor, compels self-incrimination and that the indictment
contravenes due process requirements by failing to allege scienter.
Appellees also contend that the provisions relating to fingerprints
and photographs will cause future incriminafion. Held:
1. The revised statutory scheme of the amended Act, which
significantly alters the scheme presented in Haynes, does not involve any violation of the Self-Incrimination Clause of the Fifth
Amendment. Pp. 605-607.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
401 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

2. The amended Act fully protects a person against incrimination for past or liresent violations, and creates no substantial hazards of future incrimination. P. 606.
3. The amended Act's prohibition against a person's "receiv[ing]
or possess[ing] a firearm which is not registered to him," requires
no specific intent and the absence of such a requirement in this
essentially regulatory statute in the area of public safety does not
violate due process requirements either as respects the substantive
count or the conspiracy count. , Pp. 607-610.
Reversed.
DouQLAs, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BuRGnR,
C. J., and BLAck, HARLAN, BRENNAN (as to Part I), STEWART,
WHrrE, M ARSHALL,

and BLACKMUN,

JJ., joined.

BRENNAN,

J.,

filed an'opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 610.

Matthew. J. Zinn argued the cause for the United
States. On the brief were Solicitor General Griswold,
Assistant Attorney General Wilson, Peter L. Strauss,
Beatrice Rosenberg, and Mervyn Hamburg.
Luke McKissack argued the cause and filed a brief
for appellees.
MR.

JusTICE

DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Following our decision in Haynes v. United States, 390
U.

S. 85, Congress revised the National Firearms Act

with the view of eliminating the defects in it which were

revealed in Haynes.'
At the time of Haynes "only weapons used principally
by persons engaged in unlawful activities would be sub-

jected to taxation."

Id., at 87.

Under the Act, as

amended, all possessors of firearms as defined in the Act 2
ISee S. Rep. No. 1501, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 26, 42, 48, 52; H. R.
Conf. Rep. No. 1956, 90th Cong., 2d Sess., 35.
2 26 U. S. C. § 5845 (f) (1964 ed., Supp. V) defines "destructive
device" to include "grenades" which are involved in the present case.

-UNITED STATES v. FREED
601

Opinion of the Court

are covered, except the Federal Government. 26 U. S. C.
§ 5841 (1964 ed., Supp. V).
At the time of Haynes any possessor of a weap6n included in the Act was compelled to disclose the fact of
his possession by registration at any time he had acquired
possession, a provision which we held meant that a possessor must furnish potentially incriminating information which the Federal Government made available to
state, local, and ot! federal officials. Id., at 95-100.
Under the present Act 3 only possessors who lawfully
Title 26 U. S. C. § 5812 (a) (1964 ed., Supp. V) provides:
"A firearm shall not be transferred unless (1) the transferor of
the firearm has filed with the Secretary or his delegate a written application, in duplicate, for the transfer and registration of the firearm to the transferee on the application form prescribed by the
Secretary or his delegate; (2) any tax payable on the transfer is
paid as evidenced by the proper stamp affixed to the original application form; (3) the transferee is identified in the application form
in such manner as the Secretary or his delegate may by regulations
prescribe, except that, if such person is an individual, the identification must include his fingerprints and his photograph; (4) the
transferor of the firearm is identified in the application form in such
manner as the Secrotary or his delegate may by regulations prescribe;
(5) the firearm is identified in the application form in such manner
as the Secretary or his delegate may by regulations prescribe; and
(6) the application form shows that the Secretary or his delegate
has approved the transfer and the registration of the firearm to the
transferee. Applications shall be denied if the transfer, receipt, or
possession of the firearm would place the transferee in violation of
law."
Title 26 U. S. C. § 5812 (b) (1964 ed., Supp. V) provides:
"The transferee of a firearm shall not take possession of the firearm unless the Secretary or his delegate has approved the transfer
and registration of the firearm to the transferee as required by subsection (a) of this section."
Title 26 U. S. C. § 5841 (b) (1964 ed., Supp. V) provides:.
"Each manufacturer, importer, and maker shall register each firearm he'manufactures, imports, or makes. Each firearm transferred
shall be registered to the transferee by the transferor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

make, manufacture, or import firerams can and must
register them; the transferee does not and cannot register.
It *is, however, unlawful for any person "to receive or
possess a firearm which is not registered to him in the
National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record." 4
At the time of Haynes, as already noted, there was a
provision for sharing the registration and transfer information with other law enforcement officials. Id., at 97100. The revised statute explicitly states that no information or evidence provided in compliance with *the
registration or-transfer provisions of the Act can be used,
directly or indirectly, as evidence igainst the registrant
or applicant "in a criminal proceeding with respect to
a violation of law occurring prior to or concurrently with
the filing of the application or registration, or the compiling of the records containing the information or evidence." ' The scope of the privilege extends, of course,
to the hazards of prosecution under state law for the
same or similar offenses. See Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S.
1; Marchetti v. United States, 390 U. S. 39, 54. And
the appellees, apparently fearful that the Act as written
does not undertake to bar the use of federal filings in
state prosecutions, urge that those risks are real in this
case. Ib is said that California statutes ' punish the
possession of grenades and that federal registration will
incriminate appellees under that law.
The Solicitor General, however, represents to us that
no information filed is as a matter of practice disclosed
'to any law enforcement authority, except as the fact of
nonregistration may be necessary to an investigation or
prosecution under the present Act.
The District Court nonetheless granted the motion to
dismiss on two grounds: (1) the amended Act, like the
26 U. S. C. § 5861 (d) (1964 ed., Supp. V).
_.26 U. S. C. § 5848 (1964 ed., Supp. V); and see 26 CFR § 179.202.
OPenal Code § 12303 (1970).
4

UNITED STATES v. FREED
601

Opinion of the Court

version in Haynes, violates the Self-Incrimination Clause
of the Fifth Amendment; and. (2) the conspiracy "to
possess destructive devices" and the possession charged do
not allege the element of scienter. The case is here on
direct appeal. 18 U. S. C. § 3731. And see United States
v. Spector, 343 U. S.169; United States v. Nardello, 393
U. S. 286.
I
We conclude that the amended Act does not violate
the Self-Incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment
which provides that no person "shall be compelled in
any criminal case to be a witness against himself." As
noted, a lawful transfer of a firearm may be accomplished
only if it is already registered. The transferor-not the
transferee--does the registering. The transferor pay's
the transfer tax and receives a stamp 7 denoting payment
which 'he affixes to the application submitted to the Internal Revenue Service. The transferor must identify
himself, describe the firearm to be transferred, and the
name and address of the transferee. In addition," the
application must be supported by the photograph and
fingerprints of the transferee and by a certificate of a
local or federal law enforcement official that he is satisfied that the photograph and fingerprints are those of
the transferee and that the weapon is intended for lawful
uses.' Only after receipt of the approved application
form is it lawful for the transferor to hand the firearm
over to the transferee. At that time he is to give the
approved application to the transferee.' As notecr, he
Solicitor General advises us that the information in the
hands of Intyrnal Revenue Service, as a matter of practice, is not available to state or other federal authorities
726 U. S. C. § 5811 (1964 ed., Supp. V).
8 26 U. S. C. § 5812 (a) (1964 ed., Supp. V); 26 CFR §§ 179.98-

179.99.
926 CFR § 179.100.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

and, as a mater of law, cannot be used as evidence in
a criminal proceeding with respect to a prior or concurrent
violation of law."0
The transferor-not the transferee-makes any incriminating statements. True, the transferee, if he
wants the firearm, must cooperate to the extent of supplying fingerprints and photograph. But the information
he supplies makes him the lawful, not the unlawful, possessor of the firearm. Indeed, the only transferees who
may lawfully receive a firearm are those who have not
committed crimes in the past. The argument, however,
is that furnishing the photograph and fingerprints will
incriminate the transferee in the future. But the claimant is not confronted by "substantial and 'real'" but
merely "trifling or imaginary hazards of incrimination"first by reason of the statutory barrier against use in a
prosecution for prior or concurrent offenses, and. second
by 'reason of the unavailability of the registration data,
as a matter of administration, to local, state, and other
federal agencies. Marchetti v. United States, supra, at
53-54. Cf. Minor v. United States, 396 U. S.87, 94.
Since the state and other federal agencies never see the
information, he is left in the same posiion as if he had
not given it, but "had claimed his privilege in the absence
of a . . .grant of immunity."

Murphy v. Waterfront

Comm'n, 378 U. S. 52, 79. This, combined with the
protection against use to prove prior or concurrent offenses, satisfies the Fifth Amendment requirements respecting self-incrimination."
Appellees' argument assumes the existence of a
periphery of the Self-Incrimination Clause which pro10.26 U. S. C. § 5848 (1964 ed., Supp. V); 26 CFR-§ 179.202.
11 We do not reach the question of "use immunity" as opposed to
"transactional immunity," cf. Piccirillo v. New York,.400 U. S.548,
but only hold that, under this statutor scheme, the hazards of selfincrimination are not real.

UNITED STATES v. FREED
601

-Opinion of the Court

tects a person against incrimination not only against past
or present transgressions but which supplies insulation
for a career of crime about to be launched. We cannot
give the Self-Incrhmination Clause such an expansive
interpretation.
Another argument goes to the question of entrapment.
But that is an issue for the trial, not for a motion to
dismiss.
II
We also conclude that the District Court erred in dismissing the indictment for absence of an allegation of
scienter.
The Act requires no specific intent or knowledge that
the hand grenades were unregistered. It'makes it unlawful for any person "to receive or possess a firearm
which is not registered to him." 12 By the lower court
decisions at the time that requirement was written into
the Act the only knowledge required to be proved was
knowledge that the instrument possessed was a firearm.
See Sipes v. United States, 321 F. 2d 174, 179,'and cases
cited.
The presence of a "vicious will" or mens rea (Morissette v. United States, 342 U. S. 246, 251) was long a
requirement of criminal responsibility. But the list of
exceptions grew, especially in the expanding regulatory
area involving activities affecting public health, safety,
and welfare. Id., at 254. The statutory offense of embezzlement, borrowed from the common law where scienter was historically required, was' in a different category." Id., at 260-261.
"[W]here Congress borrows terms of art in
which are accumulated the legal tradition and mean12
2

3

26 U. S. C. § 5861 (d) (1964 ed., Supp. V).
As respects the Morissette case, J. Marshall, Intention-InTLaw

and Society 138 (1968), says:
"The defendant wished to take government property from a

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

ing of centuries of practice, it presumably knows and
adopts the cluster of ideas that were attached to
each borrowed word in the body of learning from
which it was taken and the meaning its use will
convey to the judicial mind unless otherwise instructed." Id., at 263.
At the other extreme is Lambert v. California,355 U. S.
225, in which a municipal code made it a crime to remain
in Los Angeles for more than five days without registering if a person had been convicted of a felony. Being in
Los Angeles is not per se blameworthy. The mere failure
to register, we held, was quite "unlike the commission of
acts, or the failure to act under circumstances that should
alert the doer to the consequences of his deed." Id., at
228. The fact that the ordinance was a convenient law
enforcement technique did not save it.
"Where a person did not know of the duty. to
register and where there was no proof of the probability of such knowledge, he may not be convicted
consistently with due process. Were it otherwise,
the evil would be as great as it is when the law is
written in print too fine to read or in a language
foreign to the community." Id., at 229-230.
government bombing range, lie bad the capacity to take it, he had
the opportunity, he tried and succeeded in taking it (his wish was
fulfilled, his act accomplished). For recovery in a tort action no
more would have to be shown to establish liability, but the court
held that to make his action criminal 'a felonious intent,' mens rea,
had to be established. This could not be presumed from his actions,
which were open, without concealment, and in the belief-according
to his statement-that the property had been abandoned. In other
words, for the happening to be criminal, the wish had, to be to accomplish something criminal. So in discussing intent we may baye
wishes of two different characters: one giving a basis for civil liability
(the wish to take property not one's own), and another which ivould
support criminal liability as well as civil (taking -property with
criminal intent)."

UNITED STATES v. FREED
601-

Opinion of the Court

In United States v. Dotterweich, 320 U. S. 277, 284, a
case dealing with the imposition of a penalty on a corporate officer whose firm shipped adulterated and misbranded drugs in violation of the Food and Drug Act, we
approved the penalty "though consciousness of wrongdoing be totally wanting."
The present case is in the category neither of Lambert
nor Morissette, but is closer to Dotterweich. This is a
regulatory measure in the interest of the public safety,
which may well be premised on the theory that one
would hardly be surprised to learn that possession of
hand grenades is not an innocent act. 14 They are highly
dangerous offensive weapons, no less dangerous than the
narcotics involved in United States v. Balint, 258 U. S.
250, 254, where a defendant was convicted of sale of narcotics against his claim that he did not know the drugs
were covered by a federal act. We say with Chief Justice
Taft in that case:
"It is very evident from a reading of it that the
emphasis of the section is in ,securing a close supervision of the business of dealing in these dangerous
drugs by the taxing officers of the Government and
that it merely uses a criminal penalty to secure recorded evidence of the disposition of such drugs as
a means of taxing and restraining the traffic. Its
manifest purpose is to require every person dealing
in drugs to ascertain at his peril whether that which
he sells comes within the inhibition of the statute,
14 We

need not decide whether a criminal conspiracy to do an act
"innocent in itself" and not known by the alleged conspirators to be
prohibited must be actuated by some corrupt motive other than the
intention to do the act which is prohibited and which is the object
of the conspiracy. An agreefaent to acquire hand grenades is hardly
an agreement innocent in itself. Therefore what we have said of
the
substantive
offense satisfies
on these
facts112theF. requirement"
for a conspiracy.
Cf. United
Statesspecial
v. Mack,
2d 290.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNANr,

J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

and if he sells the inhibited drug in ignorance of its
character, to penalize him. Congress weighed the
possible injustice of subjecting an innocent seller to
a penalty against the evil of exposing innocent purchasers to danger from the drug, and concluded that
the latter was the result preferably to be avoided."
Id., at 253-254.
Reversed.
MEi. JusTIcE BRENNAN, concurring in the judgment of
reversal.
I agree that the amendments to the National Firearms
Act, 26 U. S. C. §§ 5841-5872 (1964 ed., Supp. V), do not
violate the Fifth Amendment's privilege against self-incrimination, and join Part I of the opinion of the Court.
However, I do not join Part II of the opinion; although
I reach the same result as the Court on the intent the
Government must prove to convict, I do so by another
route.
f join Part I on my understanding of the Act's new immunity provision. 26 U. S. C. § 5848 (1964 ed., Supp. V).
The amended registration provisions of the National
Firearms Act do not pose any realistic possibility of
self-incrimination of the transferee under federal law.
An effective registration of a covered firearm will
render the transferee's possession of that firearm legal
under federal law. It is only appellees' contention that
registration or application for registration will incriminate them under California law that raises the Fifth
Amendment issue in this case. Specifically, appellees
assert that California law outlaws possession of hand
grenades and that registration under federal law would,
therefore, incriminate them under state law. Assuming
that appellees correctly interpret California.law, I think
that the Act's immunity provision suffices to supplant the

UNITED STATES v. FREED
601

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

constitutional protection.

Sectioh 5848 provides in per-

tinent part:
"No information or evidence obtained from an application . . . shall . . . be used, directly or indirectly, as evidence against that person in acriminal
proceeding with respect to a violation of law occurring prior to or concurrently with the filing of
the application .

...

"

In my judgment, this provision would prevent a State
from making any use of a federal registration or application, or any fruits thereof, in connection with a prosecution under the State's possession law.1 This would be
true even if the State charged a transferee with possession
of the firearm on a date after the date the application
was filed, because possession is a continuing violation.2
Therefore, for purposes of the State's possession law, a
transferee's continued possession of a registered firearm
would constitute "a violation of law-occurring . . . con-

currently with the filing of the application."
I agree with the Court that the Self-Incrimination
Clause of the Fifth Amendment does not require that
immunity be given as to the use of such information in
connection with crimes that the transferee might possibly commit in the future with the registered firearm. The
only disclosure required under the amended Act is that
the transferee has received a firearm and is in possession
of it. Thus, in connection with the present general registration scheme, "It]he relevant class of activities 'permeNo question of transactional immunity is raised here since the
case involves incrimination under the laws of a jurisdiction differentfrom the one compelling the incrimitiating information. Piccirillo
v. New York, 400 U. 8. 548, 552 (BRENAN, J., dissenting).
2
'The result would be the same if a transferee moved from a State
where possession was legal to a State where possession was illegal.
The time when the possession became illegal cannot affect the continuing nature of the act of possession.
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN, J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

ated with criminal statutes,"' Mackey v. United States,
post, at 710 (BRENNAN, J., concurring in judgment), is
limited to the class of activities relating to possession of
firearms. Id., at 707-711. Since I read the statute's
immuniy provision to provide immunity co-extensive
with the privilege in that regard, I find no Fifth Amendment bar to the enforcement of the federal statute.
The Court's discussion of the intent the Government
must prove to convict appellees of violation of 26 U. S. C.
§ 5861 (d) (1964 ed., Supp. V) does not dispel the confusion surrounding a difficult, but vitally important, area
of the law. This case does not raise questions of "consciousness of wrongdoing" or "blameworthiness." If the
ancient maxim that "ignorance of the law is no excuse"
has any residual validity, it indicates that the ordinary
intent requirement-mens rea---of the criminal law does
not. require knowledge that an act is illegal, wrong, or
blameworthy. Nor is it possible to decide this case by a
simple process of classifying the statute involved as a
"regulatory" or a "public welfare" measure. To convict
appellees of possession of unregistered hand grenades, the
Government must prove three material elements: (1) that
appellees possessed certain items; (2) that the items
possessed were hand grenades; and (3) that the hand grenades were not registered. The Government and the
Court agree that the prosecutor must prove knowing
possession of the items and also knowledge that the
items possessed were hand grenades. Thus, while the
Court does hold that no intent at all need be proved
in regard to one element of the offense-the unregistered status of the grenades-knowledge must still be
proved as to the other two elements. Consequently,
the National Firearms Act does not create a crime of
strict liability as to all its elements. It-is no help
in deciding what level of intent must be proved as

UNITED STATES v. FREED
601

BRENNAN, J.,

concurring in judgment

to the third element to declare that the offense falls
within the "regulatory" category.
Following the analysis of the Model Penal Code,3 I
think we must recognize, first, that "[t]he existence of
a mens rea is the rule of, rather than the exception to, the
principles of Anglo-American criminal jurisprudence.
Dennis v. United States, 341 U. S. 494, 500 (1951)

(-Vinson, C. J., announcing judgment); Smith v., California, 361 U. S. 147, 150 (1959) ; 4 second, that lnens rea
is not a unitary concept, but may vary as to each element
of a crime; and third, that Anglo-American law has developed several identifiable and analytically distinct
levels of intent, e. g., negligence, recklessness, knowledge,
and purpose.- To determine the mental element required for conviction, each material element of the offense
must be examined and the determination made what
3ALI Model Penal Code § 2.02, Comment 123-132 (Tent. Draft
No. 4, 1955).
4 "Still, it is doubtless competent for the [government] to create
strict, criminal liabilities by defining criminal offenses without any
element of scienter-though . . .there is precedent in this Court

that this power is not without limitations. See Lambert v. California,
355 U. S. 225." Smith v. California, 361 U. S. 147, 150 (1959). The
situations in which strict liability may be imposed were stated by
Judge, now MR.JUsTicE, BLACKmUN: "[W]here a federal criminal
statute omits mention of intent and where it seems to involve what
is basically a matter of policy, where the standard imposed is, under
the circumstances, reasonable. and adherepnce thereto properly expected of a person, where the penalty is relatively small, where
conviction does not gravely besmirch, where the statutory crime is
not one taken, over from the common laWv, and where congressional
purpose is supporting, the statute can be construed as one not
requiring criminal intent." Holdridge v. United-States, 282 F. 2d
302, 310 (CA8 1960).
5
These different levels of intent are defined in the code. ALI
Model Penal Code § 2.02 (Prop. Offibial Draft 1962). This Court has
relied on the code's definitions. Leary.v. United States, 395 U. S. 6,
46 n. 93 (1969); Turner ir. United States, 396 U. S. 398, 416 n. 29
(1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRExNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

level of intent Congress intended the Government to
prove, taking into account constitutional considerations,
see Screws v. United States, 325 U. S. 91 (1945), as well
as the common-law background, if any, of the crime
involved. See Morissette v. United States, 342 U. S. 246
(1952).
Although the legislative history of the amendments
to the National Firearms Act is silent on the level of
intent to be proved in connection with each element of
the offense, we are hot without some guideposts. I
begin with the proposition stated in Morissette v. United
States, 342 U. S., at 250, that the requirement of
mens rea "is no provincial or transient notion. It is
as universal and persistent in mature systems of law
as belief in freedom of the human will and a con,equent ability and duty of the normal individual to
choose between good and evil." In regard to the first
two elements of the offense, (1) possession of items that
(2) are hand grenades, the general rule in favor of some
intent requirement finds confirmation in the case law
under the provisions replaced by the present amendments. The cases held that a conviction of an individual of illegal possession of unregistgred firearms
had to be supported by proof that his possession was
"willing and conscious" and that he knew the items
possessed were firearms. E. g., Sipes v. United States,
321 F. 2d 174, 179 (CA8 1963) ; United States v..Decker,
292 F. 2d 89 (CA6 1961). Congress did not disapprove
"these cases, and we may therefore properly infer that
Congress meant that the Government must prove knowl-edge with regard to the first two elements of the offense
under the amended statute.
The third element-the -unregistered status of the
grenades-presents more difficulty. 'Proof of intent with
.regard to this element would require the Government
to show that the appellees knew that the grenades were

UNITED STATES v. FREED
601

BpxNNAN, J., concurring in judgment

unregistered or negligently or recklessly failed to ascertain whether the weapons were registered. It is true
that such a requirement would involve knowledge of law,
but it does not involve "consciousness of wrongdoing"
in the sense of knowledge that one's actions were prohibited or illegal2 Rather, the definition of the crime,
as written- by Congress, requires proof of circumstances
that involve a legal element, namely whether the
grenades were registered in accordance with federal law.
The knowledge involved is solely knowledge of- the
circumstances that the law has defined as-material to
the offense. The Model Penal Code illustrates the
distinction:
"It should be noted that the general principle that
ignorance or mistake of law is no excuse'is usually
greatly overstated; it has no application when the
circumstances made material by the definition of
the offense include a legal element. So, for example, it is immaterial in theft, when claim of right
is adduced in defense, that the claim involves a legal
judgment as to the right of projerty. It is a defense because knowledge that the property belongs
to someone else is a material element of the crime
and such knowledge may involve matter of law as
well as fact. . . . The law involved is not the
law defining the offense; it is some other legal rule
that characterizes the attendant circumstances that
6
Proof of some crimes may include a requirement of proof of
actual knowledge that the act was prohibited by law; or proof of
a purpose to bring about the forbidden 'result. See James v. United
States, 366 U. S. 213 (1961); Boyce Motor Lines v. United Stdtes,
342 U. S. 337 (1952). United States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389
(1933). See generally Note, Counseling Draft Resistance: The Case

for a Good Faith Belief Defense, 78 Yale L. J. 1008, 1022-1037
(1969). Cf. Model Penal Code § 2.02 (?)(a) (Prop. Official Draft
1962) (definition of "purposely").

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRxNNAN, J., concurring in judgment

are material to the offense."

401 U. S.

Model Penal Code

§ 2.02, Comment 131 (Tent. Draft No. 4, 1955).
Therefore, as with the first two, elements, the question
is solely one of congressional intent. And while the
question is not an easy one, two factors persuade me
that proof of mens rea as to the unregistered status of
the grenades is not required. First, as the Court notes,
the case law under the provisions replaced by the current
law dispensed with proof of intent in connection with
this element. Sipes v. United States, supra. Second,
the firearms covered by the Act are major weapons such
as machineguns and sawed-off shotguns; deceptive weapons such as flashlight guns and fountain pen guns; and
major destructive devices such as bombs, grinades, mines,
rockets, and large caliber weapons including mortars, antitank guns, and bazookas. Without exception, the likelihood of governmental regulation of the distribution of
such weapons is so great that anyone must be presumed
to be aware of it. In the context of a taxing and registration scheme, I therefore think it reasonable to conclude
that Congress dispensed with the requirement of intent
in regard to the unregistered status of the weapon, as
necessary to effective administration of the statute.

