UNITED STATES v. RANDALL
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. RANDALL, TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY
CERTIORARI TO THE -JNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No.

125.

Argued February 22, 1971-

Decided March 24, 1971
The debtor corporation, kept in possession of its'business by court
order under Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act, did not comply
with requirements that it deposit withheld taxes in a special tax
account. It was later adjudicated a bankrupt, and the United
States asked the bankruptcy court to pay the amount of withheld
taxes prior to payment of costs and expenses of the bankruptcy
proceedings, pursuant to 26 U. S. C. § 7501 (a), which provides
that the amount of withheld taxes "shall be held to be a special
fund in trust for the United States." The referee denied the
request, and the District Court and the Court of Appeals agreed.
Held: Section 64 (a) (1) of the Bankruptcy Act, which is an overriding statement of federal policy on the question of priorit-es,
clearly provides that the first priority in payments from bankrupt
estates belongs to the costs and expenses of administration incurred
in the bankruptcy proceedings. Pp. 515-517.
419 F. 2d 1068, affirmed.
DOUGLAS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which HARLAN,
BnRxNAN, WHrrT, and MARSHALL, JJ., joined. BLAcxmuN, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which BuRGrr, C. J., and BLACk and
STEwART, JJ., joined, post, p. 518.

Richard B. Stone argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Griswold, Assistant Attorney deneral Walters, and
Crombie J.D. Garrett.
Kevin J. Gillogly argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Daniel C. Ahern.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Halo Metal Products, Inc. (the debtor) was kept in
possession of its business by court order under Chapter
XI of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. §701 et seq. The
order required it to open three separate bank accounts
for its general, payroll, and tax indebtedness and to make
appropriate disbursements from those accounts. Salaries
and wages paid were to be credited against the payroll
account and checks for wages and for withheld income
and social security taxes were to be paid after approval
by the referee. Checks for the withheld taxes were to
be paid into the tax account. Withdrawals from this
account were to be allowed only for payment of withheld
taxes and welfare obligations.
The debtor did not comply with those requirements.
Although it withheld income and social security taxes
from the wages of its employees, it did not deposit them
in the special tax account and did not pay them, as required, to the United States.
Later the debtor was adjudicated a bankrupt. The
United States, which had previously filed a proof of claim
in the Chapter XI proceedings for payment of the taxes,
now asked the bankruptcy court to pay the amount of
withheld taxes prior to the payment of the costs and
expenses of administration of the bankruptcy proceedings. The referee denied the request. The District
Court agreed with the referee. The Court of Appeals
affirmed the order denying payment, 419 F. 2d 1068.
The case is here on petition for &writ of certiorari which
we granted (400 U. S. 817) because of a conflict among
the circuits, cf. City of New York v. Rassner, 127 F. 2d
703; United States v. Sampsell, 193 F. 2d 154; Hercules
Service Parts Corp. v. United States, 202 F: 2d 938.

UNITED STATES v. RANDALL
513

Opinion of the Court

The United States relies for its priority on 26 U. S. C.
§ 7501 (a), which provides:
"Whenever any person is required to collect or
withhold any internal revenue tax from any other
person and to pay over such tax to the United States,
the amount of tax so collected or withheld shall be
held to be a special fund in trust for the United
States. The amount of such fund shall be assessed,
collected, and paid in the same manner and subject to
the same provisions and lim:tations (including penalties) as are applicable with respect to the taxesefrom
which such fund arose."
The argument is that withheld taxes are a trust in favor
of the United States. It is answered that the debtor-inpossession failed to segregate the taxes so withheld; hence
there was no trust. To that the United States replies
that since the debtor-in-possession was a court-appointed
officer, the misconduct cf the officer should not defeat
the trust.' And, the argument continues, creditors are
not unfairly harmed since the trust funds were never an
asset of the estate.
We deal, however, with a Bankruptcy Act which we
conclude is an overriding 'statement of federal policy on
this question of priorities. Section 64 (a) (1) of the Act,
11 U. S. C. § 104 (a) (1) (1964 ed., Supp. V), provides:
"The debts to have priority, in advance of the
payment of dividends to creditors, and to be paid in
full out of bankrupt estates, and the order of payment, hall be (1) the costs and'expenses of .administration . . . . Where an order is entered in a pro"Where the funds are received by a public officer; such as a
receiver or trustee in bankruptcy, the owner of the funds is entitled

to priority with respect to the funds so received without further
tracing."

5 A. Scott

on Trusts § 521, p. 3652 (3d ed. 1967).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

ceeding under any chapter of this title directing that
bankruptcy be proceeded with, the costs and expenses
of administration incurred in the ensuing bankruptcy proceeding . . . shall* have priority in advance of payment of the unpaid costs and expenses
of administration . . . incurred in the superseded
proceeding . .. ."
Until 1926 claims for administrative expenses were
subordinate to tax claims. 2 In that year they were
placed- ahead of taxes. The costs and administrative
expenses of a trustee were, however, still subordinate to
claims of the referee or creditors for preserving or recovering assets.' In 1952 the Act was amended to give
priority to administrative expenses of an ensuing bankruptcy proceeding over unpaid administrative expenses
of a superseded proceeding.'
We have then' a progressive legislative development
that, (1) marks a decline in the grant of a tax preference
to ,the United States and (2) marks an ascending priority
for costs and expenses of administration.
2 3A Collier on Bankruptcy 2046-2048, 2155-2156 (14th ed. 1969).
3 44 Stat. 662.
Collier, supra, n. 2, at 2049, 2050 n. 15.
5 66 Stat. 426. "Unless provision is made for payment of the
costs and expenses necessary to liquidate, administer and close the
estate in the ensuing bankruptcy 1roceeding, ahead of, all prior
incurred and unpaid administration costs and expenses, there is
always danger of a breakdown of administration. There should be
assurance to the trustee in the ensuing proceeding that the costs
and expenses incurred by him, such as bond and insurance premiums, costs of conducting a public sale and compensation for his
services and for the services of his attorney, will be paid out of the
assets liquidated and administered by him ahead of the prior unpaid
costs, and expenses." S. Rep. No. 1395, 82d Cong., 2d Sess., 5.
In 1966 Congress amended § 17 of the Act so as to make dischargeable all taxes due and owing nibre than three years prior
to bankruptcy except, inter alia, those withheld or collected" from
others but not paid over. Act of July 5, 1966, 80 Stat. 270.
.4

UNITD STATES v. RANDALL
513

517 .

Opinion of the Court

We think the statutory policy of subordinating taxes
to costs and expenses of admihistration would not be
served by creating or enforcing trusts which eat up an
estate, leaving little or nothing for creditors and court
officers whose goods and services created the assets. In
Nicholas v. United States, 384 U. S. 678, 690-692, we"
rejected the claim of the. United States that under
§ 7501 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code' it was entitled
to interest accruing after the arrangement under Chapter XI and during the bankruptcy. We so held because
to allow interest would run counter to the "strongpolicy
of § 64 (a) (1) of the Bankruptcy Act." Id., at 691. To
allow the' present clanned priority for the principal would
by the same token run 6ounter to the grain of the Bankruptcy Act.
This construction coriforms with a literal reading of
the second sentence of -§ 7501 (a) _which 'makes the
amount of such fund payable "in the same manner and
subject to the same provisions and limitations . . . as
are applicable with respect tQ ,the taxes from which suchfund arose." In conformity With Nicholas.we read those
words against the, history of the Bankruptcy Act. So
read, the fund is as subordinate as the taxes. - See In re
Green, 264 F. Supp. 849, 851.
What we decide today is also in -accord with those
decisions which hold that Ahe specific priorities granted
by Congress in the Bankruptcy Act govern generalized statutes giving the United States priority in a Wide
range of situations.6, Guarantee Co. v. Title Guaranty Co., 224 U. S. 152; Davis .Pringle, 268 U. S. 315.
Affirmed.
The competing Act in those cases- was Rev. Stat. § 3466, which,
read: "Whenever any parson indebted to the United States is,

insolvent, or whenever the estate of 'any deceased debtor,' in the
hands of the executors or administrators, is insufficient to payjall

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BczcxmuN, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
and MR. JUSTICE STEWART join,

MR.JUSTICE BLACKMUN,
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.
I cannot escape the conviction that the Court's ruling
on this very narrow issue dishonors property of the
United States and effects a windfall for those who benefit from the ruling.
The amount in issue consists of income and FICA
-taxes actually withheld from wages of employees. These
are not taxes of the debtor. Were it not for the withholding scheme, the amounts would have been paid out
to the employees as gross wages and it would have been
their obligation, as it was prior to the adoption of withholding, to pay those taxes. Instead, the employer now
withholds, and § 7501 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1954, 26 U. S. C' § 7501 (a), appropriately impresses
a trust upon the amounts withheld. The Court today
defeats the trust only because the arrangement debtor
in possession, a corporation which the Court has characterized. as "an officer of the bankruptcy court," Nicholas
v. United States, 384 U. S. 678, 690 (1966), flagrantly
disobeyed the arrangement court's specific order to pay
the withholding amounts into a separate bank account.
The respondent trustee concedes that if the .order had
been obeyed, the -trustee would have no case. Tr. of
Oral Arg.34.
The d~cisioz in Nicholas does not demand the result
reached by the Court. That case concerned interest accruing during bankruptcy, not the tax on which the inthe debts due from. the deceased, the debts due to the United States
shall be first satisfied; ad the priority hereby established shall
extend as well to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient
property to pay all his debts, makes a voluntary assignment thereof,
or. in which .the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or

absent debtor are attached by prbcess of law, as to cases in which
an act of bankruptcyis committed."

UNITED STATES v. RANDALL

513

BI.AcxuN,

J., dissenting

terest was asserted. The present decision is a long step
down the road beyond Nicholas.
Neither am I persuaded by the suggestion made by the
trustee, and seemingly reflected in the Court's opinion,
that a contrary-decision would leave little or nothing for
administrative costs of the bankruptcy proceeding and
therefore would deter orderly administration of bankrupt estates. I suspect that the fact of bankruptcy administration of a vast number of small- or no-asset cases
is a sufficient refutation of that suggestion.
I find myself in accord with the views expressed by
the Second, Sixth, and Ninth Circuits. City of New
York v. Rassner, 127 F. 2d 703 (CA2 1942); In re Airline-Arista Printing Corp., 267 F. 2d 333 (CA2 1959),

aff'g 156 F. Supp. 403 (SDNY 1957); Hercules Service
Parts Corp. v. United States, 202 F. 2d 938 (CA6 1953);
United States v. Sampsell, 193 F. 2d 154 (CA9 1951).
I would reverse.

