MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
Syllabus

MONITOR PATRIOT. CO. ET

AL. V.

ROY, EXECUTRIX CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

No. 62. Argued December 17, 1970-Decided February 24, 1.971
Just before the 1960 New Hamp'shire Democratic primary election,
petitioner newspaper published-a column characterizing senatorial
candidate Roy as a "former small-time bootlegger." Roy, who was
not elected, sued the newspaper and the distributor of the column
for libel. The, judge told the jury that Roy, as a candidate, was
a "public official," and -that a rule requiring a showing that the
article was false and had been published "with knowledge of its
falsity or with reckless disregard of whether it was false or true,"
applied as long as the libl' concerned "official" as opposed to
"private" conduct. The' jury was instructed that' if it found
the libel to be in the 'public sector," it had to bring in a verdict
for the distributor, as there was no evidence that it had engaged
in knowing or reckless falsehood, but that it had to decide on
the "preponderance of the evidence" whether the newspaper was
liable. If the publication wvas in the "private sector," ther&-were
two defenses: (1) "justification," if the article was true and published on a "lawful occasion," and (2) "conditional privilege," if
the article was false but'if the publication was "on a lawful occasion, 'in good faith, for a justifiable purpose, and with a belief
'founded on reasonable grounds of the truth of the matter published." The jury returned a verdict against both the newspaper
and the distributor of the column. The State Supreme Court.
affirmed, holding that the jury properly considered whether the
alleged libel was "relevait" to Roy's fitness for office. Held:
1.. Publications concerning candidates for public office must be
accorded at least as much protection under the First and Fourteenth Amendments as those concerning occupants of public office.
Pp. 270-272.
2. As a matter of constitutional law, a charge of criminal conduct, no matter how remote in time or place, can never be irrelevant to an official's or a candidate's fitness for purposes of applying
the "knowing falsehood or reckless disregard" rule of New York
Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S.254. Pp. 272-277.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

3. The jury here was erroneously- permitted to determine that
the criminal charge was not "relevant" .and that the New York
Times standard was inapplicable. P. 277.

109 N. H. 441, 254 A. 2d 832, reversed and remanded.
STEWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and HARI N, BRENNAN, W mu, MAsrALL, and BIAcxmuN,
JJ., joined. WHrrE, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 301.
BLACK, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment and dissenting
in part, in which DouGLAs,. J., joined, post, p. 277.

Edward I.6wneti Williams argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Harold Ungar and
Joseph A. Millimet.
Stanley M. Brown argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

TEWART

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On September'10, 1960, three days before the New
Hampshire Democratic Party's primary election of candidates for the United States Senate, the Concord Monitor,
a daily newspaper in Concord, New Hampshire, published
a syndicated "D. C. Merry-Go-Round" column discussing the forthcoming election. The column spoke
of political maneuvering in the primary campaign, referred to the criminal records of several of the candidates,
and characterized Alphonse Roy, one of the candidates,
as a "former small-time bootlegger." 1 Roy was not

'The text of the portion of the column concerning the New
Hampshire primary was as follows:
"Political Snafu
"Rock-ribbed Republican New Hampshire, whose ex-Gov. Sherman
Adams was top kick in the *White House for years and whose
Sen. Styles Bridges is still top kick on the GOP side of the Senate,

MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
265

267 "

Opinion of the Court

elected in the primary, and he subsequently sued the
Monitor Patriot Co. and the North American Newspaper
Alliance (NANA), the distributor of the column, for libel.
is so fouled up in a primary snafu that the state may go Democratic this year. The primary verdict is due next Tuesday.
"Even that able Senate stalwart, Styles Bridges, is restirring"
himself. He has nothing to worry about from his Republican
opponent, but the Democrats have put up a dynamic Dartmouth
professor, Herbert Hill, against him. The professor came within
11,000 votes of defeating Sherman Adams, lately of vicuna-coat
fame, in the 1948 gubernatorial race.
"Curiously, the Democratic primary has been cluttered with a
motley assortment of candidates who have challenged Hill for
the privilege of running against Bridges. That sly, old Republican
disclaims any connection with it, but he appears pleased over the
muddying of Democratic waters.
"One of Hill's primary opponents Frank L. Sullivan, was released
from the Grasmere County Work Farm just in time to file for the
Senate. With a police record of no fewer than 19 convictions for
drunkenness since 1945, he was serving his latest 90-day sentence.
"Curious Call
"To make sure he would get out in time to run for the Senate,
a former small-time bootlegger and later U. S. Marshal, Alphonse
Roy, telephoned the Grasmere warden about Sullivan.
"Ralph LaVallee in charge of Grasmere, admitted to this column
that he had received a telephone inquiry from Roy as to whether
Sullivan would be released in time to file. But the warden denied
another report that Roy had announced he was c*lling 'on behalf of
my friend Styles.'
"'I don't want to get Implicated in anything like that,' said
LaVallee, 'Roy didn't mention Senator Bridges!'
"Sullivan happily got out of the workhouse in time to run for
the most distinguished legislative body in the world. And who
should turn up on the ballot but the same Alphonse Roy who was
so eager to get him out of the clink.
"Because of the peculiar population division of New Hampshire,
the Irish Catholics may. be inclined to vote for a Frank Sullivan
while the French Canadians could be attracted by a name like

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

The newspaper and NANA offered "truth" as their
primari defense at trial, and evidence was presented on
the issue of whether or not Roy had in fact been a bootlegger during the prohibition era. The defendants also
alleged that they had published in good faith, without
malice, with a reasonable belief in the probable tiuth of
the charge, and on a lawful occasion. At the close of
the evidence, the trial judge instructed the jury at great
length on the law to be applied to the case. Three possible defenses emerged from these jury instructions.
First, the trial judge told the jury that Roy was a
"public official" by virtue of his candidacy in the primary.
As a consequence, a special rule, requiring a showing
that the article was false and had been published with
"knowledge of its falsity or with a reckless disregard of
whether it was false or true," would apply so long as
the libel concerned "official conduct" as opposed to "private conduct." This private-public distinction was elaborated as follows: "Is it more probable than otherwise
that the publication that the plaintiff was a former
small-time bootlegger was a public affair on a par with
Alphonse Roy. The effect would be to cut down Herb Hill's
chances.
"Convicts For Senator
"Two other curious candidates, who tried to run in the Demo"cratic primary against Hill, were Harold P. McCarthy who has a
record of nine convictions for drunkenness, assault, and brawling,
and Clement P. Robinson Jr., who has a record of six brushes with
the law for drunkenness and traffic violations. Robinson also receivel a 30-day suspended sentence for stealing two power lawnmowers and, a conviction for the nonsupport of his wife and three
children.
I "But at least Professor. Hill managed to persuade the New Hampshire Ballot-Law Commission into knocking McCarthy and Robinson
off the ballot."

-MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
265

Opinion of the Court

official conduct of public officials?" The trial judge
went Qn:
"As a candidate tor the United States Senate, the
plaintiff was within the public official concept, and
a candidate must surrender to public scrutiny- and
discussion so much of his private character as affects
his fitness for office. That is, anything which might
touch on Alphonse Roy's fitness for the .office of
United) States Senator would come within the concept of official conduct. If it would not touch upon
or be relevant to his fitness for theoffice for which
he was a candidate but was ratIer a bringing forward of the plaintiff's long forgotten misconduct in
which the public -had no interest, then it would
be a private matter in the private sector."
The judge then instructed the jury that if it found
the libel to be in the "public sector" Jt must biing in
a verdict; for NANA, since there had been no evidence
that NANA had engaged in knowing or reckless falsehood, but that it still had to decide on the "pieponderance
of the evidence" whether the newspaper was liable.
Supposing the publication to be in the-"private sector,"
the trial judge instructed the jury that there were-two
possible defenses available to the newspaper and NANA.
The first was "justification," which would -prevail if the
jury found that the article was both true and published
on a "lawful occasion." 1- The second defense was "con2

The trial judge .gave the jury the following definition of a
"lawful occasion":
"If the end to be attained by the publication is justifiable, that is,
to give useful information-to those who have *a right and ought
to know in order that they may apt upon such information, the
occasion is lawful. Where, however, there is merely the color of
a lawful occasion and the defendant, instead of acting in good faith,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

ditional privilege," which could prevail even if the jury
found the article to be false, but only if it also found
that its publication was "on a lawful occasion, in good
faith, for a justifiable purpose, and with a belief founded
on reasonable grounds of the truth of the matter
published."
The jury returned a verdict of $20,000, of which
$10,000 was against the newspaper and $10,000 against
NANA. On appeal, the New Hampshire Supreme Court
affirmed the judgment, holding that the trial judge properly sent to the jury the question of whether or not
the particular libel alleged was "relevant" to Roy's fitness for office. 109 N. H. 441, 254 A. 2d 832. We
granted certiorari in order to consider the constitutional
issues presented by the case. 397 U. S. 904.

I
In New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, 279280, we held that the First and Fourteenth Amendments
require "a federal rule that prohibits a public official
from recovering damages for a. defamatory falsehood
relating to his official conduct unless he proves that the
statement was made with 'actual malice'-that is, with
knowledge that it was false or with reckless disregard
of whether it was false or not." The rule of New York
Times was based on a recognition that the First Amendment guarantee of a -free press is inevitably in tension
with state libel laws designed to secure society's interest
in the protection of individual reputation. The approach
of New York Time's was to ideitify a class of personassumes to act for some justifiable end merely as a pretense to

publish and circulate defamatory matter, or for other unlawful
purpose, he is liable in the same manner as if such pretense had
not been resorted to."
The trial judge placed the burden of showing a "lawful occasion"
on the defendants:

MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
265

Opinion of the Court

there public'officials-and a type of activity-there official conduct-and to require as to-defamations respecting
them a particularly high standard of liability-knowing
falsehood or reckless disregard of the truth. Later cases
have made it clear that the applicability of this basic
approach is not limited to those in public office or to
the performance of official acts, or, for that matter, to
conventional civil libel sdits. Garrisonv. Louisiana,379
V. S. 64; Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 388 U. S. 130;
Greenbelt Cooperative Publishing Assn. v. Bresler, 398
U. S. 6.
This case went to the jury in Decenber 1966, after our
decisions in New York Times and Garrison, but before
Curtis and Greenbelt. The trial judge instructed the
jury that Roy as a candidate for elective public office,
was a "public official," and that characterization has not
been challenged here. Given the later cases, it might
be preferable to categorize a "caiididate as a "public figure," if for no other reason than to avoid straining the
common meaning of words. But the question is of no
importance so far as the standard of liability in this
case is concerned, for it is abundantly clear that, whichever term is applied, publications concerning candidates
must be accorded at least as much protection under the
First and Fourteenth Amendments as those concerning
occupants of public office. That Neui York Times itself
was intended to apply to candidates, in spite of the use
of the more restricted "public official" terminology, is
readily apparent from that opinion's text and citations
to case law.3 And if it be conceded that the First
3One of the citations was to a i.ansas decision which admirably
stated the case for the inclusion-of candidates within the rule:
"[I]t is of the utmost consequence that the people should discuss the
character and qualifications of candidates for their suffrages. The
importance to the state and to sbciety of such discussions is so vast,

and the advantages derived are~so great, thit they more than counter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

Amendment was "fashioned to assure the unfettered interchange of ideas for the bringing about of political
and social changes desired by the people," Roth v.
United States, 354 U. S. 476, 484, then, it can hardly
'be doubted that the constitutional guarantee has its fullest and most urgent application precisely to the conduct
of campaigns for political office..
II
The jury in this case returned verdicts against both
the newspape and NANA. It is clear, therefore, that
it found the bootlegger charge to be in the "private
sector," since it had been instructed that unless it so
found it could not impose liability on NANA. It is
-possible that having made this determination, it then
concluded that the charge was- true but "unjustified"that is, that it had been published without a "lawful
occasion." In any event, under the trial judge's instructions it was also free to return a money verdict if it
found that the publication was false and had not been
made "in good faith," for a "justifiable purpose," and
with a "belief founded on reasonable grounds of the
truth oi the matter published." Since this standard is
far less stringent than that of knowing falsehood or reckless disregard of the truth, the judgment must be reversed
unless it can be shown that the New York Times rule
is not applicable because of the nature of the libel in
question. Cf., Ocala Star-Banner Co. v. Damron, post,
p. 295.
balance the inconvenience of private persons whose conduct may be
involved, and occasional injury to the reputitions of individuals must
yield to the public welfare, although at times such injury may be
great. The public benefit from publicity is so great, and the chance
of injury to private character so small, that such discussion must be
privileged." Coleman v. MacLennan, 78 Kan. 711, 724, 98 P: 281,
286 (1908).

MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
265

Opinion of the Court

*The respondent argues that under New York Times a
plaintiff has a special burden of proof only as to libels
"relating to official conduct," that for a candidate "official.
conduct" means "conduct relevant to fitness for office,"
and that the public-private issue is one of fact for the
jury. In our view, however, the syllogistic manipulation of distinctions between "private sectors" and "public sectors," or matters of fact and matters of .law, is of
little utility in resolving questions of First Amendment
protection.
In Garrisonv. Louisiana, supra, we reversed a conviction for, criminal libel of -a man who'had charged that
a group of state court judges were inefficient, took excessive vacations, opposed official investigations of vice, and
were possibly subject, to "racketeer influences." The
Louisiana Supreme Court had held that these statements
were not "criticisms . * . of the manner in which -any
one of' the eight judges conducted his court when in
session," but rather were accusations of crime and "personal attacks upon the integrity and honesty" of the
judges. This Court rejected the proposed distinction:
"Of course, any criticism of the manner in which a
public official performs his duties will tend to affect
his private, as 'wel as his public, reputation. The
New York Times rule is not reidered inapplicable
merely because an official's private reputation, as well
The public-offi-,
as his public reputation, is h 'ned.
cial rule protects the paramount public interest in a
free 'flow of information t'o the. people concerning
public officials, taeir servants. To this end, anything
which might touch on 'n official's fitness for office
is relevant. Few personal attributes' are more ger-.
mane to fitiness for office than dishonesty, malfeasance, or improper motivation, even though these

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

characteristics may also affect the official's private
character." 379 U. S., at 76-77.
Cf. Ocala Star-Banner Co. v. Damron, supra.
The considerations that led us thus to reformulate
the "official conduct" rule of New York Times in terms
of "anything which might touch on an official's fitness
for office" apply with special force to the case of the
candidate. Indeed, whatever vitality the "official condict" concept may retain with regard to occupanis of
public office, cf. Garrison, supra, at 72 n.8, it is clearly
of little applicalbility in the context pf an election campaign. The principal activity of a candidate in our
political system, his "office," so to speak, consists in
putting before the. voterh every conceivable aspect of
his public aid private lif ,that he thinks may lead the
electorate to gain a good impression of him. A candidate who, for example, seeks to further his cause through
the prominent display of his wife and children can hardly
argue that his qualities as a husband or father remain
of "purely private" concern. And the candidate who
vaunts his spotless record and sterling integrity cannot
convincingly cry "Foul!" when an opponent or an industrious reporter attempts to demonstrate the contrary 4
Any test adequate to safeguard First Amendment guarantees in this area must go far beyond the customary
meaning of the phrase "official conduct."
4

A commentator writing in 1949 described the ambience as follows:
"Charges of gross incompetence, disregard of the public interest,
communist sympathies, and the like have usually filled the air; and
hints of bribery, embezzlement, and other criminal conduct are not
infrequent. If actionable defamation is possible in this field, one
might suppose that the chief enekgies of the courts, for some time
after every political campaign, would be absorbed by libel and
slander suits." Noel, Defamation of Public Officers and Candidates,
49 Col. L. Rev. 875.

MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
265

Opinion of the Court

Given the realities of our political life, it is by no
means easy to see what statements about a candidate
might be altogether without- relevance to his fitness for
the office he seeks. The clash of reputations is the staple"

of election campaigns, and damage to reputation is, of
course, the essence of libel. But whether there remains
some exiguous area of defamation against vhich a candidate may have full recourse is a question we need not
decide in this case. The trial judge presented the issue
to the jury in the form of the question: "Is it more probable than otherwise that tle publication that the plaintiff was a former small-time bootlegger, was a public affair
on a par with official conduct of public officials?" This
instruction, and the others like it, left the jury far more
leeway to act as censors than is consistent with the protection of the First and Fourteenth Amendments in the
setting of .apolitical campaign.
The application of the traditional concepts of tort law
to the conduct of a political campaign is bound to raise
dangers for freedom of speech and of the press. The
reasonable-man standard of liability, for example, serves
admirably the essential function of imposing an objective
and socially acceptable limit on the freedom. of anindividual. to act with relation to others. But under our
system of government, we have chosen to afford protection even to "opinions that we loathe and believe to
be fraught with death," Abrams v. United States, 250
U. S. 616, 630 (Holmes, J., dissenting). A community
that imposed legal liability on 'all statements in a political campaign deemed "unreasonable" by a jury would
have abandoned the First Amendment as we know it.
Likewise, a "preponderance of the evidence" burden of
proof plays an indispensable role in the control of private'
negligence. But we have recognized that in the realm
of poliiical belief "the tenets of one man may seem the

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

rankest error to his 'neighbor," -and that the advocates
whom we protect may resort to "exaggeration, to vilification of men who have been, or are, prominent in church
or state, and even to false statement," Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 310. It is simply inconsistent
with this commitnient to permit the imposition of liability
for political speech that "more probably than otherwise" in the opinion of the jury "would not touch upon
or be relevant" to a candidate's fitness for office. Cf.
Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 525-526; Smith v.
California, 36i U. S. 147.
It is perhaps unavoidable that in the area of tension
between the Constitution and the various state laws of
defamation there will be some uncertainty as to what
publications are and what are not protected. The mental
element of "knowing or reckless disregard" required under
the New York Times test, for example, is not always
easy of ascertainment. "Inevitably its outer limits will
be marked out through case-by-case adjudication, as is
true with so many legal standards for judging concrete
cases, whether the standard is provided by the Constitution, statutes, or case law." St. Amant v. Thompson, 390
U. S. 727, 730-731. But there is a major, and in this case
decisive, difference between liability based on a standard
of care, -and liability based on a judgment of the "relevance" of a past incident of criminal conduct to an official's or a candidate's fitness for office. A standard of
care "can be neutral with respect to content of the speech
involved, free of historical taint, and adjusted to strike
a fair balance between the interests of the community
in free circulation of information and those of individuals
in seeking recompense for harm done by the circulation
of defamatory falsehood." Curtis Publishing Co. v.
Butts, supra at 153 (opinion of HARLAN, J.). A standard
of "relevance," on the other hand, especially such a standard applied by a jury under the. preponderance-of-the-

MONITOR PATRIOT CO. v. ROY
265

Opinion of BLAcK, J.

evidence test, is unlikely to be neutral with respect to
the content of speech and holds a real danger of becoming an instrument for the suppression of those "vehement,
caustic, and sometimes unpleasantly sharh attacks," New
York Times, supra, at 270, which must be protected if
the guarantees of the First and Fourteenth Amendments
are to prevail.
We therefore hold as a matter of constitutional law
that a charge of criminal conduct, no matter how
remote in time or place, can never be irrelevant to an
official's or a candidate's fitness for office for' purposes
of application of the ."knowing falsehood or reckless disregard" rule of New York Times Co. v. Sullivan. Since
the jury in this case was permitted to make its own unguided determination that the charge of prior criminal
activity was not "relevant," and that the New York
Times standard was thus inapplicable, the judgment must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
[For concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE WHITE, see
post, p. 301.]
Separate opinion of MR.

JUSTImE BLACK, with whom
joins.*
I concur in the judgments of the Court in this case and
in No. 109 and No. 118, for the reasons set out in my concurring opinion in New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376
U. S. 254, 293 (1964), in my concurring and dissenting
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

opinion in Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 388 U. S.130,
170 (1967), and in MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLAS' concurring
opinion in Garrisonv. Louisiana, 379 U. S.64, 80 (1964).
*[This opinion applies also to No. 109, Time, Inc. v. Pape, post,
p. 279, and No. 118, Ocala Star Banner Co. et al. v. Damron, 'post, p.
295.]

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of BLcK, J.

401 U.S.

However, I dissent from those portions of the opinions in
this case and No. 118 which would permit these libel cases
tobe tried again under a different set of jury instructions.
As I have stated before, "[I] t is time for this Court to
abandon New York Times Co. v. Sullivan and adopt the
rule to the effect that the First Amendment was intended
to leave the press free from the harassment of libel judgments." Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, supra, at 172
(separate opinion of BLAcx, J.).

