YOUNGER v. HARRIS
Syllabus

YOUNGER, DISTRICT ATTORNEY OF LOS
ANGELES QOUNTY v. HARRIS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTFr-P COURT FOR THE
CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

No: 2. Argued April 1, 1969-Reargued April 29 and November 16,
1970-Decided February 23, 1971
Appellee Harris, who had been indicted for violating the California
Criminal Syndicalism Act, sued in-the Federal District Court to
enjoin tppellant, the county District Attorney from prosecuting
him, contending that the Act is unconstitutional on it face and
inhibits him in exercising his free-speech,.rights. Appellees Dan
and Hirsch, claiming that the prosecution of Harris would "inhibit"
them from peacefully advocating the program-of the political party
to which they belonged, and appellee Broslawsky, a college professor, claiming that the prosecution made him "uncertain" as'to
whether his teaching and reading practices would subject him to
prosecution, intervened as plaintiffs. All asserted that' they would
suffer irreparabld injury unless a federal injunction was issued. A
three-judge court, relying on Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380.U. S. 479,
held the Act void for vagueness and overbreadth, and enjoined
Harris' prosecution. Held:
1. 'There is no basis for equitable jurisdiction based on the allegations of appellees other than Harris, who have not been indicted,
arrested, or threatened with prosecution, and the normal -course
of a-state criminal prosecution cannot be blocked on the basis of
fears of prosecution that are merely speculative. Pp. 41-42.
2. Federal courts will not enjoin pending state criminal prosecutions except under extraordinary circumstances where the danger
of irreparable loss is both great and immediate in that (unlike the
situation affecting Harris) there is a threat to the plaintiff's federally protected rights that cannot be eliminated by his defense
against a single prosecution. The decision in Dom browski, supra,
which involved alleged bad-faith harassment and is factually distinguishable from this case, does not substantially broaden the
availability of injunctions against state criminal prosecutions. Pp.
43-54.
281 F. Supp. 507, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U.S

BLAcK, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BuRGER,
C. J., and HARLAN, STEWART, and BLAcmuN, JJ., joined. STEwART,

J., filed a concurring opinion, in which HARLAN, J., joined, post, p.
54. BRENNAN, J., filed an opinion concurring in the result, in
which WHITE and MARSHALL, JJ., joined, post, p. 56. DouGLAS,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 58.

Clifford K. Thompson, Jr., Deputy Attorney General
of California, argued the cause for appellant on the
second reargument. Albert W. Harris,Jr., Assistant Attorney General, argued the cause for appellant on the
original argument and on the first reargument. With
them on the briefs were Thomas C. Lynch, Attorney
General, and Evelle J. Younger, pro se.
A. L. Wirin argued the cause for appellees on the
rearguments. With him on the briefs were Fred Okrand
and Frank S. Pestana. Sam Rosenwein argued the cause
for appellees on the original argument.. With him on
the brief was Mr. Pestana.
MR. JusTice BI~cK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellee, John Harris, Jr., was indicted in a California

state court, charged with violation of the California
Penal Code §§ 11400 and 11401, known as the California
Criminal Syndicalism Act, set out below.' He then filed
I "§ 11400. Definition
"'Criminal syndicalism' as used in this article means any doctrine
or precept advocating, teaching or aiding and abetting the commission of crime, sabotage (which word is hereby defined as meaning
wilful and malicious physical damage or injury to physical property),
or unlawful acts of force and violence or unlawful methods of
terrorism as a means of accomplishing a change in industrial ownership or control, or effecting any political change."
"§ 11401. Offense; punishment
* "Any person who:
"1. By spoken or written words or personal conduct advocates,'
teaches or aids and abets criminal syndicalism or the duty, necessity
or propriety of committing crime, sabotage, violence or any unlawful

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

Opinion of the Court-

a complaint in the Federal District Court, asking that
court to enjoin the appellant, Younger,-the DistrictAttorney of Los Angeles County, from prosecuting him,and alleging that the prosecution and even the presence
of the Act inhibited him in the exercise of his rights of
free speech and press, rights guaranteed him by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. Appellees Jim Dan and
Diane Hirsch intervened as plaintiffs in the suit, claiming
that the prosecution of Harris would inhibit them as
members of the Progressive Labor Party from peacefully
advocating the program of their party, which was to replace capitalism with socialism and to abolish the profit
system of production in this country. Appellee Farrell
Bjroslawsky, an instructor in history at Los Angeles Valley College, also'intervened claiming that the prosecution
of Harris made him uncertain as to whether he could
method of terrorism as a means of accomplishing a change in industrial ownership or control, or effecting any political change; or
"2. Wilfully and deliberately by spoken or written words justifies
or attempts to justify criminal syndicalism or the commission or
attempt to commit crime, sabotage, violence or unlawful methods
of terrorism with intent to approve, advocate or further the doctrine
of criminal syndicalism; or
"3. Prints, publishes, edits, issues or circulates or publicly displays
any book, paper, pamphlet, doument, poster or written or printed
matter in any other. form, containing or carrying written or printed
advocacy, teaching, or 'aid and abetment of, or advising, 'criminal
syndicalism; or
"4. Organizes or assists in.
organizing, or is or knowingly becomes
a member of, any organization, society, group or assemblage of
persons organized or assembled to advocate, teach or aid and abet
criminal syndicalism; or
"5. Wilfully by personal act or conduct, practices or commits any
act advised, advocated, taught or aided and abetted by the doctrine
or precept of criminal syndicalism, with intent to accomplish a
change in industrial ownership or control, or effecting any political
change;
"Is guilty of a felony and punishable by imprisonment in the
state prison not less than one nor more than 14 years."

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

teach about the doctrines of Karl Marx or read from the
Communist Manifesto as part of his classwork. All
claimed that unless the United States court restrained
the state prosecution of Harris each would suffer immediate and irreparable injury. A three-judge Federal District Court, convened pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2284,
held that it had jurisdiction and power to restrain the
District Attorney from prosecuting, held that the State's
Criminal Syndicalism Act was void for vagueness and
overbreadth in violation of the First and Fourteenth
Amendments, and accordingly restrained the District
Attorney from "further prosecution of the currently
pending action against plaintiff Harris for alleged violation of the Act." 281 F. Supp. 507, 517 (1968).
The case is before us on appeal by the State's District
Attorney Younger, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1253. In
his notice of appeal and his jurisdictional statement
appellant presented two questions: (1) whether the decision of this Court in Whitney v. California, 274 U. S.
357, holding California's law' constitutional in 1927 was
binding on the District Court and (2) whether the State's
law is constitutional on its face. In this Court the brief
for the State of California, filed at our request, also
argues that only Harris, who was indicted, has standing.
to challenge the State's law, and that issuance of the
injunction was a violation of a longstanding judicial
policy and of 28 U. S. C. § 2283, which provides:
"A court of the United States may not grant an
injunction to stay proceedings in a State court except
as expressly authorized by Act of Congress, or where
necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to protect or
effectuate its judgn.ents."
See, e. g., Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Engineers, 398
U. S. 281, 285-286 (1970). Without regard to the ques-

YOUNGER v. HRRIS

37

Opinion of the Court

tions raised about Whitney v. California, supra, since
overruled by Brandenburgv. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444 (1969),
or the constitutionality of the state law, we have concluded that the judgment of the District Court, enjoining appellant Younger from prosecuting under these
California statutes, must be reversed as a violation of
the national policy forbidding federal courts to stay or
enjoin pending state court proceedings except under special circumstances.2. We express no* view about the
circumstances under which federal courts may act when
there is no prosecution .pending in -state courts at the
time the federal proceeding is begun.
I
Appellee Harris has been indicted, and was actually
being prosecuted by California for a violation of its
Criminal Syndicalism Act at the time this suit was filed.
He thus has an acute, live controversy with the State
and its prosecutor. But none of the other parties plaintiff in the District Court, Dan, Hirsch, or Broslawsky, has
such a controversy. None has been indicted, arrested, or
even threatened by the prosecutor. About these three
the three-judge "court said:
"Plaintiffs Dan and Hirsch allege that they are
members of the Progressive Labor Party,. which
advocates change ifi industrial ownership and political change, and that they feel inhibited in advo2Appellees did not explicitly ask for a declaratory judgment in
their complaint. They did, however, ask the District Court to grant
"such other and -further relief as to the Court may-seem just and
proper," and the District Court in fact granted a declaratory
judgment. For the reasons stated in our opinion today in Samuels
v. Mackell, post, p. 66, we hold that declaratory relief is also improper when a prosecution involving the challenged statute is pending
instate court at the time ,the federal .suit is initiated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U.-S

cating the program of their political party through
peaceful, non-violent means, because of the presence
of the Act 'on the books,' and because of the pending
criminal prosecution against Harris. Plaintiff Broslawsky is a history instructor, and he alleges that he
is uncertain as to whether his normal practice of
teaching his students about the doctrines of Karl
Marx and reading from the Communist Manifesto
-and other revolutionary works may subject him to
prosecution for violation of the Act." 281 F. Supp.,
at 509.
Whatever right Harris, who is being prosecuted under the
state syndicalism law may have, Dan, Hirsch, and Broslawsky cannot share it with him. If these three had
alleged that they woifld be prosecuted for the conduct
they planned to engage in, and if the District Court had
found this allegation to be true-either on the admission
of the State's district attorney or on any other evidencethen a genuine controversy might be said to exist. But
here appellees Dan, Hirsch, and Broslawsky do not claim
that they have ever been threatened with prosecution,
that a prosecution is likely, or even that a prosecution is
remotely possible. They claim the right to bring this
suit solely because, in the language of their complaint,
they "feel inhibited." We do not think this allegation,
even if true, is' sufficient to bring the eqfiitable jurisdiction
of the federal courts into play to enjoin a pending state
prosecution. A federal lawsuit to stop a prosecution in a
state court is a serious matter. And persons having no
fears of state prosecution except those that are imaginary
or speculative, are not to be accepted as appropriate plaintiffs in such cases. -See Golden v. Zwickler, 394 U. S.
103 (1969)." Since Harris is actually being prosecuted
under the challenged laws, however, we proceed with him
as a proper party.

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

Opinion of the Court

II
Since the beginning of this country's history Congress
has, subject to few exceptions, manifested a desire to
permit state courts to try state cases free from interference by federal courts. In 1793 an Act unconditionally provided: "[N]or shall a writ 6f injunction be
granted to stay proceedings in any court of a state...."
1 Stat. 335, c. 22, § 5. A comparison of the 1793
Act with 28 U. S. C. § 2283, its present-day successor,
graphically illustrates how few and minor have been the
exceptions granted from the flat, prohibitory language
of the old Act. During all this lapse of years from 1793
to 1970 the statutory exceptions to the 1793 congressional
enactment have been only three: (1) "except 'as expressly authorized by Act of Congress"; (2) "where
necessary in aid of its jurisdiction"; and (3) "to protect
or effectuate its judgments'
In addition, a judicial
exception to the longstanding policy evidenced by the
statute has been made where a person about to be prosecuted in a state court can show that he will, if the
proceeding in the state court is not enjoined, suffer irrep.
arable damages. See Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123
(1908).3
The precise reasons for this longstanding public policy
against federal court interference with state court proceedings have never been specifically identified .but the
primary sources of the policy are plain. One is the basic
doctrine of equity jurisprudence that courts of equity
should not act, and particularly should not act to restrain
a criminal prosecution, when the moving party has anadequate remedy at law and will not suffer irreparable.
3 Foi an interesting discussion of the history of this congressional
policy up to 1941, see Toucey v. New York Life Ins. Co., 314 U. S.

118 (1941).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

injury if denied equitable relief. The doctrine may originally have grown out of circumstances *peculiar to the
English judicial system and-not applicable in this country,
but its fundamental purpose of-restraining equity jurisdiction within narrow limits is equally important under
our Constitution, in order to prevent erosion of the role of
the jury and avoid a duplication of legal proceedings and
legal sanctions where a -single suit'would be adequate to
protect the rights asserted. This underlying reason for.
restraining courts. of equity from interfering, with criminal prosecutions is reinforced by'an even 'more vital
consideration, the notion of "comity," that is, a proper
.respect for state functions, a recognition of the fact, that
the entire country is made up of a Union of separate
state governments, and a continuance of the belief that
the National Government will fare best if the States and
their institutions are left free to perform their separate
functions in their separate ways. This, perhaps for
lack of a better and clearer way to describe it, is referred
to by many as "Our Federalism,"' and one familiar with
the profound debates that ushered our Federal Constitution into existence is bound to respect those who
remain loyal to the ideals and dreams of "Our Federalism." -The concept does not mean blind deference to
"States' Rights" any more than it means centralization
of control 'over every important issue in our National
Government and its courts. The Framers rejected both
these courses. What the concept does" represent is a
system in which there is sensitivity to the legitimate
interests of both State and National Governments, and
in which the National Government, anxious though it
may be to vindicate and protect federal rights and federal
interests, always endeavors to do so in ways that will
not unduly interfere with the legitimate activities of the
'States. It should never be forgotten that- this slogan,
"Our Federalism," born in. the early struggling dayp of

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

Opinion of the Court

our Union of States, occupies a highly important place
in our Nation's history and its future.
This brief discussion should be enough. to .suggest
some of the reasons why it has been perfectly natural
for our cases to repeat time and time again that the
normal thing to do when federal courts are asked to
enjoin pending proceedings in state courts is not to issue
such injunctions. In Fenner v. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240
(1926), suit had been" brought in the Federal District
Court seeking to enjoin state prosecutions under a recently
enacted state law that allegedly interfered with the free
flow of interstate commerce. The Coui't, in a unanimous
opinion made clear that such a suit, even with respect
to state criminal proceedings not yet formally instituted,
could be proper only under very special circumstances:
"Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, and following
cases have established the doctrine that when absolutely necessary for protection of constitutional
rights courts of the United States have power to enjoin state officers from instituting criminal actions.
But this may not be done.except under extraordinary
circumstances where the danger of irreparable loss
is both great and immediate. . Ordinarily, there
should be no interference with such officers; primarily, they are charged with the duty of prosecuting
offenders against the laws of the State and must
decide when and how this is to be done. The
accused should first set up and rely upon his defense
in the state courts, even though this involves a
challenge of the validity of some statute, unless
it plainly appears that this course would not afford
adequate protection." Id., at 243-244.
These principles, made clear in the Fennercase, have beeli
repeatedly followed and reaffirmed in other cases involving threatened prosecutions. See, e. g., Spielman Motor

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

Sales Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89 (1935); Beal v. Missouri
Pac. R. Co., 312 U. S. 45 (1941); Watson v. Buck, 313
U. S. 387 (1941); Williams v. Miller, 317 U. S. 599
(1942); Douglas v. City of Jeannette, 319 U. S. 157
(1943).

In all of these cases the Court stressed the importance
of showing irreparable injury, the traditional prerequisite
to obtaining an injunction. In addition, however, the
Court also made clear that in view of the fundamental
policy against federal interference with state criminal
prosecutions, even irreparable injury is insufficient unless it is "both great and immediate." Fenner, supra.
Certain types of injury, in particular, the cost, anxiety,
and inconvenience of having to defend against a single
criminal prosecution, could not by themselves be considered "irreparable" in the special legal sense of that
term. Instead, the threat to the plaintiff's federally
protected rights must be one that cannot be eliminated
by his defense against a single criminal prosecution. See,
e. g., Ex parte Young, supra, at 145-147. Thus, in the
Buck case, supra, at 400, we stressed:
"Federal injunctions against state criminal statutes, either in their entirety or with respect to their
separate and distinct prohibitions, are not to be
granted as a matter of course, even if such statutes
are unconstitutional. 'No citizen or member of the
community is immune from prosecution, in good
faith, for his alleged criminal acts. The imminence
of such a prosecution even though alleged to be
unauthorized and hence unlawful is not alone ground
for relief in equity which, exerts its extraordinary
powers only to prevent irreparable injury to the
plaintiff who seeks its aid.' Beal v. Missouri Pacific
Railroad Corp., 312 U. S. 45, 49."

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

Opinion of the Court

And similarly, in Douglas, supra,,we made clea,
reaffirming this rule, that:

after

"It does not appear from the record that petitioners.
have been threatened with any injury other than
that incidental to every criminal proceeding brought
lawfully and in good faith ... ." 319 U. S., at 164.
This is where the law stood when the Court decided
Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380 U. S. 479 (1965), and held
that an injunction against the enforcement of -certain
state criminal statutes could properly issue under the
circumstances presented in that case.4 , In Dombrowski,
. 4 Neither the cases dealing with standing to raise claims of vagueness or overbreadth, e. g., Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88 (1940),
nor the loyalty oath cases'. e. g., Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360
(1964), changed the basic principles governing the propriety of
injunctions against state criminal prosecutions. In the standing
cases we allowed attacks on overly broad or vague statutes in the
absence of any showing that the defendant's conduct could not be
regulated by some properly drawn statute. But -in each of these
cases the statute was not merely vague or overly broad "on its
face"; the statute was held to be vague or overly broad as construed
and applied to a particular defendant in a particular case. If the
statute had been too vague as written but suffi.ciently narrow as applied, prosecutions and convictions under it .would ordinarily have
been permissible. See Dombrowski, supra, at 491, n. 7.
In Baggett and similar cases we enjoined state officials from
discharging employees who failed to take certain loyalty oaths. We
held that the States were without power to exact the promises
involved, with their vague and uncertaincontent concerning advocacy
and political association, as a condition of employment. Apart from
the fact that any plaintiff discharged for exercising his constitutional right to refuse to take the oath would have had no adequate
remedy at law, the relief sought was of course the kind that raises
no special problem-an injunction against allegedly unconstitutional
state action (discharging the employees) that is not part of a criminal prosecution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

unlike many of the earlier cases denying injunctions, the
complaint made substantial allegations that:
"the threats to enforce the statutes against appellants are not made with any expectation of securing
valid convictions, but rather are part of a plan to
employ arrests, seizures, and threats of prosecution
under color of the statutes to harass appellants and
discourage them and their supporters from asserting
and attempting to vindicate the constitutional rights
of Negro citizens of Louisiana." 380 U. S., at 482.
The appellants in Dombrowski had offered to prove that
their offices had been raided and all their files and records
seized pursuant to search and arrest warrants that were
later summarily vacated by a state judge for lack of probable cause. They also offered to prove that despite the
state court order quashing the warrants and suppressing
the evidence seized, the prosecutor was continuing to
threaten to initiate new prosecutions of appellants under
the same statutes, was holding public hearings at which
photostatic copies of the illegally seized documents were
being used, and was threatening to use other copies of
the illegally seized documents to obtain grand jury indictments against the appellants on charges of violating
the same statutes. These circumstances, as viewed by
the Court sufficiently establish the kind of irreparable
injury, above and beyond that associated with the defense
of a single prosecution brought in good faith, that had
always been considered sufficient to justify federal intervention. See, e. g., Beal, supra, at 50. Indeed,
after quoting the Court's statement in Douglas concerning the very restricted circumstances under which an
injunction could be justified, the Court in Dombrowski
went on to say:
"But the allegations in this complaint depict a
situation in which defense of the State's criminal

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

-

Opinion of the Court

prosecution will not assure adequate vindication of
constitutional rights. They suggest that a substantial loss of or impairment of freedoms of expression
will occur if appellants must await the state court's
disposition and ultimate review in this Court of any
adverse determination. These allegations, if true,
clearly show irreparable injury." 380 U. S., at 485486.
And the Court made clear that even under these circumstances the District Court issuing the injunction would
have continuing power to lift it at any time and remit
the plaintiffs to the state courts if circumstances warranted. 380 U. S., at 491, 492. Similarly, in Cameron
v. Johnson, 390 U. S. 611 (1968), a divided Court denied
an injunction after finding that the record did not establish the necessary bad faith and harassment; the dissenting Justices themselves stressed the very limited role to
be allowed for federal injunctions against state criminal
prosecutions and differed with the Court only on the
question whether the particular facts of that case were
sufficient to show that the prosecution was brought in
bad faith.
It is against the background of these principles that we
must judge the propriety of an injunction under the circumstances of the present case. Here a proceeding was
already pending in the state court, affording Harris an
opportunity to raise his constitutional claims. There
is no suggestion that this single prosecution against
Harris is brought in bad faith or is only one of a series
of repeated prosecutions to which he will be subjected.
In other words, the injury that Harris faces is solely
"that incidental to every criminal proceeding brought
lawfully and in good faith," Douglas, supra, and therefore under the settled doctrine we have already described
he is not entitled to equitable relief "even if such statutes
are unconstitutional," Buck, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

The District Court, however, thought that the Dombrowski decision substantially broadened the availability
of injunctions against state criminal prosecutions and that
under that decision the federal courts may give equitable
relief, without regard to any showing of bad faith or
harassment, whenever a state statute is found "on its

face" to be vague or overly broad, in violation of the First
Amendment. We recognize that there are some statements in the Dombrowski opinion that would seem to
support this argument. But, as we have already seen,
such statements were unnecessary to the decision of
that case, because the Court found that the plaintiffs had
alleged a basis for equitable relief under the long-established standards. In addition, we do not regard the reasons adduced to support this position as sufficient to justify such a substantial departure from the established
doctrines regarding the availability of injunctive relief.
It is undoubtedly true, as the Court stated in Dombrowski, that "[a] criminal prosecution under a statute regulating expression usually involves imponderables and
contingencies that themselves may inhibit the full exercise of First Amendment freedoms." 380 U. S., at 486.
But this sort of "chilling effect," as the Court called it,
should not by itself justify federal intervention. In the
first place, the chilling effect cannot be satisfactorily
eliminated by federal injunctive relief. In Dombrowski
itself the Court stated that the injunction to be issued
there could be lifted if the State obtained an "acceptable
limiting construction" from the state courts. The Court
then made clear that once this was done, prosecutions
could then be brought for conduct occurring before the
narrowing construction was made, and proper convictions
could stand so long as the defendants were not deprived
of fair warning. 380 U. S., at 491 n. 7. The kind of
relief granted in Dombrowski thus does not effectively
eliminate uncertainty as to the coverage of the state

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

Opinion of the Court

statute and leaves most citizens with virtually the same
doubts as before regarding the danger that their conduct
might eventually be subjected to criminal sanctions.
The chilling effect can, of course, be eliminated by an
injunction that would prohibit any prosecution whatever
for conduct occurring prior to a satisfactory rewriting of
the statute. But the States would then be stripped of
all power to prosecute even the socially dangerous and
constitutionally unprotected conduct that had been covered by the statute, until a new statute could b6 passed
by the state legislature and ipproved by the federal
courts in potentially lengthy trial andappellate proceedings. Thus, in Dombrowski itself the Court carefully
reaffirmeA the principle that even in the direct prosecution in the State's own courts, a valid narrowing construction can be applied to conduct occurring prior to
the date when the narrowing construction was made, in
the absence of fair warning problems.
Moreover, the existence of a "chilling effect," even in
the area of First Amendment rights, has never been
considered a sufficient basis, in and of itself, for prohibiting state action. Where a statute does not directly
abridge free speech, but--while regulating -a subject
within the State's power-tends to have the incidental
effect of inhibiting First Amendment rights, it is well
settled that the statute can be upheld if the effect on
speech is minor in relation to the need for control of
the conduct and the lack of alternative means for doing
so. Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147 (1939); Cantwell
v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296 (1940); Mine Workers v.
Illinois Bar Assn., 389 U. S. 217 (1967). Just as the
incidental "chilling effect" of such statutes does not automatically render them unconstitutional, so the chilling
effect that admittedly can result from the very existence
of certain laws on the statute books does not in itself
justify prohibiting the State from carrying out the in-"

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

401 U. S.

portant and necessary task of enforcing these laws against
socially harmful conduct that the State believes in
good faith to be punishable under its laws and the
Constitution.
Beyond all this is another, more basic consideration.
Procedures for testing the constitutionality of a statute
"on its face" in the manner apparently contemplated by
Dombrowski, and for then enjoining all action to enforce
the statute until the State can obtain court approval
for a modified version, are fundamentally at odds with
the function of the federal courts in our constitutional
plan. The power and duty of the judiciary to declare
laws unconstitutional is in the final analysis derived from
its responsibility for resolving concrete disputes brought
before the courts for decision; a statute apparently
governing a dispute cannot be applied by judges, consistently with their obligations under the Supremacy
Clause, when such an application of the statute would
conflict with the Constitution. Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch 137 (1803). But this vital responsibility, broad
as it is, does not amount to an unlimited power to survey
the statute books and pass judgment on laws before
the courts are called upon to enforce them. Ever since
the Constitutional Convention rejected a proposal for
having members of the Supreme Court render advice
concerning pending legislation 5 it has been clear that,
even when suits of this kind involve a "case or controversy" sufficient to satisfy the requirements of Article III
of the Constitution, the task of analyzing a proposed
statute, pinpointing its deficiencies, and requiring correction of these deficiencies before the statute is put into
effect, is rarely if ever an appropriate task for the judiSSee 1 The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, p. 21 (Farrand ed. 1911).

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

Opinion of the Court

ciary. The combination of the relative remoteness of
the controversy, the impact on the legislative process
of the relief sought, and above all the speculative and
amorphous nature of the required line-by-line analysis
of detailed statutes, see. e. g., Landry v. Daley, 280 'F.
Supp. 938 (ND Ill. 1968), rev'd sub nom. Boyle v.
Landry, post, p. 77, ordinarily results in a kind- of case
that is wholly unsatisfactory for deciding -constitutional
questions, whichever way they might be decided. In
light of this fundamental conception of the Framers
as to the proper'place of the federal courts in the governmental processes of passing and enforcing laws, it can
seldom be appropriate for these courts to exercise any
such power of prior approval or veto over the legislative
process.
For these reasons, fundamental not only to our federal
system but also to the basic functions of the Judicial
Branch of~the National Government under our Constitution, we hold that, the Dombrowski decision should not
be regarded as having upset the settled doctrines that
have always confined very narrowly the availability of
injunctive relief against state criminal prosecutions. We
do not think that opinion stands for the proposition
that a federal court ca:n properly enjoin .enforcement
of a statute solely on the basis of a showing that the
statute "on its face" abridges First Amendment rights.
There may, of course, be extraordinary circumstances in
which the necessary irreparable injury can be shown even
in the-absence of the usual prerequisites of' bad faith
and harassment. For example, as long ago as the Buck
case, supra, we indicated:
"It is of course conceivable that a statute might
be flagrantly and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions in every clause, sentence and
paragraph, and in whatever manner and against

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
S'mwART, J.,

concurring

401 U.S.

whomever an effort might be made to apply it."
313 U. S., at 402.
Other unusual situations calling for federal intervention
might also arise, but there is n6 point in our attempting
now to specify what they might be.. It is sufficient for
purposes of the present case to hold, as we do, that
the possible unconstitutionality of a statute "on its face"
does not in itself justify an injunction against goodfaith attempts to enforce it, and -that appellee Harris
has failed to make any showing of bad faith, harassment,
or any other unusual circumstance that would call for
equitable relief. Because our holding rests on the absence of the factors necessary under equitable principles
to justify federal intervention, we have no occasion to
consider whether 28 U. S. C. § 2283, which prohibits
an injunction against state'court proceedings "except as
expressly authorized by Act of Congress" would in and
of itself be controlling under the circumstances of this
case.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed, and
the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsisteni with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE STEWART, with whom MR. JUsTICE HARLT
joins, concurring.*
The questions the Court decides today are important
ones. Perhaps as important, however, is a recognition
of the areas into which today's holdings do not necessarily extend. In all of these cases, the Court deals only

*[This opinion applies also to No. 7, Samuels et al. v. Mackell et
al., and No. 9, Fernandez v. Mackell et al., post, p. 66; No. 41,
Dyson et al. v. Stein, post, p. 200; and No. 83, Byrne et al. v. Karalexis et al., post, p. 216.]

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

STEWART,

J., concurring

with the proper policy to be followed by a federal court
when asked to intervene by injunction or, declaratory
judgment in a criminal prosecution which is contemporaneously pending in a state court.
In basing its decisions on policy grounds, the Court
does not reach any questions concerning the independent
force of the federal anti-injunction statute, 28 U. S. C.
§ 2283. Thus we do not decide whether the word "injunction" in § 2283 should be interpreted to include a
declaratory judgment, or whether an injunction to stay
proceedings in a state court is "expressly authorized" by
§ 1 of the Civil Rights Act of 1871, now 42 U. S. C.
§ 1983.1 And since all these cases involve state criminal
prosecutions, we do not deal with the considerations that
should govern a federal court when it is asked to intervene
in state civil proceedings, -here, for various reasons,, the
balance might be struck differently.2 Finally, the Court
today does. not resolve the problems involved when a
federal court is asked to give injunctive or declaratory
relief from future state criminal prosecutions,
'See also Cameron v. Johnson, 390 U. S. 611, 613-614, n:3; Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380 U. S. 479, 484 n. 2.
2 Courts of equity have traditionally shown greater reluctance to
intervene in criminal prosecutions than in civil cases. See ante, at
43-44; Douglas v. City of Jeannette, 319 U. S. 157, 163-164. The
offense to state interests is likely to be less in a civil proceeding. A
State's decision to classify conduct as criminal provides some indicacation of the importance it 'has ascribed to prompt and unencumbered enforcement of its law. By contrast, the State might not even
be a party in a proceeding under a civil statute.
Cf. Law- Students 'Civil Rights Research Qouncil v. Wadmond,
post, p. 154; Wisconsin v. Constantineau,400 U. S. 433; Rosado v.
Wyman, 397 U. S. 397.
These considerations would not, to -be sure, support any distinction
between civil and criminal proceedings should the ban of 28 U. S. C.
§ 2283, which makes no such distinction, be held unaffected by 42
U. S. C. § 1983.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNANo

J, concurring in result

401 U. S.

The Court confines itself to deciding the policy considerations that in our federal system must prevail when
federal courts are asked to interifere with pending state
prosecutions. Within this area, we hold that a federal
court must not, save in exceptional and extremely limited
circumstances, intervene by way of either injunction or
declaration in an existing state criminal prosecution.'
Such circumstances exist only when there is a threat of
irreparable injury "both great and immediate." A threat
of this nature might be shown if the state criminal statute in question were patently and flagrantly unconstitutional on its face, ante, at 53-54; cf. Evers v. Dwyer, 358
U. S. 202, or if there 'has been bad faith and harassment-official lawlessness--in a statute's enforcement,
ante, at 47-49. In such circumstances the reasons of
policy for deferring to state adjudication are outweighed
by the injury flowing from the very bringing of the state
proceedings, by the perversion of the very process that
is supposed to provide vindication, and by the need for
speedy'and effective action to protect federal rights. Cf.
Georgia v. Rachel, 384 U. S. 780.
MR. JusTICE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JusTiCE MARSHALL join, concurring in

WHiTE

the result.
I agree that the judgment of the District Court should
be reversed. Appellee Harris had been indicted for violations of the California Criminal Syndicalism Act before
he sued in federal court. He has not alleged that the
prosecution was brought in bad faith to harass him.
His constitutional contentions may be adequately adjudi3The negative pregnant in this sentence-that a federal court may,
as a matter of policy, intervene when such "exceptional and extremely
limited circumstances" are found-is subject to any further limitations that may be placed on such intervention by 28 U. S. C.§ 2283.

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

BRENNAN, J., concurring in result

cated in the state criminal proceeding, and federal intervention at his instance was therefore improper.*
Appellees Hirsch and Dan have alleged that they "feel
inhibited" by the statute and the prosecution of Harris
from advocating the program of the Progressive Labor
Party. Appellee Broslawsky has alleged that he "is uncertain" whether as an instructor in college history he
can under the statute give instruction relating to the
Communist Manifesto and similar revolutionary works.
None of these appellees has stated any ground for a reasonable expectation that he will actually be prosecuted
under the statute for taking the actions contemplated.
The court below expressly declined to rely on any finding
"that . . . Dan, Hirsch or Broslawsky stand[s] in any

danger of prosecution by the [State], because of the
activities that they ascribed to themselves in the com*The District Court erroneously interpreted Zwickler v. Koota,
389 U. S. 241" (1967), as authorizing federal court consideration of a
constitutional claim at issue in a pending state proceeding, whether or

not the federal court plaintiff had presented his claim to the state
court. It suffices here to note that in Zwickler no state proceeding
was pending "at the time jurisdiction attached in the federal court.
The court below also thought it significant that appellee Harris had
raised his constitutional claim in the state courts in a motion to dismiss the indictment and in petitions in the state appellate courts for
a writ of prohibition. It was questioned at oral argument whether
constitutional issues could properly be raised by the procedures invoked by Harris, and it was sujg6tet4l that-A 'denial of Harris'
motions did not necessarily involve rejection of his constitutiiAl
clais, Hqweyfer, qyjn ifthe California ewuts hKd at-hat Anterlocutory -stage rejected HarrW>constitutional 'argnnpnts, haij.rejectin would npt have provided -ustification for i terening by
$tle Distint Cotlrt.
Arso
aye sough direct review of that

~ejecif
claims
victio.
modes
of, the

dif his 1

ifitibaffoa

~44fi

~l~'n~~

in requ s& for imfriicti6, anh 6idir
'
aii:V°.ohin, the st.ae cpurts;andjn thi4.,o'i-,Thesge,-we iEeiproper
for presentation and these the proper forums for-consideration
constitutiona issues' ,
, j
lll "-,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DoVGLAs, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

plaint ....

." 281 F. Supp. 507, 516. It is true, as the
court below pointed out, that "[w] ell-intentioned prosecutors and judicial safeguards do hot neutralize the vice
of a vague law," Baggett v. Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360, 373
(1964), but still there must be a live controversy under
Art. III. No threats of prosecution of these appellees
are alleged. Although Dan and Hirsch have alleged that
they desire to advocate doctrines of the Progressive Labor
Party, they have not asserted that their advocacy will be
of the same genre as that which brought on the prosecution of Harris. In short, there- is no reason to think that
California has any ripe controversy with them. See
Golden v. Zwickler, 394 U. S. 103 (1969); Perez v.

Ledesma, post, p. 93 (BRENNAN,

J., concurring and

dissenting).
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS, dissenting.*

The fact that we are in a period of history when
enormous extrajudicial sanctions are imposed on those
who assert their First Amendment rights in unpopular
causes emphasizes the wisdom of Dombrowski v. Pfister,
380 U. S. 479. There we recognized that in times of repression, when interests with powerful spokesmen generate symbolic pogroms against nonconformists, the federal
judiciary, charged by Congress with special vigilance for
protection of civil rights, has .special responsibilities to
prevent an ,,erosion of the individual's constitutional

'rights.

N:

"

Dombrowski represents ;a iiexception to the general
rule :that' federal ioult1should not 'interfere with state
I-rhinal pros&eutniohs. The excption does not arise
merely becausesprosecuons are threatened to which the
jFirst, Amendmen: will be the proffered defense. Dombrowski governs: statutes, which -are' a blunderbuss by
*[This opinion also applies to No. 4, Bofyle, Judg8, et al. v. Landry
et al., post, p. 77.]

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

DouGLAs, J., dissenting

themselves or when used en masse-those that have an
"overbroad" sweep. "If the rule were otherwise, the
contours of regulation would have to be hammered out
case by case-and tested only by those hardy enough
to risk criminal prosecution to determine the proper scope
of regulation." Id., at 487. It was in the context of
overbroad state statutes that we spoke of the "chilling
effect upon the exercise of First Amendment rights"
caused by state prosecutions. Ibid.
As respects overbroad statutes we said at least as early
as 1940 that when dealing with First Amendment rights
we would insist on statutes "narrowly drawn to prevent
the supposed evil." Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S.
296, 307.
The special circumstances when federal intervention in
a state criminal proceeding is permissible are not restricted to bad faith on the part of state officials or the
threat of multiple prosecutions. They also exist where
for any reason the state statute being enforced is unconstitutional on its face. As Mr. Justice Butler, writing
for the Court, said in Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.
197, 214:
"Equity jurisdiction will be exercised to enjoin
the threatened enforcement of a state law which
contravenes the Federal*Constitution wherever it is
essential in order effectually to protect property
rights and the rights of persons against injuries
otherwise irremediable; and in such a case a person,
who as an officer of the State is clothed with the
duty of enforcing its laws and who threatens and is
about to conunence proceedings, either civil or
criminal, to enforce such a law against parties affected, may be enjoined from such action by a federal court of equity."
Our Dombrowski decision was only another facet of
the same problem.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DoUGLAs, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

In Younger, "criminal syndicalism" is defined so
broadly as to jeopardize "teaching" that socialism is
preferable to free enterprise.
Harris' "crime" was distributing leaflets advocating
change in industrial ownership through political action.
The statute under which he was indicted was the one
involved in Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, a decision we overruled in Brandenburgv. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444,
449 1

If the "advocacy" which Harris used was an attempt
at persuasion through the use of bullets, bombs, and
arson, we would have a different case. But Harris is
charged only with distributing leaflets advocating political action toward his objective. He tried unsuccessfully to have the state court dismiss the indictment on
constitutional grounds. He resorted to the state appellate court for writs of prohibition to prevent the trial,
but to no avail. He went to the federal court as a
matter of last resort in an effort to keep this unconstitutional thal from being saddled on him.
The "anti-injunction" statute, 28 U. S. C. § 2283,2 is
not a bar to a federal injunction under these circumstances. That statute was adopted in 1793, § 5, 1 Stat.
335,3 and reflected the early view of the proper role of the
federal courts within American.federalism.
LSec Linde, "Clear and Present Danger" Reexamined: Dissonance
in the Brandenburg Concerto, 22 Stan. L-Rev. 1163 (1970).
2 "A court of the United States may not grant an injunction to stay
proceedings in a State court except as expressly authorized by Act
of Congress, or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate its judgments." (Emphasis added.)
3 In its initial form the "anti-injunction" Act provided: "[N]or shall
a writ of injunction be granted [by any court of the United States]
to stay proceedings in any court of a state." There were no exceptions. In 1874 it was subsequently modified oy an insertion of the

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

DouGLAs, J., dissenting

Whatever the balance of the pressures of localism and
nationalism prior to the Civil War, they were fundamentally altered by the war. The Civil War Amendments made civil rights a national concern. Those
Amendments, especially § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, cemented the change in American federalism
brought on by the war. Congress immediately commenced to use its new powers to pass legislation. Just
as the first Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. 73, and the "anti-injunction" statute represented the early views of American
federalism, the Reconstruction statutes, including the
enlargement of federal jurisdiction,' represent a later view
of American federalism.
One of the jurisdiction-enlarging statutes passed during Reconstruction was the Act of April 20, 1871. 17
Revisers to read: "The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any
court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State,
except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by any
law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." Rev. Stat. § 720.
In Toucey v. New York Life Ins. Co., 314 U. S. 118, 133-134,
in discussing the statutory exceptions to the "anti-injunction" Act
we noted that, while only bankruptcy was the explicit exception,
there were others. (1) The "Removal Acts qualify pro tanto the
Act of 1793." (2) The Act, of 1851 limiting shipowners' liability
"[b]eing a 'subsequent statute' to the Act of 1793 . . .operates as

an implied legislative amendment to it." We also added (3) the Interpleader Act of 1926 and (4) the Frazier-Lcmke-Act_7 Stat. 1473.
Toucey limited a line of cases dealing with nonstatutory exceptions
to the "anti-injunction" Act. Shortly thereafter the current language of § 2283 was written into the. Judicial Code. The Reviser's
Note states: "[T]he revised section restores the basic law as generally
understood and interpreted prior to the Toucey decision." Both
pre-Toucey and post-Toucey decisions recognize implied legislative
exceptions to the "anti-injunction" Act. See Porter v. Dicken, 328
U. S.252; Leiter Minerals v. United States, 352 U. S.220.
4 What is now 28 U. S. C. § 1343 (3) was added in 1871, 17 Stat.
13, and the federal-question jurisdiction of 28 U. S. C. § 1331 was
added in 1875. 18 Stat. 470.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting

401 U. S.

Stat. 13. Beyond its jurisdictional provision that statute,
now codified as 42 U. S. C. § 1983, provides:
"Every person who, under color of any statute,
ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State
or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any
citizen of the United States or other person within
the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any
rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress." (Emphasis added.)
A state law enforcement officer is someone acting under
"color of law" even though he may be misusing his
authority. Monroe v. Pape, 365 U. S. 167. And prosecution under a patently unconstitutional statute is a
"deprivation of . . . rights, privileges, or immunities
secured by the Constitution." "Suit[s] in equity" obviously includes injunctions.I hold to the view that § 1983 is included in the "expressly authorized" exception to § 2283,6 a point not
raised or considered in the much-discussed Douglas v.
City of Jeanwnette, 319 U. S. 157. There is no more good
reason for allowing a general statute dealing with federalism passed at the end of the 18th century to control
another statute also dealing with federalism, passed
almcst 80 y-ars later, than to conclude that the early
concepts of federalism were not changed by the Civil
War.
5We have already held that § 1983 require.- no exhaustion of state
remedies. McNeese v. Board of Education, 373 U. S. 668.
, In accord with the view are Honey v. Goodman, 432 F. 2d 333
(CA6), and Cooper v. Hutchinson, 184 F. 2d 119 (CA3). Opposed
are Goss v. Illinois, 312 F. 2d 257 (CA 7), and Baines v. City of
Danville, 337 F. 2d 579 (CA4).
And see Maraist, Federal Injunctive Relief Against State Court
Proceedings: The Significance of Dombrowski, 48 T6x. I.. Rev. 535,
591 et seq. (1970).

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

DOUGAS, J., dissenting

That was the view of Judge Will in the Boyle case,
Landry v. Daley, 288 F. Supp. 200, 223. In speaking of
the Civil War Amendrnents as "a constitutional revolution in the nature of American federalism" he said:
"This revolution, in turn, represents a historical
judgment. It emphasizes the overwhelming concern
of the Reconstruction Congresses for the protection
of the newly won rights of freedmen. By interposing the federal government between the states
and their inhabitants, these Congfesses sought to
avoid the risk of nullification of these rights by the
states. With the subsequent passage of the Act of
1871, Congress sought to implement this plan by
expanding the federal judicial power. Section 1983
is, thei efore, not only an expression of the importance
of protecting federal rights from infringement by
the states but also, where necessary, the desire to
place the national government between the state and
its citizens." Ibid.
In Boyle the statute makes "intimidation" to "commit
any criminal offense" an offense. The three-judge court
said:
"It . . . makes criminal threats such as the following: (1) threats by dissentient groups to engage
in disorderly conduct, threats by residents of a
high-crime neighborhood to carry concealed weapons
for their own protection, and threats by mothers to
block a dangerous state highway to demonstrate the
need for increased safety measures. Indeed, the
phrase 'commit any criminal offense' is so broad as
'''to include threats to commit misdemeanors punish•'ble by fine' only. These evils are not so substantial
that the statems iterest in prohibiting the threat of
them outweighs the publid interest in giving legitimate political discussion a wide berth." Landi-y v.
Daley, 280 F. Supp. 938, 964.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

Landry and others brought a class action challenging
the constitutional validity of five sections of the Illinois
statutes. They alleged arrests under all but two of the
challenged sections. Just before trial they abandoned
their challenge of two of the five sections. The District
Court held one of the remaining sections constitutional
and the "mob action" and "intimidation" sections unconstitutional. Appellants have not appealed the determination that the "mob action" section of the Illinois
stlatutes is unconstitutional.
The Court dismisses this case because there is no
showing of irreparable injury on what it describes as
"flimsy allegations." Post, at 81. The Court states:
"There is nothing contained in the allegations of the
complaint from which one could infer that any one or
more of the citizens who brought this suit is in any
jeopardy of suffering irreparable injury if the State
is left free to prosecute under the intimidation statute
in the normal manner." Ibid. Landry and his associates, however, allege that appellants are using the
intimidation section along with several other sections
to harass them, not to prosecute them in the normal
manner. They allege that appellants are arresting them
without warrants or probable cause, and detaining them
on excessive bail. They allege that the arrests are made
during peaceful demonstrations and without any expectation of securing valid convictions. In sum, Landry and
his group allege that the "intimidation" section is one
of several statutes which appellants are using en masde
as part of a plan to harass them and discourage their
exercise of their First Amendment rights. There is thus
a lively and existing case or controversy ,concerning
First Amendment rights. And I beJlieve that the federal court acted in'or finest tradition when i issued
the stay.
,
.
J
2
k-*

J

YOUNGER v. HARRIS
37

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

As the stafidards of certainty in statutes containing
criminal sanctions are higher than those in statutes containing civil sanctions, so are the standards of certainty
touching on freedom of expression higher than those in
other areas. Winters v. New York, 333 U. S. 507, 515516. "There must be ascertainable standards of guilt.
Men of common intelligence cannot be required to guess
at the meaning of the enactment. The vagueness may
be from uncertainty in regard to persons within the scope
of the act . . . or in regard to the applicable tests to
ascertain guilt."
Where freedom of expression is at stake these requirements must be more sedulously enforced.
In Younger there is a prosecution under an unconstitutional statute and relief is denied. In Boyle there is
harassment but as yet no prosecution. Allegations of
a prosecution or harassment under facially unconstitutional statutes should be sufficient for the exercise of
federal equity powers.
Dombrowski and 42 U. S. C. § 1983 indicate why ih
Boyle federal intervention against enforcement of the
state laws is appropriate. The case of Younger is even
stronger. There the state statute challenged is the prototype of the one we held unconstitutional in Brandenburg
v. Ohio, supra.
The eternal temptation, of course, has been to arrest
the speaker rather than to correct the conditions about
which he complains. I see no reason why these appellees should be made to walk the treacherous ground
of these statutes. They, like other citizens, need the
umbrella of the First Amendment as they study,
analyze, discuss, and debate the troubles of these days.
When criminal prosecutions can be leveled against them
because they express unpopular views, the society of the
dialogue is in danger.

