U. S. v. DISTRICT COURT FOR WATER DIV. NO. 5

527

Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. DISTRICT COURT IN AND
FOR WATER DIVISION NO. 5 ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE, SUPREME COURT OF COLORADO

No. 812. Argued March 2, 1971Dedided March 24, 1971
In this companion case to U. S. v. District Court for Eagle County,
ante, p: 520, the United States had been served with notice pursuant to 43 U. S. C. § 666 of a proceeding in state court for the
adjudication of water rights affecting areas of the State in the
drainage basins of the Colorado River system. In addition to its
1aim that § 666 does not apply to state court suits against the
Government for adjudication of its reserved water rights, the Govermient contended that the state statutory proceedings involved
in this case, which contemplated monthly proceedings before a
water referee on water rights applications filed within a particular
month, do not constitute general adjudications of water rights
under § 666 because all the water userafnd all water -rights on a
stream system are not implicated in the referee's determinations..
The Gbvernmen
contentions were rejected by the state courts.
Held:
1. The state court has jurisdiction to adjudicate the reserved
water rights of the United States. Eagle County, supra. P. 529.
2. The state statutory proceedings are within the scope of § 666
and reach all claims in their totality, although the adjudication is
made on a monthly basis. Pp. 529-530.

Affirmed.
MiatJusTIcE DOUGLAS delivered thb opinion for a unanmous Court.

MA. JUsTIcE HrAN, though joining in the opinion, filed a concurring statement, po8t, p. 530.

Deputy Assist4nt Attorney General Kiechel argued the

cause for the United States. With him on the briefs were
Solicitor General Griswold, Assistant Attorney General
Kashiwa, Samuel Huntington, and Edmund B. Clark.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Cdurt

401 U. S.

Kenneth Balcomb argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Robert L. McCarty.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to the Eagle County case,
ante, p. 520, and involves an action brought under a different state statute" in the District Court of Colorado
for Water Division No. 5.V That court was given responsibility for water rights determinations affecting "all lands
in the state of Colorado in the drainage basins of the
Colorado river and all of its tributaries arising within
Colorado, with the exception of the Gunnison river,""
which includes the area of the Eagle River system.
Notice was served on the United States pursuant to
43 U. S. C. § 666 (b) and it moved to quash the service.
That motion was denied. A writ of prohibition was
sought in the Supreme Court and it was also denied. The
case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted. 400 U. S.940.
The area covered by this suit includes vastly more
extensive water rights than those involved in the Eagle
County-case. The Forest Service administers four separate national forests in the area: the White River,
Arapaho, Routt, and Grand Mesa-Uncompahgre. The
Department of the Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation, the National Park Service, the Bureau of Land
Management, the Bureau of Mines, and the Bureau of
'The Colorado Water Rights Determination and Administration
Act of 1969, Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 148-21-1 et seq., Colo. Rev. Stat.
Ann. § 148-21-18 (3) (Supp. 1969).
2The

1969 Act here in question abolished the 70 water districts

previously existing and replaced them with seven water divisions.
3 Colo.

Rev. Stat. Ann: § 148-21-8 (6).

U. S. v. DISTRICT COURT FOR WATER DIV. NO. 5
527

529

Opinion of the Court

Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, makes use of water in Water
Division No. 5 for national recreational and other purposes. The Department of the Navy administers certain
naval petroleum and oil shale reserves which, if everdeveloped, would require water to accomplish the federal
purp6 e for which the reservations were made.
The major issue-the scope of the consent-to-be-,ued
provision in 43 U. S,C. §666-hag:been covered i.,
the
Eagle County opinion and need not be repeated here.
It is emphasized, however, that the procedure' under
the new Act are much more burdensome on the Government than they were. under the older Act. It is
pointedout that-the new: statute contemplates monthly
proceedings before 'awater referee on water rights applications: These proceedings, it is argued, do not constitute
general adjudications 6f water rights because all the
water users and all water rights on a stream system are.
not involved in the referee's determinations. The only
water rights considered in th6 proceeding are those for
which an application has been filed within a particular
month. 'It is, also said that the Act makes all water,
rights-confirmed under the new procedifre junior to those
previously awarded.
It is argued from those premises that the proceeding does not constitute a general adjudication which 43
U. S. C. § 666 contemplated. %.As we said in the Eagle
County case, the words "general adjudfcatin" were used
in Duganv. Rank, 372 U. S. 609, 618, to indicate that 43
U. S. C. § 666 does not cover consent by the United States
to be sued in a private suit to determine itsrights against
a few claimants. The present suit, likethe one in the.
Eagle County case, reaches all claims, perhaps month by
month but inclusively in the t6tality; and, as we a.id in
the other case, if there is a collision, between prior adju-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
HAmAN,

J., concurring

401 U.S.

dicated rights and reserved rights of the United States,
the federal question can be preserved in the state decision
and brought here for review.
Affirmed.
MR. JusT cE HA

, concurring.*

I join in the opinions of the Court in these cases,
explicitly disclaiming, however, the intimation of any ,
view as to the existence and .scope of the so-called
"reserved water rights" of the United States, either in
general or in the particular situations here involved.

*This statement applies also to No. 87; United States v. District
Court in and for the County of Eagle et al., ante, p. 520.>-

