MACKEY v. UNITED STATESSyllabus-

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 36.

- Argued

October 21, 1970-Decided April 5, 1971

At petitioner's trial for, income tax evasion, the Gavernment used
monthly wagering tax forms petitioner had filed, as required by
statutei to show that the gross -amount of wagers he reported, less
business expenses, exceeded the gambling profits reported on his
income tax returns. Petitioner objected on the ground that-the
forms were prejudicial and irrelevant, but he was convicted in 1964
and the Court of Appeals affirmed. After this Court's 1968 decisions in Marchetti v. United States, 390 U. S. 39, and Grosso v.
United States, 390 U. S. 62, petitioner applied for postconviction
relief on the ground that the Fifth Amendment barred the prosecution's use of the wagering tax forms. The District Court denied
the application. The Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that
Marchitti and Grosso wvould not be applied retroactively to overturn the earlier income tax evasion conviction based on the
then-applicable constitutional principles. Held:, The judgment is
affirmed. Pp. 671-675, 700-401, 703-713.
411 F. 2d 504, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE -WHITE, joined by THE CHIEF JUSTICE, Ma.
JUSTICE

STEWART, and MR. JUsTICE. BLACKMUN, concluded, that Marchetti
and Grosso are not to be applied retroactively, since no threat to
the reliability of the factfinding process was involved in the use
of the wagering tax forms at petitioner's trial. Tehan v. Shott,
382 U. S. 406; Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S. 719; Williams v.
United States, ante, p. 646. Pp. 671-675.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concluded that in this case, nm uu cuiLateral review, the judgment' should be affirmed, since he cannot
say that the pre-Marchetti rule that prevailed at the time of
petitioner's conviction, viz., that the registration requirement and
obligation to pay the gambling tax did not violate the Fifth -Anendment, was so grossly erroneous as. to work an inexcusable inequity
agajnst petitioner and that the then-existing justification for that
result (that persons could avoid seff-incriminati6n by ceasing to
engage ip illegal activities) is not without some force. 1p.
700-701.
MR. JUSTICE BREN.NA'..,-joined by Ma. JUSTICE MARSHALL, coneluded that the Fifth Amendment does not bar the use of infor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion.-of WHrrE, J.

401 U. S.

1 mation

that, in furtherance of the-general scheme of collecting taxes
and enforcing the tax laws, required those in the business of accepting wagers to report their income, a situation readily distinguishable
from that in-Marchetti and Grosso, where'the Amendment was
held to bar forced disclosure of information that would have subjected the individual concerned to the "real and appreciable" hazard of self-incrimination for violating pervasive state or federal
laws proscribing gamblihg. Pp. 703-713.

WnTS, J., announced the Court's judgment and delivered an
opinion in which BURGER, C. J., and STEWART aid BIAcKmuN, JJ.,
joined. HARLAN, J., filed an opinion: concurring in the judgment,
post, p. 675. BRENNAN, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment; in which MARSHALL, J., joined, post, p. 702. DOUGLAS, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which BLAcx, J., joined, post, p. 713.

William M. Ward "argued the cause and filed briefs
for petitioner.
Matthew .J. Zinn. argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Griswold, Assistant Attorney General Wilson, FrancisX.
Beytagh, Jr., Beatrice Rosenberg, and Mervyn Hamburg.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

announced the judgment of the

Court-and an opinion in which THE CHIEF
JUSTICE STEWART,

and Afa.

JU TICE. MR.

JuSTICE BLACKMUN

join.

An indictment was feturned in March 1963 charging

petitioner Fred, T. Mackey in five counts of evading
payment of income taxes by willfully preparing and
causing to be prepared false and fraudulent tax returns
for the years 1956 through 1960, in violation of 26
U. S. C. § 7201. On January 21, 1964, a jury in the
District Court for the Northern District of Indiana found
Mackey guilty on all five counts.' The conviction was
affirmed on appeal by the Court of Appeals for the
Petitioner received -a sentence of five years' imprisonment and a
fin6 of $10,000 on each count, the prison terms to be served concurrently.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of WHiTn,

J.

Seventh Circuit in the spring of 1965. 345 F. 2d 499
(CA7), cert. denied, 382 U. S.'824 (1965).
At petitio~ner's trial, the Government used the networth method to prove evasion of income taxes.2 -As
part of its case.' it introduced 60 wagering excise tax
returns--one .for,every month of each of the five years
covered by the indictment-fleqd by petitioner pursuant
fo 26 U. S., C. § 4401. A, summary, exhibit prepared,
from these returns and petitioner's income tax returns
were also introduced, and an Internal Ilevenue Service
technical advisor testified that for the 'years in question
the totals of the gross amount of wagers reported on
the wagering tax returns, less the expenses' of running
petitioner's "policy, wheel" operation as reporteH on his
annual income tax returns, exceeded the net profits from
gambling reported on the petitioner's income tax returns.
Defense counsel objected to the introduction of these
exhibits, arguing that, they. were <prejudicial, inflammatory, and irrelevant;*the Government responded that
the wagering tax returns and the sunimary exhibit were
relevant because they showed a likely source of unreporthd income. The exhibits were admitted,, and the
Court of Appeals found, vthout specific discussion, no
3
error in the ruling.
On January 29,.1968, this Court held that the Fifth
Amendment privilege against compulsory self-incrimination was a valid defdnse to a prosecution for failure to
register- as a gambler and to pay the related occupatiorial and gambling excise 'taxes under 26 U. S. C.
2This method of prosecution is discussed and approved in Holland

v. United States, 348 U. S. 121 (1954); Friedbergv. United States,
348 U. S. 142 (1954); Sadth v. United States, 348 U. S.147 (1954);
United States v. Calderon, 348 U.'S. 160 (1954)..
3In rejecting petitioner's application for relief under 28 U. S. C.
§ 2255, the District Judge so read the Court of Appeals' earlier opinion. See App. 28.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of WHrI., J.

401 U. S.

§§ 4401, 4411, 4412., Marchetti v. United States, 390
U. S. 39 (1968); Grosso v.- United States, 390 U. S. 62
(1968). Petitioner, who had begun.serving his sentence
ii December 1965, filed on February 12, 1968, a motion
pursuant to" 28 U. S. C. § 2255 to vacate his sentence
a~d set aside the, judgment of conviction on authority
of Marchetti and Grosso. The motion was denied by
the District Court for the Northern District of Indiana,'
and the Oourt of Appeals affirmed. 411 F. 2d 504 (CA7
-1969)
"Although the Court of Appeals suggested that peti,tioner's- argument that he had not waived the Fifth
Amendment claim by his failure to raise it at-trial was
open to question, 411 F. 2d, at 506-507, it specifically
held, that Marchetti and Grosso. would not be applied
retroactively to upset a pre-Marchetti conviction for
'The District Court advanced several reasons for denying petitionei's'application., See App. 27-39. Noting that with gambling
excie tax returns "there'is little danger of their unreliability other
than their possible understatement of liability," id., at 32, the District Judge held that Marchettj and Grosso should not be applied to

petitioner's ,cpe:
"An examination of these and other cases reveals no instance where
the [Supieme] Court has given, retroactive application to an exclnsionary rule or 'other Constitutional g-uarantee where the reliability
of the fact finding process had not been jeopardized. The briefs for
[Mickey] have suggested none. In [petitioner] Mackey's trial, the
introduction of-the wagering tax forns did not jeopardize the integrity
of the trial except to the extent that they showed that he was engaged
in illegal activities -other than that ctlarged. This possibility was
raised by Mackey's. attorneys at the trial, and apparently on appeal,
and both times the Courts held that there was no error." Id., at 36.
We note in reference to the last point mpntioned by the District
Judge that at trial the court's charge to the jury included several
strong admonitions .to the effect that the question of whether any
business run by petitioner was legal or illegal'was irrelevant to the
offense charged in,,the indictment-failure to report income for five
years. See Brief for, the United'8tates 11.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES

667

Opinion of WHrrE, J.

evading payment of indome tax simply because the
wagering .excise tax refurns filed pursuant' to 26 U. S. Ca
§ 4401 were introduced in'evidence at trial. Employing
the threefold analysis set forth in our retroactivity decisions, see, e.- g., Stovall v. DennO, 388 U. S. 293, 297
(1967), the Court of Appeals found that law enforcement
officials had relied on the old rule, that retr6active application of Mar'chetti and Grosso in cases such as petitioner's would have a substantial impact on the administratibn of justice, and that "[t]he unreliability of .the
fact-finding process which is the touchstone of retro*activity ,is'simply not threatened by the impersonal command of the wagering tax laws." 411 F. 2d, at 509. We'
granted certiorari. 396 U. S. 954.
'I
In /nited States v. Kahriger,.345 U. S.: 22 (1953),
a prosecution for failure to register and pay the g4mbling
tax, this Court held that the registration requirement
,and thi obligation to par the gambling tax did not violate
the Fifth Amendment. The Court construed'the privilege as relating "only to past acts, not to future.acts that
*may or may not be committed..... Under -the registration provisions of the wagering'tax, appellee is not
compelled to confess' to acts already committed, he is
merely informed by the statdte thatin Qrder to engage
in the business of wagering in the future he must fulfill
certain conditions." 345 1,US., at 32-33. Lewis v.
United States, 348 U. S.419 (1955), reaffirmed thie. construction, of the Fifth Amendment. Thirteen years later
we 'could not agree with what was deemed an "excessively
narrow" view of'Ahe scope of the privilege. 390'U. S., at
52. The "force of the constitutional prohibition is [not]
diminished merely because confession of a guilty purpose
precedes the act which- it is subsequently employed to

OCTOBER TERM; 1970

Opinion of
evidence."

WHITE, J.

401 U. S.

390 U. S., at 54. The gambling registration

and tax requirements were held to present substantial
risks of self-incrimination and therefore to be unenforceable; imposition of criminal penalties for noncompliance
was -an impermissible burden on the exercise of the

privilege.
Until Marchetti and Grosso, then, the registration and
'gambling tax provisions had the express approval of this
Cburt; the Fifth Amendment provided no defense to a
criminal prosecution for failure to comply. But as of
January 29, 1968, the privilege was expanded to excuse
noncompliance. The 'statutory requirement to register
and file gambling tax returns was held to compel selfincrimination and the privilege became a complete defense
to a criminal prosecution for failure to register and pay
the related taxes. It followed that the registration and
excise tax returns filed in response to the statutory command were compelled statements within the meaning. of
the 'Fifth Amendment and accorgdingly were inadmissible
in evidence as part of the prosecution's case in chief.
The question before us is whether the Marchetti-Grosso
rule applies retroactively and invalidaies Mackey's cofiviction because his gambling -excise tax returns were
introduced against him at his trial for income tax evasion.
We have today reaffirmed the nonretroactivity of decisions overruling prior constructions of the Fourth
Amendment. Williams v. United States and Elkanich
v. United States, ante, p. 646. The decision in those
cases represents the approach to the question of when
to accord retroactive sweep to a Inew constitutional rule
taken by this Court in the line of cases from Linkletter I
in 1965 to Desist 6 in 1969. Among those cases were two
which determined that earlier decisions extending the
5
'Linkletter v.
6

Walker, 381 U. S.618 (1965).
Desist v. United'States, 394 U. S,244 (1969).

MACKEY -v. UNITED STATES
667

.Opinion of WHM',

673

J.

reach of the Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination would. not be retroactively
applied to invalidate prior convictions that in, all respects conformed to the "then-controlling law.
In.Tehan v. Shptt, 382 U. S. 406 (1966), the Court de•clined to apply the rule of Griffin v. California,380 U. S.
609 .(1965), to prisoners seeking collateral relief. Griffin
had construed the Fifth Amendment to forbid comment
on defendants' failure to testify, thereby removing .a burden from the exercise of the privilege against compulsory
self-incrimination and further implementing its purpose.
The basic purpose of the privilege, we said, was not re-,
lated to "protecting the innocent from conviction," 382
U. S., at 415; the privilege "is not an adjunct to the ascertainment of truth," but is aimed at serving the complex
of values on which it has historically rested 382 U. S.,
at 416. Given this purpose, clear reliance on the preGriffin rules, and the frustration of state interests which
retroactivity would have entailed, we refused relief to a
state prisoner seeking collateral relief although the prosecutor's comment on his failure to take the stand at his
trial would have infringed the new rule that was -announced in Griffin and was being applied in contemporary
'trials.
Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S. 719 (1966), reaffirmed
this view of the Fifth Amendment by declining to apply
the Miranda7 rules to cases pending on direct review as
well as to those involving applications for collateral relief. Stating that the "prime purpose of these rulings
is to guarantee full effectuation of the privilege against
self-incrimination, the mainstay of our adversary system
of criminal justice,". 384 U. S., at 729, the Court also
recognized that the new rules to some extent did guard
against the possibility of unreliable admissions given
7

Mirandav.Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of WHrTE, J.

401 U. S.

during custodial interrogation. Id., at 730. The question, however, was one of "probabilities." The hazard
of untrustworthy results in past trials was not sufficiently
apparent to require retroactive application in view of
the, existing, well-defined remedies against the use- of
many involuntary confessions, the obvious fact that the
new warnings had not been standard practice prior to
Miranda, and the consequent disruption to the administration of the criminal law.
II
Guided by our decisions dealing with thi retroactivity
of riew constitutional interpretations of the broad languAge of the Bill of Rights, we agree with the Court of
Appeals that Marchetti and Grosso should not have any
retroactive effect on Mackey's conviction. Petitioner
was convicted in strict accordance with then-applicable
constitutionaf norms. Mackey would have a significant
claim only ifkMarchetti and Grosso must be given full
retroactive sweep. But in overruling Kahrigerand Leuiis,
the Court's purpose was to provide for a broader implementation of the Fifth Amendment privilege-a privilege
that does not include at'its core a concern for improving
the reliability of the results reached at criminal trials.
There is no indication in Marchetti,or Grosso 'that one
of the considerations which moved the Court to hold
that the Congress could not constitut ally compel citizens to register as gamblers and file related tax returns
was the probable unreliability of such statements once
given. Petitioner has not advanced any objective considerations suggesting such unreliability. The wagering
taxreturns introduced in evidence at his trial have none
of the characteristics, and hence none of t6e potential unreliability; of coerced confessions produced by "overt and
obvious coercion.', Johnson, 384 U. S., at 730. Nor
does Mackey suggest that his returns-made under

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of Hi[Lw, J.

oath-were inaccurate in any respect.' Thus, a gambling
excise tax return, like physical evidence seized in violation of a new interpretation.of the Fourth Amendment,
is concededly relevant and probative even though obtained by the Government through, means since "defined
by this Couif,'as constitutionally objectionable. As in-Desist, Elkanich, and William&,*the result. here should
be that a pre-Marqhetti trial in which' the Government
-employed such evidence -is not setf aside through retro&ctive application of the new constitutiojhal principle.
The short"of the matter is that Marchetti and Grosso
raise not the slightest doubt about the accuracy-of the
verdict -of guilt rturned hdre. Under these circumstances, the principles represented by Elkzifich and Williams, as.-well as by Tehan and Johnson, must"control.
For' Tehan and Johnson indicate that-even though aebi.sions reinterpreting the' Fifth. Amendment may ereatek
marinal dqubts as to the accuracy of thie results- of
past trials, th purposes of those decisiens are adequately
served-by prospectiv" application. Accordingly,' the
judgment of the Court, of Appe
affirmed.
-

It' is so ordered.
MR. J'JSgTCE HARL&A, c ncurring in the' judgments
in .Nos. 36 and 82- and dissenting in No'8t'
These- three cases have one, question in common:
the extent-to which new constitutional rules prescribed
by this Court for the conduct of cfiminal cases are -pplicable to other Auch cases which were litigated under differ-.
ent but' then:jrevailing constitutional rules.
One of these cases is.bpfore us on direct review, No.
81, Williams, the other two being here on collateral
review, No. 82, Elkanich, and No. 36, Mackey. In each
iristance the new rule is held not applicable, and, in
8 See

n. 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of

HARL x,

J.

401 U. S.

consequence, the judgments below are affirmed, without
reaching the merits of the underlying questions presented. Two of the cases, Williams and Elkanich, involve the Court's decision in Chimel v. California, 395
'U. S. -752 (1969), changing the rule as to the scope of
permissible searches and seizures incident to a lawful
arrest. The other case, Mackey, involves the Court's decisions in Marchettiv. United States, 390 U. S. 39 (1968),
and Grosso v. United States, 390 U. S. 62 (1968), changing
the rule as to the application of the privilege against selfincrimination with respect to criminal prosecutions arising under the federal gambling tax statutes.
Today's decisions mark another milestone in the development of the Court's "retroactivity" doctrine, which
came into being somewhat less than six years ago in
Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U. S. 618 (1965). That doctrine was the product of the Court's disquietude with the
impacts of its fast-moving pace of constitutional innovation in the criminal field. Some members of the Court,
and I have come to regret that I was among them, initially grasped this doctrine as a way of limiting the reach
of decisions that seemed to them fufidamentally unsound. Others rationalized this resort to prospectivity
as a "technique" that provided an "impetus . . . for the

implementation of long overdue reforms, which otherwise could not be practicably effected." Jenkins v. Delaware, 395 U. S. 213, 218 (1969). The upshot of this
confluence of viewpoints was that the subsequent course
of Linkletter became almost as difficult to follow as the
tracks made by a beast of prey in search of its intended
victim. See my dissenting opinion in Desist v. United
States, 394 U. S. 244, 256-257 (1.969). See also United
States v. United States Coin & Currency, post, p. 728
(appendix to concurring opinion of. BRENNAN, J.).
It was this train of events that impelled me to suggest
two Terms ago in Desist that the time had "come for us

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES

667

Opinion of

HARLAN, J

to pause to consider just wherq these haphazard developments mighi be leading us. That is whatI had thought
underlak the taking of these cases, and their companions,
United States v. United States Coin & Currency, post,
p. 715, and Hill v. California,post, p. 797. Regrettably,
however, this opportunity has largely eventuated in
little more than a reaffirmation of the post-Linkletter
developments.
What emerges from today's decisions is that in the
realm of. constitutional adjudication in the-criminal field
the Court is free to act, in effect, like a legislature, making its new constitutional rules wholly or partially retroactive or only prospective as it deems wise. I completely
disagree with this point of view. While I do not subscribe to the Blackstonian theory that the law should be
'taken to have always been what it is said to-mean at a
later time, I do, believe that whether a new constitutional
rule is to be given retroactive or simply prospective effect
must be determined upon principles that comport with
the judicial function, and not upon considerations that
are appropriate enough for a legislative body.

I
At the outset, I think it is clear that choosing a binding, generally applicable interpretation of the Constitution presefits a problem. wholly different from that of
choosing whether to apply the rule so ev.olved "retroactively".to -other cases arising on direct review.
In adopting a particular constitutional prihciple, this
Court very properly weighs the nature and purposes of
various competing alternatives, including the extent to
which a proposed rule will enhance the integrity of th
criminal process and promote the efficieit administration of justice, as well as the extent to which justifiable
expectations have grown up surrounding one rule or
another. Indeed, it is this very process of weighing such

OCTOBER TERM. 1970
Opinion of HAEnA,

J.

401 U. S.

factors that should constitute tlte core of our task in
,giving concrete embodiment to those constitutional com:mands that govern the procedures by wrhich the State
and Federal Governments enfqrce their criminal laws.
But we possess this awesome power of judicial review,
this duty to bind -coordinate branches of the federal system with-our view qf what the Constitution dictates, only
because we are a court of law, an appellate court charged
with the responsibility of adjudicating cases or controversies according to the lew of the land and because the
law applicable to any such dispute necessarily includes
the Federal Constitution. That is the classic explana'tion for:the basis of judicial review, an explanation first
put forth by Chief Justice Marshall in Marliury v. Madis6n, 1, Cranch 137, 177-178 (1803), aAd from that day,
to this the sole continuing rationale for the exercise of
thi judicial power:
"Certainly all those who hav framed wrtten constitutions cont6mplate them as forming the fundarifental and paramount law of the nation ....
"It is emphatically the province and duty of thi
judicial department to say what the law is; Those
who apply the rule to particular cases, must of necessity expound and interpret -that tule. If two laws
conflict -with each other, the courts must decide on
the.operation of each.
"If then the courts aNe. to regardthe constitftion;!
9nd the constitution is superior to any ordinary act.
-'of
the6jegislature; the constitution, and not silch
oidin-ary act, must govern the case to whieh. they
both apply."
We aninounce new conistitufional rules, th~n, only as a
rrelative of Our dual duty"to decide thoi .cases over

MACKEY v. UNITED.STATES
667

Opinion of HEuLa

',

J.

which we have jurisdiction and to apply the Federal Constitution as one source of the matrix of governing legal
rules. We cannot release criminals from jail merely because we think one case is. a particularly appropriate one
in which to apply what reids like a general rule of law,
or in order. to avoid making new legal norms through
promulgation of dicta. This serious interference with'
the corrective process is justified only .by necessity, as
part of ouir task of applying the Constitution to cases
before us. Simply fishing'oie case frQm the stream.of
appellate review, using it as a vehicle for pronouncing
new constitutional standards, and' then permitting -a
stream of similar cases subsequently to flow by unaffected
by that new rule constitute an indefensible departure
from this model of judicial review.
If we do not resolve all cases before us on direct review
in light of our best understanding of governing constitutional principles, it is difficult to see why we should so
adjudicate any case at all. If there is no need for an
anti-majoritarian judicial control over the content of our
legal system in nine cases precisely" like that presented
by Mr. Chimel's dispute with the State of California, 'it
is hard to see the necessity, wisdom, or jifstification for
imposing that control in the Jhimel case itself. In truth,
the Court's assertion of power to disregard current law in
adjudicating cases before us that have not already run
the full course of appellate. review, is quite simply an
assertion that our constitutional function is not one of''
adjudication but in effect of legislation. We apply and
definitively interpret the Constitution, under this view
of our role, not because we are bohnd to, but only because
we occasionally deem it appropriate, useful, or wise. That
sort of choice may permissibly be made by a legislature
or a council of revision, but not by a coiirt of law.
The notion that cases before -us on direct review need
not be adjudicated in accordance with those legal princi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of B

u, J.

401 U. S.

ples koverning at the time we are possessed of jurisdiction in the case entails additional significant uitoward
consequences. By this doctrine all other courts in this
country are, in effect, reduced largely tb the role of automatons, directed by us to apply mechanistically all then-settled federal constitutional concepts to every case before
them. No longer do the inferior courts-and, in the
constitutional realm, all cburts are. inferior to us--bear
responsibility for developing or interpreting the Constitution. For- it is- a necessary corollary of this current
retroactivity doctrine that an inferior court errs when it
arrives at a result which this Court subsequently adopts
but later decides must operate prospectively only. See
my dissent in Desist, 394 13. S., at 259. Cf. United States
v. White, post, p. 754 (Part II), and my dissenting
opinion in th 4 t case, post, p. 768. 'See also United
'States v. United States Coin & Currency, post, p. 730
(WHaiTE, J., dissenting). Although it is necessary for
the proper functioning of the-federal system that this
Court possess the last word on issues of federal corstitutional law, it is intolerable that-we take to ourselves the
sole ability to speak to such problems.
Refusal to apply new constitutional rules, to all cases
arising on direct review may well substantially deter
those.whose financial resources. are barely sufficient to
withstand the "costsof litigating to this Court, or attorneys
who are willing to make sacrifices to perform their professional. obligation in its broadest sense, from asserting
rights bottomed' on constitutiofial interpretations different from those currently prevailing in this Court. Moje
importantly, it tends to cut this Court loose from the
force .of precedent, allowing us to restructure artificially
those expectations legitimately created by extant law and
thereby mitigate the practical force-of stare decisis, Linkletter v. Walker, 381- U. S., at 644 (BAciK, J., dissenting), a. force wihich ought propefly- to bear on the

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of HAiLN J.

judicial resolution of any legal problem. Cf. Moragne
v. States Marinie Lines, 398 U. S. 375, 403 (1970).
One could catalogue virtually ad infinitum what I view'
as unacceptable ancillary consequences of this aspect of
the Court's ambulatory retroactivity doctrine. For me,
the fact that this aoctrine entails- an inexplicable and
unjustifiable departure from the basic principle upon
which rests the institution of judicial review is sufficient
to render it untenable. I continue to believe that a
proper perception of oui duties as a court of law, charged
with applying the Constitution to resolve every legal
dispute within our jurisdiction on 'direct review, mandates that we apply the law as it is at the time, not as
it once was. Inquiry into the nature, purposes," and
scope of a particular constitutional rule is essential to
the task of deciding whether that rule should be made
the law of the land. That inquiry is, however, quif
simply irrelevant in deciding, once: a rule -has been
adopted as part of our .legal fabric, which cases then
pending ift this Court should be go- erned by it.
II
Of the cases presently under discussion, only Williams
involves direct review of a nonfinal criminal judgment.
The other two, Elkanich and Mackey, were brought here
by persons in federal bustody, seeking release through
issuance of a writ of habeas corpus.' At the time their
II realize, of course, that state prisoners are entitled to seek
release via habeas corpus under 28 U. S. C. § 2241, while federal
prisoners technically utilize what is denominated a motion to vacate
judgment under 28 U. S. C. § 2255. However, our cases make these
remedies virtually congruent and the purpose of substituting a
motion to vacate for the traditional habeas action in the federal

system was simply to alter one minor jurisdictional basis for,the
writ. See United States v. Hayman, 342 U. S.205 (1952).- As I do not propose to make any distinction, for retroactivity purposes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of H

, J.-

.

401 U. S.

convictions became final, there was no constitutional
error in'the conviction of either, Since that time subsequent decisions of this Court have formulated new constitutional rules that invalidate the procedures like those
involved in their trials.
While, as I have just stated, I think it clear what law
should be applied to nonfinal convictions here on direct
review, the choice of, law problem as it applies to cases
here on habeas seems to me a. much more difficult one.
Howeter, that choice, in my view, is also one that canbe responsibly made only by focusing, in the first instance, on the nature, function, and scope of the adjudicatory process in which such cases arise. The relevant
frame of reference, in other-words, is not the purpose of
the new rule whose benefit the petitioner seeks, but
instead the purposes for which the writ of habeas corpus
is made available.
As, I first pointed out in my dissent in Detist, 394
U. S.; at 260-261, this Court's function in reviewing'a
decision allowing or disallowing a writ of habeas corpus
is, and always has been, significantly different from our
role in reviewing on direct appeal the validity of nonfinal criminal convictions. While the entire theoretical
underpinnings of judicial review and constitutional
supremacy dictate that federal courts having jurisdiction
on direct review adjudicate every issue of law, including
federal conqtitutional issues, fairly implicated, by the
trial process below and properly presented on appeal, federal courts have never'had a similar obligation on habeas
corpus.
,:Habeas 'corpus always has been L collateral remedy,
providing- an avenue fdr upsetting judgments that
between state and 'federal prisoners seeking collateral relief, I shall

refer throughout this opinion to both procedures as the writ of
habeas corpus, and cases before us involving such judgments as caseshere on collateral review.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of

HuuLAN, J.

have become otherwise final. It is .not designed as
a substitute for direct review. The inteeest in leaving
concluded litigation in a state of repose, that is, reducing
the controversy to a. final judgment not subject to further judicial revision, may quite legitimately be found
by those responsible for defining the scope of the writ
to outweigh in some, many, or most instances the competing interest in readjudicating convictions according to
all legal standards in effect when a habeas petition is
filed. Indeed, this interest in finality might well lead fo
a decision to exclude completely certain legal issues,
whether or not properly determined under the law prevailing at the time of trial, from the-cognizance of courts
adhministering this collateral remedy.- This has always
been the case with collateral attacks on'final civil .judg-ments. 2 More immediately.relevant her6 is the fact that
2For example, 7e have more than once in recent years had before

us -a libel case'in which a party *as allegedly libeled and brought
suit for redress prior to this Court's decision in New York Times
Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254 (1964), where we announced a
new constitutional rule governing labilitr in libel suits brought-by
public officials. Yet no one connected with such cases has. ever
been heard to do so much as hint that the New York Times rule
is not applicable because the conduct complained of occurrei or the
suit was brought before this new'rule was promulgated. See, e. g,
Roaenblattvv. Baer, 383 U, 5. 75 (1966). Cf. Thorpe v. Housing
Authority, 393 U. S. 268, 281-283 (1969).
Conversely, is ii" not perfectly clear that, had such a. party pro.cured and collected a final damage award prior.-to New York'
Times, the defendant could not have urged thai the case be reopened
solely because of our subse4uent decision in that case? Absent
proof of fraud or want of jurisdiction in the trial court that judgment would be res judicata and entitled to full faith and credit
throughout the land.
This is not to suggest that civil and criminal .collateral attack
ought necessarily to be precisely, congruent in the: federal system.
But-certainly -it illustrates that the law has always perceived -ollateral attack as a probl~m quite different from direct appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of Huu",-J.

401 U. S.

prior to Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S. 443 (1953), federal
courts would never consider the merits of a constitutional. claim 'raised on habeas if .the petitioner had a
fair opportuflity to raise his arguments in the original
criminal proceeding, see my dissent in Fay 'v. Noia 372
U. S. 391, 449-463 (1963), unless the petitioner attacked
the constitutionality of the federal, Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 37i (1880), or state, Crowley v. Christensen, 137
U. S. 86 (1890), stat.te unde which he had been convicted. 'See generally Bator, Finality in Criminal Law
and Federal Habeas Corpus for State Prisoners, 76 Harv.
L. Rev. 441, 463 (1963); Note, Developments in the
Law-Federal Habeas Corpus, 83 Harv. L. Rev. 1040,
1042-1062 (1970).
Thus, prior- to Brown v. Allen, it must have been
crystal clear that the*"'retroactivity" of a new constitutional rule was a function of the scope and purposes of the
habeas corpus writ. Absent unusual circumstances, a new
rule was not cognizable on habeas simply because of the
limited scope of the writ. While the extent of inquiry
into alleged constitutional error ori habeas has been drastically expanded in the past 20 years, the retroactivity
problem remains analytically constant. In my view, the
issues respectively presented by the two cases I treat here
that arise on collateral review (Elkanich and Macke /)whether the new rules of the Chimel case and the' Marchetti and Grosso -cases 'should be applied "retroactively"--must be considered as none other than a problem
'as to the scope of the habea" writ. We can properly
decline to apply the Chimel rule, Dr the principles of
Marchetti and Grosso, to the present 'cases only if that
is consistent with the reasons for the provision, in our
federal legal system, of a habeas -corpus proceeding to
test the validity of an individual's official confinement.
Thus I am led to make some inquiry into the purposes
of habeas. At the outset I must note that this faces

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of

HARuN,

J.

me with difficult problems. I have consistently protested a long course of habeas decisions in this Court
which, I still believe, constitute an unsound extension
of the historic scope of the writ and an unfortunate display of insensitivity to the principles of federalism.which
underlie the American legal system. See, e. g., Fay v.
Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 448 (1963) ; Sanders v. ,UnitedStates,
373 U. S. 1, 23 (1963); Kaufman v. United States, 394
U. S. 217, 242 (1969); Townsend v. Sain, 372 U. S. 293,
325 (1963) (STEWART, J., dissenting) . If I felt free
to decide the present cases consistently with my own
views of the legitimate role of the Great Writ, I should
have little difficulty. But as my views on this score have
not commended themselves to most of my Brethren; I feel'
obliged to approach these two collateral cases within the
framework of current habeas corpus doctrine. This is not
an easy exercise, for present habbas corpus decisions provide little assistance in fathoming the underlying-understanding of habeas corpus upon which these decisions have
been premised. The short of the matter. is that this
Court has in recent times yet to produce any considered,
coherent statement of the general purposes of habeas. In
considering the problem of "retroactivity" on direct review, it is possible to work from a general classic theory
of judicial review, but while the specific uses of the habeas
writ have greatly multiplied, the earlier perception of its
general metes and bounds has been swallowed up and
gone unreplaced. About-the only way to pro-eed is to
work from the bottom up, ascertaining first which issues
are cognizable on habeas, and which are not, and thereafter inferring what must be thought to be the nature
of the writ.
I start with the proposition that habeas lies to inquire
into every constithtional' defect in any criminal trial,
where the petitioner remains "in custody" because of the
judgment in that trial, unless the error committed was

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HARnN, J.

401 U. S.

knowingly and deliberately waived or constitutes mere
harmless error. That seems to be the implicit premise of
Brown v. Allen, supra, and the clear purport of Kaufman
v. United States, supra. This is not to say, however, that
the function of habeas corpus is to provide a federal
forum for determining whether any individual is presently "in custody in violationof the constitution . . . of
the United States," 28 U. S. C. § 2254 (1964 ed., Supp.
V), in the sense that the basis for his incarceration would,
under the law existing at the time a petition is filed or
',adjudicated, as distinguished from the law that was
applicable at the time his conviction became final, be
held free of constitutional error. Cf. Meador, Habeas
Corpus andthe "Retroactivity" Illusion, 50 Va. L. Rev.
1115 (1964).
While it has been generally, although not universally,
assumed that habeas courts should apply current constitutional law to habeas petitioners before them,3 I do
not believe this is or should be the correct view. First,
no such proposition has ever been squarely considered and
embraced by this Court, at least since the recent proliferation of criminal defendants' protected constitutional
3

Professor Mishkin has pointed out that "prior .to Linkletter,
the criteria applied in federal habeas corpus proceedings were
uniformly the constitutional standards in effect at the time of those
proceedings, regardless of when the conviction was actually entered."
Mishkin, The Supreme Court 1964 Term-Foreword: The High
Court, the Great Writ, and the Due Process of Time and Law,
79 Harv. L. Rev. 56, 78 (1965). See also, e. g., Note, Developments
in the Law-Federal Habeas Corpus, 83 Harv. L. Rev. 1040, 1151,
1153 (1970);. Sanders v. United States, 373 U. S. 1, 17 (1963);
Miller v. Gladden, 341 F. 2d 972, 975 (CA9 1965).
For a counter-example, see Milton v. Wainwright, 306 F. Supp.
929 (SD Fla. 1969), where a district judge adjudicating a habeas
petition declined to consider any of this Court's decisions relating
to involuntary confessions that postdated 1958, the time at which
the petitioner's murder conviction became final. See also n. 4, infra.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES 667

Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

rights and the concomitant expansion of the writ.

Moreover, applying current constitutional standards to
convictions finalized while different views were ascendant
appears unnecessary to achieve the ends sought by Brown

and Kaufman. The primary justification given by the
Court for extending the scope of habeas to all alleged
constitutional errors is that it provides a quasi-appellate
review function, forcing trial and appellate courts in
both the federal and state system to toe the constitutional mark. See Kaufman v. United-States, 394 U. S.,
at 226. However, the opinioP in Kaufman itself concedes that there is no need to apply new constitutional,
rules on habeas to serve the interests prompted by that
decision.- 394 U. S., at 229. Further, as I explain in
the margin below,' Congress, ii at least one significant
4Arguably, Reck v. Pate, 367 U. S. 433 (1961), tacitly holds that
habeas petitions must be judged in accordance with current law.
The Court there directed the issuance of the writ on the ground
that petitioner's conviction, which became final in 1936, had been procured by the introduction into evidence of an illegally obtained confession, relying heavily on cases decided by this Court subsequent to
1936. The District Court, in denying relief, had clearly held that the
admissibility of his confession was to be judged by standards prevailing in 1936. United States ez rel. Reck v. Ragen, 172 F. Supp. 734,
745-746 (ND Ill. 1959). However,'this choice of law problem was
not expressly adverted to and the case arose before this Court
produced the recent 6nlargement of new constitutional 'rules of
criminal procedure.
1In 1966, Congress amended the habeas statutes to deal with this
Court's'discussion in Sanders v. United States, 373 U. S.1 (1963),
of res judicata principles as they apply -to habeas corpus. One
subsection of that new statute provides:
"In a habeas corpus proceeding brought in behalf of a person
in custody pursuant to the judgment of' a State court, a prior
judgment of the Supreme Court 9f the United States on an appeal
or review . . .of the decision of such State court, shall be conclusive as to all issues of fact or law ... actually adjudicated by
the Supreme Court therein, unless the applicant.. shall plead
and the court shall find the existence of a material and controlling

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HARL

, J.

401 U. S.

regard, seems plainly to have disapproved the notion that
supervening constitutional interpretation oughit to apply
on habeas involving state convictions.
Clearly, it is at least fair to regard this issue as not
yet settled by this Court. Consequently, I go on to
inquire how it ought to be resolved. For me, with a
few exceptions, the relevant compkting policies properly

balance out to the conclusion that, given the current
broad scope of constitutional issues cognizable on Rtabeas,

-

fact which did not appear in the record of the proceeding in the
Supreme Court [and could not have been put in by exercising due
diligence]." 28 U. S. C. § 2244 (c) (1964 ed., Supp. V) (emphasis
added).
Unless one is to read "fact" as including a change in the law, it
would seem that Congress has provided in these circumstances for
finality as to legal determinations. That "fact" is properly read narrowly seems the better view in light of subsections (a) and (b)
which permit a subsequent habeas petition (where there was no
Supreme Court review) if it presents a "new ground" or "a factual
or other ground not adjudicated on the [prior] hearing," Although
the legislative history is extremely sparse, it fully supportg this reading. Both the House and Senate committee reports accompanying
these amendments stated that the purpose of the reformulation of
§ 2244 was to introduce a greater measure of finality into the law by
providing for a qualified application of the res judicata concept. See
H. R. Rep. No. 1892, 89th Cong., 2d Sess., 3, 8 (1966); S.Rep. No.
1797, 89th Cong., 2d Sess., 2 (1966). There was no relevant floor
debate on these amendments.
Nor do I think the converse inference can properly be drawn that,
if Congress provided legal finality for those prisoners whose convictions had been affirmed by us, it intentionally determined that other
convicts should be able to avail themselves of all new constitutional
rules on habeht. The language of subsections (a) and (b) certainly
does not compel such a conclusion. 'The congressional committee
r.ports neither state nor fairly _imply that these amendments were
designed to achieve the maximum, feasible or desirable finality in
habeas proceedings. Most important, it is difficult to imagine what
would be the rationale for such a distinction merely between, those
who have and have not, at some time in the remote past, had full
review of their cases in this Court.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

it is sounder, in adjudicating habeas petitions, generally
to apply the law prevailing at the time a conviction
became final than it is'to seek to dispose of all these
cases on the basis of intervening changes in constitutional
interpretation.
I do not mean to neglect the force of countervailing
contentions. Assuring every state and federal prisoner
a forum in which he can continually litigate the current constitutional validity of the basis for his conviction tends to assure a uniformity of ultimate treatment among prisoners; jrovides a method of correcting
abuses now, but not formerly, perceived as severely detrimental to societal interests; and tends to promote a
rough form of justice, albeit belated, in the sense that
current constitutional notions, it may be hoped, ring
more "correct" or "just" than those they discarded.
In my view, however, these interests are too easily
overstated. Some discrimination must always exist in
the legal treatment of criminal convicts within a system
where the governing lawV is continuously subject to
change. And it has been the law, presumably for at least
as long as anyone currently in jail has- been incarcerated, that procedures utilized to convict them must have
been fundamentally fair, that is, in accordance with the
command of the Fourteenth Amendment that "[n]o
State shall . . deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law." Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S.78 (1908). Moreover, it is too easy to
suggest that constitutional updating is necessary in order
to assure that the system arrives only at "correct" results.
By hypothesis, a final conViction, state or federal, has
been adjudicated by a court cognizant of the Federal Constitution and duty bound to apply it. To argue that a
conclusion reached by one of these "inferior" courts is
somehow forever erroneous because years later this Court
took a different view of the relevant constitutional com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of HARiLu , J.

401 U. S.

mand carries more emotional than analytic force. No
one has put this point better than Mr. Justice Jackson,
in his concurring opinion in Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S.,
at 540:
"[R]eversal by a higher court is not proof that
justice is thereby better done. There is no doubt
that if there were a super-Supreme Court, a substantial proportion of our reversals of state courts
would also be reversed. We are not final because
we are infallible, but we are infallible only because
we are final."
More importantly, there are operative competing polities in this area which I regard as substantial. It is, I
believe, a matter of fundamental import that there be a
visible end to the litigable aspect of the criminal process.
Finality in the criminal law is an end which must always
be kept in plain view. See, e. g., Fay v. Noia, 372
U. S., at 445 (Clark, J., dissenting); Spencer'v. Texas,
385 U. S. 554, 583 (1967) (Warren, C. J., concurring
and dissenting). See also Bator, Finality in Criminal
Law and Federal Habeas Corpus for State Prisoners,
76 Harv. L. Rev. 441 (1963); Friendly, Is Innocence
Irrelevant? Collateral Attack on Criminal Judgments,
38 U. Chi.. L. Rev. 142, 146-151 (1970). As I have
stated before, "Both the individual criminal defendant
and society have al interest in 'insuring that there will
at some point be the certainty that comes with an
end to litigation, and that attention will ultimately
.be focused not .on whether a conviction was free from
error but rather on whether the prisoner can be restored
to a useful place in the communiti." Sanders v. United
States, 373 U. S., at 24-25 (HARLAN, J., 'dissenting).
At some point, the criminal process, if it is to function, at all, must turn its attention from whether a
man ought properly to be incarcerated to how he is to

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES

667

Opinion of

HAwAN,

J.

be treated once.convicted. If law; criminal or otherwise,
is worth having*and enforcing, it must at some time provide a definitive answer to the questions litigants present
or else it never provides an answer at all. Surely it-is an
unpleasant task to strip a man of his freedom and sub ject
him to institutionial restraints. But this does not mean
that in so doing, we should always be halting or
tentative. No one, not criminal defendafits, "not the
judicial system, not society as a whole is benefited by a
judgment providing a man shall tentatively go to jail
today, but tomorrow' . nd every °day thereafter his continued incarceration shall be subject 'to.fresh litigation
on issues already resolved.
A rule, of law that fails to take account of these finality
interests-would do more than subvert the criminal process
itself. It would also seriouslr distort the very limited
resources society has allocated to the criminal process.
While men languish in jail, not uncommonly for over a
year, awaiting a first trial on their guilt or innocence, it
is not easy to justify expending'substantial quantities of
tle time and energies of judges, prosecutors, and defense
lawyers litigating the validity under present law of criminal convictions that were perfectly free from error when
made final. See Friendly, supra, t 148-149. This drain
on society's resources is compounded by the fact that
issuance of the habeas writ compels a State that wishes
to continue enforcing its'laws against the successful petitioner to relitigate facts buried in the remote past through'
presentation of witnesses whose memories of the relevant
events often have dimmed. This very act of trying stale
facts may well, ironically, produce a second trial no more
reliable as a matter of getting at the truth than the first.
See Amsterdam, Search, Seizure, and Section.2255: A
Comment, 112 U. Pa. L. Rev. 378, 384 (1964).
In sum, while, the case for" continually inquiring into
the current constitutional validity of criminal convictions

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of

HAwaN,

J.

401 U. S.

on collateral attack is not an insubstantial one, it is by no
means overwhelming. Most interests such a doctrine
would serve will be adequately protected by the current
rule that all constitutional errors not waived or harmless
are correctible on habeas and by defining such errors
according to the law in effect when a conviction became
final. Those interests not served by this intermediate
position are, in my view, largely overridden by the interests in finality.
Although not necessary to the resolution of either of
the two collateral cases now here, for sake of completeness I venture to add that I would make two exceptions
to this general principle. First, the above discussion
is written only with new "procedural due process" rules
in mind, that is, those applications of the Constitution
that forbid the Government to utilize certain techniques or processes in enforcing concededly valid societal
proscriptions on individual behavior.'
New "substantive due process" rules, that is, those that place, as
a matter of constitutional interpretation, certain kinds
of primary, private individual conduct beyond the
power of, the criminal law-making authority to proscribe,7 must, in my view, be placed on a different
footing. As I noted above, the writ has historically
61 have in mind, ot course, decisions such as. Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335 (1963); Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U. S. 643 (1961);
.Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966); Chimel v. California,
395 U. S. 752 (1969).
7 For example, Street v. New York, 394 U. S.'576 (1969); Stanley
v. Georgia, 394 U. S. 557 (1969); Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U. S.
479 (1965); Loving v. Virginia, 388,U. S. 1 (1967). Some rules
may have both procedural and substantive ramifications, as I have
used those terms here. See, e. g., my discussion, in Part IV-C of this
opinion of the divergent ways Marchetti v. United States, 390, U. S.
39 (1968), and Grosso v. United States, 390 Uz S. 62 (1968), bear
on the problems raised by today's Fifth Amendment cases.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES

667

Opinion.of

HARLAN, J.

been available for-attacking convictions on such grounds.'
This, I believe, is because it represents -the clearest instance where finality, interests should yield. There is
little societal interest in permitting the criminal process
to rest at a point where it ought properly never to
repose. Moreover, issuance of the writ on substantive
due process grounds entails none-of the adVerse collateral
consequences of retrial I have described'above. Thus, the
obvious interest in freeing individuals from punishment
for conduct that is constitutionally protected seems to
me sufficiently substantial to justify applying current
notions of substantive due process to petitions for habeas
corpus. See generally Part II of- my opinion for the
Court in United States v. United States Coin & Currency,
post, p. 722.
Secondly, I think the writ ought always to lie for
claims of nonobservanc.e of those procedures that, as so
aptly described by Mr. Justice Cardozo in Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 325 (1937), are "implicit in the
concept of ordered liberty." Typically, it should be the
case that any conviction free from federal constitutional
error at the time it became final, will be found, upon reflection, to have been fundamentally fair and conducted
under those procedures essential to the substance of a
full hearing. However, in some situations it might be
that time and growth in social capacity, as, well as judicial perceptions of what we can rightly demand of the
adjudicatory process, will properly alter our 'understanding of the bedrock procedural elements that must be
found to vitiate the fairness of a particular conviction.
-

See. e. g., Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.' 371 (1880); Crowley v.
Christenselt, 137 U. S. 86 (1890);. Yictk Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356 (1886). And see cases collected in Amsterdam, Search, Seizure,

and Section 2255: A Comment, 112 U. Pa. L. Rev. 378,, 384 n. 30
(1964), and the discussion therein of the finality implications such
instances present.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion. of

HARAm

J.

401 U.S.

For example, such, in my view, is the case with the right'
to counsel at trial now held a necessary condition precedent to any conviction for a serious crime. See my separate opiniorr in Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. .S. 335, 349
(1963), where I concurred in conferring this right on a
state prisoner, seeking state habeas corpus, on the
grounds that this "new" rule was mandated by Palko.
Hence, I would 'ontinue to apply Gideon itself on habeas,
even to convictions made final before that decision was
rendered. Other possible exceptions to the finality rule
I would leave to be worked out in the context of~actual
cases brought before'us that raise the issue.
Subsequent reflection upon what;I wrote in Desist,
where I undertook to expose in a preliminary way some
of the considerations I thought ought -to govern the
problem of deciding which, if any, new constitutional
rules should be held cognizable in habeas proceedings,
leads me to these additional observations. There I tentatively suggested we might apply those new rules that
"significantly improve the pre-existing fact-finding .procedures" mandated by the Federal Constitution. 394
U. S., at 262. Cf. Mishkin, The Supreme Court 1964
Term-Foreword: The High Court, The Great Writ,
and the Due Process of Time and Law, "79 Harv. L.
Rev. 56, 77-101 (1965). As indicated above, I am now
persuaded that those new rules cognizable on habeas
ought to be defined, not by the "truth-determining"
test, but. by the Palko test. My reasons are several.
First, adherence to precedent, particularly Kaufman v.
United States,. must ineluctably lead one to the conclusion that it is not a principal purpose of the writ to
inquire whether a criminal convict did in fact commit
the deed alleged. Additionally, recent decisions of this
Court, e. g., Coleman v. Alabama, 399 U. S. 1 (1970),
have revealed just how marginally effective are 'some
new rules purportedly aimed at improving the fact-

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES

.667

Opinion of

EtAPi

695

, J.

process. I cannot believe that the interest in
finality is always outweighed by the interests protected
in cases like Coleman. Cf. Spencer v. Texas, 385 U. S.,
at 583 (Warren, C. J., concurring and dissenting). I believe Palko more correctly marks the tipping point of
finality interests, not only- in terms of divining which
new rules should apply on habeas, but also in its
reminder that a particular rule may be more or less
crucial to the fairness of a case depending on its own
factual setting. Finally, I find inherently .intractable
the purported distinction between those new rules
that are designed to improve the factfinding process and those designed principalfy to further other
values. For a perfect example, note the plurality's difficulty today in explaining, on that basis, retroactivity
decisions such as Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S. 719
(1966); Stovall v. Denno, 388 U. S. 293 (1967); and
DeStefano v. Woods, 392 U. S.631 (1968). Williams v.
United States, ante, at 655-656, n. 7.
Secondly, in Desist I went to some lengths to point out
the inevitable difficulties that will arise in attempting "to
determine whether a particular decision has really announced a 'new' rule at all or whether it has simply applied a well-established constitutional principle to govern
a case which is blosely analogous to those which have
been previously considered in the prior case law." 394
U. S., at 263. See generally id., at 263-269. I remain
fully cognizant of these problems and realize they will
produce some difficulties in administering the writ, but
believe they would be greatly, ameliorated by adequate
recognition of the principle of finality in the operation
of the criminal process.
III

'finding

I realize, of course, that this opinion, which is already
unfortunately lengthy, has thus far not been directly
responsive to the plurality opinions announced in these

OCTOBER TER&1, 1970
Opinion.of HARLAN, J.

401 U. S.

cases. Essentially this is because I do not perceive the
issues raised by these cases from the same perspective
as my Brethren. Certain aspects of the other opinions
announced today do, however; fairly call for a response
both because they contain some small seeds of a challenge
to what I have said above and because I think, with
respect, that what is written today by some of those who
would give virtually unlimited sweep to this "retroactivity" doctrine strikingly illuminates the faulty premises of the thinking in this entire field.
In the plurality opinions in Williams 'and Elkanich,
and Mackey the only challenge I perceive to my views is
the single assertion that my analysis is untenable because
unsupported by precedent. Williams v. United States,
ante, at 651-652. Truly, this is a remarkable claim. For
Linkletter v. Walker, supra, the wellspring of the current retroactivity doctrine, took as its point of dbparture the very distinction between direct review and
collateral attack which I have argued is crucial to any
analysis in this field, a distinction which the Court now
firmly discards.
Further, as the dissenting opinion in United States v.
United States Coin & Currency, post, at 735, points
out, in an analogous situation, the legislative repeal
of a criminal statute, "the judge-made rule was that.
those whose convictions had been finally affirmed
when repeal took place received no .benefit from the new
rule; but repeal of a statute abated pending prosecutions
and required reversal of convictions still on appeal when
the law was changed."' .Inother words, the precise distinction I have urged between direct review and collateral attack., based not on the nature of the act of changing the law or of the new law thus pronounced but, instead, on the nature of the adjudicatory context in which
the claim of legal error was presented has consistently

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

Opinion of

HARLAN, J.

been the mbdel for the judicial process. Indeed, it would
'seem that the only precedential support for the position
that pre~rails today is that conflicting and confusing flurry
of "retroactivity" opinions that commenced less than five
years ago with Johnson v. NgW Jersey, 384, U. S. 719
(1966).
Other aspects of the, dissent in Coin & Currency,
supra, Might, it seems to me, be construed as a further.
challenge to the views I have expressed here since that
opinion is subscribed to by a majority of those members
of the Court Who have determined that, for purposes of
deciding whether new. search and seizure rules apply to
subsequent cases arising in federal courts, the process
invoked by the litigants is irrelevant. In any event, I
find the implications of the analysis underlying that
dissent startling. For example, 'that, Congress currently
provides that statutory .repeal shall not abate pending
prosecutions,or require reversal .of nonfinal convictions
seems to me a singularly unhelpful bit of information.
We sit as a court of law, not a council of revision. Our
powers of judicial review are judicial, not legislative, in
nature. The assertion that this evidence is relevant data
for resolving the problems at hand serves at best only to
make explicit that which I have attempted to demonstrate in Part I of this opinion-that the retroactivity
analysis currently ascendant in this Court proceeds on.
the false and unacceptable premise that constitutional
interpretation is not purely a judicial, but, rather, something akin to a legislative, process. If, in fact, that premise is true we ought nbt to be writing retroactivity opinions but instead relinquishing some of our powers of
judicial review.
The dissenting opinion attempts to palliate its invocation of the legislative process by alternately suggesting
that the typical statutory rule is, because widespread, part

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion. of

HARLAN,

J.

401 U. S.

of our fabric of "positive law" and the issue, therefore, is
.whether this Court should carry this policy over to the
realm of constitutional interpretation. Three cases are
cited that allegedly reveal we are not foreclosed from
taking this course. The short answer to all this remains
the same: the distinction between judicial and legislative
power is equally woven deeply'into the fabric of our
positive law. So, too, is -the notion that this Court definitively interprets the Constitution only because its role
as a court of law requires it to do so. It is not surprising, then, to discover upon closer analysis that ,the cited
-cases do not bear the heavy weight placed on them*
Gelpcke y. City of Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175 (1864), holds
only that state courts may be compelled in some situations by particular provisions of the Federal Constitution
to apply certain new rules prospectively only. No such
claim has ever been made about these new constitutional
rules of criminal procedure. Great Northern R. Co. v.
Sunburst Oil & Refining Co., 287 U. S. 358 (1932),
merely holds that the Federal Constitution imposes no
barrier to a state. court's decision to apply a new state
common-law rule prospectively only. Is it not sufficient
answer to the dissenters' final assertion of precedential
support to point out that Chicot County DrainageDistrict v. Baxter State Bank, 308 U. S. 371 (1940), was a
collateral attack on a civil judgment already otherwise final and entitled to res judicata effect,? And,
further, that it was written by the same Chief Justice,
Hughes, who had held six -years earlier in United States v.
Chambers, 291 U. S. 217 (1934), that repeal of the
Eighteenth Amendment abated all prosecutions begun,
and required reversal on direct review of all convictions
obtained, under statutes dependent for their constitutionality on the repealed amendment, yet did not affect
final convictions so obtained?

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
66

Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

,IV
Because my comprehension of the relevant issues diverges so substantially from that of the Court it is necessary for me to discuss separately my view as to the proper
disposition of each'of these three cases
A
Williams v..United States (direct review). As this case
is here on direct review, I would apply to its resolution
the rule enunciated in Chimel v. California,395 U.,S. 752.
The plurality correctly describes the salient facts in this
case at n. 2 of its opinion, ante, at 650-651, and I agree
they plainly reveal a violation 6f Chimel. Indeed, the
Ninth Circuit panel below, although it held Chimel
nonretroactive, explicitly found the search here involved
inconsistent, with the dictates of Chimel. 418 F. 2d
159, 161 (CA9 1969). Consequently, I would reverse
the judgment below and remand With instructions, to
vacate the judgment of conviction.
B
Elkanichv. United States (collateral review). I agree,
but for wholly different reasons, with the Court's view,
expressed in n. 2 of its opinion, ante, at 651, .that we
need not evaluate the search of Elkahich's apartment
in light of the precepts of Chimel. His conviction became final five years prior to Chimel's promulgation, and
prevailing law at that time certainly validated the search
here involved. See United States v. Rabinowitz, 339
U. S. 56 (1950), and Harris v. United States, 331 U. S.
145 (1947). An appraisal of the facts surrounding this
search leads me quite easily to conclude that the procedures used in obtaining this conviction were not so
fundamentally devoid of the necessary elements of pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion .of HInAA, J.

401 U. S.

cedural due process as to require upsetting this conviction in spite of the fact that it was perfectly lawful when
made final. The agents here clearly had probable cause
to arrest petitioner, were not undertaking a fishing expedition for any evidence they might find but, rather, were
looking for specific items that they had reason to believe
might be concealed in various places around the premises
and, indeed, generally limited their search to areas indicated by petitioner. I would affirm the judgment below.
C
'Mackey v. United States (collateral review). Petitioner in this case seeks relief from confinement by way
of habeas. At his trial for evading payment of income
taxes, part of the Government's case in chief consisted
of the introduction of 60 wagering excise tax returns.
At the time his conviction became final in 1965, the
introduction of these statements would have been permissible under the authority of United States v. Kahriger,
345 U. S. 22 (1953). I find it unnecessary to inquire
*whether it inevitably follows from the new rule enunciated in Marchetti and Grosso that such a procedure
would today be held an unacceptable abridgment of,
petitioner's Fifth Amendment right to be free of compulsory -self-incrimination. For, even assuming the
latter cases, if applicable, would produce a different result, I cannot conclude that this change in the law
would be sufficient to entitle petitioner to the issuance
of a writ 6f habeas corpus.
Mackey is not asserting that the conduct for which
he is being punished, evading payment of his federal
income taxes, has been held to be constitutionally iminune from punishment. In this regard, Mackey's claim
differs from that raised by the respondent in Coin &
gurrency, also decided today, where Marchetti and
Yrosso do operate to render Congress powerless to -unish

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

-

Opinion of

HAR AN, J.

the conduct there at issue Instead, Mackey's claim is
that the procedures utilized in procuring his conviction
were vitiated by -the Marchetti and Grosso decisions.
Since matters of procedure rather than substance are
involved, see Part JI of this opinion, I would apply to
the resolution of this habeas petition the law in effect
at the time Mackey's conviction, became final, absent a
showing that the procedures employed were fundamentally unfair. While Kahriger did indeed, in my judgment, rest upon an "excessively narroW" view of the
scope of the privilege against self-incrimination, I cannot
say that hindsight reveals that judgment to have been
so grossly erroneous as to amount to the perpetration
of an inexcusable inequity against Mackey in these circumstances. Despite our rejection of it as a matter of
Fifth Amendment policy, the prior justification of the
Government's activity in this area-that persons affected
could avoid incrimination by ceasing to engage in illegal.
activities-is not without some force.
Although the question is, for me, not free of difficulty,
I would affirm the judgment below for the reasons stated
above.
V
In conclusion, the Court in deciding these cases seems
largely to have forgotten the limitations that accompany
its functions as a court of law. For the retroactivity
doctrine announced today bespeaks more considerations
of policy than of legal principle. Treating direct and
collateral review as if they were of one piece seems
to me faulty analysis, ignoring, as it does, the jurisprudential considerations that differentiate the two kinds
of adjudicatory .functions. As a court of law we have
no right 'on direct review to treat one case differently
from another with respect to, constitutional provisions
applicable to both. As regards cases coming here on
collateral review, the problem of retroactivity is in truth

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN, J.,

concurring in judgment

401 U.S.

none other than one of resettling the limits of the
reach of the Great Writ, which under the recent decisions of this Court has been given almost boundless
sweep.9 Until the Court is prepared to do this I can
see no really satisfactory solution to the retroactivity
problem. Meanwhile, I very much regret to see the
existing free-wheeling approach to that problem now
rewritten into the jurisprudence of this Court.
I would affirm the judgments in Nos. 36 and 82 and
reverse the judgment in No. 81 upon the premises discussed in this opinion.

with whom MR.
joins, concurring in the judgment.

MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN,
SHALL

JUSTICE MAR-

Three years ago we held that the federal wagering tax
statutes, 26 U. S. C. § 4401 et seq., subjected those to
whom they applied to such -areal and substantial danger
of self-incrimination that those statutes could "not be
employed to punish criminally those persons who have
defended a failure to comply with their requirements
with a proper assertion of the privilege against selfincrimination." Marchettiv. United States, 390 U. S. 39,
42 (1968); Grosso v. United States, 390 U. S. 62 (1968).
This case presents the question what, if any, use the
Government is entitled to make of wagering excise tax
returns, filed pursuant to the statutory scheme, in a
prosecution for income tax evasion. Since I believe
the Fifth Amendment does not prevent the use of such
returns to show a likely source of unreported income
in a criminal prosecution for income tax evasion, I
concur in the judgment of the Court.'
For example, though correct in its Sesult, I am now of the view
that Linkletter would have been better decided had it simply held
that federal habeas corpus does not lie for claimed errors in the
introduction of illegally seized evidence.
'This view of the case makes it unnecessary for" me to decide
whether petitioner's conviction should be examined without regard

MACKEYv. UNITED STATES
667

BRENNAN,

J. concurring in judgment

I.
The relevant facts may be briefly stated. As required
by statute, petitioner from 1956 through 1960 filed
nionthly wagering excise tax-returns showing his name,
address, and the gross amount; of wagers accepted by
him durin' the month in question.2 He was.subsequently
indicted for willfully attempting -to evade payment of
his*income taxes for those years. 26 U. S. C. § 7201.
At trial, the Government used the wageiing tax returns
to show that the gross amount of wagers reported, less
the expenses of petitioner's business as reported on his
annual income tax returns, was greAter than the profits
from gambling reported, on those same annual returns.
The Court of Appals affirmed over petitioner's claim
that the returnswere inflammatory., prejudicial, and irrelevant. 345 F. 2d 499 (CA7. 1965). After our decisions
in Marchetti v. United St'ates, supra, and Grosso v.
United States, supra, petitioner filed an application for
postconviction relief on the ground that -use of the
wagering tax returns was barred by the Fifth Amend,ment. The application was denied by the District Court
in an- unreported opinion, and the denial was affirmed
"by the Court of Appeals. 411 F. 2d 504 (CA7 1969).
.

II
At first glance, petitioner's argument appears compellingly simple. Since the information required of him
under the federal wagering tax statutes presented a real
and substantial danger of subjecting hn to criminal
prosecution for his gambling, activities, tie Government
to the standards embodied in Marchetti and Grosso.. The balance of
this opinion is written on the assumption that Marchetti and Grosso
are2 applicable.
1 See 26 U. S. C. § 6011 (a); Treas. 4eg. § 44.6011 (a)-1 (a), 26'
CFR § 44.6011 (a)-1 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

lacked the power to compel the information absent a
waiver of his Fifth Amendment privilege unless it provided the necessary immunity from prosecution. Marchetti v. Unsted States, 390 U. S. 39 (1968); Grosso v.
United States, 390 U. S. 62 (1968); Heike v. United
States, 227 U. S. 131, 143-144 (1913); Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 584-586 (1892). Since petitioner filed the wagering tax returns under threat of
criminal prosecution for failure to 'do so, 26 U. S. C.
§ 7203, and since he never knowingly waived his Fifth
Amendment privilege, see Grosso v. United States, supra,
at 70-71, he is entitled to the imiunity required by the
Fifth Amendment. Adams v. Maryland, 347 U. S. 179,
181 (1954). Therefore, petitioner argues, the Government was foreclosed from using the information provided
by him on the wagering tax returns against him in a
criminal- prosecution for evasion of the income tax.
But in Marchetti and Grosso, we dealt with the question' whether, in light of possible uses of testimonial
evidence sought to be compelled over a claim of privilege,
the Fifth Amendment allows the individual concerned to
withhold the evidence without penalty. In the present
case, however, we deal with the scope of immunity required when the privilege is claimed and the evidence is
nevertheless compelled. This distinction, in my view
critical, is overlooked by petitioner. Where testimony
has been refused, adjudication of necessity must take
place in something of a vacuum. Although an individual may not "draw a conjurer's circle around the
whole matter" by refusing. to provide any explanation
why the information sought might be incriminating,
United States v. Sullivan, 274 US. 259, 264 (1927), he
need not provide the incriminating evidence in order to
demonstrate that the privilege, was validly invoked,
Hoffman v. United States, 341 U. S. 479, 486 (1951).
In such circumstance, sanctions may be aplied for re-

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

fusal to testify only if it is "'perfectly clear, from a careful consideration of all the circumstances in the case . . .
that the answer[s] cannot possibly have [a] tendency'
to incriminate." Id., at 488, quoting Temple v. Commonwealth, 75 Va. 892, 898 (1881) (emphasis in
original).
But where the individual has succumbed to compulsion
and provided the information, sought, finer analytical.
tools may be employed. "A factual record showing, for
example, the substance of the individual's compelled tes-"
timony, the way that testimony was subsequently used
by the prosecutor, and the crime for which the individual
was 1ltimately prosecuted, provides important considdrations to anchor and inform the constitutional judgment."
Piccirillov. New York, 400 U. S. 548, 558 (1971) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting).
Thus, even' when the privilege
against self-incrimination permits an individual to refuse
to answer questions asked by the Government, if false
answers are given the individual may be prosecuted for
making false statements. United States v. Knox, 396
U. S. 77, 80-83 (1969).
The 'flaw in petitioner's argument lies in its mi"understanding of Marchetti and Grosso as applied to a situation where testimonial evidence has been compelled bver
a claim of privilege. For- we did not, in those cases,
cast any doubt upon the power of the United States
to impose taxes on unlawful, as well as on lawful
activities. 390 U. S., at 44; see United States v. Sullivan, 274 U..S., at 263. Noi did we suggest that the
Fifth Amendment would make it impossible" for Congress to construct an enforceable statutory scheme for
reporting by individuals of their illicit gains. See 390
U. S., at 72 (BRENNAN, J., concurring). Rather, we
noted thaf "[t]he laws of every State, except Nevada, include broad prohibitions against gambling, wagering,
and associated activities," hnd that even Nevada imposed
'

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN, J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

"criminal penalties upon lotteries and certain other
wagering activities taxable under [the federal] statutes."
Id., at 44-46. We noted that federal statutes prohibit
the use of the mails and .of interstate commerce for
m-ny activities ancillary to wagering.' Id., at 44. On
that basis we concluded that "throughout the United
States, wagering is 'an area permeated with criminal statutes,' and those engaged in wagering are a group 'inherently suspect of criminal activities.' Albertson v.
SAqB., 382 U. S. 70, 79." Marchetti, 390 U. S., at 47.
Accordingly, registration and payment of the occupational tax, or the filing of.,a wagering excise tax return
that the Government required as a prerequisite to payment of the excise tax,4 would subject the individual
concerned to "'real and appreciable,' and not merely
'imaginary and unsubstantial,' hazards of self-incrimination." Id., at 48; Grosso, 390 U. S., at 64-67. Since we
found the "required records" doctrine of Shapiro . v.
United States, 335 U. S: 1 (1948), inapplicable to the
statutory requirement that a gambler admit his present
or future involvement in gambling. activity, Marchetti,
390 U. S., at 55-57; Grosso, 390 U. S., at 67-69, we held
that the privilege against self-incrimination was available
to the petitioners as a defense to prosecution for failure
to register for, report, or pay the federal wagering taxes..
3 See 18 U. S. C. § 1084 (interstate transmission of wagering information), §§ 1301-1304 (conduct of lotteries by mails or broadcasting), § 1952 (intefstate travel in aid of, inter alia, gambling), § 1953
(interstate transportation of wagering paraphernalia).
4 We were informed by the United States in Grosso that the
wagering excise tax would not be accepted unless accompanied by
the required return. 390 U. S., at 65.
5 In addition, we declined in both Marchetti and Groso the Government's invitation to salvage the statutory scheme by imposing
use restrictions on the information required. March'tti. 390 U. S.,
at 58-60; _Grosso, 390 U. S., at 61. The relevance .of this to the
issue before us is -discussed infra, at 711-713. For the moment

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

BRENNAN, J., concurring in judgment

*Had the present case arisen in the context of a federal
investigation d6signed simply to uncover evidence of
criminal activity, we would need to. go no further.'
In such a situation, petitioner would be entitled to
"absolute immunity . . . from ,prosecution [under
federal laws] for any transaction revealed in that testimony." Piccirillo,v. New York, 400 U. S., at 562 (BRENNAN, J., dissenting); Counselman v.. Hitchdock, 142 U. S.,
at 584L-586. But although we recognized in Marchetti
that "Congress intended information obtained as a consequence of registration and payment of the [gambling]
occupational tax to be provided to interested prosecuting
authorities," Marchetti,390 U. S., at 58-59,7 we nevertheless concluded that the "United States' principal interest
is evidently the collection of revenue, and not the punishment of gamblers." Id., at 57; see United.,States v.
Calamaro, 354 U. S. 351, 358 (1957).
This dual purpose is significant here. For while the
Government may not undertake the prosecution of crime
by inquiring of individuals what criminal acts they have
lately planned or committed, it may surround a taxing
or regulatory scheme with reporting requirements deit is sufficient to note 'that even the imposition of use restrictions
could not have saved the cpnvictions at issue in those cases, for
the petitioners obviously had no way of knowing, when they failed
to register and file the required .f6rms, that use restrictions might
be imposed. See Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n, 378 U. S. 52,
79-80 (1964); Reina v. United States, 364 U. S. 507, 514-515 (1960).
0 See n. 1, supra.
7 In Grosso, we remarked that "although there is no statutory
instruction, as there is for the occupational tax, that state and local
prosecuting officers be provided listings of those who have paid the
excise tax, neither has Congress imposed explicit restrictions upon
the use of information obtained as a consequence of payment of the
tax," and that the Revenue Service.in fact disseminated such information to "interested prosecuting authorities.' Grosso, 390 U. S.,
at 66.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BREiNNAN,

J. concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

signed to insure compliance with the scheme. See Marchetti, 390 U. S., at 44, 60; Grosso, 390 U. S., at 72-74
(concurring opinion>: In the latter situation, the privilege may not be claimed if the danger of incrimination
is only that the information required may show a violation of the taxing or regulatory scheme. Thus in
Shapiro v. United States, 335 U. S. 1 (1948), we upheld
a conviction based upon records of sales provided under
compulsion of a regulation under the Emergency Price
Control Act, 56 Stat. 23., The privilege had been
claimed on the basis that the records would (as they did)
provide evidence 'of a violation of the Act. We rejected
the claim, reasoning that the Government has power to
compel "'suitable informafiohi of transactions which are
the appropriate subjects of governmental regulation and
the enforcement of restrictions validly established.'" Id.,
at 33.1 And in United States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259
(1927), we rejected a claim that the privilege against
self-incrimination allowed an individual whose income
was earned in crime to file no form of income tax return
whatsoever. Although dubious, we noted the possibility
that the privilege could be claimed to excuse reporting
the amount of income earned because that alone would
disclose' the criminal activities that had produced the
income. Id., 'at 263-264. But neither in Sullivan nor
in any other of our cases is there the slightest suggestion
that an individual may refuse to disclose the income he
has- earned solely because such disclosure will indicate a
failure to pay the taxes imposed on that income.
Of course, the Government may not insulate inquiries
designed to produce incriminating information merely by
8

The regulation upheld in Shapiro required only the keeping of
records, and not their reporting; the information there was compelled
pursuant to an administrative subpoena. But as we noted in Marchetti, this situation is constitutionally indistinguishable from a
simple reporting requirement. 390 U. S., at 56 n. 14:

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

BRIENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

labeling the inquiry a necessary incident of a regulatory
scheme. Where the essence of a statutory scheme is to
forbid a given class of activities, it may not be enforced
by requiring individuals to report their violations. See
Marchetti, supra; Haynes v. United States, 390 U. S. 85
(1968); Albertson v. SACB, 382 U. S.70 (1965). But,
where the statutory scheme is not designed to forbid
certain acts, but only. to require that they be done in a
certain way, the Government may enforce its requirements by a compulsory scheme of reporting, directed at
all who engage in those activities, and not on its face
designed simply to elicit incriminating ,information.
Shapiro v. United States, supra;.see Albertson v. SACB,
supra, at 77-80.
Viewed in this light, then, Marchetti and Grosso are
the outgrowth of two principles inapplicable to the problem at hand. The first is that when a given class of
activities is, in the main, made criminal by either state
or federal law, an individual may not be compelled to
disclose whether he engages in activities within the class
unless his disclosure is compensated by the requisite
grant of immunity.' Marchetti,supra;Haynes v. United
States, aupra; Albertson v. SACB, supra. , The second is"
that such individuals may likewise not be compelled,
absent sufficient immunity, to disclose the details of their
activities within such a suspect class: for if the mere
admission of engaging in any of h class of activities- is
sufficiently likely to lead to criminal prosecution that
the privilege against self-incrimination may be invoked,
OSince the statutory scheme in' Marchetti and Grosso providel
no immunity whatsoever, and since those cases arose in the context
of an attempt by the Government to punish individuals for failure
to disclose the information requested, we had no occasion there to
determine the precise scope of the immunity that would be required
to displace the privilege.

'710

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

admission of the details of these activities is a fortiori
likely to lead to incrimination. Grosso, supra.
Neither of these principles, however, controls the case
at hand. The relevant class of activities "permeated
with criminal statutes,"' Albertson v. SACB, 382 U. S., at
79, is the class .of activities related to gambling. But
this case does not involve a prosecution for ganbling
or related activities. .t involves a prosecution for income tax evdsioi, by- use of information compelled pursuant to a scheme requiring all those who engage in the
business of accepting wagers 10 to report their income
twice. For the reasons discussed above, the Government
may*validly enforce the tax laws by a scheme of required
reports, directed at all persons engaging in certain types
of activity, and requiring them to report the amount of
their income so that the Government may ifnsure that
the requisite taxes have been paid. If such a reporting
requirement raises a substantial danger bf incrimination
under state or federal statutes making criminal the
-activity that is being taxed, an individual may, of courge,
assert the privilege against self-incrimination and refuse
to disclose the information sought. We so held in Marchetti and Grosso; ' And if the information has been compelled over a claim of privilege, application of those cases
requires that the individual be protected against' the use
of that information in state prosecutions under the statutes making criminaj the taxed .axtivity, and to complete
immunity from prosecution underfederal statutes of
like kind. Piccirillo v. Nev York, 400 U. S., at 561-574
(BMNNAN, J., dissenting); Adams v. Maryland,347 U. S:,
At 181; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S., at 584-586;
cf. Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n, 378 U. S. 52, 79, and
n. 18 (1964). He.is, in short, entitled to the protection
1oThe few. exceptions to this requirement are noted in Marchetti,
390 U. S., at 42.

MACKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

required by the Fifth Amendment. But here the Government was entitled to demand the information that
petitioner supplied-his gross income from wagering-in
order to enforce the tax laws. Petitioner was entitled to
claim the privilege only because of the possibility of
prosecution under state or federal gambling laws. No
such prosecution is involved here. "Once the reason for
the privilege ceases, the privilege ceases." Ullmann v.
United States, 350 U. S. 422, 439 (1956). Since the
United States was entitled to demand the information at
issue here for the purpose to which it was eventually put,
the danger that petitioner's disclosures might also have
been impermissibly used does not prevent their present,
legitimate use even though the danger of impermissible
use would justify refusal to provide the information at
1
all.1
IT
Finally, our decisions in both Marchetti and Grosso not
to attempt to salvage the statutory scheme by imposing
"The filing of a wagering tax return (or registration as a prospective gambler) necessarily involves an admission that one has
engaged in, or intends to engage in gambling. Since gambling and
related activities are very likely to be criminal under stdte or federal
law, the Government lacks power -to compel such an admission absent
the requisite grant of immunity. This was the question involved in
Marchetti and Grosso. But what is relevant to the present case is
not whether petitioner was ifivolved in criminal activity, but whether
he paid the taxes imposed on his income. I have indicated above
why I believe that the"Government may enforce an otherwise unobjectionable scheme designed to insure that individuals report 'the
amount of their income in order to enforce the tax laws. It therefore follows that the registration and reporting requirements of the
federal wagering tax statutes could properly be enforced under a
statute granting those who complied with the requirements immunity
from prosecution under federal statutes that outlaw gambling and
related activities, and protection against the use of information contained in the returns in aid of-prosecution under state'or federal laws
making such activities criminal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BRENNAN,

J., concurring in judgment

401 U. S.

use restrictions do not require that, once evidence has
actually been compelled, we refuse to prbtect a valid
governmental interest by restricting use of that evidence
any more than is required by the Fifth Amendment.
For although we recogniTed in Marchetti that "the imp6sition of use-restrictions would directly preclude effectuation of a significant element of Congress' purposes in
adopting the wagering taxes," 390 U. S., at 59, the
primary basis for our. refusal to impose such restrictions
was that "the imposition of such restrictions would necessarily oblige state prosecuting authorities to establish in
each case that their evidence was untainted by any connection with information obtained as a consequence of the
wagering taxes; -the federal requirerments would thus be
protected only at the cost of hampering, perhaps seriously,
enforcement of state prohibitions against gambling."
Ibid. 2 Since a balance between effective state enforcement 'of gambling laws and the interests of the federal
treasury was one to be struck by Congress, and not this
Court, we declined to impose the proposed restrictions.
Id., at 59-60. And in Grosso, we merely noted that it
would be "inappropriate to impose such restrictions upon
.one portion of a statutory system, when we have concluded that it would be improper, for reasons discussed in
Marchetti, to do so upon 'an inrtegral.part' of the same
system." S390 U. S., at 69. Once again, however, different considerations apply when the question is not wh.ether
information may be compelled but rather to what uses
compelled information may be put. Once the return has
12That this was the primary basis for our refusal is evidenced by
our recognition that the "United States' principal interest is evidently the collection of revenue, and not the punishment of gamblers." 390 U. S., at 57. Absent the necessity for balancing state
and federal interests, we would surely not have crippled the primary
purpose of the statutes because a secondary purpose was.necessarily
disabled.

MAKCKEY v. UNITED STATES
667

DOuGLts, J., dissenting

been filed, prosecution under state gambling laws can take
place only if the State cafl demonstrate that its evidence
is not tainted by information derived from the incriminatory aspects of the return. Since disclosure once
made may never be completely undone, this' burden
must be borne by the State regardless of what additional.
restrictions are imposed upon use of the ieturn. Accordingly, the considerations that led us to decline, the
imposition of use restrictions for the future in Marchetti
and Grosso are not compelling in situations where the
incriminating, information has already been disclosed.
Petitioner is therefore entitled to the immunity required
by the Fifth Amendment, and to no more. Since I
believe the Amendment is no bar to the use to which
his wagering tax returns were put, I concur-in the judgment of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
I had assumed 'that all criminal and civil decisions
involving constitutional defenses which go in favor of
the defendant were necessarily retroactive. That is to
say, the Constitution has from Chief Justice Jay's time
been retroactive,* for there were no decisions on the
points prior theretc. Marchetti v. United States, 390
U. S. 39, and Grosso v. United States, 390 U. S. 62,
exonerated defendants vho, when they failed to file returns, were not by reason of United States v. Kahi'iger,
345 U. S.22, entitled to a constitutional immunity. Why
Marchetti and Grosso are entitled to relief and Mackey
is not, is a mystery. It is said that Mackey's gambling
return, "like physical evidence seized in violation of a
new interpretation of the Fourth Amendment, is concededly relevant and probative even though obtained by
*See Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 DalH. 419.

OCTOBER TERM, lui
DOUGLs, J., dissenting

401 U. S.

the Government through means since defined by this
Court as constitutionally objectionable." The same
could be said of Marchetti and Grosso. Yet their convictions were reversed.
I could understand today's decision if Marchetti and
Grosso had announced only a prospective rule applicable
to all like defendants. But when the defendants in
those cases are given the benefit of a new Constitutional
rule forged by the Court, it is not comprehensible, if
justice rather than the fortuitous circumstances of the
time of the trial is the standard, why all victims of the
old unconstitutional rule should not be treated equally.
I can find nothing in the Constitution that authorizes
some constitutional rules to be prospective and others to
be retroactive. The majority often says the test is
whether a new rule affects the integrity of the factfinding
process, Desist v. United States, 394 U. S. 244. Yet even
that test is not applied when the majority thinks that the
'impact of the new rule, if applied with due regard to the
Equal Protection Clause, would be "devastating." Tehan
v. Shott, 382 U. S. 406, 419.' The Constitution grants this
Court no such legislative powers.
My views have been expressed in Linkletter v. Walker,
381 U. S. 618, 640, and Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S.
719, 736, and I adhere to. them. I would continue to
construe all constitutional safeguards "strictly."

