1204

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion in Chambers

401 U. S.

HAYWOOD v. NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

Decided March 1, 1971
Applicant, a former Olympic star who had signed with the Seattle
team of the National Basketball Association (NBA), brought an
action against the NBA, claiming that its threatened sanctions
against him and the Seattle team for alleged noncompliance with
the -BA's player draft rules violated the antitrust laws. The
Distrit .Court's grant of an injunction pendente lite permitting
applicant to play for the Seattle team was stayed by the Court
of Appeals, Applicant seeks a stay of the Court of Appeals'
action. Held: The equities as between the parties favor reinstatement of the District Court's preliminary injunctipn, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1651 (a), which will enable applicant to play and thus further
Seattle's efforts to qualify for the imminent playoffs, and should
it be necessary that court can fashion approtriate relief in light
of the outcome of the litigation and the athletic competition.

Circuit Justice.
This is an application for a stay of an order issued by
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. It raises
questions under the Sherman Act concerning the legality
of the professional basketball college player draft. The
hearing on the merits will be heard by the District Court
for the Central District of California.
The Seattle club for- which the applicant now plays
basketball has joined in the request for the stay, while
the NBA opposes.
Under the .rules of the NBA a college player cannot
.be drafted until four years after he has graduated from
high school. Players are drafted by teams in the inverse
order of their finish during the previous season. No team
may negotiate with a player drafted by another team.
Applicant played with the 1968 Olympic team and
then went to college. Prior to graduation he. signed with
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

HAYWOOD v. NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN.
1204

1205

Opinion in Chambers

the rival American Basketball Association, but upon turning 21 he repudiated the contract, charging fraud. He
then signed with Seattle of the NBA. This signing was
less than four years after his high school 'class had
graduated (thus leaving him ineligible to be drafted
under the NBA iules). The NBA threatened to disallow
the contract and also threatened Seattle's team with
various sanctions.
Applicant then commenced an antitrust action against
the NBA. He alleges the conduct of the N4BA is a group
boycott of himself and that under Fashion Originators'
Guild v. FTC, 312 U. S.457, and Kor's v. Broadway-Hale
'Stores, 359 U. S. 207, it is a per se violation of the
Sherman Act. He was granted an injunction pendente
lite which allowed him to play for Seattle and forbade
NBA to take sanctions against the Seattle team. The
District Court ruled:
"If Haywood is unable to continue to play professional basketball for Seattle, he will suffer irreparable injury in that a substantial pirt of his playing
career will have been dissipated, his physical condition, skills and coordination will deteriorate from
lack of high-level competition, his public acceptance
as a siiper star will diminish to the detriment of his
career, his self-esteem and his pride will have been
injurea and a great injustice will be perpetrated on
him."
The college player draft binds the player to the team
selected. Basketball, however, does not enjoy exemption
from the antitrust laws. Thus the decision in this suit
would be similar to the one on baseball's reserve clause
which our decisions exempting baseball from the antitrust
laws have foreclosed. See Federal Baseball Club v.
National League, 259 U. S. 200; Toolson v. New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion in Chambers

401 U. S.

Yankees, 346 U. S. 356. This group boycott issue in
professional sports is a significant one.
The NBA appealed the granting of the preliminary
injunction to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
That court stayed the injunction, stating:
"We have considered the status quo existing prior
to the District Court's action and the disturbance
of that status resulting, from the injunction; the
nature and extent of injury which continuation of
the injunction or its stay would cause to the respective parties; and the public interest in the
institution of professional basketball and the orderly
regulation of its affairs."
The matter is of some urgency because the athletic
contests are under way and the playoffs between the various clubs will begin on March 23. Should applicant
prevail at the trial his team will probably not be in the
playoffs, because under the stay order issued by the Couirt
of Appeals he is unable to play. Should he be allowed to
play and his team not make the playoffs then no one,
of course, will have been injured. Should he be allowed
to play and his team does make the playoffs but the District Court decision goes in favor of the NBA, then it
would be for the District Court to determine whether the
NBA could disregard the Seattle victories in all games
in which he participated and recompute who should be
in the playoffs.
To dissolve the stay would preserve the interest and
integrity of the playoff system, as I have indicated.
Should there not be a decision prior to beginning of the
playoffs and should Seattle make the playoffs then the
District Court could fashion whatever relief it deems
equitable.
In view of the equities between the parties, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1651 (a), I have decided to allow the preliminary in-

HAYWOOD v. NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN.
1204

1207

Opinion in, Chambers

junction of the District Court to be reinstated. The
status quo provided by the Court of Appeals is the status
quo before applicant signed with Seattle. The District
Court preserved the status quo prior to the NBA's action
against Seattle and Haywood. That is the course I deem
most worthy of this interim protection. The stay will
issue.

