JANUARY TERM, 1837.

WILLIAM2

\V.TERS
N
V.

213

THE MERCHANTS' LOUISVILLE INSURANCE
COMPANY.

Insurance. The Steamboat Lioness was insured on her voyages on the western waters, particularly from New Orleans to Natchitoches on Red river and elsewhere,
"the

MiszouNi and Upper Mississippi excepted," for twelve months.

perils insured against was, "fire."

One of the

Tile vessel was lost by the explosion of gunpow-

der. "On the trial of the cause the judges of the circuit court of Kentucky were
divided in opinion on the following questions, which were certified tor this Court;
5
1. Does the policy over the loss -f the boat by a fire, caused by the barratry of
the master? 2. Does the policy cover a loss of the boat by fire, caused by the
negligence, carelessness,'or unskilfulness of the master and crew of the boat, or
any of them ? 3. Is the allegation of the defendants in these pleas, or any of
them, to the effect that the fire by which the boat was lost, was caused by the
carelessness or unskilful conduct of the master and crew, a defence to this action?
4. Are the Pleas of the defendant, or either of them, sufficient?"
A loss by fire, when the fire was directly and immediately caused by the barratry of
the master and crew, as the efficient agents when the fire was communicated,-and.
occasioned by the direct act and agency of the master and crew, intentionally
done from a barratrous purpose, is not-a loss within the policy; if barratry is not
'insured against.
If the master or crew slould barratrously bore holes in the bottom of a vessel, and
she should thereby be filled with water and sink, the loss would properly be
deemed a loss by barratry, and not by a peril of the seas or of rivers, though the
water should co-operate in producing tse sinking.
The doctrine as applied to policies against fire on land, has for a great length of time
prevailed, that losses occasioned by the mere fault or negligence of the assured or
his servants, unaffected by fraud or design', are within the protection of the policy;
and as such are recoverable Prom the underwriters. This doctrine is fully established in England and America.
It is a well established principle of the common law, that in all casas of loss we are
to attribute it to the proximate cause, and not to the remote cause. This has become a maxim to govern cases arising under policies of insurance.
In the case of the Columbia Insurance Company v. Lawrence, 10 Peters, 507, this'
Court thought that in marine policies, whether containing the risk of barratry or
t
no , a loss; whose proximate cause was a peril insured against, is within the pro'tection of the policy; notwithstanding it might have been occasioned, remotely,
by the negligence of the master and mariners. The Court have seen no reason to
change that oninion.
As the explosn on board the Lioness was caused by fire, the fire was the proximate
cause of the loss.
If taking gunpowder on board a vessel insured against fire, was not justified by the
usage of the trade and therefore was not contemplated as a risk by the policy;
there might be great reason to contend, that if it increased the risk, the loss was
not covered by the policy.

SUPREME COURT.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

ON a certificate of division from 'the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky.
The plaintitf, a citizen of the state of Louisiana, on the 12th day
of September, 1832, caused insurance to be made by the Merchants'
Louisville Insurance Company, at the city of Louisville, in the state
of Kentucky, in the sum of six thousand dollars, on the steamboat
Lioness, her engine, &c., to navigate the western waters usually navigated by steamboats, &c.; the assured having the privilege of placing competent masters in command at any time; the insurance to
continue for twelve months, until 12th September, 1833.
The perils insured against, were those "of rivers, fire, enemies, pirates, assailing thieves, and all other losses and misfortunes which
shall come to the hurt or detriment of the steamboat, her engine,
t-ckle, and furniture, according to the true intent and meaning of
the policy."
An action was instituted in the circuit court on this policy, by
William Waters, the assured, to November term, 1836; and the
plaintiff averred in the declaration an interest in the steamboat Lioness, at the time of the insurance, and up to her loss, of sixteen thousand dollars; that the said steamboat Lioness, her engine, tackle and
furniture, after the execution of said policy, and before its termination, to wit, on the 19th of May, 1833, on Red river, about one
mile below the mouth of Bon Dieu river, whilst she was on her
voyage from New Orleans to Natchitoches, Louisiana, on Red river,
were, by the adventures and perils of fire and the river, exploded,
sunk to th&bottom of Red river aforesaid, and utterly destroyed; so
as to cause and make it a total loss. And the plaintiff averred, that
said steamboatlioness was, at the time of the explosion, sinking and
destruction aforesaid, by the perils aforesaid, sufficiently found in
tackle and- appurtenances thereto, and completely provided with
master, officers and crew, and in good order and condition, and perfectly sea-worthy.
The declaration also averred, that a regular protest of the manner
in which the loss of vessel took place, was made; and the same, with
proof of the plaintiff's interest, were delivered to the defendants.
To this declaration, the defendants filed the following pleas:-1.
That the officers and crew of the Lioness, at the time of her explosion and sinking, so negligently and carelessly conducted themselves
in managing and attending to the safety of the cargo on board, that

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

the steamboat was, by means of fire negligently and carelessly communicated to gunpowder in the hold by the officers and crew, blown
up and destroyed.
2. That the Lioness was loaded in part with gunpowder, and that
the officers and crew, or some of them, carelessly and negligently
carried a lighted candle or lamp into the hold where the powder was
stored, and negligently handled the candle or lamp at the time that
the powder was exploded; and thereby produced the explosion and
destruction of the said steamer.
3. That the Lioness was in part loaded with gunpowder; and the
same was so unskilfully, negligently, and carelessly stowed away in
the boat, by the officers and crew- or some of- them, that the gunpowder took fire by reason of the said unskilfulness, negligence, and
carelessness; and the boat was consequently lost and destroyed by
explosion.
4. That the Lioness received, and had on board a quantity of gunpowder at the time of the explosion, which increased the risk of theinsurers, contrary to the true intent and meaning of the policy; by
which the insurers were discharged from the obligations of thd
policy.
5. That the loss of the Lioness was caused by the officers and
crew, or some of them, carelessly and negligently carrying a lighted
candle or lamp. into the hold;" and so negligently or carelessly carrying the same, as the explosion of the vessel was thereby produced.
6. That the loss of the boat was caused by the conduct of the officers, managers and crew of the boat, in taking and receiving on
board large quantities of gunpowder, and by carelessly keeping the
same; in consequence of which he gunpowder became ignited
while on board the boat, and by ts explosion caused her loss and
destruction.
To these pleas the plaintiff demurred; and the defendants joined
in demurrer.
On the argument of the cause, the following questions and points
occurred, upon which the judges of the circuit court were divided
in opinion; and the same, at the request of the lefendants, were
stated, and ordered to be certified to this Court.
1st. Does the policy cover a loss of the boat by a fire, caused by
the barratry 6f the master and crew?
2d. Does the policy of insurance cover a loss of the boat by fire,

SUPREME COURT.
tWaters V.The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]
caused by the negligence, carelessness, or unskilfulness of the master
and Crew of the boat, or any of them?
3d. Is the allegation of the defendants in their pleas, or either of
them, to the effect that the fire by which the boat was lost, was
caused by the carelessness, or the neglect, or unskilful conduct of
the master and crew of the boat, a defence to this action?
4th. Are the said pleas, or either of them, sufficient?

The case was argued by"Mr. Crittenden for the defendants; no
.counsel appeared for the plaintiff.
Mr. Crittenden said, as to the first question, the only inquiry that
seems necessary to a satisfactory solution or answer to it, is, whether
barratry is insured against by the policy.
Barratry is a peculiar and distinct risk, for which insurers are maderesponsible by express stipulation only;. Grim v. Phoenix Ins. Comp.
13 Johns. Rep. 451. And, accordingly, in the common forffs of
marine policies it is always expressly embraced, and described by
its appropriate and technical denomination, Barrttry.
In this policy there is an enumeration of the risks, and barratry
is not included. Its omission is equivalent, in legal interpretation,
to its express exclusion: expressio unius est exclusio alterius.
The general clause in the policy, that follows the enumeration of
the risks, to wit; "and all other losses and misfortunes," &c. has
reference only to "losses and misfortunes" proceeding from the
enumerated risks; and is not intended or to be vonstrued as adding
-other risks, or enlargingthe perils that the isurers' are to bear.
They are nothing more than words used out of abundant caution, to
give ftill effect to th6 previously enumerated risks; for which alone
the underwriters are responsible.
It may, therefore, we think, be safely assumed, that the policy, in
this case, contains no insurance against barratry;and, we suppose
it must follow, that if the defendants did not insure against barratry,
they cannot be liable for a loss by fire, caused by barratry.
2dly, As to the other three questions, it is supposed that they will
all be virtually settled by tue lecision of .i single point; that is,
whether the defendants, there being no insurance agogtinst barratry, are liable for a loss by fire, arising from the negligence of the
assured, or his agents, the master and crew?

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

217

[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

The defendants contend for the negative of this question.
If there be one case, turning on that very point, in which such a
liability has been adjudged to exist, we have not met with it. The
liability of underwriters for such losses, where barratry also is in-eluded in the policy, is supposed to have been settled in England, as
late as the year 1818, by the decision in the case of Busk v. The
Royal Exchange Insurance Company, 2 Barnwall and Alderson, 72;
and that decision was adopted and followed by this Court in the case
of the Patapsco Insurance Company v. Coulter, at the January term,
1830, 3 Peters, 222; contrary to the case of Grim v. The Phmnix
Insurance Company, 13 Johns. Rep. 451, and all the American cases.
on the same point:
But the English case, and the case in this Court, leave undetermined the question of liability *here there is no insuran ce against
barratry. In the latter case it is said, that question "need not here
be considered;" and in the English case, the reasoning of the court
to establish the liability, where barratry is insured against, is strong
against the existence of any such liability, where there is no insurance against barratry. The court say, "where we find that they
(the assurers) make themselves answerable for the wilful misconduct (barratry) of the master in other cases; it is not too much to
say, that they meant to indemnify the assured against the fire, proceeding from the negligence of the master and mariners."
Thus, the undertaking to indemnify against the effects of negligence, is inferred, exclusively, from the express agreement to be answerable for barrairous conduct: an argument pregnant with the conelusion, that, but for the insurance against barratry, there would have
been no responsibility on the insurers for a loss by negligence; and
such, we insist, is the correct doctrine recognised and sanctioned by
elementary writers, Marshall, 156, 421, and Philips 224 to 227; and
by adjudged cases, Grim v. Phoenix Insurance Company, 13 Johns.
Rep. 451; and tho cases there cited, of Vos & Grayes v. The United
Insurance Company, 2L Johns. Cases, 180; and Cleveland v. The
Union Insurance Company, 8 Mass. Rep. 308, &c. &c.; Toulmini v.
Inglis, 1 Campbell, 421; Pepon v. Cope, 1 Campbell, 434; Toulmin
v. Anderson, 1 Taunton, 227; and Boyd v. Dubois, 3 Campbell,
133; the case of Plxyp v..The Royal Exchange Association Company, 7 Term Rep. 505; and many other cases, proceed on the same
principle.
It is admitted that the doctrine for which the. defendants, in this
VOL. XI.-2 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Waters v. The Merchaa,&3' Louisville Insurance Company.]

case. contend, is, seemingly, in opposition to some remarks that fell
from this Court in the late case of the Columbia Insurance Company
of Alexandria v. Lawrence, 10 Peters, 507. It is respectfully suggested that those remarks (entitled in all other respects to the highest
•consi l-ration) related to a point not involved in the case, or necessary
to its determination; and were, probably, therefore, less weighed and
considered by the Court. The point was not involved, because that
was-an insurance of a house against fire; and, in such cases, the books
and authorities all seem to concui1 in holding the insurer responsible
for losses occasioned by the negligence of servants; in contradistine"tion to the responsibility resulting from marine policies. It is
hoped, therefore, that the question now under consideration, may be
regarded as an open one; neither conclu ed nor affected by what fell
from the Court, in the case last mentioned.
Furthermore, the rule for which we contend, exempting insurers
from liability for the negligence of the assured and his agents, is supported by its analogy to the familiar and well-established doctrines
applicable to bailments generally; and is sanctioned by reason and
sound policy, as contributing to the general interest and security, by
rendering the assured and their agents more diligent and more
careful.
'Mr. Justie STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a case certified to us from the circuit court for the district
of Kentucky upon certain questions upon which the judges of that
court were opposed in opinion.
The action was brought by Waters, the plaintiff, on a policy of insurance underwritten by the Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company, whereby they insured and caised to be insured, the plaintiff
"lost or not lost, in the sum of 6000 dollars, on the steamboat
Lioness, engine, tackle, and furniture, to navigate the western
waters usually navigated by steamboats, particularly from New Orleans to Natchitoches on Red river, or elsewhere, the Missouri and
Upper Mississippi excepted; (captain Waters having the privilege
of placing competent masters in command at any time, 6000 dollars
being insured at New Albany, Indiana). whereof William Waters
is at present master; beginning the adventure upon the said steamboat, from the 12th of September, 1832, at twelve o'clock merif]ian,
and to continue and endure until, the 112th of September, 1833,
at twelve o'clock, meridian (twelve months)." The policy further

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

pr6vided, that "It shall be lawful for the said steamboat, during said
time, to proceed to, touch and stay at, any point or pointi, place or
plices, if thereunto obliged by stress of weather or other unavoidable accidents, also at the usual landings for wood and refreshments,
and for discharging freight and passengers, without prejudice to this
insurance. Touching the adventures and perils, which the aforesaid
insurance company is conterted to bear; they are, of the rivers, fire,
enemies, pirates, assailing thieves, and all other losses and misfortunes, which shall come to the hurt; detriment, or damage of the
said steamboat, engine, tackle, and furniture, according to the true
intent and meaning of this policy." The premium was nine per
cent. The declaration avers a total loss; and that the said steamboat
and appertenances insured, "were, by the adventures and perils of
fire and the river, exploded, su'nk to the bottom of Red river aforesaid, and utterly destroyed.,"
The defendants pleaded six several pleas, to which a demurrer was
put in by the plaintiff; and in the consideration of the demurrer, tht
following questions and points occurred:
1. Does the policy cover a loss of the boat by a fire, caused by the
barratry of the master and crew?
2. Does the policy co'ier loss of the boat by fire, caused by the
negligence, carelessness, or unskilfulness of the master and crew of
the boat, or any of them?
3. Is the allegation of the defendants in -their pleas, or either of
them, to the effect that the fire, by which the boat was lost, was caused
by the carelessness, or the neglect, or unskilful conduct of the master and crew, a defence to this action?
4. Are the said pleas, or either of them, sufficient?
These questions constituted the points on which the decisiori of
the judges took place in the court below; and they are those upon
which we are now called to deliver our opinion upon the argument
had at the bar.
As we understand the first' question, it assumes that the fire w.as
directly and immediately caused by the barratry of the master and
crew, as the efficient agents; or, in other words, that-the, firewas
communicated and occasioned by the direct act and agency of the
master and crew, intentionally done from a barratrdus purpose. In
this view of it, we have no hesitation to say, that a loss by fire caused
by the barratry of the master or crew, is not a loss within the policy.
Such a loss is properly a loss attributable to the barratry, as its

SUPREME COURT.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

proximate cause, as it concurs as the efficient agent, with the element,
eo instanti, wherr the injury is produced. If the master or ere*
should barratrously bore holes in the bottom of the vessel, and the
latter should thereby be filled -with water and sink, the loss would
properly be deemed a loss by barratry, and not by a peril of the seas
or of rivers, though the flow of the water should co-operate in proclucing the sinking.
The second question raises a different point, whether a loss by fire,
remotely caused by- the negligence, carelessness, or unskilfulness of
the master and crew of the vessel, is a loss within the true intent and
meaning of. the policy. By unsk'ilfulness, as here stated, we do not
understand in this in'stAince, a general unskilfulness, such as would be
a breach of the implied warranty of competent skill to navigate and
conduct the vessel; but only unskilfulness in the particular circumstances remotely connected with the loss. In this sense, it is equivalent to negligence or carelessness in the -execution of duty, and not
to incapacity.
This question has undergone many discussions in the courts of
England and America, and has given'rise to opiosing judgments in
the two countries, As applied to policies against fire on land, the
doctrine has for a great length of time prevailed, that losses occasioned by the mere fault or negligence 6f the. assured or his servants,
unaffected bkr fraud or desig'n, -are within the protection of the policies; and as such recoverable from the underwriters. It is not certain
upon what precise grounds this doctrine was originally'settled. It
may ha-Ve been from the rules of interpretation applied to such policies containing special exceptions, and not excepting this; or it may
have been, and more probably was founded upon a more general
ground, that as the terms of the policy covered risks by fire generally, no exception ought to be intloduced by construction, eicept
that of fraud of the assured, which, upon the principles of public
policy and morals, was always to be implied. It is probable, too,
that the consideration had great weight, that otherwise such policies
would practically be of little importance, since, comparatively speaking, few losses of this sort would occur which could not be traced
back to some carelessness, neglect, or inattention of the members of
the family.
Be the origin of it, however, what it may, the doctrine is now
firmly established both in England and America. We had occasion
to consider and decide the point at the last term, in the case of the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Wafers v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

Columbia Insurance Company of Alexandria v. Lawrence, 10 Peters' R. 517, 518; which was a policy against the risk of fire on land.
The argument addressed to us on that-occasion, endeavoured to establish the proposition, that there was no real distinction between policies against fire on land and at sea; and that in each case the same
risks were included: and that as the risk of loss by fire occasioned
by negligence was not included in a marine policy, unless that of
barratry was also contained in the same policy, it followed, that as
the latter risk was not taken on a land policy, no recovery could be
had. In reply to that argument, the court made the comments which
have been' alluded to at the bar, and the correctness of which it becomes now necessary to decide.
It is certainly somewhat remarkable, that the question now before
us should never have been directly presented in the American or
English courts; viz. whether, in -a marine policy, (as this may well
enough be called) where the risk of fire is taken, and the risk of
barratry is not, (as is the predicament of the present case) a loss by
fire, remotely caused by negligence, is a loss within the policy. But
it is scarcely a matter of less surprise, considering the great length
of time during which policies against both risks have been in constant use among merchants; that the question of a loss by negligefice
in a policy against both risks, should not have arisen in either country until a comparatively recent period.
If we look to the question upon mere principle, without reference
to authority, it is difficult to escape from the conclusion, that a loss
by a peril insured against, and occasioned by negligence, is a loss
within a marine policy; unless there be some other language in it,
which repels that conclusion. Such a loss is within the words, and
it is incumbent upon those who seek to make any exception from
the words, to show that it is not within the intent of the policy.
There is nothing unreasonable, unjust, or inconsistent with public
policy, in allowing the insured to insure himself against all losses from
any perils not occasioned by his own personal fraud. It was well observed by Mr. Justice Bayley, in delivering the opinion of the court
in Bush v. The Royal Exchange Assurance Company, 2 Barn. and
Ald. 79; after referring to the general risks in the policy; that "the
object of the assured, certainly, was to protect himself against all the
risks incident to a marine adventure. The underwriter being therefore liable, prima facie, by the express terms of the policy, it lies
upon him to discharge himself. *Does he do so by showing that the

SUPREME COURT.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

fire arose from the negligence of the master-and mariners?" "If,
indeed, the negligence of the. master would exonerate the underwriter from responsibility, in case of a loss by fire; it would also in
cases of a loss by capture, or perils of the sea. And it would, therefore, constitute a good defence in an action upon a policy, to show,
that the captain had misconducted himself in the navigation of the
ship, or that he had not resisted an enemy to the utmost of his
power." There is great force in this reasoning, and the practical
inconvenience of carving out such an implied exception from the
general peril in the policy, furnishes a strong ground against it; and
it is to be remembered, that the exception is to be created by construction of the court, and is not found in the terms of the policy. The
reasons of public policy, and the presumption- of intention in the
parties to make such an exception, ought to be very clear and unequivocal, to justify the court in such a course. So far from any such
policy or presumption being clear and unequivocal, it may be affirmed that they lean the other way. The practical inconvenience of
creating such an exception would be very great. Lord Tenterden
alluded to it in Walker v. Maitland, 5 Barn. & Ald. 174. "No de-cision (said he) can be cited, wherein such a case (the loss by a
peril of the sea,) the underwriters have been held to be excused in
consequence of the loss having been remotely occasioned by the
negligence of the crew. I am afraid of laying down any such rule.
It will introduce an infinite number of questions, as to-the quantum
of care, which, if used, might have prevented the loss. Suppose, for
instance, the master were to send a man to the mast head to look out,
and he falls asleep,'in consequence of which the vessel runs upon a
rock, or is taken by the enemy; in that case it might be argued, as
here, that the loss was imputable to the negligence of one of the
crew, and that the underwriters are not liable. These, and a variety
of other -such questions, would be introduced, in case our opinion
were in favour of the underwriters." His lordship might have stated
the argument from inconvenience, even in a more general form. If
negligence of the master or crew, were under such circumstances a
good defence, it would be perfectly competent and proper to examine on the trial any single transaction 6f the whole voyage, and
every incident of the navigation of the whole voyage, whether there
was due diligence in all respects, in hoisting or taking in sail, in
steering the course, in trimming the ship, in selecting the route, in
stopping in port, in hastening or retarding the operations of the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

223

[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

voyage; for all these might be remotely connected with the loss. If
there had been more diligence, or less negligence, the peril might
have been avoided of escaped, or never encountered at all. Under
such circumstances, the chance of a.recovery upon a policy for any
loss, from any peril insured against, would of itself be a risk of no
inconsiderable hazard.
This is not all: we must interpret this instrument according to the
known principles of the common law. It is a well established prinriple of that law, that in all cases of loss we are to attribute it'to the
proximate cause, and not to any remote cause: causa proxima non
remota spectatur: and this has become a maxim, not only to govern
other caes; but, (as will be presently shown) to govern cases arising
under policies of insurance. If this maxim is to be applied, it disposes of the whole argument in the present case; and why it should
not be so applied we are unable to see any reason.
Let us now look to the authorities upon the point. In Busk v.
The Royal Exchange Assurance Company, 2 Barn. & Ald. R. 13,
the very point came before the court. The policy hovered therisk
by fire, and the question made was, whether the fact that the loss of
the ship by .fire, occasioned by the negligence of the crew, was a
good defence. The court held that it was not. In that case the policy
also included the risk of barratry; and it is now said that the decision
of the court turned wholly upon that consideration, the court being
of opinion, that in a policy, where the underwriter takes the superior risk of barratry, there is no ground to infer that he does not
mean to take the inferior risk of negligence: it is certainly true
that the court do rely in their judgment upon this circumstance ;
and it certainly does fortify it. But there is no reason to say, that
the court wholly relied upon it, and that it constituted the exclusive ground of the judgment; on the contrary, Mr. Justice Bayley, in delivering the opinion, takes pains in the earlier part of
that opinion to state, and to rely upon the maxim already stated. He
said, "in our law, at least, there is no authority which says that the
underwriters are not liable for a loss, the proximate cuse of which
is one of the enumerated risks; but the remote cause of which may
be traced to the misconduct of the master and mariners." "It is
certainly a strong argument against the objection now raised for the
first time, that in the great variety of cases upon marine policies,
which have been theasubjects of litigation in courts of justice, (the
facts of maihy of which must have presented a ground for such a de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Companiy.]

fence) no such point has ever been made." In Walker v. Maitland,
5 Barn. and Ald. 173, a similar question was preiented, *here the
maxim was still more strongly indicated, as the general, though not
as the exclusive ground of the judgment: the case of Bishop v.
Pentland,'7 Barn. and Cresw. 219, turned exclusively upon the very
ground of the maxim; and-not a single judge relied upon the policy,
as containing the risk of barratry. Indeed, it does not appear that
the risk of barratry was, in that case, in the policy. Mr. Justice Bayley, on that occasion, put the former cases as having been expressly
decided upon this maxim. His language was, "the cases of Busk v.
The Royal Exchange Assurance Company, and Walker v. Maitland,
establish as a principle that the underwriters are liable for a loss, the
proximate cause of which is one of the enumerated risks: though the
remote cause may be traced to the negligence of the master and
mariners. '
Then came the case of The Patapsco Insurance Company v. Coulter, 3 Peters' R. 222, where the loss was by fire, and barratry also
was insured against. The Court on that occasion held, that in such a
policy, a loss which was remotely caused by the master or the crew,
was a risk taken in the policy; and the doctrine in the English
cases already cited, was approved. It is true that the Court lay great
stress on the fact that barratry was insured against; but it may also
be stated that this ground was not exclusively relied on, for the Court
expressly refer to and adopt the doctrine of the English cases, that the
proximate and not the remote cause of a loss is to be looked to. It
is known to those of us who constituted a part of the Court Pt that
time, that a majority of the judges were then of opinion for the
plaintiff, upenahis last general ground, independently of the other.
It was under these circumstances, that the case of The Columbia
Insurance Company of Alexandria v. Lawrence, 10 Peters' R. 507,
Scame on for argument: and*the Court then thought, that in marine
policies, whether containing the risk of barratry or not, a loss whose
proximate cause was a peril insured against, is within the protection
of the policy; notwithstanding it might have been occasioned remotely by the negligence of the master and mariners. We see no
reason to change that opiniob; and on the contrary, upon the present
argument, we are confirmed in it.
The third and fourth questions are completely answered by the
reasoning already stated. Those pleas contain no legal defence to the
action, in the form and manner in which they are pleaded; and are not
sufficient to bar a recovery by the plaintiff.

JANUARY TERM, 1831.
[Waters v. The Merchants' Louisville Insurance Company.]

Some suggestion was made at the bar, whether the explosion, as
stated in the pleas, was a loss by fire, or by explosion merely. We
are of opinion, that as the explosion was caused by fire, the latter
was the proximate cause of the.loss. The fifth plea turns upon a
different ground. It is that the taking of gunpowder on board wai
an increase of the risk. If the taking of the gunpowder on board
was not justified by the usage of the trade, and therefore was not
contemplated as a risk by the policy; there might be great reason to
contend, that if it increased the risk, the loss was not covered by the
policy. But in our opinion the facts are too defectively stated in
the fifth plea, to raise the question.
Our opinion will be certified to the circuit court accordingly. On
the first question, in the negative; on the second question, in the affirmative; and on the third and fourth questions, in the negative.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and on the questions and points on which the judges'-of the
said circuit court were opposed in opinion, 'and which were certified
to this Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of congress in such
case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, 1st, that the policy dogs not "cover a loss of the boat by a fire, caused by the barratry of the master and crew;" 2d, that the policy does 4-cover a loss
of the boat by fire, caused by the vegligence, carelessness or unskilfulness of the master and crew of'the boat, or any of them;" 3d,
that the allegations of the defendants in their pleas, or either of them
to the effect that the firey by which-the boat was lost, was caused by
the carelessness, or the neglect, or unskilful conduct of the master and
crew of the boat, "is not a defence to this action; and 4thly, that the
said pleas, or either of them," are not sufficient in law as a bar to the
action of the plaintiff. Whereupon it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that jt be so certified to the said circuit court.
VOL. X1.-2 F

