420

SUPREME COURT.

.Tu PROPRIETORS OF THE CHARLES RIVER BRIDGE, PLAINT'IFFS
IN ERROR V. THE PROPRIETORS OF TIfE WARREN BRIDGE, AND
OTHERS.
In 1650, the legislature of Massachusetts granted to Harvard College, the liberty
and power to dispose of a ferry by lease or otherwise, from Charlestown to Boston,
passing over Charles River. The right to set up a ferry between these places, had
been given by the governor, under tileauthority of the court of ssistance, by an
order dated November 9, 1636, to a particular individual; and was afterwards
leased successively to others, they having the privilege of taking tolls regulated
in the grant; and when, in 1650, the franchise of this ferry was granted to the college, the rights of the lessees in the same had expired. Under the grant the college continued to hold the ferry by its lessees, and receive the profits therefrom
until 1785, whe6 the legislature of Massachusetts incorporated a company to build a
bridge over Charles River where the ferry stood, granting them tolls; the company
to pay to Harvard College two hundred pounds a year during the charter, for forty
years, which was afterwards extended to seventy years; after which the bridge
was to become the property of the commonwealth. The bridge was built under this
charter, and the corporation received the tolls allowed by the law; always keeping
the bridge in order, and performing all that was enjoined on them to do. In 1828,
the legislature of Massachusetts incorporated another company for the erection of
another bridge, the Warren Bridge, over Charles River, from Charlestown to Boston, allowing the company to take tolls; commencing in Charlestown, near where
the Charles River Bridge commenced, and terminating in Boston, about eight hundred feet from the termination.of the Charles River Bridge. The bridge was to
become free after a few years, and has actually become free. Travellers, who formerly passed over the Charles River Br:dge from C~larlestown Square, now pass
over the Warren Bridge; and thus the Charles River Bridge company aie deprived
of the tolls they would have otherwise received. The value of the franchise granted by the act of 1785, is now entirely destroyed. The proprietors of the Charles
River 1L ge filed a bill in the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts against
the proprietors of the Warren Bridge, first for an injunction to preventthe erection
of the bridge, and afterwards for general relief: stating that the act of the legislature
of Massachusetts, authorizing the building of the Warren Bridge, was an act impairing the obligations of a contract, and therefore repugnant to the constitution
of the United States. The supreme court of Massachusetts dismissed ihe bill of.
the complainants; and the case was biought by writ of error to th. Supreme
Court of the United States, under the provisions of tie 25th section of tilejudiciary act of 1789. The judgment of the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts, dismissing the bill of the plaintiltf in error, was altirmed.

The Court are fully sensible, that it is theii duty in exercising the high powers confurred on them by the constitution of the United States, to deal with these great
and extensive interets, (chartered property,) with the utmost caution; guarding,

JANUARY TERM, 1837:

421

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al]
as far as they have power to do so, the rights of property, at the same time carefully abstaining from any encroachment on the rights reserved to the states.
The plaintiffs in error insisted on two grounds for the reversal of the judgment, or
decree of the supreme court of Massachusetts. 1. That by the grant of 1650, Harvard College was entitled, in perpetuity, to the right to keep a ferry between
Charlestown and Boston: that the right was exclusive, and the legislature had no
right to establish another ferry on the same line of travel, because it would infringe the rights of the college and those of the plaintiffs, under the charter of
1785. 2. That the true construction of the acts of the legislature of Massachusetts, granting the privilege to build a bridge, necessarily imported, that the-legislature would not authorize another bridge, and especially a free one, by the side
of the Charles River Bridge; so that the franchise which they held would be of
no value; and that this grant of the franchise of the ferry to the college, and the
grant of the right of pontage to the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge, is a
contract, which is impaired by the law authorizing the erection of the Warren
Bridge. By the Court. It is very clear, that in the form in which this case comes
before us, being awritof error to a state court, the plaintiffs, in claiming under either
of these rights, must place themselves on tke ground of contract; and cannot support themselves upon the principles, that the law divests vested rights. It is well
settled by the decisions of this Court, that a state law may be retrospective in its
character, and may divestyested rights; and yet not violate the constitution of the
United States, unless it also impairs the obligation of a contract.
The case of Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters, 413, cited.
The ferry right which was owned by Harvard College, was extinguished by the
building of the Charles River Bridge. The ferry, with all its privileges, was then
at an end for ever, and a compensation in money was given in lieu of it.
As the franchise of the ferry and that of the bridge are different in their nature, and
were each established by separate grants, which have no words to connect the
privileges of the one, with the privileges of the other; there is no rule of legal
interpretation which could authorize the Court to associate these grants together;
and to infer that any privilege was intended to be given to the bridge company,
merely because it h~d been conferred on the other. The charter of the bridge is a
written instrument, and must speak for itself, and be interpreted by its own termi.
The grant to the bridge company is of certain franchises by the public, to a private
corporation; and in a matter where the public interest is concerned. There is
nothing in the local situation of this country, or in the nature of ouar-political institutions, which should lead this Court to depart from the rules of construction
of statutes, adopted under the system of jurisprudence which we have derived
from the English law. No good reason can be assigned for introducing a new and
adverse rule of construction in favour of corporations; while we adopt, and adhere
to the rules of construction known to the English common law, in every other
case, without exception.
Public 5rants are to be'construed strictly. In the case of the United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 736, the'leading cases o this subject are~collected together by
the learned judge, who dulivered the' opinion of the Court; and the princ:iplL
recognised, that in grants by the public, nothing passes by implication: Jackson
v. Lamphire, 3 Peters, 269; Beatys v. The Lessee of Knowles, 4 Peters, 165; Tie
Providence Bank v. Billings and Pittman, 4 Peters, 514; cited.
In the case of The Providence Bank v. Billings and Pittman, 4 Peters, 514; Chief
Justice Marshall, speaking of the taxing power, said, "as the whole community is
interested in retaining it undiminished; that community has a right to insist that

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge: v. Warren Bridge et al.]
its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a case in which the deliberate purpose of the state to abandon it does not appear." The case now before the Court
Is in principle precisely the same. It is a charter from a state. The act of incorporation is silent in relation to the contested power. The argument in favour
of the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge is the same, almost, in words,
with that used for the Providence Bank; that is, that the power claimed by tle
state, if it exists, must be so used as not to destroy t~he value of the franchise they
have granted to the corporation. The argument must receive the same answer.
And the fact, that the power has been already exercised so as t' deswoy the
value of the franchise, cannot in any degree afibet the principle. The existence
of the power does not, and cannot depend upon the circumstance of its having
been exercised or not:
The object and the end of all government, is to promote the happiness and prosperity
of the community by which it is established; and it can never be assumed, that the
government intended to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it
was created: and in a country like ours, free, active and enterprising, continually
advancing in numbers and wealth; new channels of communication are daily
found'necessary both for travel and trade; and are essential to the comfort, convenience, and prosperity of the people. A state ought never to be presumed to surrender this power; because, like the taxing power, the whole community have an
interest in preserving it undiminished: and when a corporation alleges, that a state
has surrendered, for seventy years, its power of improvement and public accommodation in a great and important line of travel, along which a vast number
of its citizens must daily pass; the community have a right to insist, in the lan.
guage of this Court, "that its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a
case in which the deliberate purpose of the state to abandon it does not appear."
The continued existence of a government would be of no great value, if, by implications and presumptions, it was disarmed of the powers necessary to accomplish the ends of its creation; and the functions.it was designed to perform, transferred to the hands of privileged corporations. The rule of construction announced by the Court, was not confined to the taxing power, nor is it so limited
in the opinion delivered. On the contrary, it was distinctly placed on the ground
that the interests of the community were concerned in preserving, undiminished,
the power then in question; and wienever any power, of the state is said to be
surrendered or diminished, whether it be the taxing power, or any other affecting
the public interest, the same principle applies, and the rule of construction must
be the same. No one will question, that the interests of the great body of the
people of the state, would in this instance be affected by the surrender of this
great line of travel to a single corporation, with the right to exact toll and exclude
competition for seventy years. While the rights of private property are sacredly
guarded,,we must not forget, that the community also have rights; and that the
happiness and well-being of every citizen depends on their faithful preservation.
The act of incorporation of the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge; is in the
usual form; and the privileges such as are commonly given to corporations of that
kind. It confers on them the ordinary faculties of a corporation for the purpose of
building the bridge; and establishes certain rates of toll, which the company
are authorized to take. This is the whole grant. There is no exclusive privilege
given to them over the waters of Charles River: above or below their bridge; no
right to erect another bridge themselves, nor to prevent other persons from erecting one; no engagement from the state, that another shall not be erected; and no
undertaking not to sanction competition, nor to make improvements that may

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

423

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
diminish the amount of its income. Upon all these subjects the charter is silent:
and nothing is said in it about a line of travel so much insisted on in the argument, in which they are to have exclusive privileges. No words are used, from
which an intention to grant any of these rights can be inferred. If the plaintiffs
are entitled to them, it must be implied simply from the nature of the grant; and
cannot be inferred from the words by which the grant is made.
Amid the multitude of cases which have occurred, and have been daily-occurring
for the last forty or fifty years, this is the first instance in which such an implied
con. zt has been contended for; and this Court is called upon to irfer it from an
ordiaqiry act of incorporation, containing nothing more than the usual stipulations
and provisions tobe found in every such law. The absence of any such controversy, where there must have been so many occasions to give rise to it, proves
that neither states, nor individuals, nor corporations ever imagined that such a
contract can be implied from such charters. It shows, that the men who voted
for these laws never imagined that they were forming such a contract; and if it is
maintained that they have made it, it must be by a legal fiction, in opposition to the
truth of the *ct, and the obvious intention of the party. The Court cannot deal
thus with the rights reserved to the states; and by legal intendments and mere
technical reasoning, take away from them any portion of' that power over their
own internal police and improvement, which is so necessary to their well-being
and prosperity.
Let it once be understood, that such charters carry with them these implied contracts, and give this unknown and undefined property in a line of travelling; and
you will soon find the old turnpike corporations awakening from their sleep, and
calling upon this Court to put down the improvements which have taken their,
place. The millions of property which have been invested in rail roads and canals
upon lines of travel which had been before occupied by turnpike corporations,
will he put in jeopardy. We shall be thrown back to the improvements of the
last century; and obliged to stand still, until the claims of the old turnpike corporations shall be satisfied, and they shall consent to permit these states to avail
themselves of the lights of modern science, and to partake of the benefit of those
improvements, which are now adding to the wealth and prosperity, and the convenience and comfort of every other part of the civilized world.

IN error to the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts..
The -plaintiffs in error, are a corporation created by an act of the
legislature of the state of Massachusetts, passed on the 9th of March,
1785, entitldd " A:n act for incorporating certain persons for the purpose of building a bridge over Charles river, between Boston and
Charlestown, and supporting the same during forty years." The preamble of the act states, " whereas the erecting a bridge lover Charles
.river, in the place where the ferry between Boston and Charlestown

is now kept, will be of grett public utility, and Thomas Russell, Esq.
and others, have petitioned this court for an act of incorporation, to
empower them to build the same bridge," &c.
The act authorizes taking certain tolls, prescribes the size of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

bridge, and fixes certain regulations by which it will not be permitted
to impede, the navigation of'Charles river; and enjoins certain things
to be done, by which the bridge shall be kept in good order, and
fitted for constant and convenient use.
The fifth section of the act provides, '(That after the said toll shall
commence, the said proprietors or corporation, shall annually pay to
Harvard College or University, the sum of two hundred pounds,during the said term of forty years; and, at the end of the said term,
the said bridge shall revert to, and be-the property of the commonwealth; saving to the said college or university, a reasonable and annual compensation for the annual income of the ferry; which they
might have received had not said bridge been erected."
The bridge was erected under the authority of this act; and afterwards, on the 9th of March, 1792, in an act which authorized the
making a bridge from the western part of Bost(n to Cambridge,
after reciting that the erecting of Charles River Bridge was a work of
hazard and public utility, and another bridge in the place proposed
for the West Boston Bridge, may diminish the emoluments of Charles
River Bridge; therefore, for the encouragement of enterprise, the
eighth section of the act declares, ",that the proprietors of the
Charles River Bridge shall continue to be a corporation and body politic, for and during the term of seventy years, to be computed from
the day the bridge was first opened for passengers."
The record contained exhibits, relating to the establishment of the
ferry from Charlestown to Boston, at the place where the bridge
was erected; and also the proceedings of the general court of Massachusetts, by which the ferry there became the property of Harvard
College.
Some of these proceedings, verbatim, were as follow:

"A

COURT

or ASSISTANCE

HOLDEN AT BOST N, NOV. 9th,

1830.

"Present, the Gov'nr, Dep'y Gov'r, Sir Richard Saltonstall, Mr.
Ludlow, Capt. Endicott, Mr. Coddington, Mr. Pinchon, Mr. Bradstreet.
"It is further ordered, that whosoever shall first give in his name
to Mr. Gov'nr, thaP hee will undertake to sett upp a ferry betwixt
Boston and Charltea, and shall begin the same at such tyme ag Mr.
Gov'nr shall appoynt; shall have id. for every person, and id. for
every one hundred weight of goods hee shall so transport."

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

"A court holden at Boston, November 5th, 1633. Present, the
Governor, Mr. Ludlow, Mr. Nowell, Mr. Treasu'r, Mr. Coddington,
S. Bradstreet.
"Mr. Rich. Brown is allowed by the court to keepe a fferry over
Charles ryver, against his house, and is to have 2d. for every single.
person hee soe transports, and id. a piece if there be two or more."
" Att the Gen'all Court holden at Newe Towne, May' 6th, 1635.
Present the Gov'nr, Deputy Gov'nr, Mr. Winthtop, sen'r., Mr.
Haynes, Mr. Huinphrey, Mr. Endicott, Mr. Treasu'r, Mr. Pinchon,
Mr. Nowell, MIr. Bradstreete, and the deputies:
" It is ordered that there shall be a fferry sett upp on Boston si'de,
by the Wynd myll hill, to transport men to Charlton and Wen&
semet, upon the same rates that the fferry-men att Charlton and
Wenesemet transport men to Boston."
"A Generall Courte held at Newtowne, the 2&'day of the 9th me.
1637. (Adjourned until the 15th, present.)
"Present; the Governor, Deputy Gov'nr, Mr. John Endicott, Mr.
Humfrey, Mr. Bellingham, Mr. Herlakenden, Mr. Stoughton,, Mr.
Bradstreete, and Increase Nowell:
"Thb fferry betweene Boston and Charlestowne, is referred to the
Governor and Treasurer, to let at 461. pr. A. beginning the 1st of
the 10th mo., and from thence for three years."
" At a General Court of elections, held at Boston the 13th of the
3d mo., A. 1640.
"Present, the Governor, &c. Mr. Treasurer, Mr. Samuel Sheapard and Leift. Sprague, have power to lett the ferry between Boston
and Charlestown, to whom they see cause, when the time Gf Edward'
Converse is expired, at their discretion.
" At a session beginning the 30th of the 8th mo. 1644. It is ordered that the magistrates and deputies of ye. co'rte, their passage
over the fferries,.together with their necessary attendants, shall be
free, not paying any thing for it, exdept at such ferries as are appropriated to any, or are rented out, and are out of the countries' hands,
and there it is ordered that their passages shall be paid by ye.
country."

Further extract from the colony records filed by the plfs. "At a
General Court, &c. 7th duy 8th mo.
The ferry bitweene Boston and Charlestown is granted to the
Colledge.'"
"gAt a Generall Courte of elections, begunne the 6th of May,
V6TL. XI.-3 H

$UPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

1646. In answer to the petition of James Heyden, with his partners, ferry-men of Charlestown, and for'the satisfaction of all other
ferry-men, that there may be no mistake who are freed, or should be
passage free, and how long: It is hereby declared, that our honored
magistrates, and such as are, or from time to time, shall be chosen to
serve as deputyes at the Generall Court, with both their necessary
attendants, shall be passage free over all ferryes; and by necessary
attendants, wee meane a man and a horse, at all times during the term
of their being magistrates or deputyes, but never intended all the
familyes of either at any time, and that ye. order neither expresseth
nor intendeth any such thing.
"_Att a third session of the Generall Courte oi elections, held at
Boston the 15th of October, 1650. In answer to the petition of
Henry Dunster, president of Harvard Colledge, respecting the hundred pounds due from the country to the college, and rectifying the
fferry rent, which belongs to the college. It is ordered that the treasurer shall pay the president of the college the some of one hundered
,pounds, with two years forbearance, as is desired; and forbearance
till it be paid out of this next levy, that so the ends proposed may be
accomplisht; and for the ferry of Charles Towne, when the lease is
expired, it shall be in the liberty and power of the president, in behalfe and for the behoofe of the College, to dispose of the said ferry
by lease, or otherwise, making the best and most advantage thereof
to his own content, so as such he disposeth it unto perforine the service and keep sufficient boates for the use thereof, as the order of the
court requires."
The case of the plaintiffs in error is thus stated in the opinion of
the Court:
It appears from the record, that in the year 1650, the legislature of
Massachusetts granted to the president of Harvard college "the
liberty and power" to dispose of the ferry from Charlestown to Boston, by lease or otherwise, in the behalf, and for the behoof of the
college; and that under that grant the college continued to hold and
keep the ferry, by its lessees or agents, and to receive the profits of
it until 1758. In that year a petition was presented to the legislature by Thomas Russell and others, stating the inconvenience of the
transportation by ferries over Charles river, and the public advantage
that would result from a bridge; and praying to be incorporated, for
the purpose of erecting a bridge in the place where the ferry between

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

427

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Boston and Charlestown was then' kept. Pursuant to the petition,
the legislature, on the 9th- of March, 1785, passed an act incorporating.a company by the name of "The Proprietors of the Charles
River Bridge," for the purposes mentioned in the petition. Under
this charter, the company were authorized "to erect a bridge "in the
place where the ferry is now kept;" certain tolls were granted, and
the charter was limited to forty years, from the first opening of the
bridge for passengers; and from the time the toll dommenced,
until the expiration of the term, the company were.to pay two hundred pounds, annually, to Harvard College; and at, the expiration of
the forty years, the bridge was to be the property of the commonwealth; "saving, as the law expresses it, to the said college or university, a reasonable annual compensation for the annual income of
the ferry, which they might have received, had not the said bridge
been erected."
The bridge was accordingly bu It and was opened for passengers,
on the 17th June, 1786. In 1792, the charter was extended to
seventy years from the opening of the bridge, aid at the expiration
of that time, it was to belong to the commonwealth. The corporation
have regularly paid to the college the annual sum of two 'hundred
pounds; and have performed all the duties imposed on them, by. the
tervis of their charter.
In 1828, the legislature of Massachusetts incorporated a company
by the name of "The Proprietors of the Warren Bridge," for the purpose of erecting another bridge over the Charles river. The bridge
is only sixteen rods at its commencemen on the Charlestown side,
from the commencement of the bridge of the plaintiffs, and they are
about fifty rods apart, at their termination on the Boston side. The
travePers who:pass over either bridge, proceed from Charlestown
Square, which receives the travel of many greatpublic roads, leading
from the'country; and the passengerg and travellers who go to and
from Boston, used to pass over the Charles River Bridge, from . aind
through this square, before the erection of the Warren Bridge.
The Warren Bridge, by the terms of the charter, was to be surrendered to the state, as soon as the expenses of the proprietors in buildr
ing and supporting it should be reimbursed; but this period was not
in any event to exceed six years from the time the company commenced receiving toll.
- When the -original -bill in this case was filed, the Warren Bridge
had not been built; and the bill was filed after the passage of the law,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

in order to obtain an injunction to prevent its erection, and for general relief.
The bill, among other things, charged as a ground for relief, that
the act for the erection of the Warren Bridge impaired the obligation of the contract between the state of Massachusetts and the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge; and was therefore repugnant
to the constitution of the United States. Afterwards, a supplemental
bill was filed, stating that the bridge had been so far completed, that
it had been opered for travel; and that divers persons had passed
over, and thus avoided the payment of the toll, which would otherwise have been received by the plaintiffs.
The answer to the supplemental bill, admitted that the bridge had
been so far completed, that foot passengers could pass, but denied
that any persons but the workmen and superintendents had passed
over with their consent
In this state of the pleadings the cause came on for a hearing in
the supreme judicial court for the county of Suffolk, .in the commonwealth of Massachusetts, at November term, 1829, and the court
decided, that the act incorporating the Warren Bridge, did not impair the obligation of the contract with the proprietors of the Charles,
River Bridge; and dismissed the complainants' bill.
The complainants prosecuted this writ of error.
.The case was argued by Mr. Dutton and Mr. Webster, for the
plaintiffs in error: and by Mr. Greenleaf and Mr. Davis, for the defendants..
Mr. Dutton for the plaintiffs.
This case comes before the Court upon the bill and answer,
amended bill and answer, exhibits, evidence, &c., contained in the
record.
The plaintiffs, in their several bills, after setting forth the grants
made to them by the acts of 1785, and 1792, and their compliance
with the terms and conditions of them, complain that the defendants
are about to construct, and have constructed, a bridge between
Charlestown and Boston, so near to the plaintiffs' br'-ge as to be, in
contemplation of law, a nuisance to it; and they therefore pray that
the defendants may be enjoined, &c.
The defendants justify, under the authority of an act passed on

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the 12th of March, 1828, establishing the Warren Bridge Corporation.
The plaintiffs ailege, that this act of the legislature, under which
the defendants justify themselves, impairs the obligation of a contract, and is, therefore, unconstitutional and. void.
The defendants, in their answer, deny this; and the issue raised by
these pleadings, and the only one, of which this Court has jurisdiction, is, whether the said act of March 12th, 1828, does, or does not,
impair the obligation of a contract.
Such being the state of the pleadings, and such the only issue,
which this Court can,try, I shall endeavour to maintain this single
proposition, v;z:
The act of the legislature of MaSsachusetts, passed on the 12th of
March, 1828, establishing the Warren Bridge Corporation, is re-'
pugnant to the 10th section of the 1st article of the constitution of
the United States, which prohibits a state from passing any law impairing the obligation'of contracts.,
In the discussion of this proposition many topics will come under
examination; all, however, connected with it, and all resulting in the
affirmance or denial of it.
By the preamble to the plaintiffs' charter, which was passed on the
9th of March, 1785, incorporating the plaintiffs, it appears, that the
bridge is to be erected "in the place where the ferry between Boston
and Charlestown is now kept;" and by the 5th section of the act.it
is provided, that "after the said toll shall commence, the said proprietors or corporation, shall annually pay to Harvard college or
university, the sum of two hundred pounds, during the said term of
forty years.
The plaintiffs' charter, therefore, upon the face of it, shows that
certain transactions took place between the legislature, the college,
and the grantees.
The ferry that belonged to the college is-to ber extinguished, and
a bridge is to be erected in its place: an obligation is imposed upon
the grantees to pay to the ollege the sum of.two hundred pounds
annually; and there is a recognition of a right in the college to
compensation for the loss of the ferry, after the plaintiffs' charier has
expired.
All this leads to an examination of the ferry, and its legal history,
as it appears by various colonial, ordinances; together with the nature
and extent of such a franchise, at common law.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

On the 9th of November, 1630, the colonial government make an
offer of a ferry to any one who will undertake to set it up, between
Boston and Charlestown, and fix the rates of ferriage, &c.
On the 5th of November, 1633, Richard Brown is allowed to keep
a ferry over Charles river, against his house, and the rates are there
stated. It does not appear where this ferry was, or whether it was
ever set up.
On the 2d day of the 9th month, 1637, this ordinance7 was passed.
"The ferry between Boston and Charlestown is referred to the
governor and treasurer to let, at forty pounds per annum, for three
years."
On the 13th of the 3d month, 1640, it is referred to Samuel Shephard and others to let the ferry between Boston and Charlestown,
when the time of Edward Converse is expired, &c.
.Onthe 7th of the 8th month, the ferry was granted to the college
in these words:
"The ferry between Boston and Charlestown is, granted to the
college."
By this ordinance, which, with others, relating to ferries, will be
found in the 56th and 57th pages of the record; it appears, that the
lease to Converse was about to expire, and that there was, at that
time, no other ferry in existence between Boston and Charlestown.
At a session of the court, held on the 30th of the 8th month,
1644, it is provided, that' magistrates, with their necessary attendants, shall have free passage over all ferries that have not been granted or leased to any; and their passage shall be paid by the country.
On the 6th of May, 1646, an ordinance was passed, explaining the
foregoing ordinance, and declaring what is intended by necessary
attendants,for the satisfaction of the ferrymen; and making magistrates passage free, over all ferries.
This ordinance exempts magistrates at all ferries, contrary to the
act of-1644; and is the only one, during a period ofone hundred and
forty-five yearsy which, in the smallest degree, affects the income of
the ferry. Whether the amount to be charged to the country was
found to be too trifling to keep an account of, or whether the exemption at all ferries, was claimed by the magistrates, after royal example, and as being the representatives of the royal authority, does
not appear.
It appears by the ancient charters, that the college was incorporated in May, 1650.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Various acts were passed, confirming the original grant to the college, both before and after the act of incorporation.
By the ordinance of 1642, Ancient Charters) page 77, the "revenue of the ferry between Boston and Charlestown," was given to
the college.
In the act passed on the 15th October, 1650, it is provided, that
for the'ferry of Charlestown, when the lease is expired, it shall be in
the liberty and power of the president, in the behalf and for the behoof of the college, to dispose of the said ferry, by lease or otherwise, making the best and most advantage thereof to his own content, &c. &c.
The act passed on the 18th October, 1654, speaks of the "fterry
formerly granted to the college;" and the act of 27th June, 1710,
speaks of the "profits and revenues of the said ferry being granted
to Harvard college, in Cambridge."
I Thus it appears, that the original grant of this ferry, in 1640, was
confirmed in 1642, in 1650, in 1654, and in 1710.
Various acts regulating ferries were passed by the colonial government, and several regulating the ferry between Boston and Charlestown. They relate to the duties of the ferrymen, the convenience
of the ferry-ways, the number of boats, &c. &c. The act passed in
1781, provides, that whenever the coI:poration of Harvard college
shall make any alteration in the rates of ferriage, they shall publish
the rates by them established.
In 1713, there was a project for building a bridge where the ferry
was kept, and a committee was appointed by the coporation of the
college, to "insist on the right which the college hath in-and td the
profits of the said ferry;" and the government, at the same time, appointed Dr. Clark, to confer with the president and fellows upon the
affair of a bridge in place of the ferry.
Thus, then.,it appears that the college held this ferry for one hundred and forty-five years, with all the common law rights of ferries;
subject only to such regulations as the colonial and state governments saw fit, from time to time, to make.
First, the ferry itself was granted; afterwards, its profits, revenues,
&c. &c.
If one grants the profits of his land, the land itself passeth. Comyn.
tit. Grant, E. 5.
In order to understand the nature and extent of this franchise, resort must be had to the common law; and this has been uniform.

432

SUPREME COURT,
[Charles River Bridge v Warren'Bridge et al.]

from-the time of Henry VI. to the present time. It is also the law
of this country, except in cases where it can be shown that it has
been overruled by adjudged cases- or modified by statute.
In the Terms de Ley, 338, a ferry is called a liberty, by prescription, or the .king's grant, to have a boat for a passage upon a great
stream, for carrying of horses and men for reasonable toll.
It is called an incorporeal hereditament, and is either founded in
grant, or prescription, which supposes a grant. In the one case, the
extent of the franchise is ascertained by usage; in the other, by the
terms of the grant. Dane's Abr. 2 -ol. 683; Stark v. M'Gowan, 1
vol. Nott & M'Cord's- Reports.
It may belong to the government, to a corporation, or to an individual; the property may be private,though the use is public.
In 10 vol. Petersdorf, 53, it is said that these franchises, which are
various, may be "vested either in the natural person, ol bodies politic; in one- man, or in many; but the same identical franchise that
has been granted to one, cannot be bestowed on another, for that
would prejudice the former grant." Also Viner's Abr. vol. 13, 513.
In a note to the case of Blisset v. Hart, Willes' Reports, 512, it is
said: "A ferry is publici juris: it is a franchise, that no one can
erect without the king's license; and when one is erected, another
cannot be erected without an ad quod damnum.. If a second is
erected without license, the crown has a remedy by quo warranto;
anl the former grantee by action."
If the ferry be not well repaired, it is popular,and in the nature
of a highway, &c. It is to be reformed by presentment or information. This differs from the case of mills, bake houses, &c.,
which are grounded on customs, and of a private nature. Hardres'
Rep. 163.
Every owner of a ferry must have a right to land, to take in his
passengers. He need not own the soil, but he must have a right to
use. it. 12 East. 330. 6 Barnwell & Creswell, 703. The general
doctrine is laid down in 22 Henry VI,, 15, 16.
" If I have a ferry by prescription, and another is erected
so near
as to impair my ferry, it is a nuisance to me; for I am bound .to sustain and repair the ferry for the use of the king's lieges; otherwise,
In Rolle's Abr. 140, Nuisance
I may be grievously amerced."
G-, line 20, the same doctrine is stated with reference to a fair or
market
Hale, in a note to Fitzherbert's Nat. Bre. 428, says:--" If the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

433

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]
market be on the same day, it shall be intended a nuisance; but if it
be on a different day, it shall not be so intended; and therefore it
shall be put in issue, whether it be so or not."
Cites 11 Henry IV.
5,6.
If a ferry be erected with license, another cannot erect a ferry to
the nuisance of it. Comyn. Dig. tit. Piscary, B. He states the same
doctrine in another place. "Title action on the case for nuisance,
A." "So if one erect a ferry so near my ancient ferry." Blackstone's Com. vol. 3, 219; Nott & MiCord, vol. 1, 387.
It'is the usual practice in England, to issue the writ of ad quod
damnum, before the patent for a fair or market is granted. But as
the execution of this judicial process does not, and cannot always
ascertain what will be the effect of the proposed market or fair; the
doctrine seems to be well settled, that in case it does prove to be injurious to any existing market or fair, the patent may be repealed
upon proof of the fact. In other words, the writ of .ad quod damnum, executed, is not conclusive. 6 Modern Rep. 229; 2 Ventris,
344; 3 Levinz, 220; Hale de Port. Maris; Hargrave's Tracts, 59;
Comyn. Dig. Patent, F. 4, 5, 6, 7; 2 vol. Williams' Saunders, Note
4, p. 72; 2 Institute, 406.
It is thus stated by Chitty in his Prerogatives of the Crown, 10
ch. 2 see.
It is most important to remember that the king does not grafit a
-market or fair, without a writ of ad quod damnum being 'first executed; even if that be done, the crown cannot enable a subject to
erect a market or fair so near to that of another person, as to affect
his interest therein, &c. &c.
The owners of ferries are under liabilities and obligationswhich
may be enforced against them by individuals, or the public. These
franchises are declared to be publici juris; and the law gives a
remedy in -all"cases of negligence .or injury, by presentment, information, or action on the ,case. Paine v. Partridge, Salkeld, 717;
Willes' Rep. 512; 3 Salkeld, 198. They have also rights which can
be maintained at law; by action on the ease for a disturbance; by
action of assize; by distress; &c. &c. 2 Saunders, Williams' ed. 114;
4 Term Reports, 666; 2 vol. Dane's Ab. 683; Bacon. Ab. tit. Distress, F. pl. 6; Croke: Eliz. 710;. 6 Term Rep. 616; Huzzy v. Field,
Law Journal, 13 No. A39.
All these franchises, as of fairs, markets, ferries and bridges, are
VOL. XI.-3 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

founded on good and sufficient consideration; such as the expenditure of money in establishing, -and maintaining them, for the convenience and safety of the public. They are all publici juris, and
from the rights, lidbilities, and duties of which they are compounded,
results the notion of property in them. The toll, or right to demand
and receive money for the use and enjoyment of these franchises, of
which the toll is part and parcel; is recognised as property, and protected is property, both by the law of England, and of this country,
A grant of these vests in the grantee a beneficial interest, which
maybe demised, leased, or mortgaged. Popham's Rep. 79; Moore's
Rep. 474; Webb's Case, 8 Coke, 99; Gunning on Tolls, 106, 110;.
6 Barnwell & Creswell, 703; 5 Barnwell-& Creswell, 875; 3 Maule
& Selwyn, 247; 1 vol. Crompton & Jervis, Rep. 57; in the Exchequer, 400.
The franchise of a bridge or turnpike may be taken on execution
in payment of debt, by the law of Massachusetts. In Chadwick's
case, an action was brought at common law, and sustained by the
c6urt, for compensation for the loss df his ferry, by the erection of
a bridge. 2 vol. Dane's Ab. 686; also Judge Putnam's opinion, 7th
Pickering.
As to the local extent of this franchise of a ferry, an attempt has
been made to limit it to the ferry-ways; and the case of "Ipwich v.
Brown," Saville, Rep. 11, 14, is cited; where it is said, that a "ferry
is in respect of the linding place, and not in respect of the water,
that the water may be in one, and the ferry in another-," it is also
said in this case, that the owner of the ferry must own the soil on
both sides.
This last part of the case is expressly overruled in 6 .Barnwell &
Creswell, 703. And as to the other part of the case, it means nothing more than this, that a ferry must have ferry-ways) or landing
places.
The case in Hardres Rep. 162, was this; one owning land on both
sides of the Thames, set up a ferry three quarters of a mile from an
ancient ferry, at Branford. A bill was brought in the Exchequer to
suppress it, as chming too near a monopoly. The reporter adds, sed
quzere de ceo; for contrary to the books of 22 Henry VI. and to precedents in like cases in this Court.
Afterwards another bill being filed for the same matter; the Court
on the 7th of April, Lord Hale.presidirrgin it, decreed tbat the new

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

435

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

ferry should be suppressed, and that the defendants should not have
liberty to use any ferry boat to the annoyance of the plaintiff's ancient ferry. 2 Anstruther Rep. 608.
In the case of the Newburgh Turnpike Company v. Miller, 5
Johnson's Chancery.Cases, 101; the principle is clearly stated and
applied. The plaintiffs in this case, had erected a bridge, as part of
their road across the Wallkill; the defendants erected another free
bridge eighty rods distant; purchased a strip of land adjoining the
bridge, and had a road laid out by commissioners as a public highway, for the purpose of avoiding the toll gateof the plaintiffs. Kent,
Chancellor, said-The 4uo animo is not an essential inquiry in the
case; whatever may have been the intention of the defendanits, the
new road and bridge do directly and materially impair the use
and value of the plaintiff's franchise.
No rival road, bridge, ferry, or other establishment, of a similar
kind, and for like purposes, can be tolerated so near to the other as
materially to affect or take away its custom. It operates as a fraud
upon the grant, and goes to defeat it. The consideration by which
individuals are invited to expend money upon great expensive and
hazardous public works, such as roads, bridges: and to become bound
to keep them in constant and good repair, is the grant of a right to
an exclusive toll. This right, thus purchased for a valuable consideration, cannot be taken away by direct or indirect means. Also,
cited "Ogden v. Gibbons," 4 Johnson's Chancery Rep. 150.
It appears from the ancient charters of the colony of Massachusetts, page 110, 111, that the same notions of an exclusive right in
ferries prevailed there, that have always prevailed in England. For
as early as 1641, near the time when the "ferry between Boston
and Charlestown was granted to the college," this ordinance was
passed. "It is ordered by this court, and the authority thereof, that
whosoever hath a ferry granted, shall have the sole liberty of transporting passengers," &c.
Here is a direct assertion of an exclusive right in the owner of a
ferry; and is worthy of notice as a cotemporaneous exposition; and
can it be reasonably doubted, that Edward Converse, under his lease
from the government, of "the ferry between Boston and Charlestown," had the sole and exclusive right of transporting passengers
between those termini?
All, therefore, which the plaintiffs claim in the case at bar, is an

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

exclusive right between Boston and Charlestown; and if they have
any exclusive right, it must have some local extent beyond the ferryways, or the planks of the bridge, otherw: _ it would not be exclu
sive. If any one at his pleasure could have lawfully carried passen
gers from Boston to Charlestown, and landed them within two feet
of the ferry-ways of Converse, he would not have had the sole right
of carrying between those two points. No other ferry or bridge
could be erected between those termini, without "being near in a
pbsitive sense;" which is the form of expression in which Chief Justice Parker lays down the rule; without being so near, in the languagq of Blackstond, as to draw awdy the custom of the elder ferry
or bridge; or without producing, in the language of Chancellor Xent,
ruinous competition.
With this extent, therefore, the college held the ferry on the 9th
of March, 1785, when the act passed, making the plaintiffs a corporation for the purpose of erecting a bridge in the place where the ferry'
was kept; and the view we take of this transaction is this, that the
,corporation created by this act became the assignees, in equity, of'
this franchise, or it was surrendered to their use by operation of
law. 2 Thomas' Colie Litt. 553; 6 Barnwell & Creswell, 703.
A bridge, in place of the ferry over Charles river, is deemed by
the legislature to be a matter of public utility; and they are disposed
to grant a liberal charter to such persons as are willing to undertake
so hazardous an enterprise. The college are ready to part with their
ferry for an annuity, equal to their then income'; and Thomas Russell
and his associates, are willing to make the first experiment in this
country, of throwing a bridge, fifteen hundred feet in length, over
navigable waters, for the tolls to be granted them, for the period of
forty years.
The ancient ferry, then, is to be extinguished; which could not be
done without the authority of the government, nor without the consent of the college; 3 Modern Rep. 294.
The petitioners are to pay two hundred pounds annually, to the
college, for forty years, as a compensation for the loss of the ferry;
and to this agreement the college became a party, by its assent given
at the time, and its subsequent acceptance of the annuity; Record,
122, 124.
The right to keep up a ferry at this place is extinguished, but the
beneficial interest of the college is not; for in the act there is a

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

437

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

to the college of a reasonable and annual compensation for
the annual income of the ferry."
It is said that the government seized the franchise of the ferry.
,,saving

If this were so, then it passed with the grant of a right to build a
bridge "in the place where the ferry was kept;" agreeably to the
doctrine in Palmer's caseA Popham's Rep. 78; 9 Coke, 26; 10 Coke,
64, 5. But there is no evideftee that the government did, or intended
to seize the franchise, as private property, for public use, in the exercise of the eminent domain. There was-no necessity or motive for
doing this; because the petitioners for the bridge had agreed to pay
the college for the surrender cf their ferry for the forty years; and
their act of incorporation confirmed'and executed that agreement.
The whole transaction shows, that it was a matter of previous arrangement between the three parties; and 'the terms and conditions
of the bargain were made obligatory of the act.
Now, it is obvious, that if the government had given the college
an authority to build a bridge "1in the place where the ferry was
kept;" it would have had the same local extent of franchise that the
ferry had. Or if the proprietors of Charles -River Bridge had first
purchased the ferry 'of the college, and afterwards had obtained a
charter to build a bridge "in the place where the ferry was kept;"
the result would have been the same.
The beneficial interest vested in the owners of the ferry and of
the bridge, is the same, to wit: a right to demand and receive a certain rate of toll from all persons passing from one town to the
other; the place the same; the object the same; the mode only different.
The power of regulating all these franchises, which are publici
juris,is in the government. It is an incident of sovereignty. In
the case of ferries it extends to the number and place of the ferryways, the number and kind of boats, the times of putting off from
each side; reaching to all those details which concern the convenience and safety of passage and transportation.
In the case of a bridge, this power of regulation in the government is exerted at the time the charter is granted. The place
where the bridge is to be built; its dimensions, materials, lights,
draws and other details, are all prescribed and settled by the act:

and the government act upon the corporation, by holding them to a
strict performance of all the duties imposed.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL.]

The charter of 1785 and its extension in 1792:
The first grant was of a right to build a bridge over a navigable
river. It was an exercise of the sovereign power of the state over
certain public rights.
By the severance of the empire, and the consequent independence
of the states, all public property and public rights, vested in the
states, as successors to the crown and government of the parent
country. : The power of Massachusetts in the year 1785, was, therefore, as ample and complete over these as it had ever been before
the separation.
Such rights as these, have always been held in. England by grant
or prescription, exclusively as private property; such as fisheries in
arms of the sea; ferries and bridges over navigable rivers or arms
of the sea, subject only to such regulations as public convenience
requiired.
In grants that abridge publi6 rights, it is generally held that a consideration must be shown; Hargrave's Law Tracts, "De jure marls,"
18 to 36; Angel on Tide Waters, 106-7.
In ' Carter v. Thurcot," 4 Burrows, 2161, Lord Mansfield says,
"on rivers riot navigable, the proprietors of the adjoining land own
ad filum medhim aqu ; not so in arms of the sea; but if he can
,show a right by grant, or prescription which supposes a grant, he
may have an exclusive right in an arm of the sea or navigable
river." In the following cases the same doctrine is clearly laid
down: 4 Durnford and East, 439; 2d vol. Bosanquet and Puller,
472; 1 Durnford and East, 669; 1 Modern Rep. 105; 4 Durnford
and East, 668. Such is the law of England.
It is the law of Connecticut. In 1st vol. Connecticut Rep. 382,
the Court say, "that the right of fishing, by the common law, in
the ocean, in arms of the sea, and in navigable rivers, below high
water mark, is common to all; and the state only can grant exclusive right. , The public may grant an exclusive right of fishing
in, a navigable river; and if it may be granted, it may be prescribed
for."
It is the law of New York. See People v. Platt, 17 Johnson, 195.
It is the law of Massachusetts. In the 6th vol. of Mass. Rep.
Chief Justice Parsons states the common law doctrine, and the
alterations it has undergone since the first settlement bf the country.
Commonwealth v. Ih. Charlestown, 1 Pickering, 180. With
regard to riparian owners of land upon streams, riot navigable, the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

439

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al

common law has not been modified; they own, as in England, to the
middle of the stream.
But, with regard to the owners of land bounding on the sea shore,
or arms of the sea; they own, by the law of Massachusetts, to low
water mark, where the tide does not ebb more than one hundred
rods: though, by the common law, they could hold only to high
water mark, for all below belonged to the king. Yet they might.
hold by grant or prescription against the king. 1 Mass. Rep. 231;
17 do. 289; 4 do. 140; Angel on Tide Waters; 4 Mass. Rep. 522.
An act of the legislature of Massachusetts, touching public property or public rights, has the same force and effect as an act of parliament in England.
There is, then, no restraint or limitatiop upon the power of the
grantor over the subject matter of this grant: none in the constitution
of Massachusetts: none in the act itself that interferes with the possession of an exclusive right by grantees.
The rule of construction applicable to this charter:
It was said by a learned judge, in'the court below, that the general
rule of law was, that in governmental grants, nothing passed by
implication. Where, I would ask, is any such general rule to be
found? Not in the books, surely; nor can it be inferred from adjudged
cases. All those cited in support of the rule are cases of crowiror
prerogative grants; and these, as strongly intimated by Chief Justice
Eyre, 2 Henry's Blackstone, 500, stand on a different footing from
grants by acts of parliament. But, with regard even to these crown
grants, where the royal prerogative is entitled to the most indulgence, and where the grant is made at the suit of the grantee;
there are a variety of cases where valuable rights, privileges and'
franchises, pass by necessary implication. Bacon's Abr. title
Prerogative, F. 2i Plowden, 336, 7; Rex v. Twine, Croke. Jac. 179;
9 Coke Rep. 30; Dyer's. Rep. 305 Saville, 132; 1 Ventris, 409;
Whistler's case, Rep. 64, 5.
The general rule is. thus laid down by -Chitty on Prerogative,
chap. 16, sec. 3, 391.
In ordinary cases, between subject and subiect, the principle is,
that the grant shall be construed, if the meaning be doubtful, most
strongly against the grantor; who is presumed to use the most
cautious words for his own advantage and security: but, in the case
of the king, whose grants chiefly flow from his royal grace and
bounty, the rule is otherwise; and crown grants have at all times

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v, Warren Bridge et al.]

been construed most favourably for the king, where a fair doubt
exists as to. the real meaning of the instrument.
But there are limitations and exceptions even to this rule:
1st. No striined or extravagant construction is to be made in
favour of the king; if the intention be obvious, royal grants are to
receive a fair and liberal interpretation.
2d. The construction and leaning shall be in favour of the subject,
if the grant show that it was not made at the solicitation of the
grantee; but ex- specialigratia,certa scientia, et mero motu regis,
10 Coke, 112; Comyn. Dig. Grant, C. 12.
3d. If the king's grants are upon a valuable consideration, they
shall be construed strictly for the patentee.
The grants of the king, when valid, in general bind him, though
without consideration,as subjects are bound by their grants; ch.
16, see. 5.
There are cases in which it is said, that when those things, which
are said to be parcel of the flowers of the crown, such as the goods of
felons, waifsestrays, &c.,"come into the king's possession, they are
merged in the crown, and do not pass without express words; but
even these w.ill pass, if they can be made certain by reference. The
case of the 'Banne, which- has been cited, is explained by Justice
Bailey in this way in the case of the "Duke of Somerset v. Fogwell," 5 Barnwell and Creswell, 875.
There is, then, no foundation in law for the supposed analogy between crown grants in England, and grants by legislative acts in this
country. But if the act of 1785 were subjected to the strictest rules
applicable to crown grants, it would be entitled to a liberal construetion lor the grantees; for it is upon a good, a valid, an adequate, and
a meritorious consideration.
The state of Massachusetts is as much bound by necessary implication in its grants, as individuals are. This is decided in the case
of 5' Stoughton v. Baker," 4 Mass. Rep. 522.
The true notion of prerogative in this country, is well stated by
Parsons, (arguendo), in 1 Mass. Rep. 356, as distinguished from prerogative in England.
In 'England prerogative is the cause of one against the whole;
here-it is the cause of all against one. In the first case the feelings,
the vices, as well as the virtues, are enlisted against it; in the last
in favour, of it: and, therefore, heie it is more important that the ju-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.)

dicial courts should take care that the claim of prerogative should be
more strictly watched.
In the opinion of a learned judge in the court below, we are told,
that if the king makes a grant of lands, and the mines therein contained, Poyal mines shall not pass: and why not? Because, says the
same authority, the king's grants shall not be taken to a double intent; and the most obvious intent is, that they should only pass the
common mines, which are grantable to a common person. That is,
the grant shall not draw after it what can be separated, and what is
not grantable to a common person, but is a special royalty,-a crown
inheritance: and yet this case, and others like it, are cited in support
of the pretended ule, that in governmental &rants nothing passes
by implication.
What is the consideration of the case in the grant at bar? The
grantors themselves furnish the highest evidence- of its merit. In
the act incorporating the proprietors of the West Boston Bridge in
the year 1792, they say, "Whereas the erection of Charles River
Bridge was a work of hazard and public utility, and another bridge
in the place pioposed for the West Boston Bridge, may diminish
the emoluments of Charles River Bridge;. therefore, for the encouragement of enterprise," &c. &c.
It was hazardous, for no attempt at that time had been made to
carry a bridge over tide waters; and so doubtful were the subscribers
of its stability, that a number of tilem insured their interest in it.
The hazard was all their own; and so great was it thought to be, that
upon the breaking up of the ice, persons assembled on the shore to
see it carried away. It has stood, however, against time and the
elements; it has stood against every thing but legislation. It was
opened with processions, and every demonstration of a general rejoicing; and was considered, at the time, as an enterprise of great
pat'iotism,-as well as of tility.
This charter is to receive a judicial construction, and the words of
grant are to be subjected to a judicial analysis. What relations do
the words raise? What rights are extinguished; what required; and
what covenants are implied?
In the case of Fletcher and Peck, 6 Cranch's Rep., the grant in
that case is said to be a contract executed; the rights of the grantor
are said to be forever extinguished; and a contract implied never to
reassert his right; but none of these things appear upon the face of
the deed.
VOL. XI.-3 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

It is gaid, there is a mode of writing with sympathetic ink, which
-cannot be read till it is held up to the light. So words of grant,
must be held up to the light of judicial interpretation. When the
xelations which the words give rise to, are unfolded, the rights that
are extinguished; and the rights that are required, and the covenants
that are implied, all become clear and legible.
In examining. the charter of 1785, I shall consider,
1st. What is granted by express words.
2d. What by necessary implication.
In the third section of the charter are these words: "And be it
further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that, for the nurpose of
reimbursing the said proprietors the money expended or to be expended, in building and supporting the said bridge, a toll be and
hereby is granted and established for the sole benefit of the said
proprietors."
Upon the authorities already cited, and upon the strong reason of
the case, these words vest,-absolutely, in the gra itees a franchL'e,
without condition and without reservation; and this franchise is property, Tec6gnised as such, and protected as such, both by the law of
England and by the law of this country. In order, then, to make
this protection which the law affords, available, it must be exclusive
to some elitent; enough, at least, to keep down ruinous competition.
All this is conferred upon and vested in the proprietors of Charles
River Bridge, by these few words of the charter.
In the first volume of Jervis and Crampton's Reports, 57, and 400
in the Exchequer; it appears that a charter was granted to the ( 5orporation of Stamford, in the 13th of 2 Anne, with a right to take
toll, without saying how much. Chief Baron Alexarder says,
"We think that where a grant of tolls isfound in a charter, the
word ought to have some meaning, and the charter some operation;
and that it can receive operation only by being construed to mean a
reasonable toll." He goes on to say, "If we were to decide against
this charter upon the principles contended for, we should shake tie
security of a vast mass of property; which has been enjoyed, undisturbed, for perhaps ages."
Again, it is declared expressly, that this toll shall continue for and
during the period of forty years. What is the meaning of this
limitation? The bridge is to remain, and be delivered to the government in good repair, at the end of the term. If the corporation
are merely tenants at will of this franchise; if the legislature can eject

ANUARY TERM, 1837.
"[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

them at pleasure; if they can rightfully shorten the term, when they
please, and as much as they please; the limitation to forty years, expressed in the charte'r, becomes absurd and contradictory. It must,
however, be construed to mean something; and it can have no reasonable or consistent meaning, but that of an absolute, unconditional
grant of tolls for forty years.
Again, the maintenance of the bridge, and the -annuity to the college, run with the charter; and the grant of tolls is made, in express
words, for these two objects. Hcre, then, ar two obligations imposed by the charter; one to support the bridge, which amounts,
upon an average, to about five thousand dollars a year; and the other
to pay to the college two hundred pounds a year; and a toll is
granted as the means, and the only means, of fulfilling these obligations: and yet the legislature, the grantors of this charter, claim and
exercise the right of wholly withdrawing these means from the corporation, by an indirect act, and leaving these obligations upon t]iem
in their full force. Does not this, if any thing can, inpair the obli
gation of a contract?
Whence is derived the power or the right to do this? Is it to be
found in the charter? No. That grants a toll for forty years, absolutely, without condition or reservation. What, then, is the nature
of this mysterious power of the government, that can lawfully resume its own grants; destroy its own contracts; disregard the obligations of good faith; and trample upon every principle of equity and
justice?
In the case of Wales v. Stetson, in the 2d Mass. Rep., Chief Justice Parsons says, "We are also satisfied, that the rights legally vested in this or in any corporation, cannot be controlled or destroyed,
by any subsequent statute; unless a power for that purpose be reserved
to the legislature, in the act of incorporation."
This case, like the one at bar, was a gfant of a franchise; and here
we have the solemn judgment of the supreme court of Massaohu.
setts, upon its inviolability, in the absence of any such reserved
power.
In the case of the East India Company v. Sandys, reported in the
seventh volume of State Trials, 556, it appears, that there was this
condition inserted in the charter, "That if'it should hereafter appear
to his majesty, or his successors, that that grart-or the continuance
thereof; in whole or in part, should not be profitable to his majesty,
his heirs, and successors, or to this realm, it should, after notice, &c.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River 'Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

be void." Thus, it appears, that even in the opinion of Lord Chief
Justice Jeffries, no feeble supporter of royal prerogative, a charter
could not be repealed or annulled, unless a power for that purpose
was reserved in it to the grantor.
Thus far the case at bar'stands upon the very words of the grant;
'upon the legal and obvious construction of the act itself, without resort to those necessary implications which arise from the nature of
the grant.
2d. What is granted by necessary implication?
The general rule of law is thus laid down in Coke Litt. 56, a.
"When the law doth give any thing to one, it giveth impliedly
whatsoever is necessary for the taking and enjoying the same."
Plowden's Case of the Mines, 317.
"For the ore of gold and silver is the king's; and if it is, the law
gives him means to come to it, and that is by digging; so that the
power of digging is .incidental to the thing itself."
If one grant to aniother all the minerals in a certain parcel of land;
the grantee has a right to go upon the land, and dig, and carry away
the ores.
In one thin$ all things following shall be included: lessee of land
has a right of way of lessor's land: grantee of trees, growing in a
close, may come upon the land to cut them: &c. &c. Finch, 45,
'Rule, 100.
The grant of a thing carries all things included; without which the
thing granted cannot be haa. Hobart Rep. 234; also 5 Coke, Saunder's case; 11 Coke, 52, Lifford's case; and 1 Williams' Saun. 322.
Upon these authorities the only question is, are tolls necessary or
essential to the enjoyment of this franchise? Just as necessary and
essential as air is.to the support of animal life. They are part and
parcel of the franchise itself; its very essence, substance and life.
What is our franchise without, tolls ?
It is compounded of certain rights and certain obligations. The
rights are: to be a corporation, with the usual powers incident to
corporations; such as the right to have a common seal; to sue and be
sued; to maintain a bridge over navigable waters; to demand toll of.
all persons passing over the bridge, &c.
The obligations are: to maintain the bridge at an expense of five
thousand dollars a year; to pay Harvard college two hundred pounds
a year; and to deliver up the bridge in good repair, at the end of
forty years.

J'ANUARY TERM, 1837.

445

[Charies River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

The rights are without value,' utterly barren and fruitless: the
obligations are oppressive and lasting as the charter. Yet a learned
judge, in the court below, says, "that a trader or inn-holder, has as
good a right to be protected in the enjoyment of the profits of his
store or inn, as the plaintiffs have to be protected in the enjoyment
of their tolls." Is a trader's shop or a taverner's license a franchise? .
Since the first Wednesday of March last, the Warren Bridge has
been free; and the necessary consequence has followed, viz., the
entire destruction of the plaintiff's franchise. One thing more remains to be done, and then the work will be finished. The attorney
general will be directed to file a quo warrantoagainst the corporation, for a noncompliance with some of its public duties; and a decree
of forfeiture of the franchise will be obtained. This must inevitably
happen, unless it can be presumed that this corporation will continue
to maintain the bridge at their own private expense, for the public
accommodation.* The government will thdn have got into their
possession two bridges, without the expenditure of a dollar: one
having been paid for out of the fruits of the franchise of 'Charles
River Bridge; and 'the other obtained by a decree of forfeiture, for
not complying with its obligations.
In the mean time, the proprietors of Charles River Bridge may
well look upon the proceedings of the government with amazement.
But a few years since, and they held a property in this franchise,
which cost them three hundred thousand dollars; and where is it
now? "They are charged with no fault, neglect of duty, or breach of
any condition. No judicial process has ever been issued against
them; and yet, without a cent of compensation, they are: stripped of
this property by the mere- force of legislation. By what transcendental logic can such a result be justified upon any principles of law,
equity, or'good faith."
Among the various pretences that have been put forth in justification of the act omplained of, i$ this, to wit: that the charter is
nothing more than a license to obstruct navigable waters.
In the 15th vol. Viner's Ab. p. 94, License, E, it is said, if a certain
time is limited, it is not revocable, though the thing. is not done.
License executed is not countermandable.
The same law is, if one license me and my heirs to come and hunt
in his park, it is necessary for me to have this license in writing; for

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

something passes by the license in perpetuity: but if the license be
to me to .hunt once in'his park, this is good without writing, for no
inheritance passes. 11 Henry VII, p. 9.
There is a great diversity between a license in fact, which giveth
an interest, and a license in fact, which giveth only an authority,
or dispensation; for the one ig not to be countermanded, but the
other is.
A license is revocable unless a certain time is fixed. Sir William
Webb v. Paternoster, Popham Rep. 151; Taylor v. Waters, Tajinton's Rep. 374; Liggins v. Inge, 5 Moore and Paine, 712.
So it appears, that if a license is in writing to one and his heirs,
it is not revocable. 2d. If it passes an interest, it is not revocable
and 3d. If it is for a time limited, it is not revocable. The case at
bar enbraces all these: it is in writing; it passes an interest; and is
for a time limited.
The grant to the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge, both by
express words and by iecessary implication, vests in them absolutely, a franchise, a beneficial interest, for forty years; and this interest consists of a right to levy money according'to certain fixed
rates, upbn the line and course of travel between Charlestown and
Boston.
But it is said, that a line of travel is uncertain, and cannot be defined; that it often changes, according to the exigences of society.
And this to some extent, is doubtless true; and it is also true that
from the changes that are constantly taking place in human affairs,
a bridge or ferry may be subjected to incidental injuriesi It sometimes happens, that a consequential damage may be suffered by one,
,arising out of the lawful use of property by another. The grant of
the West Boston Bridge and of the Canal Bridge, affected in some
degree the income of Chailes River Bridge; but thesm were between
different termini, opening new avenues into the country, and giving
better accommodation to a large amount of population. They were
grants of similar franchises, called for by public exigences; and not directly and apparently, intentionally interfering with former grants.
The revival of Winnisemmit Ferry^ has somewhat diminished the
travel through Charlestown; but it is between Boston and Chelsea,
and is coeval with the ancient ferry between Boston and Charlestown. Whatever damage, therefore, is suffered, arising from the
changes or progress of society; from political or commercial arrangenients; from the natural course of business %rindustry, is regarded,

JANUARY TERM; 1837.

447

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren. Bridge et al.]

and must be borne as merely incidental.

But the voluntary, dirbet,

and fatal action of the gbvernment upon its ownD former grant, is not
incidental, and does not belong to cases of consequential damage.
The facts in the case at bar are peculiar, and distinguish it from all
other cases of a similar nature. The abutments of the two bridges
are two hundred and sixty feet apart on the Charlestown side; and
the avenues to them meet in Charlestown Square, at the distance of
about four hundred feet from the abutments. On. the Boston side,
the abutments of the two bridges are about nine hundred feet apart,
and the avenues to them meet in Boston, at the distance of about
fourteen hundred feet. The distance from Charlestown Square to
all the business parts of Boston, over these bridges, is within -a few
feet the same; so that the same accommodation i afforded by both
bridges. Now, as all the roads leading into and from Charlestowa,
terminate, or cross each other in this square, it follows, that all the
travel which now goes over the Warren Bridge would, with equal
convenience, have gone over Charles River Bridge; if that had been
the only avenue between Boston and Charlestown.. The new bridge
has connected no new line of travel with the old; it has not shortened the distance between the two termini,nor given any other additional accommodation, than two parallel bridges give over one. Of
the necessity of two bridges, some judgment may be formed from
this fact: about three thousand foot passengers passed over Charles
River Bridge in one day, and about seven hundred and fifty vehiclet of all descriptions, as appears by the record; about eighty
thousand foot passengers, and four thousand vehicles go over London
bridge every day.
The travel, therefore, from Charlestown to Boston is a unit; it is
now, and always has been, and always must -be, the same line of
travel. The grant of the Warren Bridge, therefore; which, while it
was a - toll bridge, diverted two-thirds of this travel fror Charles
River Bridge, and since it has become free, divetts the whole;. is a
grant of the same franchise. It is, in its effect and operation, the
entire destruction of property, held by an older title; the resumption
of a grant, which this Court has declared to be a contract executed;
by Which the rights of the grantor are forever extinguished, and a
covenant implied on his part never to reassert his rights. But in the
,case at bar, the grantor has reasserted his' right over this franchise;
and has thus-impaired theobligation of his contract.
A learned judge in the court below, in commenting upon the ex-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

-

tent of the franchise of the bridge; remarks, that it is either confined
to the planks, or in other words, has no local extent; or else, extends
to the old bridge in Cambridge, a distance of some three or four
miles.
Now, it is a little remarkable, that the proprietors of the Charles
River Bridge, do not now, and never have claimed any such local
extent: all they have ever claimed, or do. now claim, is an exclusive
right between Charlestown and Boston. Yet, in order to make the
claim odious, it is represented a's extending over the whole river.
But how does the, learned judge get at his conclusion that the extent of this franchise is either every thing or nothing? .Not surely
from the declarations of the proprietors, for they have uniformly
limited their right in the manner stated; not from the books of common law, for in them, the rule is stated with great uniformity and
precision, and runs through the whole current of authorities, from
Henry the sixth to the present time. The rule of the common law
is, that if a rival market, bridge, or ferry, is erected so near an existing one as to draw away its custom, essentially to impairits
value, materially to diminish its income or profits; near in a
positive sense, so near as to produce ruinous competition; &c. &c.,
it shall be deemed a nuisance.
But it is asked, what and where are the boundaries of these rights?
And because they cannot put their finger on the precise spot in the"
river, where private right ends and public right begins, they have no
right at all: because the common law does not, unhappily, furnish a
pair of 6ompasses to measure the exact local extent of this franchise,
it has no extent at all: because it does not cover the whole river, it
is confined to the width of the bridge.
Does the law, or do learned judges deal with nuisances on the
land in this way? How near to a dwelling house may one establish
a noisome or unwholesome mariufactory? Does the common law
measure the distance, and say, here it shall bi deemed a nuisance;
and there it shall not? And how is it to be determined whether it
be a nuisance or not, but by the fact? It is a matter of evidence,
and is to be proved like any other fact. Is the atmosphere filled
with a noxious effluvia? ATe the comfort and value of' the dwelling
impaired by this establishment? Then it is a nuisance, whether it be
at the' distance of 'ten rods or half a mile.' So in the case at bar; it
is the fact rather than the distanie,,that is to determine whether a
iival bridge is a nuisance or not. Does it greatly impair the value

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

of the elder franchise? Does it essentially diminish its profits? Does
it wholly ruin it? These are all matters of evidence; facts to bd
proved; and courts and juries, in the exercise of a sound discretion.
upon all the facts and circumstances of each particular case, will give
a reasonable protection to the property in these franchises, by giving
them a reasonable extent.
But it is argued, that when the charter of Charles River Bridge was
extended for thirty years, in the year 1792, notice was given to all
the world by a legislative act, that the proprietors had no exclusive
right; and that inasmuch as they took their extended charter, with
this notice, it is now too late to set up any such right.
The act incorporating the proprietors of the West Boston Bridge,
was passed on the 9th of March, 1792; and in the 8th section of that
act, it is enacted, that the proprietors of Charles River Bridge shall
continue to be a corporation and. body politic, for and during the
term of seventy years, to be computed from the day that said Charles
River Bridge was completed and opened for passengers, subject to
all the conditions and regulations prescribed in the act, entitled "an
act, incorporating certain persons for the purpose of builaing a
bridge over Charles river, between Boston and Charlestown, and
supporting the same during the term of forty years, and during the
aforesaid term of seventy years, the said proprietors of Charles
River Bridge shall, and may continue to collect and receive all'the
toll granted by the aforesaid act for their use. and benefit."
There
is then a proviso, that the proprietors shall Felinquish the additional
toll on the Lord's dady, and shall cbntinue to pay the annuity to the
college, &c. &c.
This extension of the charter of Charles River Bridge was made,
as set forth in the preamble to the grant.
Whereas, the erection of Charles River Bridge was a work of
hazard and utility, and another bridge in the place proposed for the
West Boston Bridge, may diminish the emoluments of Charles River
Bridge, therefore, &c.
The notice referred to, is contained in the report of a committee,
to whom had been referred the petition for the West Boston Bridge;
and thq remonstrance of Charles River Bridge, and is in these words:
"The committee further report; that after attending to the memorial
of the proprietors of Charles River Bridge, and hearing them fully
on the subject, they are of the opinion, that there is no ground to main
tain that the act incorporating the proprietors for the purpose of
VOL. XI.-3 L

450

SUPREME COURT.
[Charfes River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al

building a bridge from Charlestown to Boston, is an exclusive grant
of the right to build over the waters of that river."
Such is the opinion of a committee; and supposing it to have been
adopted by the legislature, it would then be the opinion of. that
body, and nothing more. How then can this opinion affect or control the rights of the proprietori, held by them under a former
grant? If, instead of being an opinion merely, it had been a declaratory act; still all the rights vested in the proprietors, by their charter of 1785, would have remained in full force and effect; and the
charter of 1792 is merely a continuance of the first, with all its rights,
&c. &c.; and subject to all its obligations. As this declaration of the
legislature makes no part of the act of 1792, all the rights which
belonged to the pioprietors in 1785, belonged to them equally in
1792. If such a declaration had been inserted in the act itself, extending the term to seventy years, and the act had beei accepted; the
proprietors might havebeen bound by it.
But the import and meaning of this opinion have been mistaken.
It does not deny any claim made by the plaintiffs, but is entirely
consistent with it. It does not deny that the proprietors have an
exclusive right between Boston and Charlestown; but does deny that
they have an exclusive right over the whole river. There was a
petition before this committee for another bridges not from Charlestown to Boston, but from Cambridge to Boston; and the committee
say to the remonstrants -yourexclusive right does not extend to Cambridge, a distance of two miles; it is not an "exclusive right to build
over the waters of.Charles river;" hut inasmuch as the proposed
bridge may affect your emoluments, we recommend an extension of
your charter. It was seen that the proposed bridge would cause a
consequential damage to Charles River Bridge; and it was on that
ground that the proprietors appealed to the equity of the legislature;
and it was on that ground alone, as"they expressly declare, that the
legislature granted an extension of their charter for thirty years.
In the following cases, an exclusive right in ferries is fully maintained. Churchman v. Tunstal, Hardres' Rep. 162; Tripp v. Frank,
4 Term Rep. 666; Chadwick's case, 2 Dane's Abr. 683. The case
of Huzzey v. Field, recently decided in the exchequer, is reported in
the2d vol. of Crampton, Mason & Roscoe, 432; and also in the 13th
No. Law Journal, .239. In this- case, Lord Abinger reviews the
whole doctrine in relation to this franchise) beginning with the earliest cass', and confirming all the principles which are necessary to

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the support of the case at bar. The case of the Islington market,
recently reported in the 131st No. of the Legal Examiner; in which
the opinion of 'the nine judges is given upon a series of questions
touching the franchise of a market, put to them by the house of
lords; reviews and confirms all the doctrines advanced in support of
the plaintiffs' claim in thiscase; and shows, most conclusively, what
the law of England is at this present time. -The law there, is -essentially and truly, now, what it was three centuries ago, in relation to
all these franchises; and unless it can1 be shown that this law has
been overruled by adjudged cases; or modified by statute, it is now
the law of this country.
Much has been said in the course of this controversy of monopolies, and exclusive privileges; and these have been frl'itful themes of
declamation. And what is a monopoly, but'a-bad name, given to
any thing for a bad purpose. Such certainly has been the use of
the word in its application to this case. It is worth a definition.
A monopoly then is an exclusive privilege conferred on one, or a
company, to trade or traffic in some particular drticle; such as buying and selling sugar or coffee, or cotton, in derogation of a common
right. Every man has a natural right to buy, and sell these articles;
but when this right which is common to all, is conferred on one, it
is a monopoly, and as such is justly odious. It is then, something
carved out of the common possession and enjoyment of all, and
equally belonging to all, and given exclusively to one. But the
grant of a franchise is not a monopoly, for it is not part or p4rcel of
a common right. No man has a right to build a bridge over a navigable river, or set up a ferry, without the authority of thp state. All
these franchises, whether public property or public rights, are the
peculiar property of. the state. They belong to the'sovereign, and
when they are granted to individuals or corporations, they are in no
sense monopolies; because they are not in derogation of common
right.
But it is said, that the legislature has a right in its discretion to
grant ferries, bridges, turnpikes, and rail roads, whenever public convenience requires it; and that of this convnience or necessity, they
are the exclusive judges. I state the proposition as broadly as it has
ever been laid down, because I have no wish to avoid its just consideration.
It is admitted then, that the legislature has a general authority
over these subjects; but it is nevertheless a limited authority. It

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v.Warren Bridge et al.]

is notomnipotent like that of the British parliament, but is subjected to many restraints and limitations. A state legislature can do
wrong, and has done wrong; and this Court has corrected their
errors, and restored the rights which had, inadvertently, of course,
been invaded or taken away.
The people in forming their constitutions of government have imposed many restraints upon the exercise of the legislative power.
They have inserted in many of their constitutions, certain fundamental principles, which were intended to limit, or wholly withdraw
them from the power of the legislature. They cannot abridge the
liberty of speech or of the press; pass ex post facto laws; suspend
the writ of habeas corpus; or take private property for public use,
without compensation.
These limitations and restraints upon the exercise of legislative
power, in Massachusetts, are imposed. by its own constitution.
There .are restraints imposed by the constitution of the United
States upon all state legislation; and one very important restraint, a
disregard of which, in the opinion of the plaintiffs, has brought this
cause before this Court; is, that no state shall pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts. The power conferred on this Court by
the constitution of the United States, of controlling, in certain specific cases, state legislation, has given, and was intended to give, in
the language of this Court, "a bill of rights to the people of each
state." The exerbise of this ultimate conservative power, constitutes one of the highest functions of this Court. The wise men
who framed this constitution, clearly discerned in the multiform operations of human passions and interests, the necessity for some Palm,
controlling power; and in conferring it upon this Court, they exhibited the most profound wisdom, guided by human experience.
The legislative power is restrained and limited by the principles of
natural justice.
In the case of Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas' Rep., Judge Chase says,
"There are certain vital' principles in our free republican govern:ments, which will determine and overrule an apparent and flagrant
abuse of legislative power; as to authorize manifest injustice by positive law; or to take away that security for personal liberty or private property, for the protection whereof government was established.
An act of the legislatiire, for I cannot call it' a law, contrary to the
first great principles of the social compact, cannot be considered a
rightful exercise of legislative authority. The obligation of a law.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

453

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.],

in governments established on express compact, and on republican
principles; must be determined by the nature of the power on which
it is founded. A few. instances will be .sufficient to explain what I
mean. A law that punishes a citizen for an innocent action, or, in
other words, which-when done, was in violation of no existing law;
a law that destroys or impairs lawful private contracts; a law that
makes a man a judge in his own case; or a law that takes property
from A. and gives it to B: it is against all reason and justice, for a
people to entrust a legislature with such power; and therefore it cannot be presumed, that they have done it. The genius, the nature,
and the spirit of our state governments, amount to a prohibition of
such acts of legislation; and"the general principles of law and reason
forbid them: the legislature may enjoin, permit, forbid, and punish;
they may declare new crimes, and establish rules of conduct for all
their citizens in future cases; they may command what is right, and
prohibit what is wrong; but they cannot change innocence into
guilt, or punish innocence as a crime; or violate the right of an
antecedent lawful private contract, or the right of private property."
In the case of Flecher v. Peck, 6 Cranch's Rep. the Court say:
When, then, a law is in its nature a contract; when absolite rights
have vested under that contract; a repeal of that law cannot divest
those rights; and the act of annulling them, if legitimate, is rendered so by a power applicable to the case of every individual in the
community.
It may well be doubted whether the - nature of society and of
government does not prescribe some limits to the legislative power;
and if any be prescribed, where are they to be found, if the property
of an individual, fairly and honestly acquired, may be seized without
compensation.
To the legislature, all legislative power is granted; but the.question, whether the act of transferring the property of an individual to*
the public, be in tie nature of the legislative power, is well worthy
of serious reflection.
Regarding the practical operation and effect of the Warren Bridge
charter, upon the rights and property of the plaintiffs; the case at bar
comes clearly within the scope of the remarks cited from DallasL and
Cranch. In point of fact, it takes the property of the plaintiffs, and
give j it to the public. It is, in its operation, an act of confiscation.
It violates all those distinctions of right and wrong, of justice and

SUPREME COURT.
[Charies River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

injustice, which lie at the foundation of all law, and of all government; and if men were to deal with each other as this act deals
with the 15laintiffs, the very frame-work of our civil polity would be
broken down; all confidence would be destroyed; and all sense of
security for the rights of persons and property wrould be lost.
Again, the legislative power is restrained and limited by its own
fdriner grants. In Chitty's Prerogatives of the Crown, page 132, he
says: "It is a principle of law, that the king is bound by his own and
his ancestors"grants; and cannot therefore, by his mere prerogative,
The same
take away vesied rights, immunities, or privileges."
identical franchise which has been granted to one, cannot be granted
to anqther. The grant of a franchise is as much a grant of property
as a grant of land; and if a grant of a franchise can be resumed or
annulled, so can a grant of land. Both are portions of the public
property; both vest in the grantees a property, a beneficial interest;
and in both, the grant is a contract executed.
Since this suit has been pending, a very important case has been
decided in the supreme court of appeals in the state of Maryland.
It is the case of the "Canal Company v. The Rail Road Company;"
and is reported in the 4th vol. of Gill and Johnson's Reports.
The Canal Company's was the prior grant. Surveys of the route
for each of these great internal works had been made; and itwas
found that they approached so near each other at a place called the
Point of Rocks, that there was not room enough for both between the
rocks and the river. In making these surveys, the Rail Road Company had preceded the other company; they had located their route;
purchased and condemned the land necessary for their purpose;
when their progress was arrested by an injunction, at the instance of
the Canal Company, who found it to be impracticable to construct
their canal by the side of the rail road. And the questiota was, which
had the prior right; and the court, in a very elakorate opinion, decided it in favou - of the prior grant. This case iLbefore the court,
and many of the points discussed and determined in the case, are
among the important points to be decided in this.
Within all these distinctions, there was, and always will be ample
room for the legislature to provide every convenience and accommodation that public exigencies may require. And this can be done
without resuming former grants; or taking private property without
compensation.
They might have seized the plaintiffs' franchise in the exercise of

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the eminent domain. All the property in the state, under whatever
title it may be held, may be thus taken for public use; but upon the
simple condition of making a reasonable compensation for it. The
legislature, however, did not proceed in the exercise of this high
power to provide for the public accommodation; but they took the
property without "paying for it.
Or they might have accepted the offer of the plaintiffs, as set forth
in their memorial on the twentieth page of the record. By a vote of
the proprietors, the corporation offered, if the legislature would give
them the necessary authority, to make the avenues to the bridge of
any given width; to construct a circular draw, so that passengers
should not be delayed, when vessels were passing through; to make
the bridge itself, as much wider as should be deemed convenient; to
construct a spurr bridge, and even to build a new bridge:- thus submitting the whole matter to the judgment of the legislature; and
pledging themselves to do all and whatsoever they should authorize
and direct them to do, in providing for the public acconmmodation.
This offer .was declined, and no reasons given; and it is admitted,
that they were not absolutely bound to accept it, or to give reasons
for their refusal; but it is certainly open to such inferences as the
facts of their case will warrant.
But it is repeated, again and again, that the legislature had found
the fact, that the convenience of the public required another avenue
from Charlestown to Boston. What then? Does the finding of this
fact justify any and all sorts of legislation? Is it any excuse or
justification for the resumption of a franchise; for the annihilation of
a vast amount of property without compensation? The fact may be
made the basis of legislation, but affords no excuse for unjust or unconstitutional legislation.
In the case of the Islington market, before cited, the house of
lords found the fact, that public convenience required an enlargement of the old market, or the establishmelt of a new one. A bill
was pending for a new market, and the house of lords, instead of
proceeding to pass the act, thought it proper to put a series of questions relating to the matter, to the nine judges. They inquired of
the judges what was the law; what they could do touching this market, consistently with the. existing rights of others? The.answers
are given-at large; and if the law, which is there declared to be the
law of England, had been applied to the plaintiffs' case, when the.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

act establishing the Warren Bridge was pending, it never would and
never could have passed.
But the legislature proceeded to authorize the bridge to be built,
and granted a toll, out of which the whole expense was to be paid.
Accordingly, the bridge was built, and paid for out of the tolls received. That being done, the functions of the legislature ceased.
They had provided another avenue, and paid for it; and there their
duty to the public ended.
Was it a matter of common convenience, or of public necessity,
that the government, after paying for the bridge out of the tolls,
should put twenty thousand dollars a year into the public treasury,
or which is the same thing, give it to the public? Is any man bold
enough to vindicate the act upon this ground? With the same right,
the government might have repealed the plaintiffs' charter, or passed
an act requiring the tolls to be paid into the public'treasury. The
indirect way in which the franchise has been destroyed, does not
alter the principle; for what cannot lawfully be done directly, cannot be done indirectly.
The sole basis of the proceeding was, that public convenience required another bridge, and it was justified by its advocates on this
ground alone: the moment therefore, that the government began to
fill its coffers from the tolls, it lost its original character, and assumed
a new one. It then became a matter of speculation and profit, and
not of public convenience or necessity.
After all, the government have entirely failed to accomplish their
only lawful purpose, to wii: providing some further accommodation
for the public travel; for there is, at this moment, but one travelled
avenue between Boston and Charlestown. Since the Warren Bridge
was made free, all the travel is over that bridge; to which, if we now
add the increase of travel for the last twelve years, and the amount
drawn from the other bridges,, it will be found that the travel over
this one bridge is nearly double what it ever was over Charles River
Bridge. Yet the inconveniences and dangers of passing over Charles
River Bridge, twelve years ago, were so great, that the legislature,
out of tender regard for the safety of the people, granted another
avenue. Now, though there is nearly twice as much travel over
this new avenue, no inconvenience is experienced; and no complaint
is 'made.
The ground upon which the plainti ffs have always rested their
cause, was this; that their rights and their duties were commensu-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

rate; tney have always claimed an exclusive right between Charlestown and Boston; and they have always stood ready to fulfil all the
obligations which that right imposed. Such is the law of England
with regard to these -franchises, as it is clearly stated in the cases of
Tripp v. Frank, Huzzy v. Field, already cited in relation to ferries;
and the cases of Prince v. Lewis, 5 Barn. & Cres. and Mosely-v.
Walker, 7 Barn. & Cres. in relation.to markets. The memorial of
the plaintiffs is founded upon this reciprocity of rights and duties;
and all the English cases go upon the principle, that' the extent of
the one, is the measure of the other.
I do not go into any argument to prove that the plaintiffs' charter
is a contract; but merely refer the Court to the following cases.
Flecher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; New Jersey v. Wilson, lb. 164;
Terret v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 49; 4 Wheat. 516; S lb. 84; Ib.'50.
But it is said, that if the legislature of iIassachusetts has taken
private property for public use, without compensation; the remedy
is in the courts of the state. It is possible, that the case here supposed, may happen; although it is not the case at bar. Whatever
may be the abuses of legislative power; whatever injuries may be
inflicted upon the rights of persons or of property; still, if the obligation of a contract is not impaired, or some-one of the specific provisions of the constitution of the United States, imposing restraints
and prohibitions upon the states, is not violated; this Court has no
jurisdiction; 2 Pet. 412$ 13.
If property held under a grant from the state is taken, in the exercise of the eminent' domain, provision for compensation is always
made in the act:" and in such cases no questions can arise; as the
property is taken by a paramount authority, and paid for. But, if
property thus held, is taken, and no compensation is provided, it does
give this Court jurisdiction; because this grant is declared to be a
contract executed; the rights of the grantor are said to be forever
extinguished, and'a covenant implied never to reassert them. When
therefore, this property thus held, is restmed or destroyed by the
grantor; the obligation of the contract is impaired, the implied covenant is broken, and the jurisdiction of this Court attaches.
Now what is the aspect of the case at bar, in relation to this matter? What issues do the.pleadings present for the decision of this
Court? The allegation in the plaintiffs bill is, that the act of 12th
March, 1828, is repugnant to the constitution of the United States;
because it impairs the obligations of a contract. The defendants in
VOL. XI.-3 M

SUPREME COURT:
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

their answer deny this; and thus the only issue is formed upon
which this Court can found a decree. The plaintiffs no where affirm
that privaite property has been taken for public use, by the state, in
the exercise of the eminent domain; nor do the defendants 'allege
it, nor do the court below; on the contrary, Chief Justice Parker
says, 7 Pickering, 530, that there will be a decree against the plaintiffs, in order that they may avail themselves of the right secured to
them by the constitution and laws, of a revision by the Supreme
Court of the United States; where it is highly proper that this question, depending, as I think it does, mainly upon the constitution of
the United States, should be ultimately decided." The decree of
the court below also asserts, that no private property has been taken
for public use.
It is also apparent from the act itself, that the legislature did not
intend to seize the franchise of the plaintiffs by virtue of the eminent
domain; for they made no provision in the act for compensation.
Now, it is the settled law of Massachusetts, that in all cases where
private property is taken for public use, provision for compensation
must be made in the act itself. But in the case at bar, it appears
that the legislature carefully avoided the open and avowed intention
of exerting this high power, confided to them by the constitution, by
making provision for compensation, only in cases where real estate
should be taken. The constitution says, that where property is
taken for public use, compensation shall be made; the legislature
say in this act, that where real estate is taken, compensation .,hall
be made. Now this franchise of the plaintiffs is not real estate,
although it is property; and by this exclusion of the word property,
it is most manifest, that the legislature did not intend, and did not
in fact, seize the franchise as private property for public use. They
proceeded on the ground of right to make the grant in question,
without compensation; this right is denied on the ground that it
resumes or destroys a former grant, and thus impairs the obligation
of a contro,-t. This, then, presents the issue, and the only one of
which this Court has jurisdiction.
It is admitted that the right of eminent domain is an incident of
sovereignty, and cannot be alienated. And it is also admitted, that
all the property of the citizens of the state is liable to the exercise
of this paramount authority. No matter by what title it is held, it
is all alike subject to be taken for public use. The exercise of this
power, however, is restricted by an express provision in the state

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

459

-[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

-constitution; that compensation shall be made. This fundamental
law is inserted in the constitution of the United States, as well as in
that of many of the states; and the followingcases show how filly
this principle has been recognised and acted upon, by the judicial
tribunals of the country; 2 Dall. 304; 9 Cranch;43; 2 Pet. 655; 1
Kent's Commentaries, 425; 2 Johnson's Chancery Cases, 162; 12
Mass. Rep. 468; 7 Mass. Rep. 395.
The doctrine of consequential damages, sometimes referred to in
the court below, can have no application to the case at bar: except
on the ground that the grant of the Warren Bridge does not impair
the former grant; or if it does, that the plaintiffs are not entitled to
compensation. In making the grant, it is assumed that the legislature merely granted what was its own; and if the plaintiffs have
suffered by the exercise of a lawful power, it is a case of damnum
absque injuria, for which the law gives no remedy. This argument, as applied to the case in the court below by a learned judge,
assumes the whole matter in dispute, and need not therefore be further pursued;, but I would merely ask, whether any case can be
found, to which this doctrine has been applied in justification, in
which the consequential injury has been not partial and incidental,
hut total.
It has been often repeated, that the plaintiffs have received more
than a million of- dollars, in the course of about fifty years; and it
is urged, that this is a sufficient consideration for building and maintaining the bridge; and that no injustice is done by cutting off twenty
years of the term. Even a learned judge in the court below, says,
that the consideration should be in "some measure adequate." And
is not a good, a valid, a meritorious consideration, in some .measure
adequate? Was it not, at the time of the contract, fully adequate?
And can one of the parties rescind it now, because it.has turned out
to be more beneficial than was anticipated by either?
I will not further trespass upon the patience of the Court, -by
showing that an inquiry by a -committee of the legislature is not
equivalent to a writ of ad quod damnum executed, which is a judicial process; because I have already shown, that, even such a process in England, is not conclusive upon the rights of the parties.
If, therefore, it were equivalent, it would settle nothing: but it has
no resemblance to it, and is not worthy of further notice.
Upon the validity of this act of the 12th of March, 1828, this
Court have now to pronounce a final judgment, which must decide-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the title to.a vast amount of property. This property has been held
under a grant from the state, for nearly half a century: it has been
bought and sold in open market, under the eye of the government:it has been taken in payment of debts and legacies: distributed in
every form, in the settlement of estates, without notice, or even a
suspicion, that the title was bad. It has been for many years sought for
as a safe and profitable investment, by guardians, trustees, charitable
institutions, and such other persons as are obliged to entrust their
property to the management of others, in whom they place confidence. And yet these owners of this property, who have purchased,
or taken it, at its market value, and who have not received more
than the legalinterest of their money; are represented as odious monopolists, exacting enormous profits upon a capital which has been
repaid to them over and over again. The original stockholders are
all dead; or, if any of them are still living, the property has long
since passed out of. their hands: but if they were now living, and
holders of this property, they would not have gained more, nor so
much, by -their purchase, as those who bought real estate at that period, and kept it till the present time.
At length, however, the grantor finds that these owners have no
good title to this property; and without judicial process or inquiry,
confiscates the whole to the use of the public.
But the principles to be established-by the judgment of the Court,
in this case, iill decide the title to more than ten millions of dollars,
in the state of 'Massachusetts alone. If that judgment shall decide
that the legislature of Massachusetts has the constitutional power to
pass the act in question; what and where is the security for other
corporate property? More than four millions of dollars have been
invested in three rail-roads, leading from Boston, under charters
granted by the legislature. The title to these franchises is no other,
and'no better, than that of the plaintits. The same means may be
employed to accomplish the same ends; 'and who can say that the
same results will not follow? Popular prejudice may be again appealed to; and popular passions excited by passionate declamations
against tribute money, exclusive privileges, and odious monopolies:
and these, under skilful management, may be combined, and brought
to bear upon all chartered rights, with a resistless and crushing
power. Are we to be told that these dangers are imaginary? That
all these interests may be safely confided to the equity and justice of
the legislature? That a just and paternal regard for the rights of

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

461

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al

property, and the obligations of good faith, will always afford a
reasonable protection against oppression or injustice? I answer all
such fine sentiments, by holding up the charter of Charles River
Bridge; once worth half a million of dollars; and now not worth the
parchment it is written upon.
I have as much respect for, and confidence in legislative bodies as
reason and experience will warrant: but I am taught by both, that
they are not the safest guardians of private rights. I look to the
law; to the administration of the law: and, above all, to the supremacy of the law, as it resides in this Court, for the protection of
the rights of persons and.property, against all encroachment, by the
inadvertent legislation of the states. So long a this Court shall'continue to exercise this most salutary and highest of all its functions,
the whole legislation of the country will be kept within its constitutional sphere of action. The result will be general confidence; and
general security.
I have thus attempted to satisfy the. Court, that, by virtue of an
assignment in equity, or a surrender at law, of an ancient ferry, and
the act of 1785, incorporating the plaintiffs, a franchise or beneficial
interest was absolutely, and without condition or reservation, vested
in them for the time limited; that the franchise so vested is recognised as property, and protected as property, both by the law of
England and of this country; that, in order to make this protection
available, it must, of necessity, have some local extent, sufficient, at
least, to keep down ruinous competition; or, in other words, that it
must be exclusive between Charlestown and Boston. That the grants
of 1785 and 1792, constituting the charter of the plaintiffs, being
made on good, valid, adequate and meritorious considerations, are
entitled to a liberal construction for the grantees; that these grants;
according to the decisions of this Court, constitute a coitract: that
the act of March 12th, 1828, establishing the Warren Bridge Corporation, impairs the obligation of this contract, by resuming this
franchise, and divesting the plaintiffs of this property, without compensation: and that their only remedy is in this Court, under the
constitution of the United States.
Mr. Greenleaf, for the defendants, argued,
1st. That the present situation of the cause presented insuperable
objections to any decree in favour of the plaintiffs. The Warren
Bridge, which is the subject of comoplaint, has now become the.pro-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

perty of the commonwealth, by the terms of the original charter.
The defendants were merely authorized to indemnify themselves,
for the cost of the erection of the bridge, by collecting tolls for a
period not exceeding six years frofi the commencement. They
were after'wards constituted the agents of the commonwealth, by
.special statutes, to receive tolls for its use two years longer; but those
statutes having expired, the bridge has become free.
The general objects of the plaintiffs' bill are, first; to obtain reimbursement of the tolls already diverted from their bridge, and received ac the Warren Bridge; and, secondly, to prevent the use of
the latter, as a public way. In the decision of this cause, this Court
will exercise no larger jurisdiction than was possessed by the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts; and will render no other decree than ought to have been rendered by that tribunal. It is well
known that the people of that state, in the grant of equity powers,
have manifested great reluctance, and a decided preference for the
common law remedies; intending to preserve the. jurisdiction of
the common law, "in all cases where that is capable of affording substantial and adequate relief;" 6 Pick. 397. Now, for the
mere diversion of tolls, there is "a plain, adequate, and complete
remedy at law," by an action of the case; and, therefore, by the
rules which the courts of that state have prescribed to themselves,
there is none in equity. The only ground on which this part of the
claim could be sustained in equity, would be by charging the defendants as trustees. But it has been held in Massachusetts, that the
equity powers of the supreme judicial court extend only to cases
expressly designated by statute; 6 Pick. 395; and that no trusts
-weie cognizable there, except those arising under deeds, and which
are expressly declared in writing; Dwight v. Pomeroy, 17 Mass.
327; Safford v. Rantoul, 12 Pick. 233; Given v. Simpson, 5 Greenl.
303.
The only ground, therefore, on which the Court can deal with the
tolls, is, that having possession of the bill for the purpose of injunction, it may extend its decree "over all the incidental equities of the
cause. But this Court can make no decree which can relieve the
complainants, because there are no parties before it capable of obeying an injunction. The bridge having become the property of the
state, these defendants have neither right nor power to prevent the
use of it as a way. The commonwealth is the only party whose
rights are to be affected by whatever decree may be made in regard
to the bridge; and no injunction can be issued against one not party

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

463

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL.]

to the suit: Fellows v. Fellows, 4 Johns. Ch. 25. The general doctrine of equity is, that all who are necessary to the relief, or are materially interested in the subject matter, must be joined; Sangosa v.
The East India Company, 2 Eq. Ca. Abr. 170; Davone v. Fanning,
4 John. Ch. 199; 2 Mad. Ch. 179. It is true, that the interest of
other persons, not parties, is no valid objection where the Court can
make a decree, as between those already before it, without affecting
the rights of those who are not called in; Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wh.
193; Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine, 410. It is also.true, that if the
absent parties in interest are without the jurisdiction of the Court,
it will, in some cases, in its discretion, proceed without them; prpvided their rights are separable from those of the defendants, and
will not be irrevocably concluded by the decree; West v. Randall,
2 Mason, 190, 196. But if the rights of such absent parties are inseparably connected with those of the parties present, no decree will
be made till they are called in; Redesdale's P1. 133, 146; Wiser v.
Blackley, 1 Johns. Ch. 437. And this Court has declared that it
will not make a final decree upon the merits of a case, unless all the
persons, whose interests are essentially affected, are made parties to
the suit:, though some of those persons are not within the jurisdiction of'the Court; Russell v. Clark, 7 Cranch, 69, 98. The fact
that the absent party in interest is a sovereign state, makes no difterence. The language of the Court in Osborne v. The United States
Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, does not apply to a case like the present; but
only to that of a public officer who has collected money for the state,
which he still holds, and has been notified not to pay over; the constitutionality of the exaction beiing denied. But however that doctrine might apply to the tolls received, if that subject were cognizable in equity by the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts; it
cannot apply to the bridge itself,, which is real property, not belonging in equity to these plaintiffs; and is, in no sense, in the hands of
the defendants. To retain jurisdiction here, is to sue the state, and
virtually to effect a judicial repeal of the constitutional provision on
this subject. The Court, by its decree, can only effect so much of
the bridge as constitutes the nuisance complained of; and this is, not
the existence of the bridge, in its present position, but the use of it
as a way. Such a decree these defendents cannot execute; and it
therefore can afford the plaintiffs no relief.
2. The ferry, of which the plaintiffs claim to be assignees, extended
no farther than the landik.g places, and was subject to the control of

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.)

the state.

The policy of Massachusetts, from its first settlement, has

been to retain all ferries within its own control; the ferrymen having
nothing but a license to take tolls, during the public will. The well
known principles and sentiments of the pilgrims, were strongly
opposed to every thing in the shape .of monopoly. Hence, as early
as 1635, after a ferry had been set up by Browh, between Boston
and Charlestown, another ferry, as it is termed, but between the
same landing places, was ordered to be set up; to be kept by a
person, resident in Boston; clearly showing, that in the estimation
of the general court, the existing ferryman had no exclusive rights
In 1641, the limits of all ferries were expressly defined by
'there.
statute, as extendihg from the place where the ferry was granted,
"to any other ferry place, where ferry boats use to land." and in
th6 same year, an act was passed, in the nature of a constitutional
declaration, that no monopolies should be granted, or allowed in the
colony. With this declaration before them, and with such principles
in'view, the legislature, in 1650, confirmed the ferry rent to the
college; meaning not to repeal the acts of 1641, but to permit the
college to receive such tolls, as might be collected at the ferry, subject
to any further order of the legislature. On the same principles, successive statutes were passed, in 6 W. & M; 8 W. 3; 4 Geo. 1; 13
Geo. 1; and 33 Geo. 2; regulating this, and other ferries: and authorizing the court of sessions to set up ferries, in any place whatever,
at its discretion. If, then, it be true, that the history and situation
of a state may be resorted to, in order to expound its legislative
intentions, as was said in Preston v. Bowden, I Wheat. 115; and
that charters are to be expounded, as the law was understood, when
the charters were granted; 2 Inst. 28"2; it was never the intention
of the legislature, in permitting this ferry to be set up, to grant any
thing more, than the right to run boats from one landing to the other,
during its pleasure, and subject to its control. The ferry right was
coextensive only with the obligations of the boatmen; who were
bound, merely-to convey from one landing to the other. In the
exercise of this right of the state, it has granted toll bridges at pleasure, in the place of nearly, or quite, 6very ancient ferry in the
commonwealth ; to the utter annihilation of the ferry, and without
indemnity to the ferrymen. No claim has ever been set up, except
by these plaintiffs; adverse to the public right.
The argument, that the ferry franchise extends so far as to put
down all injurious competition, is erroneously applied in this case:

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

465

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren lriuge et al.]

as it supposes the opening of a new avenue, by the state, to be a mere
private competition. The authorities on this subject, apply only to
a private ferry, set up without license. Yard v. Ford, 2 Saund. 172;
Ogden v. Gibbons, 4 Johns. Ch. 160; Stark v. M'Gowen, 1 Nott &
M'C. 387; Newburg Turnpike Co. v. Miller, 5 Johns. Ch. 101.
Blissett v. Hart, Willes, 508.
In the present case, the public not being accommodated, the legislature has merely done its duty in providing for the public convenience, which the plaintiffs had not the legal power to do. Moseley
v. Walker, 7 B. & C. 40, 55; Macclesfield-v. Pedley, 4 B. & A. 397.
3. But whatever may-have been the extent 6f the ferry, it never
passed to the plaintiffs,.but was taken by the state, for public use; and
was thereby extinguished, in the paramount rights of the sovereign
power, by which it was resumed. 17 Vin. Abr. 83. Prerog. I. b. 4.
Id. 163. Prerog. X. c. 5. The King v. Capper, 5 Price, 217; Atto.
Gen. v. Marq. of Downshire, Ib. 269. The documents in the case,
negative the idea that the transaction of 1785 amounted to a purchase of the franchise from the college; the object of the tolls being
declared to be not only an indemnity to the plaintiffs, but for a revenue to the college. It is no purchase from the college, because the
legal evidence, a deed, is wanting. Rex v. North Duffield, 3 M. &
S. 247; Peter v. Kendall, 6 B. & C. 703.
4. Neither the grant of the ferry, whatever it was, nor the plaintiffs' charter, contained any thing exclusive of the public right to
open a new avenue in the neighborhood of Charles River Bridge;
for in a public grant, nothing passes by implication. The right thus,
said to be parted with, is one which is essential to the security and
well being of society; entrusted to the legislature for purposes of
government and general good: and such rights are never presumed
to be conveyed or restricted, Nothing passes by a charter, or legislative grant, except well known, and essential corporate powers,
where a corporation is created; unless it is contained in express
words. Rex v. Abbott of Reading, 39 E. 3. 21; 17 Vin. Abr. 136.
Prerog. E. c. 5; 8 H. 4, 2; Ford & Sheldon's case, 12 Co. 2;
Chancellor, &c. of, Cambridge v. Walgrave, Hob. 126; Stanhope v.
Bp. of Lincoln, Hob. 243; Case of Mines, Plowd. 310, 336, 337;"
Case of the Royal Fishery of the Baune, Day, 149, 157: Case of Customs, Day. 45; Atto. Gen. v. Farmen, 2 Lev. 171; Finch's Law, 100;
Blankley v. Winstanley, 3 T. R. 379; The King v. Capper, 5 Price,
258; Id. 269; Parmeter v. Gibbs, 10 Price, 456; 457; Stourbrdge
VOL. XI.-3 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Canal v. Wheeley, 2 B. & Adol. 72; Leeds & Liv. Canal v. Hustler,
1 B. & C. 424; Dock Co. v. La Marche, 8 B. & C. 42; The Elsebe,
5 Rob. Adm. 155, 163; The Joseph, 1 Gall, 555; Jackson v. Reeves,
3 Caines, 303, 306; M'Mullen v. Charleston, 1 Bay, 46,47; Zylstra
v. Charleston, Id. 382; 2 Cranch, 167; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet.
657; Lansing v. Smith, 4 Wend. 9. The cases where the king's
grant has received a construction like a private grant, are all cases of
grants of his private property; and not of things held as sovereign, in
right of his crown. Upon thi& ground, the plaintiffs' charter gave
them a franchise coextensive with the bridge itself; it authorized
them to erect a bridge, and to take tolls of such persons as might pass
over it; but nothing more.
5. If a contract to that effect should be implied, it would be void
for want of authority in the legislature to make such a surrender of
the right of eminent domain. Every act of a public 'functionary is
merely an exercise of delegated power, entrusted to him by the
people, for a specific purpose. The limits of the power delegated to
the legislature, are to be sought, not only in the constitution, but in
the nature and ends of the power itself, and in the objects of government and civil society. 6 Cranch, 135; 3 Dall. 387, 388; 1 Bay,
62. And the acts of legislators, are the acts of the people, only while
within the powers conferred upon them. 66 Cranch, 133. Among
the powers of government, which are essential to the constitution and
well being of civil society, are; not only the power of taxation, and
of providing for the common defence, but that of providing safe and
convenient ways for the public necessity and convenience; and the
right of taking'private property for public use. All these are essential attributes of sovereignty, without which no community can well
exist; and the same necessity requires, that they should always continue unimpaired. They are entrusted to the legislature, to be exercised, not bartered away; and it is indispensable that each legislature
should assemble, with the same measure of sovereign power, that was
held by its predecessors. In regard to public property, the power of
the legislature to alierfate it, is conceded. The limitation now contended for, extends only to those sovereign powers, which are
deemed essential to the constitution of society. In regard to these,
any act of the legislature disabling itself from the future exercise of
its trust for the public good, must be void; being, in substance, a
covenant to desert its paramount duty to the people. Such, it is
apprehended, would be a covenant not to erect a fortress on a par-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
ticular tract of land sold; or, not to provide ways for the public travel,
however great the necessity, either in a particular place, or for a specified time. It is not necessary that such exclusive contracts be made,
in order to induce men to adventure in a new and hazardous undertaking ... the public good; for, upon the positive assurance of
remuneration, in some other form, capital and enterprise can always
be commanded.
The true distinction between those acts of future legislatures
which may, and those which may not be'restrained, is conceived to
lie, not in the kind of legislation, whether general or special, but in
the nature of the power proposed to be restrained. Thus, a covenant not to erect a fortress on a particular spot, is a covenant in restraint of special legislation; yet it would manifestly be void. And,
by a similar enumeration and description of particular places, the
right to provide rail roads, bridges and canals, in every part of the
state. might be alienated to individuals. The example of land
exempted from taxation is not to the purpose; such exemption is
presumed to be purchased by the payment of a sum in gross, instead
of an annual tax, which all are bound to pay. The owner of the
land does not buy up a portion of the sovereign power; he only pays
off, at once, a debt which was due by instalments. Other examples
are given in the agreement not to charter another bank; and the
like. But these contracts do not abridge any powers essential to
civil society. The state must be governed and defended; and the
people must have facilities for common travel; and to these necessities the power of each legislature must be adequate. But the
existence of a bank is not of similar necessity; it stands wholly upon
considerations of policy and convenience.
The existence of som limit to the exercise of powers thus delegated in trust, and their inalienable nature, is no new doctrine; but
is familiar to public jurists: Domat Pub. Law, book 1, tit. 6, sec. 1,
,par. 12, 14, 16; Puffend. de Jure-Nat. et Gent. lib. 8, cap 5, see. 7;
17 Vin. Abr. Prerog. M. b. pl. 20; Chitty on Prerog. 385; Att. Gen.
v. Burridge, 10 Price, 350. The same doctrine has been recognised
here, in the case of political corporations: Presb. Church v. City of
New York, 5 Cow. 538; Gozler v. Georgetown, 6 Wh. 593: Auburn
Academy v. Strong, 1 Hopk. ch. 278.
6. The grant of the charter of Warren Bridge, is no breach of any
contract with the plaintiffs, they having originally accepted their
charter, subject to the paramount right of eminent domain: and

468

SUPREME COURT.

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
having, also, in 1792, accepted its extension, with a distinct submission and assent to an dxpress assertion, on the part of the state, of a
right to make new grants, at its discretion. All property held by
individuals, is charged with the juspublicum, which belongs to all
men; Hale, de Port. Mar. cap. 6; 10 Price, 460. One branch of this
jus 4 ublicum is the right of way, to be designated by the legislature. This is said to be one of the principal things which ought to
employ the attention of government to promote the public welfare,
and the interests of trade; and that nothing ought to be neglected to
render them safe and commodious; Vattel, b. 1, cb. 9, sec. 101, 103;
Domat, b. 1, tit 8, sec. 1, 2. The power to do this, is as much inherent and inalienable, as the rights of taxation; which, it is said,
resides in the government, and needs not be reserved expressly, in
any grant of property or franchises, to individuals or corporations;
Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 560, 561, 563. Ferries, turnpikes, rail roads, toll bridges and common roads, are equally public
ways; differing only in the manner of their creation. Each act of
location is an exercise of sovereign power; and the easement thus
acquired is paid for by the people; either directly, from the public
chest, or indirectly, by tolls. But the laying out of a common road
has never been supposed to violate the charter of a neighbouring
turnpike, however it may impair its tolls; nor has the establishinent
of one kind of public road, whether by charter or otherwise, ever
been considered as an injury, in legal contemplation, to another of a
different kind. And if not to another of a different kind, why
shou ld it be to another of the same kind? If a turnpike may be rendered useless by a rail road, or a common highway, why not by
another turnpike? Beekman v. The Saratoga Rail Road Co. 3 Paige,
45; Irvin v. The Turnpike Co. 2 Penn. R. 466; Green v. Biddle, 8
Wh. 88, .s9. This Court has never gone so faqr as to hold the
statute of a state void, as violating its implied contract. The cases
to this point are all eases of express contract; Vanhorne v. Dorrance,
2 Dall. 320; Fletcher v Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; New Jersey v: Wilson,
7 Cranch, 164; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; Dartmouth College
v. Woodward, 4 Wh. 518; Green v. Biddle, 8.Wh. 1. On the contraiy, this Court has refused to imply a contract, in a case similar in
principle to the present; and has declared, that where there is no
exp5ress contract, the remedy of the party was in the wisdom and
justice of the legislature; Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Pet, 289; Prov.
Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 563; U. States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 729.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

469

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

But this point stands not on general reasoning alone. By stAt.
33, Geo. 2, the courts of sessions in Massachusetts were expressly
authorized to establish ferries, in all places, at their discretion.
This is a clear assertion of the public right to make new avenues, by

water, wherever public convenience may require; and the statute
was in full force in 1785,,when the plaintiffs' received their charter,
and is to be taken into the elements of its exposition. It continued
in force, in 1792, when West Boston bridge was chartered; and the
same provision was revised and re-enacted in 1797, and continued
in force, in 1828, when the charter of Warren Bridge was granted.
If, then, it'was lawful to establish one kind of public.avenue by the
side of the plaintiffs' bridge; it was equally lawful to establish any
and every kihd. If any doubts could arise on this point, it is made
clear by reference to the transactions of 1792. The plaintiffs, at that
time, remonstrated'against the grant of the charter of West Boston
Bridge, on the ground of .their exclusive right; first, as purchasers
of the ferry; and, secondly, by their charter of 1785. The whole
subject was referred to a committee of the legislature, before whom
all parties were fully heard. The great question was, whether the
legislature had a right, at its discretion, to make new avenues over
Charles river to Boston; and whether the plaintiffs' charter gave
them any exclusive privileges. The committee reported strongly
in favour of thue right of the state, and against the existence of any
exclusive right in the plaintiffs; but recommended an extension of
the term of continuance of the plaintiffs' charter, on grounds of
public expediency, as a mere gratuity; and it was done.
This extension of the charter, together with this contemporaneous
exposition, the plaintiffs accepted in the same year; and again in
1802, without protest or objection. It is absurd to suppose that the
legislature intended to grant exclusive privileges, in the same breath
in which their existence was denied. The general principle that
the legislative history of the passage of a statute furnishes no rule for
its exposition, is admitted. But it applies only to'the'exposition of
statutes as such. Private statutes, regarded as contracts, are to be
expounded as contracts; in which all the res gesixw, or surrounding
circumstances, are to be regarded. The report of the committee,
therefore, was a cotemporary document between the same parties,
relating to the same subject matter; and in a case between private
persons, it would be received; in equity, either to interpret or reform the agreement. If the acts of parties expound their intentions,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v..Warren Bridge et al.]

much more a solemn transaction like this. Blankley v. Winstanley,
3 T. R. 279; Gape v. Handley, Id. 288, note; Hunter v. Rice, 15
East. 100; Saville v. Robertson, 4 T. R. 720; Cook v. Booth, Cowp.
819, asserts the same doctrine; though its application to express.covenants has been denied. The charter, extended on these principles, and coupled with such declarations, was accepted by the plaintiffs, in 1802, unconditionally, and without objection. On the application for Canal bridge, in 1807, the plaintiffs again opposed the
grant, and were again heard; and the state again denied their exclusive right, and asserted its own, to open avenues at its discretion.
And the plaintiffs 'ngain, in 1826, in a more solemn manner, accepted-the renewed charter; without any denial of the right asserted by
the state.
It is objected that the state, by an act which annihilates the plaintiffs' tolls, has virtually resumed its own grant. To this it is replied,
that the principle which forbids the resumption of one's own grant,
does not apply to the exercise of the eminent domain. Thus, a turnpike road may be appropriated, to make a canal; Rogers v. Bradshaw, 20 Johns. 735. It is further objected, that though the original outlays may have been reimbursed, with interest, from the tolls;
yet that the act of 1828, has ruined the property of subsequent innocent stockholders, who have made their investments at a high
price. But all such are purchasers with notice. The statute of 33
Geo. 2, was fair notice, beforehand, of the public right to open new
avenues, over waters, at discretion. This right, in regard to bridges
over Charles river, was expressly asserted in 1792; it was acted
upon in the subsequent grant of the Middlesex canal; it was again
expressly asserted in 1807, upon the granting of the charter of the
'Canal bridge; and was more recently acted upon in the charter of
the Lowell rail road.
I. If the plaintiffs have sustained any damages not anticipated nor
provided for, they are merely consequential, for which no remedy
lies against these defendants; nor is it a case for the interference of
this Court; but it is only'a ground of application to the commonwealth of Massachusetts. That the defendants were mere public
agents in the erection of Warren Bridge, was conceded in the argument of this cause, in 6 Pick. 388. And it is equally clear, that the
remedy, at common law, for the damages of which the plaintiffs complain, if the act of the defendants were unjustifiable, must have been
by an action of the case, and not in trespass. For the gravamen is,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

471

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

not that their property has been directly invaded; but that an.act
has been done in another place, in consequence of which the income
of that property is reduced. Their damages, therefore, are strictly
consequential. In regard to such damages, the constitution of Massachusetts, art. 10, has already received an authoritative exposition,,
in Callender v. Marsh, 1 Pick. 418; deciding that to those damages
it does not apply. So in Pennsylvania, Shrunk v. Schuylkill Navigation Company, 14 Serg. and Raw. 71, 83. And in New York,
Varick v. New York, 4 Johns. 53. Statutes enabling agents to effect
a great and beneficial public object, ought to be benignly and libeially expounded, in favour of those agents. Jerome v. Ross, 7
Johns. Ch. 328. And they, therefore, are held not liable for anyconsequential damages, resulting from acts done under and within
the terms of a statute. Spring v. Russell, 7 Greenl. 273; Custis v.
Lane, 3 Munf. 579; Lindsay v. Charleston, 1 Bay. 252; Stevens v.
Middlesex Canal, 12 Mass. 468; Rogers v. Bradshaw, 20 Johns.
744, 745; Governor, &c. Cast Plate Manuf. v. , Meredith, 4 T. R.
790; Sutton v. Clarke, 1 Marsh. 429; 6 Taunt. 29, S. P; 6 Pick.
406. It is only when agents exceed the powers conferred on them
by the act, that they become trespassers. Belknap v. Belknap, 2
Johns. Ch. 463; Shand v. Henderson, 2 Dow's P. C. 519. If the
property is taken for public use, the state is bound to make compensation; and trespass does not lie. If it is consequentially impaired
in value, by the prosecution of public works, it is darnnum absque
injuria,at law; and addresses itself only to the consideration of thelegislature.
If here is no violation of contract, the question whether a state
law violates a state constitution, is not to be raised in this Court.
Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Pet. 289. There are cases, in which it has
been gratuitously thrown out that the constitutional right to trial by
jury extends to cases of property taken for public uses. Perige v:
Wilson, 7 Mass. 393; Callender v. Marsh, I Pick. 418; Vanhorne v.
Dorrance, 2 Dall. 304: But each of these cases stood on other
grounds; and in neither of them was this the -point necessarily in
judgment. In other cases, it has been held, that this constitutional
right applies only to issues of fact, in the ordinary course of civil
and criminal proceedings: Livingston v. New York, $ Wend. 85;
Beekman v. Saratoga and Schenectady Rail Road Company, 3 Paige,
45. No state has gone so far as to hold, that the money must be
paid before the title of the owner is divested. On the contrary, in

SUPREME COURT
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Massachusetts, in the location of roadg, the title of the owner is divested as soonas the return is accepted; though the amount of compensation may be litigated for years. In Kentucky, in certaih cases,
a private bond is held sufficient to effect a-similar purpose.- Jackson
v. Winn, 4 Littel, 327; and- -in, Pennsylvania it is effected by the
mere giving of a right of action; whether against the state, Evans v.
"Commonwealth, 2 Serg. & Raw. 441; Commonwealth v. Sheppard,
3 Penn. 509; or against a private corporation, Bertsch v. The Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company, 4Rav.-130. Now the faith of
the state, pledged expressly in its constitution, is at least as valuable
as any right of action, whether against an individual, or the state
itself; and ought to be equally effectu.9 to divest the title of the
owner.
The general principle of public law is, that any private property
may be taken for public use, or may be destroyed, or private rights
sacrificed, whenever the public good requires it. This eminent domain extends over all the acquisitions of the citizen, and even to his
contracts 'and rights of action. Grotius de Jure Belli, &c., 1. 2, ch.
14, sect. 7; and 1. 3, c. 19, sect. 7, 14, 15; and. c. 20, sect. 7; Vattel,
b. 1, ch. 20, sect. 244; Puffend, de Jure Nat. &c., 1. 8, c. 5, sect. 7;
Bynkershceck, Quaest. . -2, c. 15, I 2, 3, 6, 10; 3 Dall. 245.
All these writerg agree that compensation ought to be made; but
no one has intimated that the taking is not lawful, unless the compensation is simultaneously and especially made or provided for. On
the contrary, they all suppose that the property is first taken, and
afterwards paid for, when, and as soon as the public convenience will
permit;nund this, without regard to the urgency f the cause for which
it was taken; nor, whether in war or peace. It, is obvious, that in a
large proportion of the public exigencies, the compensation must
pec.essarily be provided for, after the property is taken; Commonwealth v. Fisher, 1: Penn. 465. Our cb'1stitutional provisions on this
subject, seem nothing. more-than an e-less..recognition of the right
to compensation; and mrre probably inserted in consequence of the
arbitrffry impressments of- property, made during the war of the
revolutioni- 1 Tucker's BI. Com. part 1, app. 305. The passage in 1
V. .Com- 138, 139, amounts only to this; that the legislature obliges
the.party to-sell, and. fixes.the price; 4. T. R. 797. But the consti-

tattion applics to property directly t#kenr, and not to cases where its
value is- only donsequentially impaired; and so it has been expounded by Massachusetts, in her general road laws, and i4i all her charters

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

for public ways, whether bridges, roads, or canals. The residue of
the subject of eminent domain, not having been touched by the constitution, remains among the great principles of public law, having
an imperative force on. the honour and conscience of the sovereign;
and the objection is not to be tolerated in a court of law, that a sovereign state, in the exercise of this powei', will not do what justice
and equity may require; Tippets v. Walker, 4 Mass. 597; Commonwealth v. Andre, 3 Pick. 224; 2 Dall. 44'.
If Massachusetts has taken the property of the plaintiffs for public
use, her honour is solemnly pledged in her constitution, to make adequate compensation. If their rights have been sacrificed, for higher
public good, the laws of nations equally bind her to restitution. From
these obligations she could not seek to escape, without forfeiting her
caste,in this great family of nations. Her conduct in this matter, has
been uniformly dignified and just. The plaintiffs have never yet met
her, except in the attitude of stern and uncompromising defiance.
She will listen with great respect, to the opinion and advice of this
honourable Court; and if her sovereign rights were to be submitted
to arbitration, there is dohlbtess, no tribunal to whose hands she
would more readily confide them. If she has violated any contract
with the plaintiffs, let them have ample reparation by a decree. But
if not, and they are merely sufferers by the ordinary vicissitudes
of human affairs, or by the legitimate exercise of her eminent domain, let it be presumed here, that a sovereign sLate is capable of a
lust regard to its own honour, and that it will pursue, towards its
own citizens, an enlightened and liberal policy.
Let it not be said that, in the American tribunals, the presumption and intendment of law is, that a state will not redeem its pledges,
any further than it is compelled by judicial coercion: that it is incapable of disceriiing its true interests, or of feeling the force of purely
equitable considerations: and that its most solenm engagements are
worth little more" than the parchment on which they are written.
Let such a principle be announced from this place, and it is easy to
foresee its demoralizing effects on our own community. But pro.
claim it to Europe, and we shall hear its reverberations, in tones
louder than the thundering echoes of this capitol; with the bitter
taunt, that while the unit monarch of the old wofld, is the dignified
representative of national honour; the monarch-multitude of the newis but the very incarnation of perfidy.
VOL. XL-3 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Mr. Davis, also of counsel for the defendants.
I approach this case with unaffected diffidence and distrust of my
capacity to aid my employers, or enlighten the Court. It has been
long pending; has excited great interest; has drawn to its investigation, the intellect and learning of many distinguished men and eminent jurists. The whole ground has been so thoroughly explored,
that little is.left, untouched which is worthy' of examination, or can
excite curiosity. If others had not exhausted the subject, my
worthy and learned associate has brought such untiring industry into
the case, that nothing remains to me, but a method of my own, less
perfect than his; and a mere revision of the subject under that arrangement.
Both parties are corporations.
Both created by the state legislature.
Both claim rights across a navigable river.
Both, therefore, claim something from the eminent domain of the
state.
The plaintiffs claim to be first in time, and for that reason to override the defendants' title. They assert an exclusive right over the
river; which greatly affects the pblic, as well as the defendants.
The question to' be decided is, therefore, one of grave moment;
because it involves great interests and rights in Massachusetts, and,
possibly, principles which may affect the prosperity and convenience
of other densely populated communities.
The value of property on the part of the plaintiffs has been stated,
here, to be, five hundred thousand dollars. Their bridge, costing
originally about forty-six thousand dollars, has grown into this importance from the large anndal income, having yielded to the proprietors, as'the plaintiffs state, over twelve hundred thousand dollars; and advanced from one hundred pounds a share, to two thousand
dollars.
The question in one form is, has the commonwealth so parted with
iis sQvereign right over this river, and vested it in the plainfiffs,
that they shall contiriue these exactions, and the public be without
further accommodation, whatever may be the inconveniences, until
their charter expires; and forever after, if the plaintiffs have the
riglt to the ferry, as they contend; for upon their view of the case,
the ferry will revert to the college,.and the tolls be continued after
the charter of the bridge company expires.
If the people of the commonwealth have thus parted with their

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

475,

[Ch rles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

sovereign rights to corporators, and are thus tied down, so that new
ways cannot be opened for their accommodation; it is maiter of profound regret.
The learned counsel for the plaintiffs', in openihg the case, seemed
studious to have it understood by the Court, that the actual parties in interest, are the plaintiffs and the commonwealth; and I
have no objection to this view of the case; for the public interest,
I agree, far transcends in importance the property involved. The
public, therefore, may be said to stand on one side, and the plaintiffs
on the other.
On one side then are the rights to private prQperty, sacred and
inviolable, as far as they can be established; but claimed in the form
of a burdensome tax on-the public, and therefore entitled to no favour beyond strict right.
On the other stands the public, complaining that they are the
tributaries to this great stock of private wealth, and subjected -to
inconveniences still more burdensome, from the want of suitable
accommodations for intercommunication across- the river, if this
bridge is to be shut up; and denying. that such claims of exclusive
right can, be justly or lawfully set up by the plaintiffs.
This public, in the argument, has been represented as devoid of
natural justice, 'selfish, avaricious, tyrannical.
Some things are certain in this conflict of opinion.
We all know that the sole control and power over this navigable
water, was once in the public. It was theirs, and 'how far have they
been divested of it?
If it has gone out of the public, and is in the plaintiffs; they must
show to what extent, and show it clearly: for such rights, as I shall
prove, do not pass by presumption, but upon some decided expression of public assent.
The loss of tolls, which has been earnestly dwelt upon, has no
tendency to prove it.
The great increased value of the bridge, has no tendency' to
prove it
The severe hardship, which has been a prominent feature of the
argument, does not prove it.
All these matters are by no means inconsistent with the right to
establish other ways across the river; and theref6re only prove that
the plaintiffs are making less money, not that their rights are invaded.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

I will then examine their allegations in the bill, and the arguments by which they claim-to establish their conclusions.
1. They set up an exclusive right to the travel, between Boston
and Charlestown, come from where it may.
2. They aver that the act of 1828, under which the defendants
claim is incompatible with, and repugnant to their vested rights, and
doth impair the obligations of contract; and is therefore void by the
constitution of the United States.
3. They aver that the legislature is restrained from revoking or
annulling its own grant, or divesting title, except where it takes property for public use; and then it can only do it under the provisions
of the bill of rights of the commonwealth, which requires, that compensation shall be made in such cases: and they further aver, that
their property is taken, and no provision for compensation is made,
and therefore the act of 1828 is void.
The case has been chiefly argued under the second and third
lheads.
The first raises a question under the constitution of the United
'States. That instrument provides in the fifth amended article, that
no state shall pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The plaintiffs call the act of 1785, under which they claim, a contract; and argue, that the act of 1828 impairs their grant, and as it
is done by legislation of the state, the act of 1828 is void.
The second raises a question under the tenth article of the bill of
rights of Massachusetts; a question very proper for the courts of
Massacbusetts; but as I shall contend, not brought here by this writ
of error: but finally settled there, and beyond the reach of this jurisdiction, as the bill of rights does not, and cannot, constitute any part
of the act of 1785, and therefore is no part of the supposed contract.
These two issues do not entirely harmonize in another respect.
One denies absolutely the right to take for public use, the property
of the plaintiffs, because the state cannot, even in the exercise of its
eminent domain, divest this right of property.
The other admits the right to take for public use, by making compensation.
I shall examine both, and the arguments urged in support of them.
To make out these issues, they contend
1. That they are the grantees of the college, in and to the ferry
between Boston and Charlestowi.

ANUARY TERM, 1837.

477

[Chfrles River Bridge v., Warren Bridge et al.)

2. That the state authorized the erection of tlfeir bridge, by the
act of 1785; in which there is an implied covenant not to divert the
travel, by new ways."
3. That these two titles vest in them a control over Charles river,
to exclude injurious competition, which right they hold to be irrevocable; but if revocable, then the act which authorizes the interference must provide compensation for all loss occasioned' by the
diversion of travel.
In examining these positions, I shall
1. Deny that they-are the grantees of the college, or have any
interest in the ferry.
2. I shall deny that they have any covenant or engagement, express, or implied, by the act of 1785, authorizing them to claim
damages for.a diversion of travel by a new and authorized way; and
shall also attempt to prove that no legislative body can perpetually
alienate its sovereignty in regard to making ways for the public
convenience; so that 'a new way may not at any time, when the
public exigency demands it, be laid over any property whatever,
whether belonging to individuals, or to corporations created by legislative acts, and whether it be real estate or a franchise, unless the
state has agred, in express terms, to exempt such property.
3. I shall rmaintain,'that the power to provide ways for the public,
resides, of necessity, always in the commonwealth; is part of the
sovereignty: and all property is held subject to the exercise of that
right; which is a condition annexed to all title to property, whether
derived from thestate, or from individuals.
4. I shall maintain, that taking property in pursuance of this sovereign right, is not, in itself, an act impairing the obligation of 'contracts, but consistent with it; for the property is held subject to this
right; and all the party can demand, is compensation under the bill
of rights.
5. 1 shall maintain that this Court has no jurisdiction over the
question, of compensation for property taken for a way; unless the
party can show that he holds it under the state, and the state has expressly agreed not to take it for that purpose, without providing
compensation: for in all other cases the party relies on our bill of
rights, and this Court is not the tribunal to expound that instrument.
In maintaining these position3, I am constrained to examine most
df the grounds assumed in the very elaborate argument of the opening counsel; though I have a conviction which I cannot surrender,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

that all this labour upon the ferry will le a useless effort, for the
plaintiffs can never succeed in establishing any kind of equitable or
legal claim -to it. Following, however, the order designated, I will
first look to this ferry, and inquire
1. What rights belonged to the ferry?
2. Are these rights vested in the plaintiffs?
3. If they are, do they tend to establish the claim now set up over
the waters of the river?
This ferry lies in grant, and we must go to the ancient colonial -ordinances to ascertain its extent, and the probable meaning and intent
of the colonial government, which i6 to be gathered from them.
They are as follows:Orders relating to Charlestown ferry, extracted out of the old book
in the council chamber, Ann. 1630. It is further ordered that whosoever shall first give in his name to Mr. Gouvernour, that he will
undertake to set up a ferry between Boston and Charlestown, and
shall begin the same at such time as Mr. Gouvernor shall appoint,
shall have one penny for each person, and one penny for evety hundred weight of goods he shall so transport. Page 65.
1631. Edward Converse bath undertaken to set up a ferry betwixt
Boston and Charlestown, for which he is to have two pqnce for
ev-ery single person, and one penny apiece, if there be two or more.
Page 80.
1633, Mr Richard Brown is allowed 1y the Court to keep a ferry
over Charles river against his house, and is to have two pence for
every single person he so transports, and one penny apiece if there
be two or more. Page 105.
1635. It is ordered, that there shall be a ferry set up on Boston
side, by Windmill Hill, to transport men to Charlestewn and Winnesimet, upon the same rates that the ferry men at ChArlestown and
Winnesimet transport men to Boston. Page 150.
1637. The ferry between Boston and Charlestown is referred to
the Governor and Treasurer, to let, at forty pounds per annum, beginning the first of the tenth month, and from thence for three years.
Page 204.
1638. Edward Converse appearing, was admonished to be more
careful of the ferry, and enjoined to man two boats, one to be on the
one side, and the other on the other' side, except the wind were so
high that they were forced to put four men to man one boat, and

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[ChavAes River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

then one boat to serve, only he is enjoined to pay Mr. Rawson's
fine, and so is discharged. Page 223.
1640. Mr. Treasurer, Mr. Samuel Shepherd and Lieut. Sprague,
have power to let the ferry between Boston and Charlestown, to
whom they see cause, when the time of Edward Converse is expired, at their discretion. Page 2Mf.
1640. The ferry between Boston and Charlestown is granted to
the college. Page 288.
Such are the principal acts or ordinances of the court of assistants,
and the general court, in regard to this ferry; and I shall ask the
Court to gather the intent of these public functionaries from this record, and the cotemporaneous history.
In 1630, the colony, under the distinguished, and I may say, illustrious John Winthrop, governor, came over; and not being satisfied
with Salem, where their predecessors had located, they tame up to
the head of the bay, or to what is now the harbour of Boston. Here
they found the peninsula of Charlestown, formed by Charles river
on the west, and south-west, and Mystic river on the north-east,
projecting into the harbour from the north-west to the south-east;
and the peninsula of Boston projecting towards it from the southwest to the north-east, and formed by Charles river on the niorth
and west; which spreadi above the point into a large basin, discharging itself between" these peninsulas and the bay or harbour of Boston,
on the other side. Winthrop, with his friends, occupied these two
peninsulas; and in Boston, was established under him, the colonial
government of the company, which, in truth, was only a company of
adventurers in trade and speculation, so far as the charter went. Out
of this humble beginning has sprung the commonwealth, and, I
might almost say, this federal government itself.
Thus situated, intercommunication between these two places was
indispensable; and hence it is, that while the smokes of pnly a few
log cabins ascended from the spot where a great city and a large
town have since risen up, the subject of a ferry came thus early under consideration. And in giving construction to these simple ordinances, it is a fair inquiry, whether the colonists were providing
for present emergencies, means suitably adapted to that end; or
were, as the plaintiffs contend, making a perpetual exclusive grant
of the right of travel over Charles river, for all time to come.
The first act, in 1630, makes no grant to any one, but proposes to
have a ferry "set up."

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

In 1631, a fery was set up by Edward Converse, and the toll established.'
In 1633, Richard Brown is allowed to keep a ferry over Charles
river, dgqinst his house, &c. Here is the first evidence of a specific
location, "over the river against his house;" that is, what they call
a ferry, was over-or across the river, from bank to bank, opposite to
Brown's house; a way merely.
In 1635, a ferry was set up from Windmill Hill, int Boston, to
Chelsea; and another from Boston to Charlestown, to fun on the
same line or-way as the one already set up, only it was to belong to
Boston, instead of Charlestown. Thus, one ferry was granted upon
another; 'if these ordinances are to be treated as perpetual grants, and
if the word ferry carries a franchise, then one frinchise upon anothur. They show rather what is intended by the words-set tip, and
that they simply authorized the running of a boat from place to
place. In the first act, any person giving in his name, was to set
up -a ferry; Converse did set it up. The thing set up, then, was
not by public act, but by individual act. This shows the limited
sense in which the w6rd ferry is used. After the location, in 1833,
it is called the ferry.
In 1637, the ferry is referred to the governor and treasurer to let.
Mr. Savage testifies that he had seen the original, or what he believed
to be such, of a memorandum of agreement, or lease, in this year,
signed by Converse, which begins thus: "The governour and trea-surer, by order of the general court, did demise to Edv;ard Converse,
the fekry.between Boston and Charlestown, to have the sole transporting of passengers and cattle from one side to the other, for three
years," &c. Now the demise is of "the ferry between Boston and
Charlestown," but he is to have the sole transporting, &c. The term
.ierry,as then understood, (for this instrument is in the handwriting
of the gqvernor,) did not carry any sole or exclusive right to travel
and transportation; but it was necessary to insert othe&r strong and
express terms, tq convey that right. This is another proof that the
word had not the enlarged signification now given to it.
. tn 1640, -the-treasurer, Mr.. Sprague and Mr. Shepherd, were
authorized to let the ferry. Thus far there had been but two kinds
,of action on the part of the colony. First, to establish a ferry, and
second, to lease and regulate it. There were plainly no privileges
or exclusive rights appended to it, but they speak of it as a thing to
be set up by another; and when leased, they gave tor a limited

I JANUARY TERM, 1837.

481

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

period, certainwell defined privileges to- go with it; but those privileges were not embraced in what was called th&'erry,_ but stood
separate and distinct from it, and were at an end with the lease.
In the same year, 1640, the record says, " The ferry between
Boston and Charlestown is granted to the college."
This is the charter, the whole title of the college. What by fair
construction is granted? The ferry-nothing more-the thing set up.
No privileges such as are specifically enumerated in the lease of
Converse-no line of trav l, such as is now claimed-no covenant
not to divert travel, or not to establish other ways, or not to impair
the income. There is nothing which looks at such privileges. It
is a ferry-a naked ferry. What is a ferry? All the books, Tomlin,
Dane, Woolrych, Petersdorf, &c. define it to be a.highway, and the
word, ex vi termini, means no more. The term ferry, therefore, in
and of itself, implies no special privileges, such as are often connected
with a ferry by special grant or prescription. The colonists so
understood it; and in making a charitable gratuity to the college, had
no purpose of placing the control of the ferry, or the waters of the
river beyond their reach. The income, they doubtless meant, should
go to the college; but they actually retained the possession and management till 1650, and always determined the rate of tolls, and how
the public should be accommodated.
The doctrine of ferries, as found in the English books, and applied
to this case, is full of confusion and uncertainty; so much so, that
the plaintiffs have, under it, varied and'remodelled their claims of
right; reducing them from the whole river, to the travel between
Boston and Charlcstown: and before I have done, I shall ask them
again, what is the extent of their claim, and where the authority
which defines that extent. Let us look at the cases, and see how
the doctrine stands.
1 1. The old class of cases, in which is found the doctrine that "you
cannot impair my franchise, o- my ferry," and "1I
may exc lude
all injurious competition;" and which has been many times
repeated in the argument, with great apparent approbation; asserts
rights which I will show cannot be maintained in England, or any
where, at this day. The monopoly is too bold for even a government of privileges. There was, therefore, a necessity for narrowing
down a doctrine so repugnant to all improvement, and so inconvenient to all who had occasion to travel. The piinciple was, if one
owning an old ferry, could show that a new ferry, or way, however
VOL. XI.-3 P

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]

remotely,.diverted travel, or caused a diminution of tolls, an action
would lie, and the new ferry, or way, was held a nuisane.
This gave rise to the doctrine set up in Yard v. Ford, 2 Saund..
Blissett v. Hart, Willes R., and in the case of Sir Olive- Butler, 3 Lev.
Here the distinction was taken, and appears since to have been
adhdred to, that one setting up a ferry, without license from the king,
would be liable for any injury happening to an old ferry therebyi
whereas, if he had first obtained a license, he would not have been
liable. Those who acted under a license, were placed on a different
footing from those who acted without, although the license was procured without paying any compensation to the old ferry. A careful
analysis of these cases will produce this result. The conclusion then
is, that under a license, granted after an ad quod damnum, a ferry
maybe continued, though injurious, so far as to entitle the owner of
an old ferry to damage, if no license had been granted. The cases
of Blissett v. Hart, and Sir 0. Butler, fully maintain this conclusion.
The ad quod damnum, which gives of course no damage, has been
manifestly used to evade the rigorous old rule, and to narrow down
the franchises of ferries, markets, &c. under a return upon such
writs, that new ferries, or new markets may be. granted, because the
public need them, and the old ones will not be-greatly injured thereby.
The reporter in Butler's case, alleges, that the new market was
granted because the public convenience demanded it. It is, I agree,
absurd to return no damage, when there is damage.
But if this be not so, why is a license a protection; for if a ferry is
Where it does noinjury, then it needs no protection. The idea of
protection, therefore, necessarily implies that without the license, the
party would be liable, because he does injury. The process of ad
quod damnum and license, is therefore used as a shield against the
liability' and to cut down this kind of franchise.
Next came the doctrine in Tripp v. Frank, 4 T. R., which struck
more effectually at the doctrine of the old ferry franchises, and
brought them into comparatively circumscribed limits.
The plaintiff, claiming Ai.'the travel from Kingston toBarton, on
the Humber, sued" the Wtadant for transporting persons from
Kingston to Barrow,. some distance below Barton, on the same side
of the river. The travel from Kingston to. Barrow, had usually
passed through Barton, and therefore went by the plaintiff's ferry.
He prescribed and established his right to all the travel between
Kingston and Barton; and maintained, that under the old authorities,

JANUARY TERM, 1835.
riverBridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
wCharles

which forbid the right to. set up injurious competition, or to impair
the ferry of another, he was entitled to damage; for if the defendant
had not trxnspprted, passengers directly t9 Barrow, they would have
passed over to Barton in the platintiff's. boats, and therefore he lost
his toll. His lino of travel, as it is here eblled, was broken,onand
thea
the .laintiff,
part of it diverted. But the curt noinsuited
ground that he had only an exclusive right betwedn Kingston and
Barton. They disregarded the circumstance that. his- accustomed
travel was lessened, and his tolls diminished. This, therefore, was
an unequivocal inroad upon the doctrine, thit one shalf not set up
injurious competition against another, or impair his ferry; for it iA
undeniable, that the toll was diminished, and the value of the ferry
lessened. The franchise which formerly reached all injurious competition, was here limited to an exclusive right between the two
towns where the landing places were. This was a most material
modification of the old doctrine; and was so considered in a late
case in the court of exchequer by baron Parke.
The next case of importance,,.for I pass over many where the
learning of the courts has been put in requisition, is a late case
in the court of exchequer, reported in an English periodical, called
the Law Journal; and introduced to the notice of the court by
the plaintiff's counsel. Here again the learned barons took time to
advise and consider what the law relating to ferries was. After a
fresh research it is declared, that the franchise consists in an exclusive right between place and place, town and town, vile and ville;
and the competition must be brought to bear on these points, or it is
lawful. Hence the defendant was justified in landing a person at
Hobbs' Point, a place intermediate between Nayland and Pembroke,
though near the latter place, and the passenger was going to Pembroke. This was no infringement of plaintiff's ferry between Nayland and Pembroke. This is the-case, as I remember it from a hasty
perusal.
What are we to gather from it? Would a ferry from London to
Southwark across the Thasnes, be from place to place, town to town,
or ville to ville, so that the vast population on each bank could have
no other accommodation? What connexion have the arbitrary lines
of towns, or cities, or parishes, with the public travel, or the public
accommodation?- From one county to another, in most of the United
States, is from place to place; for there are the smallest political organized communities in many states. Two counties may stretch up

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et ii.] "

and down- a river upon opposite banks many miles; and is any ferry
to have an exclusive franchise the whole of the distance, because the
two places stretch so far? This, and all the authorities cited, are
only so many proofs of a constant struggle on the part of the courts
to ascertain what the franchise of a ferry is in law; and to bring it
down to more limited dimensions than the old cases assigned to it.
Am I not justified then in declaring, that the doctrine is manifestly
confused and vacillating; and that the courts, without much seeming
ceremony,-have modified the law to suit the temper of the times,
and to appease the just complaints of the public.
But if the law is to undergo 'iange, I prefer it should be in our
own courts, and adapted to our condition. Let-it be done here,
instead of in king's bench, or the exchequer.
This, however, is not the course to pursue, for it furnishes no safe
and sound principle to rest upon.
It seems to me, if we analyze prescription, on which all these
English rights rest; for all the cases of ferries will be found to lie in
prescription; we shall find a ground of interpretation of right which
will be satisfactory, and show that these cases have'no tendency to
establish the doctrine contended for by the plaintiffs.
They cite them to prove that a ferry has, as appurtenant to it, a
franchise which excludes injurious competition from the waters
above and below it. I have already shown, that the term ferry has
no such extended signification; and I will now show that'these cases
,do not conflict with that position, and that they furnish nothing to
aid this notidn of constructive and implied rights; but every ferry is
limited strictly to what is granted without the aid of implication.
Prescription and grants iq writing, differ only in the mode of
proof. The writing proves its own contents, and the extent of the
grant is gathered from the terms employed to express the meaning.
Prescription is allowed to take the place of a writing supposed to
be lost. Equity permits the party to produce evidence to prove
what he has claimed, what he"has enjoyed, and hpw long; and if the
period of enjoyment be sufficient, the law presumes tnat he had a
writing which has been lost, that would by its" contents, prove a
grant coextensive with the proof. In the case of Tripp v. Frank; for
example, the plaintiff proved that he had an exclusive right to transport all travellers passing between Kingston and Barton. The law
therefore presumed, that if his written title could have been pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

1duced in court, it would, in so many words, have given him such an
exclusive right.
Cases of prescription, therefore, afford no countenance to implied
or comtructive rights; but stand on precisely-the 'iarhe footing as
titles which lie in writing. Usage can never enlarge or diminish
title, for one is not obliged to exercise all his rights to preserve
them; nor does usurpation in theory enlarge right. The usage only
goes to show wht the law supposes to have been written.
Before, then, the plaintiffs 6an use these cases of prescription to establish implied franchises, they must show that the lost title is not to
be held to be cbmmensurate with the proof: but something is implied beyond what is supposed to be written. This they will find it
difficult to accomplish.
It follows from this, if I am correct in the reasoning acopted, that
ferries, eo nomine, have no particular privileges belonging to them.
They are what authors define them to be, water highways; and eaoh
fratichise is more or less extensive, according to the. terms of the
grant creating it. It may be very limited or very broad.
The confusion in the English cases, does not arise from any uncertainty in this principle; but from the uncertainty of proof, where
the right lies in prescription.
With these explanations, which, I fear, have been unnecessarily
minute, I come to the inquiry: what was granted to the college?
And I answer, the ferry; the same thing set up in 1681, by Converse; the way over th river, against the house of Brown, established in 16$3; a road from bank to bank; for this is all a ferry
over the river means. It was an aecommodation adapted to a few
inhabitants in the Wilderness.
If the franchise was broader, where does it extend to? The terms
of the grant indicate no privileges up or down stream. Will the
plaintiffs tell us where their bounds are? Do they know? Is there
any rule of implication which assigns them any privileges which
t ey can define? If there is, then, I call on them to put down the
boundaries; to show the Court the limits. It is not enough to show
that the terms of the grant, if literally and strictly construed, may,.
under possible circumstances, render their property of little or no
value. This only proves they may have made a bad contract, but
has no tendency to establish in them undefined and unmeasured
righs.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Let it be remembered that the plaintiffs in 1792 remonstrated
against the grant of West Boston bridge, alleging that it would divert half their tolls; and the openifig counsel said they got compensation for the erection of this bridge, which was from Cambridge
Port to Boston. Again, they remonstrated against Canal bridge,
alleging it interfered with their franchise, and this run from Lechmere's Point to Boston.
Now they say their franchise does not reach either of these
bridges, but is limited to Boston and Charlestown; and the case of
Huzzy v. Field is quoted to sustain it.. This is certainly proof,
very conclusive, that the law has been so uncertain that the plaintiffs
have not been able to show the extent of their own rights, as they
understand them, or to make uniform claims.
Understanding the old cases as I have represented them, they asserted the right to arrest all injurious competition; and as the English courts have cut down the privilege of franchise, from time to
time, so their claims have diminished till they lie between Boston
and Charlestown alone.
But it is said the franchise must be reasonable; and what is reasonable? They deemed it reasonable to assert an exclusive privilege, and to deny the right to open any new ways over the tide water
of Charles river which might divert any travel which would otherwise reach them. Opposition to all new bridges has been deemed
reasonable. But why is any enlargement of the grant reasonable?
What you give to the ferry you take from the public; and the public
cannot spare it without inconvenience.
In a word, is it reasonable, or right, to traverse the regions of conjecture in this matter? To make laws which shall assign boundaries
to this franchise, when the plain'tiffs can show no manner of title to
what they setup?
They urge that Warren Bridge is a clear interference, because it
takes away their tolls. So is West Boston and Canal bridges, for the
same reason; for the travel would go over the plaintiffs' bridge if
these competitors were away. ,The proof is no more decisive-in the
Warren, than in the other bridges. The diversion of travel is not
evidence of wrong. The English cases, cited, clearly show that;
see Tripp v. Frank. The wrong, if any, consists in invading the
p pintiffs' grant. And I again ask them, if they affirm, as they do,
thatwe are on it, to point out its bounds. Show us some certain
eyidence that we are trespassers. You once contended that West

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Boston bridge would be a nuisance, because it wguld, as it did, take
half your travel. You urged the same argument against Canal bridge,
which had the same effect; but you now admit them both to be lawful, because they are not on your franchise. This admission not
only proves that you are uninformed as to the rights you claim, but
that a great portion of your accustomed travel may be lawfully diverted. I therefore again repeat, that the diversion of travel is, of
itself, no evidence of a trespass onk your 'rights. You must, therefore, produce some other proof that your franchise reaches our bridge,
than the loss of tolls.
You do not Show it by the terms of the grant, nor by any established rule of construction, which authorizes such an implied right.
It is not the business of courts tomake or alter contracts, but to interpret them. Is there any thing in the words, "the ferry between
Boston and Charlestown is granted to the college,'" which looks like
granting an exclusive control over Charles river, or any part or portion of it, except the way or line of that ferry?
I shall hereafter adduce conclusive proof to show, that in England,
contracts of this character are rigidly construed in favour of the
public, and against corporators. No countenance is given to iihplication, beyond what is made manifest by the clearest and most ex-'
plicit terms. Stourbridge Canal Co. v. Whaley. 2,Barn. and Adol.
792.

The franchise of the ferry, then, which has been interposed against
all improvements across Charles river, when brought to the scrutiny
of law, will be found to be a very limited right, confined to the path
of the boats across the river.
This reasoning is strongly corroborated by the condition of the
colony at the time of the establishment of the ferry, as I have already suggested.
As a further proof of public sentiment, the colonists, in 1641, al-,
most simultaneously with the grant to the college, and before it took
effect, (for the college was not incorporated till 1650,) passed. an act
prohibitill 11 monopolies, except for inventions.
The great and wise policy of Massachusetts, in respect to free
highways, was established in 1639; and with modifications, has been
continued to this time; Ann. Ch. 126, 267; L. of M. 178, ch. 67.
Under these acts, a power to construct free ways has at all times been
ex-rcised so largely, that Massachusetts owes to it the best roads
tl at can be found in any state in the Union; and they hav, at all times,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

been established, regardless of turnpikes, bridges, canals, railways,
or any other improvements. The consequence has been, as is well
known, that many of the turnpikes have been abandoned to the
public.
Such has been the action of public sentiment, and such its results;
and this is the first instance in which the right to establish new ways
has been questioned.
All these considerations lead to one conclusion, which is, that neither the language of the grant, nor the great current of public
opinion, give any countenance to the claims set up by the plaintiffs,
founded on this ferry, for an exclusive franchise extending up and
down the river.
The late lamented and distinguished chief justice of Massachusetts, in his opinion, in the 7th Pick., in this case, expresses his convictions strongly on this point; that the ordinance did not give an
exclusive right between the two towns to the ferry, and in constru ing it, that the cotemporaneous history- ought to be considered, as it
tends to explain the probable intent of the colony.
If then, the Court confine themselves to the language and the existing circumstances, both of the country and the college, at the times
of adopting the several ordinances; they will probably arrive at the
following conclusions, as distinctly indicated in the case. The colonists meant to establish a ferry, suited to the then emergencies of the
country; but not to establish a broad franchise. They needed a
public seminary for the education of youth, and found, by the income
of this ferry, they could aid this object. They therefore meant to
secure the revenue of the ferry as a gratuity to the college, but nothing more. And while they did this, they intended to retain in
themselves the unqualified right to control, manage, regulate, and
govern the ferry at pleasure. To make the income much or little;
and to make just such provision for the public travel as they might
deem expedient. This is the conclusion which is.forced upon the
mind, by reading the numerous acts upon the subject. The college
was then esteemed the child of the government; and that government
manifestly considered itself standing in that relation with the power.
to exercise parental authority. Now, what effect the Court will give
to this state of things, in law, remains to be seen; but there is little
difficulty in understanding the actual relation of the-parties.
One thing I apprehend, however, is clear; namely, that neither the
ordinances, or the history, afford any evidence of an intent to create -

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

489

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

such a franchise as is now claimed. If, therefore, the plaintiffs have
this ferry right, it-cannot aid their present claims.
They krasp at too much; all the river: or if not, they can assign
no limits, either by the law or the facts. The public is not to be
deprived of its sovereignty over a navigable river, upon such indefinite, uncertain pretensions.
But suppose we are erroneous in all this reasoning, in regard to
the franchise of ferries; then I propose another objection for the solution of the plaintiffs.
The doctrine applicable to ferries, belongs tb ferries alone among
highways. It is feudal in its origin, and has never been applied to
turnpikes, bridges, canals, railways, or any other class of public
ways.
I have attentively observed the progress of this case, and the
learning and laborious research of the plaintiffs brought to its aid.
No books, ancient or modern, seem to be left unexplored. Even
foreign periodicals, fresh from the press, are on the table; and yet
they have shown the Court no case where this dbctrine which they
set up, has been applied to any class of ways, except to ferries.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.v. The Baltimore and
Ohio Rail Road Company, in Gill and Johnson, has been quoted; but
surely not for the purpose of showing an exclusive franchise, for
these works are allowed to run side by side, actually infringing upon
each other, though direct competitors.
England is covered with canals, railways, bridges, &c.; but not a
case has been adduced applying this doctrine to them; and the honour
of extending a feudal right to such works is saved for the courts
here, if it is to be maintained at all. These feudal rights are well
known to have originated in the very spirit of cupidity; which aggregated to itself all privileges which increased the mass of wealth
in the feudal lords, at the expense o'f the public. These rights grew
up to be law from the force of circumstances; but it is hardly worth
while at this day to enlarge such provisions, or to push ourselves
ahead of Great Britain, in giving sanction to them. Under this
notion of special privileges, the- same doctrine extended to mills,
markets, &c. Whoever had a market or a mill might keep down
injurious competition.  We have clearly thrown the law as to markets and mills overboard; for no such privileges exist in Massachusetts: and the doctrine. of contructivefranchisesin ferries ought to follow,
VOL. XL-S Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

It is emphatically the doctrine of privilege against public right: I
speak of those vague, indefinite appendants and appurtenants which
are said to belong to ferries by construction and implication; not of
what is granted in terms, or by necessary and irresistible implication.
This doctrine ought not to be received, unless it is the imperative
law of the land, and can be shown to be so beyond all doubt; and
this the plaintiffs have failed to establish.
I come now to a very important inquiry in regard to this ferry.
Are the plaintiffs the owners of the right, be it what it may? If they
are not; it is a question of no importance, whether thb franchise is
broad or narrow. The facts here, will, if I do not mistake their
character, relieve the Court from all embarrassment.
I agree with the plaintiffs' counsel, that the commonwealth has
the power and the right to take any property for public use; and
therefore also agree with them that she had a right to take the ferry
for the site of a bridge. How could the plaintiffs controvert this
proposition, when their bridge is on the ferry ways, and 'the ferry
path under it? But it by no means follows, if the commonwealth
had the right to take for the public use a franchise, that she has
granted it to the plaintiffs. This must depend on proof. Let us
see what the franchise is claimed to be, and whit has been done
with it.
It is asserted by the plaintiffs, that the franchise was an exclusive
right to transport persons, &c. between Boston and Charlestown.
This is an interest issuing from the realty. It is a possessory right,
so far as the right to exclude transportation across the river goes;
though I am aware that it is incorporeal. It seems to me, therefore,
by the laws of Massachusetts that it could only be transferred by
deed; Am. Ch. 18, Laws, 1783, ch. 37. Courts of equity have no
power to construe away these provisions. But the plaintiffs have no
deed.
Again, they have no vote or act of the college corporation, or any
of its officers implying any purpose, or thought of conveying this
interest.
Again, the plaintiffs produce no vote, or act of their own, evincing
any desire on their part to. become the owners of the ferry. The
petition for their charter is among the papers, and it does not even
name the college; but passing over its 'head, as not worth regarding,
it asks for the right to build a bridge "i. theplace where theferry
is now kelpt." There is nothing in the case to show, that the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v Warren Bridge et al.]

thought of owning the ferry, ever entered the minds of the petitioners. They had no difficulty in demanding a grant of the ferry-ways
themselves, for the site of a bridge, without proposing any compensation for it. Those great and sacred private rights, which now
figure so largely in this case, qeem to have been no serious obstacle
to the introduction of a more convenient way; but a change of interest, has, probably, wrought achange of opinion.
There is then no evidence of any purpose on the part of the college to sell, or of the plaintiffs to buy; and if the property has been
transferred, it has been done without the act, or the assent of either
party. This would seem difficult, if not impossible; still it is strenuously insisted upon, because the act of 1785 requires the plaintiffs to
pay out of their tolls two hundred pounds a year to the college.
This, it is said, is a good consideration, and draws after it, in equity,
the title to the ferry franchise. The conclusion is not apparent from
the premises. If being required to pay two hundred pounds a year,
makes them the owners of the ferry; then why is not the corporation
of West Boston bridge an owner, for they are required td pay four
hundred pounds a year to the" college? Canal bridge would also
come in for a share, as' they too, if my memory serves me, were
required to pay something. The plaintiffs would probably"object to
these copartneis. But is there any foundation for this pretended
consideration? Who has paid it? Let the facts answer. The legislature granted a toll for passing th&bridge, so liberal, not to say extravagant, that for an outlay of forty-six thousand dollars, the plaintiffs have received a return of over one million two hundred thousand
dollars, as they admit; and their shares, which cost one hundred
pounds, have been sold for two thousand dollars. The two hundred
pounds a year have, therefore, been paid by a tax upon the public
travel, collected by the plaintiffs under the authority of the legislature. The tolls appear to have been set very high, to cover this
expense, and to give the plaintiffs an early ifldemnity; as the public
might have occasion to make new ways, and diminish the amount of
travel. This contingency was doubtless in view when the, rates
were bstablished. There can, therefore, be no reasonable ground
for saying the plaintiffs have ever paid a cent of compensation. It
would be extraordinary, if they, without any conveyance, or any
purpose to convey, and without any consideration, could set up a
title to a valuable property.
But they suggest further, that the state has conveyed the ferry

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

franchise to them. The act of 1785 will be searched in vain for the
intimation of any such purpose.
Moreover, the state has no power to take the property of one, and
convey it to another. They may condemn so much as is necessary
for public use, but nothing more. To test this matter, suppose the
bridge were taken away, can the plaintiffs set up a ferry? I think
no one can hesitate what answer to give. They are authorized to
maintain a'bridge, and no other kind of way.
The conclusion of the matter is, that the legislature authorized the
plaintiffs to set up a bridge upon the ferry-ways, and took upon themselves to quiet the college, which neither .ssented or dissented, but
xelied on the commonwealth, which had always been its great patron
and protector, that eventual injusfice should not be done to it.
The learned judges, three to one, reached, substantially, this result
in Massachusetts. It is therefore plain, that the plaintiffs are not
grantees of the ferry, and have not, and ndver had any interest therein.
The ferry franchise, therefore, whatever it may be, is of no importance to the decision of this case, as the plaintiffs can claim nothing
under it. The plaintiffs having failed to show any contract in regard
to the ferry, and the legislature having passed no law touhing the
ferry; for the act of 1828 does not.name or allude to it; nothing has
been done by the. state t6 impair the obligation of a contract, or to
violate the constitution of the United States. The discussion, however, may not be wholly useless, as some principles have been
examined, that are applicable to other parts of the case.
I shall now proceed to examine the act of 1785, under which the
plaintiffs acquire the right to build the bridge, and all other rights
which they have. This act is so barren in those provisions which
are necessary for a feudal franchise, that a great effort has been made
to build up a claim upon the vague doctrine of ferry rights. Nothing
'is more reluctantly surrendered than inordinate profits.
The provisions of this act are, substantially, as follow:
Sec. 1, creates a corporation.
See. 2, provides for its organization.
See. 3, gives a toll for forty years.
See. 4, relates to the dimensions, &c. of the bridge.
See. 5,-gives X200 a year to the college.
These are all the provisions.
They had a right granted for -what they asked,'namely, to erect a
bridge in the place where the ferry was then kept, and to take toll

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

of such as passed over. This is all the franchise providl, for in the
act. There is not a word about any other rights and exclusive privileges. Nothing restraining the power to make new bridges. No
covenant, that there shall be no diminution of travel, or diversion of
it. No line of travel guarantied-Nothing said of the travel between
the two towns. Not a word about making compensation, if any of
their property should be taken for public use. You will look in vain
for any such provisions; and if the plaintiffs have any such Tights
growing out of this act, they must be implied, for they- are not
secured by express stipulations. Hlere the question recurs, what is
the rule of construction applicable to such acts? I shall ask attention
to but one authority: the case of Stourbridge Canal C. v. Wheeley, 2
Barn. & Adol. 792, to which I have referred. Lord Tenterden says:
Such an act, that is an act of parliament incorporating the plainiiffs
to make a canal, is a bargain between the public and the adventurers,
the terms of which are contained in the act, He affirms, that the
rule, of construing such acts is well established to be in favour of the
public, and against the adventurers; which is exa'ctly opposed to the
rule so elaborately laid down by the learned counsel in this case.
His lordship distinctly and emphatically declares, that whatever is
doubtful, or ambiguous, or whatever is capable of two constructions,
must be construed favourably for the public, and against the adventurers. This case seems to run on all fours with the one under consideration, in many of its features-both sets of plaintiffs are corporators, created by acts of legislation; both own ways, and each claims
a franchise. The general characteristics are therefore alike; and
clearly the rules of law applicable to both, as regards the construction
of the charters; ought to be alike; and if so, the plaintiffs can take
nothing but what is clearly and distinctly granted to them, either in
Words, or by plain and necessary inferencd. The question then
arises, is it a necessary and irresistible inference, from the terms of
this act; a thing so plain as to admit of no dotibt; that the legislature
did intend' to grant to the plaintiffs a roving franchise, to which they
can assign no limits: which, in 1792, was above West Boston bridge,
but is now limited to Boston and Charlestown? If the plaintiffs cannot
give body and shape to the thing to be inferred, if they cannot assign
to it limits; in a word, if they cannot tell what it is; how can it be
said to be either a plain or a necessary inference? It can neither be
the one or the other; and the very doubt thrown over it, forbids the
making of the inference, according to the principles so clearly asserted

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.)

'by loid Tenterden., Implication cannot go beyond what is certain,
and irresistibly necessary; especially where an act is capable of an
obvious construction, consistent with its general pur ose, without
such implication. This act is of that character. The legislature
granted the right to construct and maintain a bridge, and to take tolls
for forty yea's-but this right of taking toll does not go beyond the
privilege of demanding it of such persons as voluntarily pass over.
This is all that is guarantied, and these rights have not been touched.
Whether, another bridge should be erected, so near as to divert the
travel, is a matter which they did not bind themselves not to do, but
retained in themselves the right to exercise their discretion, as they
pleased; in case, in their judgment, the public needed new accommodations. They asserted the right, and diverted nearly half the travel,
when West Boston bridge was set up-again, when Canal bridge was
set up-again, when Prison Point bridge was set up-and lastly,
when Warren Bridge was erected.
The commonwealth has, nevertheless, exercised this power sparingly; and only when pressed by strong emergencies. - The plaintiffs asked, in their petition, to be indemnified for their expenses, and
they have been suffered to go .on until they have been remunerated
in a most princely manner. The commonwealth having, at all times,
the right to set up interfering bridges, has foreborne to do it, in a
most becoming spirit of liberality, and little merits the denunciations
now loaded upon her. Such seems to me to be the plain import, and
the obvious meaning of the act, and no forced construction or implication is necessary to ascertain the rights of the parties., The plaintiffs
seem to suppose a diversion of travel is an invasion of their property. This is a mistake. They have no property in travel, for
nobody is obliged to travel over their bridge; and they now admit
that bridges may be erected any where, except between Boston and
Charlestown, however much travel they may divert.
They affirm that a grant of toll for forty years means nothing, unless it be absolute and unconditional, securing the travel. Might it
not be granted on the express condition that other bridges should be
erected, if deemed expedient? Not granting away a power, is equivalent to retaining it; and the legislature never surrendered the right
to build new bridges. The plaintiffs have, therefore, enjoyed their
privileges, subject to this right. Their tolls have been diminished;
but neither by wrong, or any violation of their rights under the act;

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

nor has any injustice been done to the corporation, as I purpose to
prove, before I leave this point.
But they again claim a reasonable construction. Why is not this
construction reasonable? The' plaintiffs make less money; but are
they not indemnified? Would it be more reasonable to permit them
to exact an endless tribute, and to subject the public to other great
inconveniences and delays in their business? What were the large
tolls granted for, unless to give a speedy indemnity, that the public
might have new accommodations when needed? What would be
the plaintiffs' judgment of what is reasonable? They told you, in
1792, it was an unqualified contrbl over all the important portion of
the river. You must not, they said, impair our bridge. Any construction would be deemed unreasonable, which should diminish the
toll.
Again, it is said there are stockholders who are great sufferers,
having bought in at two thousand dollars a share. I will not deny
this, for I am uninformed as to the holders of stock; but I will prove
that this consideration is entitled to little weight, even in equity: for
I will show that the ,commonwealth gave the most unequivocal notice, to all persons, of her construction of the act of 1785; and when'
she renewed it in 1792, she placed upon record a solemn and public
legislative declaration, that she acknowledged no such rights vested
by that act, as are claimed here.
In 1792, Oliver Wendall, and others, petitioned for leave to erect
what is called West Boston bridge, about a mile above the plaintiffs'
bridge. The plaintiffs sent in their remonstrance, objecting, that it
would impair their property, by reducing their tolls one-half,
The petition and remonstrance were committed to a joint committee of both houses, who heard evidence and counsel in behalf of the
parties; and after a most full investigation, they reported in favour of
the new bridge.
This report was so amended by the two houses, as eventually to
contain all the provisions of the act of 1792; and in this form it was
aocepted by both houses. In this report, thus adopted as the basis
of this law, is contained this declaration:--" There is n. ground to
maintain that the act incorporating the proprietors for the purpose
of building a bridge from, Charlestown tc Boston, is an exclusive
grant of the right to build over the waters of that river; but consi-,
dering the erection of Charles River Bridge was a work of magnitude and hazard,and that great benefits have arisen to the public

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v..Warren Bridge et al.]

from the success of that enterprise," &c.; "it is reasonable and proper that a further time of thirty years be granted to said proprietors,
to receive and collect, for their benefit, the toll now established by
law for passing said bridge," &c.
The legislature being apprized of the broad claim set up on the
trial before the committee, took this occasion to say, in connexion
with the extended grant of tolls, that the plaintiffs had no such rights;
'and that in giving the extension, they meant to give countenance to
no such thing, but simply to reward, most liberally, a commendable
spirit of enterprise.
When the charter of the defendants was granted in 1828, the
forty years had expired; and the plaintiffs had entered upon the
extended period piovided for, by the act of 1792, or the charter of
West Boston Bridge Company.
This declaration, and the passage of this law, being concurrent acts,
the meaning of the legislature cannot be mistaken. They put their
explicit denial, upon the right to raise implied covenants not to erect
new bridges; and declare, that they extend the right of tolls, because,
among other reasons, the plaintiffs had no such exclusive privilege.
The plaintiffs have accepted the provision for them in the act of
1792; claim the benefits of it, and plainly Sught to be bound in equity
by this exposition.
It was a distinct notice to all persons, who were, or might be concerned in the property, that the denial of the right of the state to
make new bridges, would not be regarded; and whatever might by
construction, be their privileges, under the act of 1785, its renewal
in 1792, was on condition, that no such pretension against the power
of the state sfiould be set up.
It has been said, that this- is only found in the report, and is not,
therefore, obligatory. But to this I answer, that the report was the
subject of distinct, deliberate legislatioAi, in both branches. It was
accepted by both, acting in their constitutional capacity. It is part of
the records and files. The law is only an echo of it, embodying the
matter in the accustomed forms of legislation. We offer this report,
not to explain away or to alter any provisions of the act, but to
refute an inference made on presumption; to negative an impflied
-engagement which is attempted to le enforced; to show that the
legislature did nof mean what the plaintiffs attempt to force upon us
by construction: and most assuredly it is competent for this put.pose; it is competent to overthrow a presumption which it positively

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

497

[Charles River Bridge v.Warren Bridge et al.]

refutes. It is therefore conclusive upon the plaintiffs; and has the
same restraining effect on iheir presumptions that it would have if
it had been embodied in the act. How can they, then, show the
effect of it? The counsel replies, that they do not claim a franchise
extending to West Boston bridge, for they only claim between
Boston and Charlestown; and there is no distinct larger claim set up
in their remonstrance of 1792. If they did not consider the West
Boston project an interference, why did they remonstrate; and why
represent that it would take away half their travel, and ask a refusal
of the grant desired by the petitioners ? But suppose, if you can, that
they really did not mean to assert that such a bridge would be an
interference, the declaration,which is an answer to the remonstrance, only becomes the more pointed and explicit; for it is then
saying, in so many words, you have no exclusive rights between
Boston and Charlestown, and we admonish you of it, and renew
your charter with the express understanding that you are to so consider it. View it then in any aspect in which it may be presented,
and the declaration still stands unshaken and cannot be construed
away. It clings every where, as a condition of the renewal, not to be
explained away.
What right then have the purchasers of stock to complain? They
are bound to notice the terms of the charter, and to regard its provisions; and surely ought not to demand relief from an inconsiderate
or rash contract at the expense of the public.
But the Court has been asked, with considerable emphasis, if the
plaintiffs would have accepted a charter, with power left in the
legislature to erect bridges at pleasure?
The answer has already been given. They did accept it, after all,
the deliberation they saw fit to make, and with this unequivocal notice before them.
We ask, in turn, if the legislature would have granted to any company such privileges as they claim, if the privileges had been "set
forth in plain and intelligible language in the act? Would they have
given an exclusive right over the river to any body?
The answer is again at hand. No sooner were such claims set
up, than they denied their validity,-and refused to recognise them.
They again, in 1807, when Canal Bridge Company was incorporated,
renewed the declaration against them in a formal manner; and again,
when Wrarren Bridge was established. They have, at all times,
earnestly protested against all such claims. The views of the legislaVOL. XI.-3 R

498

SUPREME COURT.

[Cbarles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al]
tors and of the people, are not doubtful on this point. They have not
misled the plaintiffs by silence, or for a moment favoured their pretensions.
But much is said of the hardship. ' Their property, which is of
great value, it is said, is rendered worthless; it hab been taken from
them and given to others. Here the plaintiffs mistake their rigits,
and reason from false premises. They- suppose they had a property
in the public travel, when they had none. There cannot be any
property in public travel,- because no one is under any obligation to pay toll, unless he passes the bridge, and that is an optional
act. If the act of 1785 imposes no restrictions upon the legislature,
and- they had a right to authorize the new bridge; then nothing is
taken from the plaintiffs, if all the travel passes over it. All that can
be said is, that while the" legislature forbore to exercise its lawful
rights, they made a vast deal of money by an exclusive enjoyment;
and now they make less, not because any thing is taken from them
which was theirs by contract or grant, but because a lawful competition is set up. Their case of hardship differs in .nothing from those
of frequent occurrence.
Supp'ose A sells to B a tavern, having a large custom, and makes
conveyance. .A then erects another house near by, and the custom
follows him, whereby B is ruined. B has no remedy, unless A has
covenanted expressly niA to do this act.
Again, one has a tavern, store, or other place of business, dependent on public travel for its custom. A new road is established,
which diverts all travel from it, and renders this property worthless;
the owner has no remedy, but must bear the loss with what patience
he may. These are matters of frequent occurrence, and present
cases of much greater hardship than the plaintiffs are called upon to
endure; for they have reaped too rich harvests to be great sufferers.
The owners of real estate on the avenues to their bridge, will, if
the travel is discbntinued, or greatly impaired, probabli suffer more
severely than the plaintiffs; but what remedy have they? The plaintiffs, therefore, if they should hereafter receive less tolls, will be in
no extraordinary position. It will doubtless turn out that their property is far from worthless, as it may be applied to other uses.
But what if there is hardship? Is that to be relieved by making
a new contract heke, or by altering an old one? Shall the commonwealth, to relieve the plaintiffs, be made a party to stipulations that
she never entered into?' This would be More unjust than any losses

JANUARY TERMyaaS7.

499

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge etal ]

or inconveniences which can occur to the plaintiffs. Presumptions
got up to relieve hardship, are too often the parents of the greatest
injustice.

The plaintiffs seem to think it is incredible that any of the large
privileges which they have enjoyed, should rest on the forbearance
of the commonwealth. They treat the idea that they should hold
any thing at her will, as preposterous. To be at the mercy of the
state is absurd; and so irreconcilable with just reasoning, that it is
not to be entertained in giving construction to this act of 1785. We
must arrive, they think, at any conclusion but this; though the very
terms of the act force us into this position.,
Either the state or the plaintiffs have the control of this river; and
whoever has, excludes the other from a sole enjoyment. In order to
free themselves from control, the plaintiffs would bring the state' to
their feet, and place hr at their mercy. This would be the measure
of justice meted out by their construction. I will leave it to the
Court to determine which would be the most becoming posture, and
which would best subserve the ends of public justice; to place the
plaintiffs at the mercy of the state, ov, the state at their mercy.
They demand, when they say they have a right to exclude injurious competition, that the travel shall be arrested on the north bank
of the river, and -driven by circuitous and inconvenient ways over
their bridge, and shall, in addition, pay tribute perpetually; not to
indemnify for the enterprise, but to add to the mass of wealth already
accumulated. If the state is tied down to this burden, be it so; but
let us see decisive proof of it. Let it not be by presumptions, or
implications.
If the plaintiffs wish for equity, let them do equity; that is a first
principle. Let them frankly admit that they had notice of the
limited terms on which their act was renewed in 1792; and not try
to shut that all important fact out of sight.
The honour of the state is untarnished, and her reputation fully
vindicated. There has been much false rumour in this matter; much
mistake and unjust imputation. The state has made no attempt to
resume her grants, or to seize private property, by violent and revolutionary measures, for public use. She has not acted arbitrarily, illiberally, or ungenerously, toward any one; but, on the cofitrary,
has forborne to use her lawful power, until she saw those who had
done a valuable public service, not only reimbursed, but enriched in
a manner surpassing all ordinary acquisitions, She then listened to

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the demand of the public for further accommodations, and not till
then. There is no blot upon her escutcheon, nor stain on her garments, in this matter.
In proof of this, I fearlessly assert that the counsel are mistaken
when they say that a deci-:ion in favour of the defendants will be
fatal to future enterprise. This case has stood decided in their court
for several years; and the history of Massachusetts can exhibit no
period that will compare with it in investments for internal improvements. Confidence in the integrity and good faith of the state never
stood higher, nor did capitalists ever go forward with greater resolution and courage.
I feel, therefore, justified in affirming that the honour and faith of
the state is untarnished, and she stands blameless in her conduct,
I come, then, to the conclusion, for all these reasons; that the act
of 1785 is incapable of the construction put upon it'by the plaintiffs:
That its meaning is plain, and it gives no franchise beyond the
bridge:
That in 1792 this construction was given to it by the legislature,
and it was then extended thirty years, upon condition that it should
be so construed:
That the stockholders can complain of no injustice, for forty-six
thousand dollars has returned them over one million two hundred
thousand dollars; and if any one is a loser by giving a great price
for the stock, he must impute it to his negligence in not regarding
the construction given by the legislature to the act:
That the rule adopted by the legislature, and the rule of the common law, are concurrent; and, therefore, if the notice should be ruled
out of the case it will not change the result
All this, I contend, is in. full accordance with the policy of the
state.
1st. Her system of free road laws has, at all times, been active,
and by its operation has rendered many turnpikes worthless.
2d. The statute books will show that numerous bridges have been
granted at or near old ferries, without compensation.
3d. Rail-ways and canals have been granted, in many directions,
regardless of old franchises, or of their injurious consequences to old
lines of travel; but of this, more hereafter.
Since, therefore, nothing is taken from the old bridge by the law
of 1828, but the proprietors are left in full possession and enjoy-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

501

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
ment of every thing granted to them; and since their only complaint
is of a diversion of travel, and a consequent diminution of tolls,
I am not able-4o perceive that they have any contract which has
been violated, or had its obligation impaired: and, therefore, the constitution of the United States has not been violated. - The act of
1828 does not rescind, alter, or modify any of the provisions of the
act of 1785; but leaves tie plaintiffs in the full enjoyment of them,
and in the undisturbed control of their bridge.
I will now answer, more particularly, some of the arguments of the
learned counsel. Most of the reasoning is founded on premises
which will fail, if we have sound views of the law; or is designed to
overthrow positions which we have never assumed.
He says, for example, that the legislature has no power to resume
a grant. Our answer is, that they have not attempted it; and therefore, that question is not raised in the case. We contend for no such
power.
What they claim as their property was never granted to them; and
the mistake is, that they do not own what they suppose has been
taken away. They must establish their title, before they talk about
the resumption of grants, and the taking away of their property.
They must remember, that this right of property is the very matter
in litigation; and one of the great points to be settled is, whether
they show any title that can stand the test of legal scrutiny. If they
do, we do not claim it without an equivalent.
It is said, the franchise is to be ascertained by the facts, and is to
be reasonable. It seems to me, that it is to be ascertained, as lord
Tenterden says, by. the terms of the bargain; and these are to be
found in the act. What is deemed reasonable, we have seen is coextensive with the selfish desires of making money. When the
plaintiffs depart from the act, they can find no standard for what is
reasonable. To-day, the exclusive claim is between Boston and
Charlestown; yesterday it embraced Canal bridge; and the day before
West Boston bridge. If the plaintiffs can show no rule to settle
reasonable limits, how can they hope the Court will relieve them
from the embarrassment? When we go in search of what is not
apparent in the act, we grope in -the-dark; and hence, the well established rule laid down in Stourbridge Canal Company v. Whaley,
that you shall not build up claims on presumption.
The plaintiffs could find no authority to rest upon for making
Boston had Charlestown the.boundaries of their franchise, until they

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

fell upon the late case in the exchequer of Huzzy v. Field. What
assurance have we, when the law as to ferries shall again come under
consideration, that it will not receive a new modification, and their
franchise then take new boundaries?
But again, another and different rule is laid down by the counsel,
which undoubtedly is considered reasonable; though in its application
it rests on quite different principles.
The counsel, in treating of what is reasonable, asks, how do you
settle what is a nuisance where the air is corrupted? :Not by bounds,
not by distance or measure; but wherever the noxious atmosphere is,
there is the nuisance: so with the plaintiffs' case, where the injury
is, there is the nuisance. Whatever takes away their tolls, invades
their franchise; for this is the injury of which they complain.
This view brings us back at once to the old doctrine; "you shall
not impair my franchise;" and proves in the most coholusive manner, that all the bridges above theirs are nuisances, for the travel
which passes over them would chiefly go over their bridge, if the
others were closed up.
It is too plain, that the learned counsel, in his able argument, has,
whenever he has expounded the law, or undertaken to show what is
reasonable, fallen back upon this rule as the only resting place he
can find. -He began, by saying, what is reasonable must be ascertained by the facts; and ended by showing, that the only fact necessary to be inquired into, is, does the injury complained of, lessen the
tolls? If it does, it impairs the franchise, and is a nuisance. If this
is to be the end of the inquiry, the reasonableness, or unreasonableness of the franchise set up, is not a matter of investigation. The
inquiry iks not into that fact, but whether the tolls are diminished.
And, I think, this will be found to be the only standard the plaintiffs
have- ever set up. Indeed, if you admit that some injury may be
lawfully done, where is the limit? Let us then dismiss this wandering inquiry after a reasonable franchise, and go back to the act of
1785, and hold to that, instead of building up a new contract; for the
plaintiffs have profes sedly ceased to claim a right to put down all
competition that lessens their tolls.
It is admitted, says the counsel, thatthe legislature has the controi
over public ways; and their judgment as to the necessity for them,
is final and conclusive. But he adds, that it is not like the British
parliament, omnipotent, for this Court has a right to correct its
errors.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

503

EC~arles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]

The power of this Court, allow me to say, also, is not omnipotenf;
and it can acquire no jurisdiction over an act of the legislature, unless such act impairf the obligation of contract I may add, speaking it with great deference and respect, that while I repose great
confidence in this tribunal, I feel no cause for distrust in thosp of our
commonwealth. I, therefore, do not feel that we are -unsafe without
such a corrective; as we in truth are safe, in most matters upon which
our courts adjudicate. 'I can see no more impropriety or hazard in
resting final jurisdiction there, than here; for I am not aware of any
proneness there to error or excess, which demands a corrective.
Indeed, it cannot be desirable, nor is it the purpose of the federal
constitution to carry this jurisdiction over the constitutions and laws
of the states. The system would manifestly be insupportablei and I
shall, before I leave the .case, attempt to show, that the jurisdiction
of this Court does not reach this case, becauie it falls exclusively
within the constitution and laws of Massachusetts. I shall endeavour to make it appear, even if property has been taken for public
use, it is no violation of contract to do it; and the question of compensation must be decided, finally, by our own court.
Again, the learned counsel.says, "the legislature is limited by the
principles of natural justice ;" and I agree that it ought to be, and that
it ought not to take property without compensation: but the constitution of the United States no where gives this Court a right -to inquire
whether the legislature, and the state courts have disregarded the
principles of natural justice. I would respectfully ask if this Court is
to be the corrective.in such cases?
But I am not willing the reproach of violating the principles of
natural justice, should rest on the state. Did the state ask the plaintiffs to build the bridge? Did she ask them to accept the act after it
was made a law? They sought the privilege, and accepted the act, after
taking all the time they desired to consider its provisions; and have
had, and may continue to have the full benefit of them. The supposed violation of natural justice does not consist in interfering with
the provisions of the act; but in refusing to recognise claims not enumerated in it-rights-unauthorized by it-privileges not intended
to be gfanted. We cannot find in the act certain provisions of which
they claim the benefit Is it a violation of natural justice, to refuse
them the right to add what they please to the fact?
Again, they state to the Court, to prove their disposition to accomodate the public, that they proposed to the legislature to enlarge the

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warreq Bridge et al.]

bridge 'and the avenues, and to make other alterations to meet the
public emergencies; and so they did: butis it not too plain that this
offer came when they must, have known it could not be accepted?
They had contested the right to build a new bridge again andtgen,
before committees, and the legislature. The corporation voted to
make the proposals on thd 25th of February, and the law was
approved on the 12th of March following. There is little doubt,
therefore, that they were made after the report of the committee, and
during the pendency of the bill before the legislature. It is hardly
reasonable to suppose, that propositions made, thus apparently with
reluctance, and in that late stage of the proceeding, could be any
otherwise viewed, than as measures for delay-than as counter plans
to defeat the measure. But whether that be so or not, they came too
late.
But further, it seems they considered themselves as having no
authority to erect suitable accommodations for the public. They
could not enlarge the bridge, or the avenues, if insufficient for the
travel, without a grant of power from the legislature. Is this consistent with the claim of exclusive right over the river? If the Court
will look into the cases quoted in regard to markets, it will be found,
that the public are under no obligation- to respect the franchise,
unless suitabl& accommodations for the business is afforded; and
that the exclusive right, and the obligation, go together.
Is it ,true that the plaintiffs hold this exclusive privilege, and yet
have no power to open a way suited to the public travel? Does not
this limitation of power prove a limited franchise? Their power to
enlarge does not reach beyond -the planks of the bridge; and why?
Because the act of 1785 will carry them no further. By what rule,
then, will it carry their franchise further? If they can imply a franchise; then may, they imply a power to enlarge, but this I think they
will not venture upoo, since, they admit the act of 1785 gives no
countenance to it.
These are some of the leading arguments which remained Lmnoticed, and I shall not detain the Court longer in pursuing this kind
of inquiry, for I shall occupy more of their time if I follow out he
various positions taken, in an argument of nearly three days, than I
think myself justified in consuming. I will therefore pass to the
next great division of the case, which constitutes in -thepleadings,
the second issue.
If we are right in the legal positions we have assumed, our labour

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

505

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

here is unnecessary, for the plaintiffs have no case; but as we cannot
know how the minds of the Court will run in this matter, we must
investigate the point.
The question is, if property has been taken fdr public use, under
the act of 1828, and no compensation has been made, is it a violation
of the rignts of the plaintiffs so as to impair the obligation of contract, and thus conflict with the constitution of the Unitcd States?
I shall contend, that, whatever may be the constitution and laws of
Massachusetts, and whatever obligations they may impose on the
legislature, to provide compensation, where propcrty is taken for
public use; the om~ission to do it, in the act of 1828, is no violation
of a contract which impairs its obligation within the meaning of the
constitution of the United States; and therefore this Court has no
jurisdiction in the matter.
To establish this conclusion, I shall attempt t6 Maintain the following positions :
1. That the power to provide public highways, is an attribute of
sovereignty, necessarily residing at all times in a state.
This is apparent; for without this power, all intercommunication
would be interrupted, and each person~confined in matter of right to
his own estate. 'It is an element of sovereignty, as much as the
power of taxation; and political organization cannot exist without it.
2. This power necessarily implies the right to take private property
for public use. The territory of a state is owned by individuals, and
roads must run over this territory; therefore they cannot be authorized against consent, without the right to appropriate private property to public use. The alternative is, that the government, must
have this power, or the public cal hdve no roads.
3. All property in Massachusetts, includihg franchises, is held
and enjoyed, subject to this right of sovereignty, resting upon it as
an incumbrance.
I know of no property in the state exempted from this liability;
and ift the 4 Pick. 460, Com. v. Breed, the court allege, that it has
always been taken when needed, be it what it may; and mentions, as
illustrative of the extent of this right, that the legislature have at
pleasure obstructed navigable rivers, which are public highways.
The plaintiffs' bridge was. built upon the very ways of the ferrv.
and the court in 7th of Pick. considers this as lawful.
This right is co-existint with the colony, and as far as my knpwledge extends, has -never been questioned. The legislature are the
VOL. XI.-3 S

506

SU W'REME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren bridge et al.]

sole and final judges of the necessity of taking property in this manner; on the fground that it is their duty, as the representatives of the
people, to provide for the public wants. Ibid.
4. As this right to provide ways lies among the elements of
government, and has always been exercised, and asserted in its
broadest terms; it follows, that the right to take private property for
this purpose, is equally broad; and that the mere taking and appropriation of it to public use, can never of itself impair the obligation
of contract, or violate the constitution of the United States; for the
fundamental laws of the state authorize the taking, aid all property
is aIways held on condition that it may be so taken and applied. The
right rests as an incumbrance upon it, as much as the right of taxatio'n.
This principle is sustained, if it needs authority, in 4 Pet. 514;
Billings v. Providence Bank; where it is said, in substance, that if a
franchise be taxed to its ruin, by the very power that created it, this
is no violation of contract, for the right to tax is an abiding public
right covering all property. To refuse to make compensation nay
violate the constitution of Massachnsetts, but not of the United
States.
The right to make"war, to impQse embargoes, and non-intercourse
acts, to change public policy, to regulate intercourse with foreign
countries, and to do and perform many other things; all which may
subject the people to great hazards and losses; has never, and can
never be questioned, whatever may be their influence upon trade or
individual property. But however disastrous such acts may be, and
whatever losses may he sustained, the citizens are without remedy.
These mutations make one poor, and another rich; but they are incident to the social and political condition of mankind. Public policy,
an4d public laws, cannot be made to bear upon all alike. New ways,
for example, must be provided. In doing this, the property of one
which is not touched, is nearly ruined by being abandoned by the
'travel, while that of an6ther is benefited by the passage of the new
way over it. But all who hold property, hold it subject to the right
to make these changes 2 for the public good demands it; and the right
to do it, must, I think, stand unquestioned. It is one of those attributes of sovereignty, which must be constantly exercised; and such
property, be it what it may, must be taken as is necessary to meet
the exigencies of the public for ways.
It is plaiin, therefoi-e, that no property is exempt from this liability

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

to be taken, unless the state has agreed to exemptit; and it may well
be doubted whether the legislature of a state has any authority to
bind the state to a contract to exempt property from this liability
beyond the pleasure of the state. This power bears a strong resemblance to the taxing power; and in Billings v. Providence Bank, the
right to perpetually exempt property from taxation, is considered
doubtful. If the sovereign right to mae roads, can be alienated as
to a small territory, it 'may be as to a large; and thus the state might,
by legislative power, be dispossessed of one of its most necessary 4nd
esential powers forever. The sovereignty of.a state seems to me to
be an unfit matter for bargain and sale, in perpetuum; and hened the
right is acknowledged, whenever the public exigency demands it, to
lay new ways over ways already-grahted, as in the case before us.
by compensating for the property taken.
When a way is laid over property, but two questions can arise; is
the property exempt from liability to this public burden? and is
compensation provided for such as is tiken for public use? The first
of these questions is not raised in this; for it is 'notjurged that the
defendants' bridge touches any thing exempt from being taken' for
public use. The second, as I have intimated, I shall by and by attempt to prove, does not fall within this jurisdiction, but belongs to
the local courts.
The plaintiffs -raise another question, which I must first consider,
for it meets me here in its natural order: they allege, that the act f
1828 impairs the obligation of contract, and therefore violates the
constitution of the United States; and this they must establish before
they -can give this Court jurisdiction. I come therefore to the fifth
inquiry, has the state agreed to make compensation to the Charles
River Bridge Coinpany, for the privilege of running another bridge
or way across the river, which diminishes their tolls? If thestate
bas made such a contract, let her abide by it; if not, the4 let the
plaintiffs show some right to bring us here.
'No such provision can be found in the act of 1785; nor is there
any thing in the act which would lead one to suppose, that any such
purpose, was, or could have been within the intent or meaning of
the legislature.
It would, therefore, be a forced, unnatural inference. But under
the rule of construttion applicable to such acts, I deny the right of
the Court to raise an implication which is not a clear and necessary
inference from the terms of the act. If the inference be at ali

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

doubtful, or if the act is fairly capable of another construction, then
the implication cannot be raised. I submit to the Court, with much
confidence, that such an obligation does not spring naturally from
the language or general tenor of tlhe act; and one can scarcely fail to
be confirmed in that opinion, when he turns to the bill of rights
prefatory to the constitution of Massachusetts; and there finds, in the
10th article, provision made for compefisation in cases.where property is taken for public use.
The plaintiffs, if they thought of the matte?, at all, doubtless relied ,on-this provision in the fundamental law. They had no motives, then, for other provisions in the act; for the constitution of the
United States was not made or ratified till 1789, four years subsequent to the passage of the act of 1785. It seems to me hardly to
admit of a doubt, that when the act of 1785 was passed, all relied on
the bill of rights for indemnity, in case public emergency called for
an appropriation of .the franchise for public use.
This being the state of things, I will inquire, first, what provision
has been made to satisfy the-constitution of Massachusetts? And
second, whether that of the United States has been violated? On
the first point I Will only add to what has. been said, that I shall not
contend,
- o. i',ere property is taken for public use, the bill of
rights does not impose a peremptory obligation to compensate for it.
The act of 1828 provides an indemnity for all real estate taken
for the bridge.
The plaintiffs complain, that a part of their franchise is taken.
What is it? An incorporeal hereditament, but issuing from real estate; a right to exclude other interfering ways. Now, if they have
such a right spreading over the river in the nature of an easement,
and can show that the new bridge is within their limits, why is not
a sufficient remedy provided by the act? Is it because they cannot
define this franchise, or give any reasonable account of its dimensions, that they omitted to put in their clain for damages? If the
new bridge does not touch this right, then, by the laws, of Massachusetts, they can have no claim for damage, however much they may
suffer.
The doctrine is well settled in Callender and Marsh, and many
other cases; and the rules applied to the bill of rights are these:
Where property is actually taken for public use, there the party
injured may have his damage.
Where property is not touched, however much- the owner may

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
-[-Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

suffer, he has, under the bill, no remedy, for nothing is taken for
pulblic use; and it is damnum absque injuria; what is merely consequential, is, therefore, without remedy. If the right of exclusionr
does not reach up the river above the new bridge, then the defendants are not liable, whatever may be the diversion of tolls; for they
do not touch the property of the plaintiffs. I have shown, I trust,
very clearly, that a diversion of tolls is not necessarily, of itself, any
invasion of the plaintiffs' rights. They admit this, because they
now admit that Canal bridge and West Boston bridge were both
lawfully erected, and yet both diverted tolls to the extent of travel
over them. Nothing is more plain than that they have no property
in the travel,'or any line of travel; for if they had, these diversions.
from their line would be aggressions upon their rights. There cannot be a property in what one neither has in possession, nor any
right to reduce to possession. The plaintiffs can compel no one to
go over their bridge.
The injury, therefore, which the plaintiffs sustain, if any, is because the defendants have come within the limits of their franchise,
and erected a bridge, and caused a diversion of toll, which, under
these circumstances, must be unlawful.
Our answer to this is, that they have utterly failed to establish any
such exclusive right or title; as the aatof 1785 gives no countenance
to it; and they are forbid making such an unnecessary and unnatural
implication of right. The damage which they suffer, then, is merely
consequential, and falls within the principles of the case of Callender
and Marsh, in 1 Pickering.
But suppose we are erroneous in this reasoning, and the new.bridge
actually falls within their exclusive right, and thus becomes unlawfully injurious; how is the case brought within the jurisdiction of
this Court?
I repeat, the plaintiffs must show a violation of the constitution of
the United States before they can make this jurisdiction attach.
T~hey allege, that the act of 1828, being an act .)f the state, impairs
the obligation of a cqntract, and therein violates the constitution of
the United States; because it forbids the making of such a l."--.
But what contrdct does it impair? What obligation does it violate? I have beard much discussion about the injuries sustained by
the plaintiffs b; consequence of the act of 1828; but have they
pointed out the contract, or the obligation of a contract, which has
been violated? If so, where is it? The contract, if any, is the act

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

of 1785. It is a contract with the state itself; but this, in no respect,
changes the character of the case, for the constitution is no more applicable to a contract with the state, than to any other contract.
What has the state undertaken to do which it has refused to do?
What has it agreed not to do which it has done? I hope the Court
will look into the act, and see if they cai" find any provision there
which has been violated. The state authorized the erection and continuance of a bridge, and the right to take 'toll during the period of
seventy years. It has not revoked, annulled, or altered, any of these
powers. It has not disturbed their possession or right to take toll.
It has not altered a letter of the act. But it is urged that the state
has authorized the erection of a bridge which greatly diminishes the
tolls; and this is true; and the question here is, did she agree not to
do it, in and by the acts of 1785 or 1792? If so, point out the
agreement. The state, it is admitted on all hands, has an undoubted
right to make new bridges, even if.they do destroy the franchises
of other bridges; but when she takes property for .public use, shp.
must compensate for the damage. And where arises the obligation
to do this? Not-in the act of 1785 or 1792, but in the bill of rights.
Here lies the obligation, and no where else. There is nothing in
the act of 1785 in regard to the duty of compensation.
The question here arises, is the bill of rights a part of the contrapt?
'If it is not, I humbly contend, that'this Court cannot entertain juiisdiction, for its jurisdiction reaches only the constitution and laws of
the United States; and this case cannot be brought under that constitution, unless a contract can be shown, which is impaired by the act
of 1828.

The laws and constitutions of the states belong solely to the state
courts to expound; Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Pet. 280.
The bill of rights is part of the constitution of Massachusetts; and
is not, and cannot be any part of a contract, unless expressly made
so by agreement. The laws of a state may bge used to expound and
explain, but never to supersede or to vary a contract; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213; 3 Story's Com. 249.
If this provision of the bill of rights should be added to the act
of 1785, it would both supersede and vary the contract from what it
now is.
These principles seem to be settled, beyond question. I consider
it also well settled, that a contract with a state stands on ground in
no respect differing from all other contracts; and the constitution of

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.'

the United States has, in its provisions, no reference specially to
such contracts. The state is bound by no higher obligation to abstain from violating its own contracts by laiw, than to abstain from
violating all other contracts. All citizens stand on the same footing
in this respect, with the same measure of redress, and the same extent of rights.
If the bill of rights can be engrafted upon- this contract as a condition, because it was a public law, of which all must take notice,
when the act of 1785 was passed; then, for the same reason, it becomes a condition of every contract; and whoever has his property
taken for puklic use, may appeal to this Court, and it would thus open
its jurisdiction to revise a very extensive branch of jurisprudence,
hitherto considered, as exclusively belonging to the states. -Is the
Court prepared for this?- Did the framers of the constitution anticipate it ? Will the public be satisfied with it? Not only matters of
this kind will be brought here, but many other things. Why may
not one who claims a right to vote in Massachusetts, and is denied
the privilege, claim that the obligation of contract is impaired, for
his right rests on the constitution? Why may not all officers whose
qualifications, prescribed by the constitution, are drawn in.
question,
and the rights they claim denied to them, come here for redress?
Why may not a judge, who is legislated out of office, by taking away
his salary, appeal to this Court? Such a construction would *openan
alarming jurisdiction, and make this Court preside over the constitution and laws of the states as well as those of the United States;
for this would be the result of making the constitution a part of contracts. The road laws alone, would take more.than.the whole time'
of -the Court.
But I will Pot dwell on this aspect of the case, for this pretension
has not been set up; and I am sure, the decisions of this Court are
decisive of the question..
What then becomes of the jurisdiction, 'even admitting that the
act of 1828 did violate the bill of rights? Is it not plain, that no
contract or obligation of a contract is impaired, and therefore, that
the constitution of the United States does not reach the case?
The courts of Massachusetts have acted upon the mdtter, and
whether for good or evil, right or wrong, their decision is final.
I might add, that where property is taken for public use, it is"
not
taken under, or by virtiie of any contract, but in the necessary exercise of a great and essential element of sovereignty. It is a right,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

that necessarily rides over all property, and can never be questioned.
It is the duty of every government to make compensation where it
is taken; and Massachusetts has made what she deems adequate and
suitable provision by her fundamental law, and it is no part of the
business of this government to inquire into the sufficiency or insufficiency of that provision, nor what exposition is put upon it by her
courts. The thing does not lie in contract, but in public law; and
this Court has never gone further than to declare private acts, contracts. Public acts, in the nature of things, cannot be contracts, but
a rule of action.
This case, therefore, bears little, if any resemblance to Fletcher
and Peck, New Jersey and Wilson, Dartmouth College and Woodward. In all these -cases, and all the others quoted, the parties affected held rights under private acts, which the states of Georgia'
New Jersey, and New Hampshire attempted, respectively, to repeal,
after rights had vested. The question raised in each case was, whether a state, where it had conveyed property and rights to an individual, could annul its own act. If a state, for example, conveys
land to an individual, nothing can be more absurd, than to suppose
it can annul its title and resume the property; for such grants are
irrevocable. So, also, in the case of Sturgis and Crowninshield, it
was decided, that if one promises to pay money to another, a state
cannot by a law, release him from his contract without payment. In
all these cases, there is a manifest impairing of the obligation of
contract, for the whole benefit is taken away, and the contract abrogated.
But in this case, it is admitted, that the state has a right to take
any property whatever, for highways; and, that the franchise of
Charles River Bridge is as liable as any other property to be seized
for this purpose. The -taking, therefore, for public use is no wrong.
It is no violation of the act of 1785, for it has always been- held
under that act, subject to this right. If it has been taken, therefore,
that act is both right and lawful; for it is consistent with the contract,
instead of a breach of it.
The only matter which can be complained of, is, that no compensation has been made.- This right to compensation does not spring
up under the contract, but is derived from public law. The bill of
rights alone gives it; and on that alone can the claim be sustained, if
sustained at all. Over that branch of law, I repeat, this Court has

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

513

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

no jurisdiction, and redress must be sought in the tribunals of Massachusetts, and in no other place.
Such is the necessary result, if property has been taken. On this
point, therefore, we discover no error'whirh can be corrected here.
But the plaintiffs are in no wofse condition, and have no higher
claim to indemnity, than a large class of citizens who suffer by public improvements. Rail roads, perhaps, generally, supersede the highways near them; and render stages, wagons, and other property to a
great extent less valuable. They frustrate the views, and, lessen the
income of all who depend on the public travel for patronage and
support. The business of large comnmunities, and the value of real
estate is seriously diminished, but there could be no indemnity for
-such losses. It is a mere misfortune, for such persons have no right
over, or interest in the public travel which can be the subject of
legal claim. The public convenience demands such improvements,
and they are not to be obstructed from such causes.
I must be permitted, before I leave this subject, to declare distinctly, that it is no part of my purpose to urge any change, or modification of the laws; nor to advance the opinion that the strong arm
of the public may seize individual property, and sacrifice it to the
public convenience. I am aware that much has been said of this
case; and that it has been said, there is no ground for the defence to
stand on, short of a revolution of principles which will unsettle private rights, and subject themto public caprice. I am not unconscious
of the dangers which surround such doctrines; and I am equally sensible to the folly. of urging vested rights, as they are denominated, to.
such extremes as to make them felt as grievous burdens, and onerous
inconveniences, by the public. Many of the feudal institutions
which still have acknowledged force in England, have been repudiated here3 and I cannot think there is much wisdom in attempting
to engraft any' of them upon our institutions, beyond where they
have been distinctly-recognised to be the law of the land.
But while I say this, I am fully impressed with the vital importance of giving steady, unceasinv, protection to private rights. Thegreat elements of public liberty, lie in the firm protection of private
rights. The great end of political association in a free government,
is to obtain a firm, unwavering-protection of our persons, and honest
earnings. If a government fails-to'do this, it is oflittle value; for we
scarcely want it for any other purpose. Liberty consists chiefly in
freedom from arbitrary restraint and exactions; and no one can feel
V L. XI.--3 T

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

more sincerely anxious for the preservation of these great principles,
than I do. I am fully sensible that the constitution and the laws are
the shield under which we take shelter. They are our place of
refuge-the sanctuary to which we must cling, if we would preserve
public liberty. I am not, therefore, for laying rude hands upon
them-I am not for tearing away these great barriers of right.
I wish it, therefore, to be distinctly understood,' that I place our
case within the pale of the law, and invoke no violence in its aid. I
a~k for no new principles or rules, but for a fair and just exposition
of the laws; and this, I know, is all we shall obtain.
Our case stands on what is called, by this Court, a contract; and I
only contend that this contract, when construed by the rules of law,
as I understand them, after careful research and consideration, will
sustain no such exclusive rights and privileges as the plaintiffs claim.
I see no-great constitutional question involved in.this matter; for it
is not a matter of constitutional law, whether the act of 1785 gives a
wide, or a narrow franchise, but- a simple inquiry into the meaning
of that act. The case involves nothing else. If I do not mistake
the weight of authority, I have shown that in England such grants
are strictly construed in favour of the public. This is the rule in a
grant of privileges and monopolies; and I hope the public here is
entitled to as favourable a consideration. All I ask is that this rule
shall be applied to the act of 1785. It is due to public justice, and
public policy, that it should be. I can see no objection to it, while
I do see much to object to in the opposite course. I have never had
but one opinion in this matter, and all investigation has tended to
strengthen it. Some may suffer by a decision in favoui of the defendants, and this I regret; but it affords no reason, whatever, for establishing unsound rules of construction, or for denying to the public
the accommodation of a lawful way.
Mr. Webster, for the plaintiffs* in error, stated that the qujestion
before the. Cottrt was one of a private right; and was to be determiped by the fair construction of a contract.
Much had been said to bring the claims of the plaintiffs in error
into reprogch. This course of remark does not affect their right to
their property, if this Court shall consider that property has been
* The reporter was disappointed, in what he believed a well founded expectation
of receiving a full statement Qf Mr. Webster's argument, made out by himself; or his
notes, from which, with other aids, he could have given the argument more at large.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]

taken from them by proceedings which violate a contract; and in a
case where this Court has a constitutional right to interpose for its
protection and restoration.
It is said that the pfoprietors of Charles River Bridge have been.
repaid for the advances made by them in building the bridge. But
this is not the question upon which the Court has to decide. It is a
question of contract; and if it is so, where is the necessity to inquire
whether the plaintiffs have laid out a million, or nothing. If there
was a contract, the question is not what was the amount of profit to
be derived from it, but what was its provisions; however advantageous
to those with whom it was made. It is a contract for the annual receipt of tolls for a specified, period of time; and it is said the state,
which by its law brought the company into existence, by allowing
these tolls, may break the contract, because the amount of the tolls
is large; and by a legislative act, say, that, for a portion of the time
granted, the contract shall not be in force!
The case has been argued before; once in the superior court of
the state of Massachusetts, and onge in this Court: and without any
disrespect to the counsel who argued it before the present hearing,
it has been exhibited on new and enlarged grounds.
It has been said, in the argument, that the right of eminent domain.
cannot be granted away by a legislative act; and if granted, the same
may be resumed, against the cxpress terms of the grant. The necessity of the existence of this right in a sovereign state, has been asserted to be shown by a reference to many cases; as the grant of a
right to construct a turnpike, which, if it gave an exclusive right of
making all communications between two places, to a corporation, or
to an individual, would operate to prevent the introduction of improved modes of intercourse, as by rail roads; and thus be most extensively injurious to the interests, and stay, to a fatal extent, the
prosperity of the community.
The plaintiffs in error deny this position. They hold that the obligation of a contract is complete; and that other means than by its
violation, may protect the interests of. the community. Such a violation of a contract would be fatal to the confidence of the governed
in those who govern; and would destroy the security of all property,
and all rights derived under it.
The localities of the two bridges, "the Charles River Bridge," and
tcthe Warren Bridge," are well understood by the Court. They
accommodate the same line.of travel, and either of them furnishes

SUPREME COURT,
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge.ct aI.J

all the convenience, and all the facilities the line of travel require,.
That one is sufficient, is shown by the fact, which is not denied, that
since the Warren Bridge has become free, all travellers pass over
it, and no tolls are received by the proprietors of the Charles River
Bridge.
When the act authorizing the Warren Bridge was passed, and the
company was about to erect the bridge, the plaintiffs applied to the
superior court of Massachusetts for an injunction to prevent the work
going on. This was refused, on grounds that nothing had been done
by the company which presented the question of the unconstitutionality of the law. Before the Warren Bridge was in the actual
receipt of tolls, the bill now before the Court was filed; and afterwards a supplemental bill, the proprietors of the Warren Bridge
being in the actual receipt of tolls; claiming that the charter under
which they acted was a violation of the contract of the state, with
the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge, and was therefore
against the constitution of the United States. The case is now before this Court, on this question.
It is said that Boston has many of such bridges as that constructed
by the plaintiffs. This must, necessarily be so. Boston is an exception in the ocean. She is almost surrounded by the waters of the
sea, and is approached every where, but in one part, by a bridge.
It is said that those numerous bridges have given rise to no litigavilon. This is so;but the just inference is, that by no one of these
has a right been interfered with. In fact, in all the cases where
rival bridges, or bridges affecting prior rights have been put up; it is
understood that there has been agreements with those who were or
might be affected by them. This was the case with West Boston
bridge. It was purchased by those who sought to make a free
bridge which would interfere with it.
It has been said, in argument, that the ferry franchise, which was
the property of Harvard college, was seized by the legislature when
they authorized the erection of the Charles River Bridge. But this
was not so. A compensation was allowed for the use of the franchise
or its interruption; and no objection was ever made to it by that institution. The just inference is, that a previous agreement had
been made with the college; and that the sum annually paid by the
'proprietors of Charles River Bridge, was entirely satisfactory to that
corporation.
Mr. Webster then went into an examinatiop of the circumstancep

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL.]

which had attended the erection of other bridges from the main
land to Boston; and he contended, that in all the cases, compensation
had been made to those who were injuriously affected by them. In
the case of the Cambridge bridge, the legislature, in the act authorizing t, extended'the charter of the proprietors of the Charles River
Bridge, as a compensation for the erection of another bridge. This
was a compensation for the tolls taken by diverting the line of travel.
In none of these cases was there an appeal to prerogative, and to its
all superseding powers.
The history of the Warren Bridge exhibits an .entirely different
state of things. It was undertaken on different principles, and under
a different temper. It began with a clamour about monopoly! It
was asserted, that the public had a right to break up the monopoly
which was held by the Charles River Bridge Company; that they
had a right to have a fxee bridge. Applications were frequently
made to the legislature on those principles and for that purpose,
during five years, without success; and the bill, authorizing the
bridge, when it was first passed by the legislature of Massachusetts,
was rejected by the veto of the governor. When the charter was
actually granted, it passed the legislature by a majority of as many
members as mere were hundreds in the body.
If it had not been for the provision in the constitution of the
United States,.under which the plaintiffs now ask for the protection
of this Court, it is believed the law would not have been enacted.
Members of the legislature consented to the law, on the ground that
if it interfered with chartered rights, this Court would set it aside.
The argument was, that if the law was a violation of the charter, it
would be of no avail.. Thus it passed.
But since its passage, there is an appeal to the right of eminent
domain to sustain it. It is said, take care! You are treading on burning embers! You are asking to interfere with the rights of the state
to make rail roads, and modern improvements, which supersede those
of past times by their superiority! You prevent the progress of improvements, essential to the prosperity of the community !
It would then appear that the existence of the provision of the
constitution of the United States, which this Court is now called
upon to apply, has been the whole cause of the injury done to the
plaintiffs, by the passage of the law authorizing the Warren Bridge.
But for the belief that the rights of plaintiffs wotild be restored by
the appeal to that provision, .the law would not have existed.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren -Bridge et al.]

The learned gentleman who first argued the case for the defendants, went the Whole length of asserting the power of the legislature
to take away the grant, without making compensation. The other
gentleman asks if the plaintiffs are not yet satisfied with exactions
on the public? What are exactions? They are something unjust
The plaintiffs have taken tolls for passing the bridge; but this they
had a right to do by their charter.
It is said the tolls were oppressive; but is it oppression, when the
right was given by the charter to take them as the stipulated income for capital laid out under the charter? It is said that the public are on one side, and the plaintiffs are on the other; that if the case
is decided one way, a thousand hands will be raised, to one, should
the decision be different; but this is not correct. The public sentiment, in this case, is not on one side. It is not with the defendants.
The representatives of Boston, never voted for the Warren Bridge.
They thought there were existing vested rights, which ought not to
be disregarded. The city of Boston would have purchased the right
of the Charles River Bridge, if they had been asked. The property,
or stock in the bridge, was dispersed through the community; it was
not a monopoly.
The honour of Massachusetts will stand unblemished in this controversy. The plaintiffs impute no dishonour to her, or to her legislature. Massachusetts only wants to know if the law in favour of
the Warren Bridge, has infringed vpon the vested rights of the plaintiffs; and if this is so, she will promptly make compensation.
The plaintiffs say, the act authorizing the Warren Bridge has violated the constitution of the United States; and if this Court shall
so declare, the state of Massachusetts will do full justice to those
who have been injured by her authority,
The counsel for the defendants have said that the plaintiffs have
sustained no loss but that of their golden prospects. They have lost
all their property; a property worth three hundred thousand dollars
before the new bridge was built, and now not worth thirty dollars.
The rights of the plaintiffs are no monopoly. They are the enjoyments of the property for which they had paid in advance; and
which, by a contract made by the law, they were entitled to enjoy
for twenty years yet to come. They are called rapacious monopclists; when they claim to hold what they have purchased. Those
who have assailed this property, have taken it from' them; have

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

519

[Charles River Bridge v. Warrzn Bridge et al.)

taken 'l1 from them without compensation. Where, and wit, whom
is the rapacity to be found in the transaction?
The provisions of the law of Massachusetts against monopolies,
are taken from the English statutes of James the first. They were
so taken, for it follows that statute in terms, and contains the same
exceptions in favour of useful inventions. Thus the Massachusettslaw is the same with that of England, which has never been considered as extending to such cases as this before the-Court. The language of the law is "monopolies;" but this is a "franchise," and not
a monopoly; and thus the clamour which .was raised has no application to the property of the plaintiffs in error. It is unjust, and without application.
The record presents the only questions in the case. What are
they?
The original bill was filed in 1823, and after the answer of the defendants was put in, the amended bill was filed, only to put in issue
the questions of law and fact, presented in the original bill.
The courts of Massachusetts proceeded in this case according to
the equity rules of this Court; and this case is fully exhibited, so
that the whole of the issues of law can be decided here.
The original bill founded the rights of the plaintiffs:
1st. On the act of the legislature of Massachusetts of 1785.
2d. On the purchase, by the plaintiffs, of the ferry right, which
had belonged to Harvard college.
3d. On the consideration paid for the charter to build the bridge,
and the prolongation of the charter for twenty years, by the act.of
1792.

The plaintiffs say the act for the erection of the Warren Bridge,
violates the constitution of the United States; and that the act takes
the property of the plaintiffs for public use, without* making compensation for it. They rest on their charter.
The defendants, in their answer, do not say the property has been
taken for public use, but -they rest on their charter: and they say that
the legisliturc had a right to pass the act, as it does not infringe the
property of the complainants.
This presents the question, whether the constitution of the United
States is violated? There is no other issue made on this record.
This state of the pleadings excludes much of the matter which
has been presented by the counsel for the defendants. They do not
present the question of eminent domain. The plaintiffs might have

SUPREME-COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

presented that question in the court of Massachusetts. They might
liave said that their property was taken by the law, for public use; and
was taken under the right of eminent domain. This would have
been a Massachusetts question; and one which could not have been
brought before"this Court. It is admitted that if the legislature of
Massachusetts takes private property for public use, under the power
of eminent domain, this Court cannot take cognizance of the case.
If the case had been so put before the superior court of Massachusetts, that court could have decided that the complainants were
entitled to compensation, and that the defendants were bound to
make it

-

It is the law of this Court, that the parties must be confined to the
questions on the record. The only issue here is the question whether
the defendants have infringed the rights of the plaintiffs, and have
violated the constitution of the United States.
While this case was in progress through the courts of Massachusetts, and depending in this Court, it appeared that one half of the
tolls of the plaintiffs' bridge was taken away. Now the whole tolls
are gone! This has occurred since the Warren Bridge has become
a free bridge.
The legislature of Massachusetts have given to the plaintiffs the
right to the franchise of a bridge at Charlestown; and the question
is, whether this is sucha right as that it can be violated or infringed?
The franchise is a thing which lies in grant, and is, therefore, a contract: and if- by the charter to the Warren Bridge, it has been infringed, it comes within the prohibition of the constitution relative
to contracts. The question is, whether the plaintiffs had such a
franchise? This is. the only question in the record.
A preliminary objection to the right of this Court to proceed, in
this case, has been .made, on the suggestion that the case is one against
the state of Massachusetts; as. the state of Massachusetts is now the
only party interested-in the cause, the bridge having-become hc.- property; aid it is said, against the state, this Court can grant no relief.
A state cannot be brought into this Court, in a suit by individuals, or
a corporation.
The state is not a party to the cause. The bill is against the persons who built the Warren Bridge; and it is from them relief is
sought, and required; and those persons stand as trespassers, if the
law, under which they acted, is unconstitutional. But after a suit is
lawfully commenced, it goes on against all who afterwards make

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

themselves parties to it. There is no: effect on the rights of the
plaintiffs by a change of this kind, as a wrong-doer cannot excuse
himself by parting with his property.
The plaintiffs ask a decree against the proprietors of the Warren
Bridge, John Skinner and others; and a detree is asked against no
others. The question which is raised by the objection to the jurisdiction of this Court in this case, is, whethei- the Court can proceed
in a case in which a state has an interest? This cannot be asserted
with success. If such were the law, the exclusion of jurisdiction
would extend to all cases of lands granted by the United .States; for.
in cases of such grants, if no title has been given, the United States
are bound to make compensation. Such a doctrine would overrule
the judicial structure of the government, and prevent the administration of its most important functions.
This question has b.en-decided in this Court, in'the case Gf Osborn
v. The Rank of the United -States; 9 Wheat. 857; 5 Peters' Condensed Reports, 768.
This is precisely the same question with that in the case referred
to. The state of Ohio claimed the money in the hands of Osborn, as
a tax on the funds of the bank of the United States, imposed by an
act of the legislature of the state. The state of Massachusetts claim
the tolls of the bridge, derived from a law of the state. This Court,
in the case cited, expressly declare it to be one in which the state is
a party. So in Fletcher v. Peck, where Georgia had declared a deed
given by he state for lands, void; but the parties to the case were
those on the record, although the decision directly vacated the proceedings of the legislature of Georgia, yet the Court had jurisdiction. In this case, no judgment will be pronounced against the state
of Massachusetts. On these pleadings, if the constitutional question
were out of the case, could any action of the Court affect the state?
She is, in fact, no party in this cause. She cannot be a party to blow
up a suit, and not be subjected to its final result. Suppose a state
should coin money, congress would not prohibit its being done, it is
prohibited by the constitution; and alaw could not do more. Could
the law be carried into effect? Proceedings under it would bo
brought before this Court, by an action against the agents of the state,
or by a suit against the party issuing it;or makihng a contract for the
money so coined. If you cannot, by a suit against an individual,
question the unconstitutional acts of a party, the whole of the powers
VOL. XI.-3 U

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aI.J

of the constitution, upon its great and vital provisions fGr the preservation of the government are defeated.
It has been said, the Court can do no justice to the parties who
have sought its protection, because the superior court of Massachusetts has only a limited jurisdiction in cases of equity.
It is admitted, that the equity jurisdiction of the courts of Massachusetts is limited; but it has all the jurisdiction over the subject,
to which its powers extend, as any other court of equity. The law of
Massachusetts gives full equity powers, to the court, in all cases
which are made subject to its jurisdiction; 6 Pickering's Rep. 395.
The law of 1827, gave this jurisdiction in all cases of waste and
nuisance.
This bill prays for general relief. This Court may abate the nuisance, and decree a repayment of the tolls; and do all in the case,
that, according to law and equity, may appertain to it. In equity, a
court may enjoin against the nuisance, and deer 3e a compensation.
But all this discussion about the power of the court of Massachusetts to make a suitable decree, has no place here. This Court can,
in their decree, declare, whether the act of 1828 does impair the
contract of 1785. This is all the Court can do; and it is nothing to
them what will be done in the case, by the court to which the case
will be remanded. In conformity with the provisions of the judiciary act of 1789, this Court remands a case when further proceedings are necessary in the court from which it may have been brought;
when nothing else is required in that court, this Court will give a
final judgment.
In this case, the Court are bound down by the record, to the single
question of the validity of the law, under which the defendants
acted.
To proceed to the main questions in the caube:
1. The plaintiffs claim to set up a bridge, exclusively, between
Boston and Charlestown; or, if they are not entitled to this, they
claim to put down all such other bridges as interfere with the profits
and enjoyments of their privileges.
It is not contended that the termini iielude or exclude all within
the place. Every person must keep so far off, as not to do a direct
mischief to the plaintiffs' rights. The plaintiffs say, that the ferry
right gave them the privilege of excluding rivals. ThaO by the
charter, they have a franchise which gives them rights, which cannot be violated by the proceeding of a subsequent legislature.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

523

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridgr et a1.J

It is in vain to attempt to derive any thing from the ferry right,
if it is what the defendants say it is. They say, that a ferry is a
path over a-river; and that the English law relating to ferries never
was in force in Massachusetts. This'position is denied by.the plaintiffs. In support of this assertion, they give a bead roll of ferries,
which have been taken away; and bridges built whei they before
existed. This is statement.
The law of Massachusetts has always been the common law of
England. Is there any authority for.the contrary, in any of the decisions of her courts? There may be such, but it is hoped not, and
it is believed not. Have the ancient fathers of the profession of the
law; the Parsons, the Sedgwicks, the Danes, taught other doctrine?
Has the contrary been sustained by these men; by their opinions?
In the case referred to by the counsel for the defendants, a distinguished lawyer of Massachusetts allowed a ferry right according to
the common law of England. Every judge in Massachusetts has
held a ferry right to be an indefeasible inheritance; a vested right,
like any other property. -Let us see if this is not the fact.
But before this is done, a reference will be made to acts in the
early history of Massachusetts which are on the record.
There is a grant of a ferry for twenty-one years.
"At generall corte held at Boston, 7th day of 8th month, 1641.
It is ordered, that they, that put boats between Cape Ann and Annisquam, shall have liberty to take sufficient toale, as the court shall
think meete."
Is this the grant merely of a path across the river? So, also, there
is a grant of an inheritance in a ferry, on condition that it shall be
submitted to the general court. This grant is cotemporaneous with
the grant of the ferry over Charles river.
"1At a general corte of election at. Boston, the 10th of the 3d
month, A. 1648.
Upon certain information given to this generall corte, that there
is no fferry kept upon Naponset ryver, between Dorchester and
Braintree, whereby all that are to pass that way, are forced to head
the river, to the great prejudice of toanes that are in those partes,
and that there appears no man that wil. keepe it, unlesse he be dccommodated with house, land, and a boate, at the charge of the
country: It is therefore ordered, by the authority of this corte, that
Mr. John Glover shall, and hereby hath, full power given him, either
to grant it to any person, or persons, for the tearme of seaven yeares,

SUPREME COURT
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

so it be not any way chargeable to the country, or else to take it
himselfe and his heires, as his own inheritance forever; provided
that it be kept in such a place, and at such a price, as may be most
convenient for the country, and pleasant to the general courte."
In the record there is a copy of a grant of a bridge over Charles
river, near Watertown; the terms of which are, on the condition of
making the bridge, the tolls are granted for ever. This was in 1670.
This is the early statute law of Massachusetts. The later acts of
the legislature are of the same chaiacter. The instances of such
legislation were cited from 7 Pick. Rep. 446, 447, 448, 511, 521,
523. In all these cases, the judges hold the common law~of England as to ferries to be the law of Massachusetts; and that a ferry
is an indefeasible interest, and a franchise and property.
Mr. Webster then stated a number of cases, in which, when a
bridge had been erected in the place of an existing ferry, compensation had been made to the owners of the ferry. He insisted, that
upon these authorities, a ferry was as much a property, as much the
object of legal protection, as any thing known to the laws of the
land.
The plaintiffs obtained their property as a purchase of some extent
up and down the river. It is not required now to determine how
far the purchase extended; for the rival bridge erected by the dedefendants, is alongside of the Charles River Bridge, and is an interruption to the profits derived from it. It is not necessary now
to fix the limits of the franchise. That the interference is direct and
certain, is not denied. Difficulties may arise hereafter in fixing these
limits, bnt it is not necessary to go to a distance to establish them,
before a certain, and admitted interference, shall be examined.
It is submitted, that in London no bridge has been erected over
the river without compensation having been roade to those whose interests may have been injured. The evidence of this will be found in
many works on the subject. Those treatises show the minute attention of the British parliament, in all cases in which private rights
may-be affected by the enactment of a statute. All persons who
may be interested, have notice from parliament of the application;
and compensation is made, where any injury is done.
It is said, that the distinguished honour of maintaining principles
which will arrest the progress of public improvements, is left to the
plaintiffs in this case. This is not so. All that is asked, is, that the
franchise shall be protected. Massachusetts has not made any im-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

525

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.j

provement of her own, although she has subscribed liberally to those
which have been undertaken by individuals and corporations. In
all these cases, private rights have been respected; and except in the
case now before'the Court, Massachusetts has kept her faith. Recent
and previous acts by her legislature show this. In every case, but
this, compensation has been made in the law, or provided for.
The plaintiffs do not seek to interrupt the progress of improvements, but they ask to stay. revolution; a revolution against the
foundations 'on which property rests; a revolution which is attempted
on the allegation of monopoly: we resist the clamour against legislative acts which have vested rights in individuals on principles of
equal justice to the state, and to those who hold those rights under
the provisions of the law.
It is true, that before the legislature the -rights of the plaintiffs
were examined, and still the Warren Bridge charter was given; but
the decision of a committee of the legislature was not a judicial
action. The plaintiffs have a full right to come before this Court,
notwithstanding their failure before the legislature.
In reply to some remarks of the counsel of'the defendants, Mr.
Webster stated, that the proceedings in England under writs of ad
quod damnum, did not affect private rights. The writ of ad quod.
damnum issued'for the lionour of the king. It issues before a grant.
is made, and for the protection of the king. Private persons may
claim the protection of the law in favour of their rights, notwithstanding such a proceeding. Questions of nuisance, are alviays
questions of fact, and must be- tried .by a jury; but no jury can
assess the amount of injury until the facts are ascertained. These
principles are sustained in 3 Black. Com. 219.
Is it the liberal construction of charters to interpret them against.
the rights of individuals, against the enactments of the law? The
course has been to construe them in fayour of the grantees, and to
enlarge their provisions for his benefit. The whole o'f the coursC is
changed, if an opposite principle is adopted, But the plaintiffs ask
no more than a fair judicial construction of the law; no more is required but what they are entitled to, under a judicial interpretatior
of ft.
It has been said, in the argument for the defendants, that although
the holder of a franchise may maintain an action against a stranger
who interferes with it, without a license; but he miay.not against one
who has a license from the state. This is without authority. 'If he

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge ot al.]

can claim against a stranger, it is because of his property in the franehise,'and this will protect him in proceeding against any one. This
right is complete against all, and the state can give no privilege to
interfere with it.
In the case of Bonaparte v. The Camden and Amboy Rail Road
Company, Mr. Justice Baldwin, sitting in the circuit court of New
Jersey, iays:
"The privilege of exemption of the principal is not communicated
to the agent, though the principal is a state which cannot be sued at
law or in equity; and the agent, a public officer acting in execution
o f the law of the state, and the subject matter of the suit was moxey
actually in their treasury, in the custody of the defendant for the use
of the state." 1 Bald. Rep. 217.
The proprietors of the Charles River Bridge, purchased the ferry
franchise from Harvard college, and it became 'their property for
the purpose of erecting a bridge upon its site, with all the rights
and advantages to be derived from it. It was purchased, and the
consideration for it was the annual payment of the sum of two hundred pounds. This, by the charter, was to be absolutely paid; and
no accident to the bridge, no deficiency of tolls, will excuse the nonpayment of the sum so stipulated to be paid.
Suppose, while the bridge was building it had been pronL.ble to
use the ferry, would not the tolls havebelonged to the proprietors of'
the Charles River Bridge? There is no ground to suppose the collegemeant to retai0 any thing out of the franchise. Nothing appears, which will authorize the supposition that-the state meant to
take a transfer of the' franchise, or any part of it; and allowed the use
of it to the bridge, to the extent of putting up the abutments, at the
places where the ferry was carried on. The bridge is the successor
of the college, in the franchise; the company purchased it, to its full
extent, and the state, by the charter, ratified the purchase.
The erection of the bridge was an urdertaking of great hazard,
and the result of the effort to construct it, was considered exceedingly doubtful. It cannot, therefore, be supposed that the franchise
was to be diminished, and its enjoyment to be limited. Nothing of
this is expressed, and nothing so unreasonable can be implied. It is
in evidence, on the record, that the college was a party to the building of the bridge. The president stated that the college had assented
to it. ,According to the course of decisions in Massachusetts, the
franchise was an indefeasible inheritance. In that state, the manage-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

ment 6f ferries was with the general court. As to this franchise,
from 1640, to 1785, it was respected by the local authorities of Middlesex, and Sussex. It would then appear, that it was held under a
legislative grant, which transcended all other rights.
The franchise which was obtained from the college, was not extinguished by compact: "and it cannot, therefore, be disturbed by
any action of the legislture.
It is deemed important, and is the truth of the case, to consider
the rights of the Charles River Bridge Company, in connection with
those of the college. The college had, and still have, an interest in
it; and the use of the franchise by the company, is essential to all
the purposes, and to more than those for which it was held by tho
college. The pontage furnished by the bridge, was the substitute
for the passage by the ferry; and itivas not, therefore, only for location at the place where the bridge was built, that the rights of the
college were obtained. All the privileges enjoyed as a part of the
ferry franchise were acquired. When the bridge was put up on the
same place as the ferry had been, and for all the ends of the ferry, it
is but just and reasonable, that the extent of the right shall be in the
hands of the Bridge Company, equal to that which it was when held
by the college.
The views which have been taken, fully show that the state of
Massachusetts made, in the full and rightful exercise of her legislative powers, a grant to the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge,
and the grant was a -contract. As such, by no subsequent legislation, could it be impaired: a right'vested, cannot be di rested. Cited
2 Dall. 297, 304; 9 Craneh, 52; "Green v. Bi'ddle, 8 Wheat. 1;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 136.
If a power of revocation exisied, it was no contract. The state
cannot make such a contract; as the power of revocation is incompetent to will 'the existence' of a contract.
Can a stronger case be imagined, than that which gave rise to the
controversy in Fletcher v. Peck? The contract had been made in
fraud; in morals, it was just to burn it; in policy, it was equally so,
as a large part of the domain of the state of Georgia was granted for
no adequate consideration. But -thi Court decided in that case,
that the legislature of Georgia had no power to annul the grant; and
the grant was maintained by the judgment of this Court.
The difficulty in which this case is involved, and upon whiph the
defendants expect success, arises from considering two things alike,
which are different. The power of making public grants, because

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the interests of the community requires they should be made, and
the right of eminent domain.
Where property is taken for public purposes, compensation is
given; this is the exercise of eminent domain. The legislature are
not the judges of the extent of their powers; and the question now
before the Court is, whether they had the power which has been exercised in this particular case.
By the act of the legislature authorizing the Warren Bridge, two
injuries were done to the plaintiffs. First, by the damage they sustained from a rival bridge. Secondly, the infringement of their right
of pontage. The toll had been originally granted for forty years,
and this excluded rivalship. By the interruption of the receipt of
their full tolls, the proprietors of the bridge sustained heavy losses;
and by the erection of the Warren Bridge, now a free bridge, their
beneficial right of pontage has been dcstroyed. In these, have the
contract of the state of Massachusetts been broken. Thus the case
is entirely within the provision of the constitution of the United
States.
What is the meaning of the assertion, that in a grant by a government nothing passes by implication? How is it in grants of land?
Does a patent from the United States carry less than a grant by an
individual? They are the same-a grant of "land" carries "mines."
The principle, that nothing passes by implication, arose in early
times, when the grants, of the crown were greater than now; when
they were made to favourites, and the power was abused;-and when
their extravagance induced courts to restrain them to their words.
Hence the insertion of "mero motu" "certa scientia." Hence the
principle, that the grant of one thing shall not carry another. The
doctrine that nothing can be carried by implication in a royal grant,
does not apply to grants by parliament, or of franchises, 2 H. B1.
500: no case but one from 2 Barnwell and Alderson's Reports, 792,
har been cited to sustain the position. That case is not authority
here. But if the whole of that cae is taken together, it is in favour
of the plaintiffs in this cause. T6r decision is right; although there
is too much strictness in some of the opinions of lord Tenterden.
Franchises are complcx in their nature, and all that may be necessary for their enjoyment must pass with them, although things separate do not pass; wvhatever is incidient to them, does not require implication to pass such incidents. Thus the grant of the :..rr to the
college, gave the right to take toll; to keep boats: cited 1 Nott and
M'Cord, 393.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
It has been said, that this may be good law as to individuals, but
that it will not operate in the case of a state-authorities for this position are required. If a grantee of a franchise can sustain an action
against an individual, for an, injury to his property, or an interference
with his property; why may he not against the grantee of the government, who thus interposes? The case is stronger against the government, than against a stranger. The government has received the
consideration for the grant; and there is an implied obligation to
protect the enjoyment of it.
Ferries are property. They may be seized for rent; they may
be-devised by will; they may be sold: and yet it is said the government may take them away from their proprietors, for their grantors.
Let us see some principle which will allow such property to be taken;
and which yet regards private property, and respects private rights,
and public faith.
The right of a ferry carries tolls; and it also carries, for its protection, the principles of justice and of law, that' the grantee may keep
down injurious competition. It is vain to give him one, without the
other. Both must be given, or none is given. The grant is intended
as a benefit, as a remuneration for risks, and for advances of capital,
not as a mere name. The ordinary means of compensation for such
advances are ndt sufficient., The franchise necessarily implies exclusive and beneficial privileges.
It was under this law of ferries the plaintiffs took their charter.
They considered that under it they held the whole extent of the
ferry franchise. There was then but one ferry between Charlestown
and Boston. It had the whole ferry rights, and this they acquired;
this they have paid for. If a grant refers to another grants it carries
all which is contained in both. But suppose there had been no reference to any other; it would carry the same rights, and to the same
e'xtent, or more. The expense of erecting a bridge, and keeping it
in order, is much greater than that attending the setting up and
keeping in order a ferry.
The promotion of public accommodation is no reason for taking
away a privilege, held under a legal grant. It cannot be done unjustly to the rights of others. These rights must be respected. The
income derived from these rights shall not be diminished. Suppose
the bridge had been erected, withoui an act of the legislature to authorize it; would a subsequent act protect it? .How can a grant to A
be lawfully impaired, or injuriously affected by a subsequent grant
VOL. XI.-3 X

SUPREME COURT.'
fCharles River'Bridge

i

. Warren Bridge et al.]

to B, which interferes with the enjoyment of the prior grant? Once
gianted, always granted.
What position would a judicial tribunal assume, that would construe
a grarlt differently, according'to the parties to it. Can you raise an
implication against it, and not do so against the government? Implication is construction-construction is meaning-and when a thing
is in the deed, it is the meaning, and force, and purpose of the instrumebt. If the parties are changed, these cannot be changed. To allow
another bridge to be built, was to take away the tolls of the first
bridge. * In support of the position, that this Was a violation of the
rights of the plaintiffs, the opinions of all the judges of the court of
Massachusetts, from which the-case is brought, are appealed to.
They all say, that the charter granted by the-legislature is binding on
it, and cannot be impaired; and they say, that, to whatever extent the
.grant goes, it must be supported; 2 Mass. Rep. 146. But the Warren
Bridge does impair the charter, for it takes away the tolls. What
then becomes of the reserved rights of the legislature? This is a
solemn adjudication of the court of Ma~sachusetts. Then there is
- no reservation.
There is implication in government grants. This has been so
held in Massachusetts; 4 Mass. Rep. 522. It is also the law of this
Court; Dartmouth College Case, 4 Cona. Rep. 549.
The court below held, in this case, that whatever was granted belonged to the grantee; that the ferry at Charlestown was granted to
the college, and that the law of England relating to ferries, prevails
in Massachusetts; that nothing can be taken for public use without
com pensation; that public grants are always to b so construed as to
convey what is essential to the enjoyment of the thing granted, and
cannot be superseded, or the grant impaired. In support of these
positions, Mr. Webster read parts of the opinions of the judges of
the superior court of Massachusetts, delivered in this case.
The proposition is stated, that grants of the character of this which
is held by the plaintiffs contain a power of reocation. This cannot
be. Beiqg grants, they cannot be treated or considered as mere
laws; being grants, they are contracts. In this case, the grant was
intended to be beneficial to the grantees, and it contained a covenant
that it should continue for forty, dnd afterwards for seventy years.
For this a consideration was paid, and is now paid; to the public, by
the large expenditure for 'constructing the bridge; to Harvard college, by the sum of two hundred pounds annually. But the legisla-

JANUARY TERM, '1837.

531

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

ture have now done every thing to make the grant unproductive; to
,deprive the holders of all advantage from- it.
Necessarily, the grant to the proprietors of the Charles River
Bridge contained a guarantee of their enjoyment of the privileges
contained in it. Any other construction would be against every
principle upon which the rights of property, derived from public acts,
rests. Suppose, after the grant of a ferry, with a right to take tolls,
and th6 establishment of it by the grantee, at the expense of boats;
a free ferry had been erected at the same place, or so contiguous as
to. destroy the profits of the first ferry, by a ruino us competition;
would this be proper? It is said that still the right to take tolls remains in the first franchise. This is true; and it is then inquired,
what injury has been done? -No fianchise, it is said, is taken away;
all the rights granted remain; the tolls remain.
It is true, the counsel for the defendants admit that all will pass
over the free ferry; but yet they say the toll dish of the first grantees
is not touched by the hands of those who have opened the. free
ferry; the notice of the rates of tolls to be paid, yet'remains.
But to all this the plaintiffs oppose the simple fact. Under the
plaintiffs grant of a franchise, they possess the constitutional right to
keep down al competition, during the whole time of the charter.
This has been established by an unbroken chain of authorities, for
many years; and this applies to all grants alike, here, as well as in
England. It is a franchise; and every dollar of toll taken at the
Warren Bridge, since its erection, and the temporary use as a toll
bridge, is a part of the legal and proper profits of our franehise; and
thus the guarantee, conveyed in grant, (as guarantees are interpreted
by the Mnssachusetts courts,) has been broken.
Mr. Webster then went into a further examination of the argument of the counsel for the defendants, and into a notice of the observations which had fallen from"them in the defence.
The plaintiffs, it is said, have received compensation enough;
their profits have been already very large; they have had a reasonable compensation. This is not so. Nothing is reasonable but
the fulfilment of the contract. It is not reasonable that one party.
should judge for themselves, as to compensation; and depart from the
terms of the contract, which is definite and plain in its meaning.
There was no extinction, it is argued, of the franchise. The answer is, that the act authorizing the second bridge expressly extends
the charter, adding thirty year's to it; and recites the consideration

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the public had received for the same. In this there is a guarantee
that the state shall pass no law to impair the contract. It is not true
that we can. have no property in the line of travel, if by that is
meant, in the franchise granted by Gov. Winthrop and others, the
right of transporting passengers from Boston to Charlestown. The.
franchise is valuable, because the transportation was concentrated at
the points at which the plaintiffs' bridge was erected.
The construction of the grant to us, which we demand, it is said,
is not valuable. The plaintiffs say otherwise, and the issue is with
this Court.
It is held up as a cause of alarm that the plaintiffs claim a perpetual right to this franchise; and that when the charter of their
bridge has expired, they wiILfall back upon their claim to the ferry.
We do no such thing. When that time comes, it becomes the property of the state again. Theirs then -t is, "King, Cawdor, Glamis,
all!" And it were to have been wished, that the defendants could
have been content to wait until that time had arrived.
The Dnalogies of the rights of a tavern, a street, a mill, &c., have
been put in the course of the argument for the defence. But all
these were false analogies. They were not franchb es. Not in the
grant of the government.
Then there is a long argument, based on the alleged policy of
Massachusetts, in regard to public highways. There is nothing, Mr.
Webster argued, in the situation of such matters, in thit state, requiring the adoption of any particular line of policy. The roads
are numerous and excellent; and no trouble is experienced in maintaining them so. There are no cases requiring any peculiar policy,
nor any great or broad power to be exercised over them.
This particular case, formed an excepti'on to the usual caution exercised by Massachusetts, in legislating upon matters of this kind.
Ever since this act passed, nay, within these two years, the legislature has granted a charter to a company for the erection of "The
Hancock Free Bridge," near the West Boston bridge, from Boston
to Cambridge; between that avenue and Canal bridge, lower down.
The ct prescribes the width; the obligation to attend the d'raw, &c.;
makes the. bridge a free one; the corporation to keep it in order, &c.
For all this, -they look for their compensation in the advanced value
of their contiguous property. And in this very act, that corporation
are directed to make compensation to all owners of real estate, whose
property is liable to injury by the erection of the said bridge; ap-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
rCharles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

praisers are to be appointed according to a mode p9inted out in the
act, and if not made according to their appraisement, then by the decision of a jury of the country. And a section of the act provides that
its provisions are to be'void, if, before a certain period, the proprietors
of the West Boston bridge shall sell out their bridge, according to the
estimate of appraisers to be appointed by the parties. The language
is, if such proprietors, "will sell out their bridge and franchise."
Now, can this be set off by metes and bounds, as required of us, in
relation to our "franchise?"
And so much for the "policy" and
understanding of the legislature of Massachusetts, as to franchises!
Again, it is pretended and argued, that the plaintiffs have not always been uniform in the interpretation of their own rights. On

the contrary, answered Mr. Webster, this same right was set up on
building the bridge to the franchise*of the ferry, and was then acknowledged: and the same principle has ever since been recognised
and acted upon, by the legislature, and by the plaintiffs.
And there was one other subject, which, though it had no bearing
upon the case at bar whatever, had been made a great deal of, in the
argument of defendants' counsel. Some observations upon it hat
been advanced, by way of connecting it with the case, of so novel a
kind, as to require, however, some notice. And this was, that in
chartering the Warren Bridge, the legislature did but exercise its
power over the eminent domain of the state. This power is decribed as being inalienable, and that the state cannot abandon it; nor
by its own covenant, or grant, bind itself to alienate or transfer it in
any way. That it cannot tie up iti hands in any wise, in"regard to
its eminent domain.
In the course of the arguments for the defendants, one of their
honours (Mr. Justice Story), had put a case to the learned counsel
(Mr. Greenleaf), like the follow:ing: Suppose a rail road corporation
receive a charter at the hands of the state'of Massachusetts, in which
an express provision was inserted, that no other road should be
granted during the duration of the charter, within ten miles of the
proposed road. The road is built and opened. Did he hold, that
notwithstanding that covenant, a subsequent legislature" had the"
power to grant another road, within five rods of the first, without
any compensation, other than the faith, thus given by their charter,
of the state of Massachusetts? And the learned cnunsel had replied,
that he did so say, and did so hold! This struck him, as it must
have struek the Court, as most startling doctrine.

534

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

[Mr. Greenleaf here stated, that in such a case, the faith of the
state of Massachusetts was pledged to indemnify the parties;,15y
making full compensation for whatever property the state might take,
and for all the injury which should be done to private rights. It
would not be presumed by this Court, that the faith of the state
would be broken.]
Mr. Webster proceeded to say, that the first question he wished to
put, in relation to the position of the defendants' counsel, was, how
can this power of eminent domain, as thus construed, be limited to
the two sides, merely, of tht road,? Why should it not fall upon the
road itself, and no compensation foll6w to the grantees? It is all
alike part and parcel of the same "eminent domain." And so, in
the case-at bar, if that power gives the right to erect another bridge
beside our own, why does it not give an equal right to take the latter, also?
Eminent domain is a part of sovereignty, and resides in the sovereign-in the people; what portion of it is granted to the legislature, belongs to them; and what is not granted, remains with the
people. Is not the power of eminent domain as well restricted as
any othpr power? It is restricted by the constitution of the state,
which contains a surrender.of it to the government erected by that
constitution. It may be as well regulated and restrained by provisions in the constitution, as any other power originally in the people;
and its exercise must be according to such provisions.
It is necessary to have a clear idea of what this same power of
eminent domain actually is. What then do the counsel for the defendants mean, when they say that the state cannot transfer its eminent domain? They certainly do- not mean its domains, its territory,
its lands? And here he cited the-case of the government land in
the west and northwest, as a proof that that could not be the meaning
of the counsel. They were the eminent domain in one sense, of the
country; and in that sense the government can, and does pass them
away. But the other sense was, the power, rule, dominion of the
state over its territory. These two ideas must not be blended in this
investigation. The power of the state over its eminent domain,
means the power of government over property, public or private,
under various rules and qualifications. What is meant by the gover nment's inability to part with its eminent domain? It can part
with the thing, and reserve the power over it, to the extent of those
qualifications already adverted to. Taking public or private pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1S37.

535

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

for public benefit, by the state, is an exercise of the power of
the state over its eminent domain. But granting a franchise is not
an exercise of that power; Cited V.attel, page 173, sec. 244; page 70,
sec. 45.
The legislature may grant franchises. This is done by its sovereign power. What may it do with those franchises? What pbwer
has it over them after they have been granted? It may do just what
it is limited to do, and nothing more. It is restrained by the same
instrument which gave it existence from doing more.
The question is, what restrictions on this power are found in the
constitution of Massachusetts: and by a reference to it, the lifnitation of legislative powers will be found. The power may be exer
cised by taking property, on paying for it. In-the constitutipn it is
expressly declared, that property shall not be taken by the public
without its being paid for.
In Baldwin's Circuit Court Reports, it is said, that it is incident to
the sovereignty of every government, that it may take private property for public use; but the obligation to mnake compensation is concomitant with the right; Bonaparte v. The Camden and Amboy
Rail Road Company, 1 Baldwin's Rep. 220.
How then can this ground, which has been taken for the defendants be maintained ? The whole pleadings show that the right of
eminent domain was not involved in this case, when before the court
of Massachusetts. It is too late now to present it. There is no allegation that the property of the plaintiffs -havebeen taken) and compensation made for it.
The defendants seem to say, that if the property of the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge has been taken under the right, of
eminent domain, the case is without a remedy. But this is denied.
The taking under the privilege of eminent domain, is limited- by the
provision; that compensation shall be made. Nor is it true, that the
legislature may not part with a portion of its right of eminent domain. Thus, in Wilson's case, the right to tax lands in the state of
New Jersey, was surrendered by the legislature. The State of New
Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch Rep. 164; 2 Peters' ,Con. Rep. 457.
In conclusion, Mr. Webster said, the plaintiffs have placed their
reliance upon the preceddnts and authority established by this honourable Court, in the course of the last-thirty years, in support of
that constitution which secured individual property against legislative assumption: and that they now asked the enlightened conscience

536

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

of this tribunal, if they have not sucbeeded in sustaining their complaint upon legal and constitutional grounds: if not, they must, as
good citizens of this republic, remain satisfied with the decision of
the Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
The questions .involved in this case are of the gravest character,
and the Court have given to them the most anxious and deliberate
consideration. The value of the right claimed by the plaintiffs is
large in amount; and many persons may no doubt be seriously affected in their pecuniary interests hy any decision which the Court
may pronounce; and the questions which have been raised as to the
power of the several states, in relation to the corporations they have
chartered, are pregnant with important consequences; not only to the
individuals who are concerned in the corporate franchises, but to the
communities in which they exist. The Court are fully sensible that
it is their duty, in exercising the high powers conferred on them by
the constitution of the United States, to deal with these great'and
extensive interests with the utmost caution; guarding, as far as they
have the power to do so, the rights of property, and at the same time
carefully abstaining from any encroachment on the rights- reserved
to the states.
It appears, from the record, that in the year 1650, the legislature
of Massachusetts, granted to the president of Harvard college "the
liberty and power," to dispose of the ferry from Charlestown to
Boston, by lease or otherwise, in the behalf and for the behoof of
the college: and that, under that grant, the college continued to hold
and keep the ferry by its lessees or agents, and to receive the profits
of it until 1785. In the last mentioned year, a petition was presented to the legislature, by Thomas Russell and others, stating the
inconvenience of the transportation by ferries, over Charles river,
and the puolic advantages that would result from a bridge; and praying to be incorporated for the purpose of erecting a bridge in the
place where the ferry between Boston ard Charlestown was then
kept. Pursuant to this petition, the legislature, on the 9th of March,
1785, passed an act incorporating a company, by the name of "The
Proprietors of the Charles River Bridge," for the purposes mentioned in the petition. Under this charter the company were empowered to erect a bridge, in "the place where the ferry was then
kept;" ceetain tolls were granted, and the charter was limited to

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

537

[Charles R'iver Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al]

forty years, from the first opening of the bridgefor passengers; and
from the time the toll commenced, until the expiration of this term,
the company were to pay two hundred.pounds, annuilly, to Harvard
college;, and at the expiration of the forty years the bridge was to be
the property of the.commonwealth; "saving (as.the law expresses it)
to the said college or university, a reasonable annual compensation,
for the annual income of the ferry, which they might have received
had not the said bridge been erected."
The bridge was accordingly built, and was opened for passengers
on the 17th of June, 1786. In 1792, the charter was extended to
seventy years, fron the opening of the bridge; and at the expiration
of that time it was to belong to the commonwealth. The corporation
have regularly paid to the college the annual sum of two hundred
pounds,. and have performed all of the duties imposed on them by
the terms of their charter.
In 1828, the legislature of Massachusetts incorporated a company
by the name of "The Proprietors of the Warren Bridge," for the
purpose of erecting another bridge over Chprles river. This bridge
is only sixteen rods, at its commencement, on the Charlestown side,
from the commencement of the bridge of the plaintiffs; and they are
about fifty rods apart at their termination on the Boston side. The
travelfers who pass over either bridge, proceed from Charlestown
square, which receives the travel of many great public roads leading
from the country; and the passengers and travellers who go to and
from Boston, used to pass over the Charles River Bridge, from and
through this square, before the erection of the Warren Bridge.
The Warren Biidge, by the terms of its charter, was to be surrendered to the state, as soon as the expenses of the proprietors in
building and supporting it should be reimbursed; but this period
was- not, in any e~rent, to exceed six years from the time the company commenced receiving toll.
When the original bill in this case was filed, the Warren Bridge
had not been built; and the bill was filed after the passage of the
law, in order to obtain an injunction to prevent its erection, and for
general relief. The bill, amorng other things, charged as a ground
for relief, that the act for the erection of the Warren Bridge impaired
the obligation of the contract between the commonwealth and the
proprietors of the Charles River Bridge; and was therefore repugnant to the constitution of the United States. Afterwards, a supplemental bill was filed, stating that the bridge had then been so far
VOL. XI.-3 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

completed, that it -had been opened for travel, and that divers persons had passed over, and thus avoided the payment of the toll,
which would otherwise have been received by the plaintiffs. The
answer to the supplemental bill admitted that the bridge had been
.so' far completed, that foot passengers could pass; but denied that
any persons but the workmen and the superintendents had passed
over with their consent In this state of the pleadings, the cause
came on for hearing in the supreme judicial court for the county of
Suffolk, in the commonwealth of Massachusetts, at November term,
1829; and the court decided that the act incorporating the Warren
Bridge, did not iliair the obligation of the contract with the proproprietors of the Charles River Bridge, and dismissed the complainants' bill: and the case is brought here by writ of error from
that decision. It is, however, proper to state, that it is understood
that the state court was equally divided upon, the question; and that
the decree dismissing the bill upon the ground above stated, was
pronounced by a majority of the court, for the purpose of enabling
the complainants to bring the question for decision before this
Court.
In the argument here, it was admitted, that since the filing of the
supplemental bill, a sufficient amount of toll had been received by
the proprietors of the Warren Bridge to reimburse all their expenses.
and that the bridge is now the property of the state, and has been
made a free bridge; and that the value of the franchise granted to
the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge; has by this means been
entirely destroyed.
If the complainants deemed these Tacts material, they ought to
have been brought before ihe state court, by a supplemental bill;
and this Court, in pronouncing its judgment, cannot regularly notice
them. But in the view which the Court take of this subject, these
additional circumstances would not in any degree influence their decision. And as they are concedea to be true, and the case has been
argued on that ground, and the controversy has been for a long
time depending, and all parties desire a final end of it; and as it is
of importance to them, that the principles on which this Court decide
should not be misunderstood; the case will be treated in the opinion
now delivered, as if these admitted facts were regularly before us.
A good deal of evidence has been offered to show the naure and
extent of the 'ferry right granted to the'college; 'and also to show
the rights clainted by the proprietors of thebridge at different times,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

539

[Charles RiVer Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

by virtue Of their charter; and the opinions entertained by commit.
tees of the legislature, and others, upon that subject. But as these
circumstances do not affect the judgment of this Court, it is unnecessary to recapitulate them.
The plaintiffs in error insist, mainly, upon two grounds: 1st. That
by virtue of the grant of 1650, Harvard college was entitled, in perpetuity, to the right of keeping a ferrybetween Charlestown and
Boston; that this right was exclusive; and that the legislature had
not the power to establish another ferry on the same line of travel,
because it would infringe the rights of ihe college; and that these
rights, upon the erection of the bridge in the place of the ferry, under
the charter of 1785, were transferred to, and became vested in "the
proprietors of the Charles River Bridge;" aid that under, and by
virtue of this transfer of the ferry right, the rights of the bridge
company were as exclusive in that line of travel, as the rights of
the ferry, 2d. That independently of the ferry right, the acts of
the legislature of Massachusetts of 1785, and 1792, by their true
construction, necessarily implied that the legislature would not
authorize another bridge, and especially a free one, by the side of
this, and placed in the same line of travel, whereby the fraichise
granted to the "proprietors of the Charles River Bridge" should be
rendered of no value; and the plaintiffs in error contend, that the
grant of the ferry to the college, and of the charter to the proprietors
of the bridge, are both contracts on the part of the state; and that
the law authorizing the erection of the Warren Bridge in 1828, impairs the obligation of one or both of these contracts.
It is very clear, that in the form in which this case comes before
us; being a writ of error to a statecourt; the plaintiffs in claiming
under either of these rights, must place themselves on the ground of
contract, and cannot support themselves upon the principle, that the
law divests vested rights. It is well settled by the decisions of this
Court, that a state law may be retrospective in its character, and
may divest vested rights; and yet not violate the constitutioh of the
United States, unless it also impairs the obligation of a contract. In
2 Peters, 413; Satterlee v. Mathewson; this Court, in -speaking of
the state law then before them, and interpreting the article in the
constitution of the United States which forbids the states to pass
laws impairing the obligation of contracts, uses the following language. "It (th state law) is said to be retrospective; be it so. But
retrospective laws which do :iot irhpair the obligation of contracts,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

or partake of the character of ex post facto laws, are not condemned
or forbidden by any part of that instrument," (the constitution of the
United States). And in another passage in the same case, the Court
say; "the objection, however, most pressed upon the Court, and
relied upon by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, was, that the
effect of this act was to divest rights which were vested by law in
Satterlee. There is certainly no part of the constitution of the
"United States, which applies to a state law of this description; nor
are we aware of any decision of this, or of any circuit court, which
has condemned such a law, upon this ground, provided its effect be
not to impair the obligation of a contract." The same principles
were reaffirmed in this Court, in the late case of Watson and others
v. Morcer, decided in 1834, 8 Pet. 110; "as to the first point, (say
the- Court,) it is clear that this Court has no right to pronounce an
act of the state legislature void, as contrary to the constitution of the
United States, from .the mere fact that it divests antecedent vested
rights of property. The constitution of the United. States does not
prohibit the states from passing retrospective laws, generally; but
onlyex post facto laws."
After these solemn decisions of this Court, it is apparent that the
plaintiffs in error cannot sustain themselves here, either upon the
ferry right, or the charter to the bridge; upon the ground that vested
rights of property have been divested by the legislature: -And
whether they claim under the ferry right, or the charter t( the
bridge, they must show that the title which they claim, was acquired
by contract, and that the terms of that contract, have been violated
by the charter to the Warren Bridge. In other words, they must
show that the state had entered into a contract with 'them, or those
under whom they claim, not to establish a free bridge at the ,place
where the Warren Bridge is erected. Such, and such only, are the
principles upon which the plaintiffs in error, can claim relief in this
case.
The nature and extent of the ferry right granted to Harvard college, in 1650, must depend upon the laws of Massachusetts; and the
character and extent of this right has been elaborately discussed. at
the bar. But in the view which the Court take of the case before
them, it is not necessary to express any opinion on these questions.
For assuming that the grant to Harvard college, and the charter to
the Bridge company, were both contracts, and that the ferry right
was as extensive and exclusive as the plaintiffs contend for; still they

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al4

cannot enlarge the privileges granted to the bridge, unless it can be
shown, that the rights of Harvard college in this ferry-have, by assignment, or in some other way, been transferred to the proprietors
of the Charles River Bridge, and still remain in existence, vested in
them, to the same extent with that in which they were held and enjoyed by the college before the bridge was built.
It has been strongly pressed upon- the Court, by the plaintiffs in
error, that these rights are still existing, and are now held by the
proprietors of the bridge. If this franchise still exists, there must
be somebody possessed of authority to use it, and to keep the ferry.
Who could now lawfully set up a ferry where the old one was kept?
The bridge was built in the same place, and its abutments occupied
the landings of the ferry. The transportation of passengers in boats,
from landing to landing, -mas no longer possible; and the ferry was
as effectually destroyed, as if a convulsion of nature had made.there
a passage of dry land. The ferry then, of necessity, ceased to exist,
as soon as the bridge was erected; and when the ferry itself was destroyed, how can rights which were incident to it, be supposed to
survive? The exclusive privileges, if they had such, must follow the
fate of'the ferry, and can have no legal existence without it--and if
the ferry right had been assigned by the college, in due and legal
form, to the proprietors of the bridge, they themselves extinguished
that right, when they erected the bridge in its place. It is not supposedby any one, that the Bridge company have a right to keep a
ferry. No such right is claimed for them, nor can be claimed for
them, under their charter to erect a bridge-and it is difficult to imagine how ferry rights can be held by a cqrporation, or an'individual,
who have no right to keep a ferry. It is clear, that the incident
must follow the fate of the principal, and the privilege connected with
property, cannot survive the destruction of the-property; and if the
ferry right in Harvard college was exclusive, and had been assigned
to the proprietors of the bridge, the privilege of exclusion could -not
temain in the hands of their assignees, if those assignees destroy6d
the ferry.
But upon what ground can the'plaintiffs in error contend that the
ferry rights of the college have been transferred to the proprietors of
the bridge? 'If they have been thus transferred, it must be by some
mode-of transfer known to the law; and the evidence relied on to
prove if, can be pointed out in the record. How was it transferred?'
It is not suggested that there ever was, in point of fact, a deed of con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.

veyance executed by the college to the Bridge company. Is there
any evidence in the record from which such a conveyance may, upon
legal principle, be presumed? The testimony before the Court, so far
from laying the foundation for such a presumption, repels it in the
most pqsitive terms. The petition to the legislature, in 1785' on
which the charter was granted, does not suggest an assignment, nor
any agreement or consent on the part of the college; and the petitioners do not appear to have regarded the wishes of that institution,
as by any means necessary to ensure their success. They place their
application entirely on considerations of public interest and public
convenience, and the superior advantages of a communication across
Charles river by a bridge, instead of a ferry. The legislature, in
granting the charter, show, by the language of the law, that they
acted on the principles assumed by the petitioners. The preamble
recites that the bridge "1will be of great public utility;" and that is
the only reason they assign, for passing the law which incorporates
this company. The validity of the charter is not made to depend on
the consent of the college, nor of any assignment or surrender on
their part; and the legislature deal with the subject, as if it were one
exclusively within their own power, and as if the ferry right were
not to be tiansferred to the Bridge company, but to be extinguished
and they appear to have acted on the principle, that the state by
virtue of its sovereign powers and eminent domain, htd a right to
take away the franchise of the ferry; because, in their judgment, the
-public interest and convenience would be better promoted by ,a
bridge in the same place; and upon that principle they proceed to
make a pecuniary compensation to the college, for the franchise thus
*taken away: and as there is an epress reservation of a continuing
pecuniary compensation to the college, when the bridge shall become
the property of the state, and no provision whatever for the rgtoration of the ferry right, it is evident that no such right was intended
to be reserved or continued. The ferry, with all its privileges was
intended'to be forever at an end, and a compensation in money was
given in lieu of it. The college acquiesced in this, arrangement, and
there is proof, in the record, that it was all done with their consent.
Can a deed of assignment to the Bridge company which would keep
alive the ferry rights in their hands&, be presumed under such circumstances? Do not the petition, the law of incorporation, and the consent of the college to the pecuniary provision made for it in perpjetuity, all repel the notion of an assignment of its rights to the Bridge

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

company, and prove that every party to this proceeding, intended
that its franchises, whatever they were, should be resumed by the
state, and be no longer held by any individual, or corporation? With
such evidence before us, there can be no ground for presuming a
conveyance to the plaintiffs. There was no reason for such a conveyance. There was every reason against it; and the arrangements
proposed 'by the charter to the bridge, could not have been carried
into full effect, unless the rights of the ferry were entirely extinguished.
It is however said, that the payment of the two hundred pounds a
year to the college, as provided for in the law, gives to the proprietors of the bridge an equitable claim to be treated as the assignees of
their interest; and by substitution, upon chancery principles, to be
clothed with all their rights.
The answer to this argument is obvious. This annual sum was
intended to be paid out of the proceeds of the tolls, which the company were authorized to collect. The amount of the tolls, it must
be presumed, was graduated with a view to this incumbrance, as
well as to every other expenditure to which the company might be
subjected, under the provisions of- their charter. The tolls weie to,
be collected from the public, and it was intended that the expense of
the annuity to Harvard college should be borne by the public; and
it is manifest that it was so borne, from the amount which it is adnmitted they received; until the Warren Bridge was erected. Their
agreement,* therefore, to pay that sum, can give them no equitable
right to be regarded as the assignees of the college, and certainly can
furnish no foundation for presuming a conveyance; and as the proprietors of the bridge are-neither the legal nor equitable assignees of'
the college, it is not easy to perceive how the ferry franchise can be
invoked in aid of their claims, if it were even still a subsisting privilege; and had not been resumed by the state, for the purpose of
building a bridge.in its place.
Neither can the extent of the pre-existing ferry right, whatever
it may have been, have any influence upon the construction of. the
written charter forzthe bridge. It does not, by any means, 'follow,
that because the legislative power in Massachusetts, in 1650, may
have granted to a justly favoured seminary of learning, the exclusive
right of ferry between Boston and Charlestown, they would, in 1785,
give the 'same extensive privilege to another corporation, who were
about to erect a bridge in the same place. The fact that such a right

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Waren Bridge et al.]

was granted to the college, cannot *byany sound rule of construction,
be used to extend the privileges of the Bridge company beyond what
the words of the charter naturally and -legally import. Increased
population longer experienced in legislation, the dikerent character
of the corporations which owned the ferry from that which owned
the bridge, might well have induced a change in the policy of the
state in this respect; and as the franchise of the ferry, and that of the
bridge, are different in their nature, and were each established by
separate grants, which have no words to connect the privileges of
the, one with the privildges of the other; there is no rule of legal interpretation, which would authorize the Court to associate these
grants together, and to infer that any privilege was intended to be
given to the Bridge company, merely because it had been conferred
on the ferry. The charter to the bridge is a written instrument
which must speak for itself, and be interpreted by its own terms.
This brings us to the act of the legislature of Massachusetts, of
1785, by which'the plaintiffs were incorporated by the name of
"'The Proprietors of the Charles River Bridge;" and it is here, and
in the law of 1792, prolonging their charter, that we must look for
the extent'afid nature of the franchise conferred upon the plaintiffs.
"Much has been said in the argument of the principles of construetion by which this law is to be expounded, and what undertaki-gs,
on the part of the- state, may be implied. The Court think there
can be no serious difficulty on that head. It is the grant of certain
franchises by the public to a private corporation, and in a matter
where the public interest is concerned. The rule of construction in
such cases is well settled, both in England, and by the decisions of
our own tribunals. In 2 Barn. & Adol. 792, in the case of the Proprietors of the Stourbridge. Canal against Wheely and others, the
court'say, "the canal having been made under an act of parliament,
the rights of the plaintiffs are derived entirely from that act.- This,
like many other cases, is a bargain between a company of adventurers and the public, the terms of which are e3;pressed in the statute; and the rule of construction in all such cases, is now fully established to be this; that any ambiguity in the terms of the contract,
..must operate against the adventurers, and in favour of the pubhc,
and the plaintiffs can claim nothing that is not clearly given them
by the-act." And the doctrine thus laid down is abundantly sustained by the authorities referred to in this decision. The case itself
Was as strong a one, as could well be imagined, for giving to the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

545

,[Charles River Bridge v. Warreri Bridge et al.)
canal company, by implication, a right to the tolls they demanded.
Their canal had been used by the defendants, to a very considerable
extent, in transporting large quantities of coal. The rights of all
persons to navigate the canal, were expressly secured by the act of
parliament; so that the company could not prevent them from using
it, and the toll demanded was admitted to be reasonable. Yet, as
they only used one of the levels of the canal, and did not pass through
the locks; and the statute, in giving the right to exact toll, had given.
it for articles which passed "through any one or more of the
locks," and had said nothing -s to toll for navigating one of the
levels; the court held that the right to demand toll, in, the latter case,
could not be implied, and that the company were not entitled to recover it. This was a fair case for an equitable construction of the
act'of iicorporation, and for an implied grant; if such a rule of constructi6n could ever be permitted in a law of that description. For
the canal had been made at the expense of the company; the defendants had availed themselves of the fruits of their labours, and used
the canal freely and extensively for their own profit. . Still the right
to exact toll could not be implied, because such -a privilege was not
found in the charter.
Borrowing, as we have done, our system of jurisprudence from
the English law; and having adopted, in every other case, civil and
criminal, its rules for the construction of statutes; is there any thing
iii our local situation, or in the nature of our political institutions,
which should lead us to depart from .the principle where corporations are concerned? Are we to apply to acts of incorporation, a
rule of constructioi differing from that of the English law, and, by
implication, make the terms of a charter in one of the states, more.
unfavourable to the public, than upon an act of parliament, framed
in the same words, would be sanctioned in an English court? Can
any good reason, be assigned for excepting this particular class of
cases from the operation of the general principle; and for introducing
a new and adverse rule of construction in favour of corporations,
while we adopt and adhere to the rules of construction known to the
English common law, in every other case, without exception? We
think iiat; and it would present a singular spectacle, if, while the
courts in England are rdstraining, within the strictest limits, the spirit of monopoly, and exclusive privileges in nature of monopolies,
and confining corporations to the privileges plainly given to them in
their charter; the courts of this country should be found enlarging
VOL. XI.-3 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. V arren Bridge et al.]

these privileges by implication; and construing a statute more unfavourably to the public, and to the rights of the community, than
would be done in a like case in an English court of justice.
But we are not now left to determine, for the first time, the rules
by which public grants are to be construed in this country. The subject has already been considered inthis Court; and the rule of constrdctibn, above stated, fully established. In the case of the United
States v. Arredondo, -8 Pet. 738, the leading case.4 upon this subject
are collected together by the learned judge who delivered the opinion of the Court; and the principle recognised, that in grants by'the
public, nothing passes by implication.
The rule is still more clearly and plainly stated in the case of
Jackson v. Lamphire, in 3 Pet. 289. That was a grant of land by
the staie; and in speaking of this doctride of implied covenants in
grants by the state, the Court use the following language, which in
strikingly applicable to the case at bar:-- - ' The only contract made
by the state, is the grant to John Cornelius, his heirs and assigns, of
the land in question, The patent contaips no covenant to do, or not
to do any further act in relatiop- to the land; and we do not feel ourselves at liberty, in this case, to create one by implication. The
state has not, by this act, impaired the force of the grant; it does not
profess or attempt to take the land from the assigns of Cornelius,
and give it to one not claiming under him; neither does the award
produce that effect; the grant remains in full force the property
conveyed is held by his grantee, and the state asserts no claim to it."
The s.me rule of construction is also stated in the case of Beatty
v. The Lessee of Knowles, 4 Pet. 168; decided in this Court in 1830.
In delivering their opinion in that case, the Court say:-" That a
corporation is strictly limited to the exercise of those powers which
are specifically conferred on it, will not be denied. The exercise of
the corporate franchise being restrictive of individual rights, cannot
be extended beyond the letter and spirit of the act of incorporation."
But the case most analogous to this, and in which the question
,came more directly before the Court, is the case of the Providence
Bank v. Billings & Pittmann, 4 Pet. 514; and which was decided in
1830. In that case, it appeared that the legislature of Rhode Islafid
had-chartered the bank, in the usual form of such acts of incorporation. The. charteri contained no stipulation on the part of the state,
that it would not impose a tax on the bank, nor any reservation of
the right to do so. It was silent on this point. Afterwards, a law

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

547

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

was passed, imposing a tax on all banks in the state; and the right to
impose this tax was resisted by the Providence Bank, upon the
ground, that if the state could impose a tax, it might tax so heavily
as to render the franchise of no value, and destroy the institution;
that the charter was a contract, and that a power which may in effect
destroy the charter is inconsistent with it, and is impliedly renounced by granting it. But the Court said that the taxing power
was of vital importance, and essential to the existence of government; and that the relinquishment of such a power is never to be
assumed. And in delivering the opinion of the Court, the late
Chief Justice states the principle, in the following clear and emphatic.
language. Speaking of the taxing power, he says, If as the whole
community is interested in retaining it undiminished, that community has a right to insist that its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in a case in which the deliberate purpose of the state to
abandon it does not appear." The case now before the Court, is,
in principle, precisely the same. It is a charter from a state. The
act of incorporation is silent in relation to the contested power. The
argument in favour of the proprietors of the Charles River Bridge,
is the same, almost in words, with that used by the Providence
bank; that is, that the power claimed by the state, if it exists, may
be so used as to destroy the value of the franchise they have granted
to the corporation. The argument must receive the same answer;
and the fact that the power has been already exercised so as to destroy the value of the franchise, cannot in any degree affect the principle. The existence of the power does not, and cannot depend
upon the circumstance of its having been exercised or not.
It may, perhaps, be said, that in the case of the Providence Bank,
this Court were speaking of the taxing power; which is of vital importance to the very existence of every government. But the object and end of all government is to promote the -happiness and
prosperity of the community by which it is established; and it can
never be assumed, that the government intended to diminish its
power of accomplishing the end for which it was created. And in a
country like ours, free, active, and enterprising, continually advancing in numbers and wealth; new channels of communication are
daily found necessary, both for travel and trade; and are essential to
the comfort, convenience, and prosperity of the people. A state
ought never to be presumed to surrender this power, because, like
the taxing power, the whole community have an interest in pre-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v..Warren . Bridge et al]

serving it undiminished. And when a corporation alleges, that a
state has surrendered for seventy- years, its power of improvement
and public accommodation, in a great and important line of travel,
along which a vast number of its citizens must daily pass; the community have. a right to insist, in"the. language of this Court above
quoted, "that its abandonment ought not to be presumed' in a case,
in which the deliberate purpose of the state to abandon it does not
appear." The continued existence of a government would be of no
great value, if by implications and presumptions, it was disarmed of
the powers necessary to accomplish the ends of its creation; and the
functions it was designed to perform, transferred to the hands of privileged -corporations. The rule of construction announced by the
Court, was not confined to the taxing power; nor is it so limited in
the opinion delivered. On the .contrary, it was distinctly placed on
the ground that the interests of the community were 'concerned, in
preserving, undiminished, the power then in question; and whenever
any power of the state is aid to be surrendered or diminished, whether it be the'taxing power or any other affecting the public interest,
the same principle applies, and the rule of construction must be the
same. No one will question that the interests of the great body of
the people of the state, would, in this instance, be affected by the surrender of this great line of travel to a single corporation, with' the
right to exact toll, and exclude competition for seventy years. While
the rights of private property are sacredly guarded, we must not forget that the community also have rights, and that the happiness and
well being of every citizen depends on their faithful preservation.
Adopting the rule of construction above stated as the settled one,
we proceed to apply it to the charter of 1785, to the proprietors of
the Charles River Bridge. This act of incorporation ii in the usual
form, and the privileges such as are commonly given to corporation of that kind. It confers on them the ordinary faculties of a
corporation, for the purpose of building the bridge; and establishes
certain rates of toll, which the company are authorized to take.
This is the whole, grant. There is no exclusive privilege given to
them over the waters of Charles river, above or below their bridge.
No right to erect another bridge themselves, nor to prevent other
persons from erecting one. No engagement from the state, that another shall not be erected; and no undertaking not to sanctioii com-'
petition, nor to make improvements that may diminish the amount
of its income. Upon all these subjects the charter is silent; and no-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge-v. Warren Bridge et al.]

thing is said in it about a line of travel, so much insisted on in the
argument, in which they are to have exclusive privileges. No words
are used, from which an intention to grant any of these rights can
be inferred. If the plaintiff is entitled to them, it must be implied,
simply, from the nature of the grant; and cannot be inferred from
the words by which the grant is made.
The relative position of the Warren Bridge has already been described. It does not interrupt the passage over the Charles.River
Bridge, nor make, the way to it or from it less convenient. None
of the faculties or franchises granted to that corporation, have been
revoked by the legislature; and its right to take the tolls granted by
the charter remains unaltered. In short, all the franchises and rights
of property enumerated in the charter, and there mentioned to have
been granted to it, remain unimpaired. But it- income is destroyed
by the Warren Bridge; which, being free, draws off the passengers
and property which would have gone over it, and renders their franchise of no value. This is the gist of the complaint. For it is not
pretended, that the erection of tha Warren Bridge would have done
them any injury, or iii any degree affected their right of property;, if
it had not diminished the amount of their tolls. In order then to entitle themselves to relief, it is necessary to show, that the legislature
contracted not to do the act of which they complain; and that 'they
impaired, or in"other words, violated that contract by the erection of
the Warren Bridge.
The inquiry then is, does the charter contain such a contract on
the part of the state? Is there any such stipulation to be found in that.
instrument? It must be admitted on all hands, that there is noneno words that even relate to another bridge, or to the diminution of
their tolls, or to the line of travel. -If a contract on that subject can
be gathered from the charter, it must be by implication; and cannot
be found in the words used. Can such an agreement be implied?
The rule of construction before stated is an answer to the question.
In charters of this description, no rights are taken from the public,
or given to the corporation, beyond those which the words of the
charter, by their natural and proper construction, purport to convey.
There are no words which import such a contract as the plaintiffs in
error contend for, and none can *be implied; and the same answer
must be given to them that was given b- this Court to the Providence Bank. The whole community are interested in this inquiry,
and they have a right to require that the power of promoting their

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
comfort and convenience, and of advancing the public prosperity, by
providing safe, convenient, and cheap ways for the transportation of
produce, and the purposes of travel, shall not be construed to iave
been surrendered or diminished by the state; unless it shall appear
by plain words, that it was intended to be done.
But the case before the Court is even still stronger against any
such implied contract, as the plaintiffs in error contend for. The
Charles River Bridge was completed in 1786. The time limited for
the duration of the corporation by their original charter, expired in
1826. When, therefore, the law passed authorizing the erection of
the Warren Bridge, the proprietors of Charles River Bridge held
their corporate existence under the law of 1792, which extended
their charter for thirty years; and the rights, privileges, and franchises of the company, must depend upon the construction of the
last mentioned law, taken in connection with the act of 1785.
The act of 1792. which extends the charter of this bridge, incorporates another company to build a bridge over Charles river; furnishing another communication with Boston, and distant only between one and two miles from the old bridge.
The first six sections of this.act incorporate
the proprietors of the
West Boston Bridge, and define the privileges, and describe the duties of that corporafion. In the seventh section there is the' following recital: "And whereas the erection of Charles River Bridge
was a work of hazard-and public utility, and another bridge in the
place of West Boston bridge may diminish the enioluments of
Charles River Bridge; therefore, for the encouragement of ent~rprise," they proceed to extend the charter of the Charle River
Bridge, and to continue it for the term of seventy years from the day
the bridge was completed; subject to the conditions prescribed in the
original act, and to be entitled to the same tolls. It appears, then,
that by the same act that extended this charter, the legislature established another bridge, which they knew would lessen its profits;
and this, too, before the expiration of the first charter, and only seven
years after it was granted; thereby showing, that the state did not suppose that, by the terms it had used in the first law, it had deprived
itself of the power of making such public improvements as might
impair the profits of the Charles River Bridge; and from the language
used in the clauses of the law by which the'charter is extended, it
would seem, that the legislature were especially careful' to exclude
any inference that the extension was made upon the ground of corn-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

promise with the Bridge Company, or as a compensation for righfS
impaired.
On the contrary, words are cautiously employed to exclude that
conclusion; and the -extension is declared to be granted as a reward
for the hazard they had run, and "for the encouragement of enterprise.'4 The extension was given because the company had under,taken and executed a work of doubtful success; and the improvements which the legislature then contemplated, might diminish the
emoluments they had expected to receive from it. It results from
this statement, that the legislature in the very law extending the
charter, asserts its rights to authorize improvements over Charles
river which would take off a portion of the travel from this bridge
and diminish its profits; and the Bridge Company accept the renewal
thus given, ana thus carefully connected with 'this assertion of the
right on the part of the state. Can they, when holding their corporate existence under this law, and deriving their franchises altogether
from it; add to the privileges expressed in their charter an implied
agreement, which is in, direct conflict with a portion of the law from
which they derive their corporate existence? Can the legislature be
presumed to have taken upon themselves an implied obligation, contrary to its own acts and declarations contained in the same law?
It would be difficult to find a case justifying such an irnplication,
even between individuals; still less will it be found where sovereign
rights are concerned, and where the interests of a whole community
would be deeply affected by such an implication. It would, indeed,
be a strong exertion of judicial power, acting upon its own views of
what justice required, and the parties ought to have done; to raise,
by a sort of judicial coercion, an implied contract, and infer it from
the nature of the very instrument in which the legislature appear to
have taken pains to use words which disavow and repudiate any intention, on the part of the state, to make such a contract.
Indeed, the practice and usage of almost every state in the Union,
old enough to have commenced the work of internal improvement,
is opposed to the doctrine contended for on the part of the plaintiffs
in error. Turnpike roads have been made in succession, on the same
line of travel; the later ones interfering materially with the profits of
the first. These corporations have, in some instances, been utterly
ruined by the introduction of newer and better modes of transporta.tion, and travelling. In some cases, rail roads have rendered the
turnpike roads on the same line of travel so entir sly useless, that the

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Brigge et al.]

franchise of the turnpike corporation is not worth preserving. Yet
in none of these cases have the corporations supposed that their
privileges were invaded, or any contract violated on the part of the
state. Amid the multitude of cases which have occurred, and have
been daily occurring for the last forty or fifty years, this is the first
instance in which such an implied contract has been contended for,
and this Court called upon to infer it from an ordinary act of incorporation, containing nothing more than the usual stipulations and
provisions to be found in every such law. The absence of any such
controversy, when there must have been so many occasions to give
rise to it, proves that neither states, nor individuals, nor corporations,
ever imagined that such a contract could be implied from such charters. It shows that the men who voted for these laws, never imagined that they were forming such a contract; and if we maintain
that they have made it, we must create it by a legal fiction, in opposition to the truth of the fact, and the obvious inte.ition of the party.
We cannot deal thus with the rights reserved to the states; and br
,legal intendments and nfere technical reasoning, take away from
them any portion of that power over their own internal police and
improvement, which is so necessary to their well being and prosperity.
And what would be the fruits of this doctrine of implied contracts
on the part of the states, and of property in a line of travel by a
corporation, if it should now be sanctioned by this Court? To what
results would it lead us? If it is to be found in the charter to this
bridge, the same process of reasoning must discover it, in the various
acts which have been passed, within the last forty years, for turnpike
companies.- And what is to be the extent of the -privileges of exclusion on the different sides of the road? The counsel who have
so ably argued this case, have not attempted to.define it by any certain boundaries. How far. must the new improvement be distant
from the old one? How near may you approach without invading
its rights in the privileged line? If this Court should establish the
principles nbw contended for, what is to become of the numerous
rail roads established on the same line of travel with turnpike companies; and which have rendered the franchises of the turnpike 'corporations of no value? Let it once be understood that such charters
carry with them these implied contracts, and give this un]-nown and
undefined property in a l'ne of travelling; and you will soon find the
old turnpike corporations awakening from their sleep, and calling

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al]

upon this Court to put down the improvements which have taken
their place. The millions of property which have been invested in
rail roads and canals, upon lines of travel which had been before oc-.
cupied by turnpike corporations, will be put in jeopardy. We shall
be thrown back to the improvements of the last century, and obliged
to stand still, until the claims of the old turnpike corporations shall
be satisfied; and they shall consent to permit these states to avail
themselves of the lights of modern science, and to partake of the
benefit of those improvements which are now adding to the wealth
and prosperity, and the convenience and comfort, of every other part
of the civilized world. Nor is this all. This Court will find itself
compelled to fix, by some arbitrary rule, the width of this new kind
of property in a line of travel; for if such a right of property exists,
we have no lights to guide us in marking out its extent, unless,
indeed, we resort to the old feudal grants, and to the exclusive rights
of ferries, by prescription, between towns; and are prepared to decide that when a turnpike road from one town to another, had been
made, no rail road or canal, between these two points, could afterwards be established. This Court sre not prepared to sanction principles which must lead to such results.
Many other questions, of the deepest importance, have been raised
and elaborately discussed in the argument. It is not necessary, for
the decision of this case, to express our opinion upon them; and the
Court deem it proper to avoid volunteering an opinion on any question, involving the construction of the constitution, where the case
itself does not bring the question directly before them,, and make it
their duty to decide upon it.
Some questions, also, of a purely technical character, have been
nade and argued, as to the form of proceeding and the right to relief. But enough appears on the record to britig out the great question in contest; and it is the interest of all parties concerned, that the
real controversy should be settled without further delay: and as the
opinion of the Court is pronounced on the main question in dispute
here, and disposes of the whole case, it is altogether unnecessary to
enter upon the examination of the forms of proceeding, in which the
pirties have brought it before the Court.
The judgment of the supreme judicial court of the commonwealth
of Massachusetts, dismissing the plaintiffs' bill, must, therefore, be
afflimed, with costs.
VOL. XI.-4 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Mr. Justice M'LEAN.
This suit in chancery was commenced in the supreme court of
Massachusetts, where the bill'was dismissed by a decree, pro forma,
the members of that court being equally divided in opinion; and a
writ of error was taken to this Court, on the ground, that the right
asserted by the complainants, and which has been violated under the
charter of the respondents, is protected by a special provision in the
federal constitution.
The complainants' right isfounded on an act of the legislature.of
Massachusetts, passed March 9th, 1735; which incorporated certain
individuals, and authorized them to erect a bridge over Charles river,
a navigable stream between Boston and Charlestown, and an amendatory act, passed in 1791, extending the charter thirty years.
As explanatory of this right, if not the ground on which it in part
xests, a reference is made to an ancient *ferry, over the same river,
which was held by Harvard college; and the right of which was
transferred, it is contended, in equity, if not in law, to the Bridge
Company.
The wrong complained of, consists in the construction of a new
bridge, over the same river; under a recent, act of the legislature,
within a few rods of the old one, and which takes away the entire
profits of the old bridge.
The act to establish the Charles River Bridge required it to be
constructed within a limited time, of certain dimensions, to be kept
in repair, and to afford certain specified accommodations. to the
public. The company were authorized to charge certain rates of
toll; and they were required to pay, annually, two hundred pounds
to Harvard college. The first charter was granted for forty years.
The' facts proved in the case show that a bridge of the description required by the act of 1785, was constructed within the time
limited; that the annual peyment has been made to the college; and
that, in every other respect, the corporation has faithfully performed
the conditions and duties enjoined on it.
It is contended that the charter granted to the respondents,
violates the obligation of that which had been previously granted to
the complainants; and that, consequently, it is in conflict with that
provision of the constitution which declares, that no "state shall pass
any law impairing the obligation of tontracts."
In the investigation of this case, the first inquiry which seems na-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

555

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et a.]

turally to arise is as to the nature and extent of the right asserted by
the complainants.
As early as the yea 1631; a ferry was establi hed across Charles
river by the colonial government of Massachusetts Bay. In 1640,.
the general court say, "that the ferry is granted to the 'college."
From this time the profits of the ferry were received by the college,
and it was required by various statutes, under certain penalties, to
keep certain boats, &c., for the accommodation of the public. This
duty was performed by the college; and it continued to occupy the
ferry until the Charles River Bridge was constructed.
From the above act of the general court, and others which have
been shown, and the unmolested use of the feiry for more than one
hundred and forty years, by the college, it would seem, that its
right to this use had received all the sanctions necessary to con-,
stitute a valid title. If the right was not founded strictly on prescription, it rested on a basis equally unquestionable.
At the time this ferry was established, it was the only public
communication between Boston and Charlestown. These places, and
especially the latter, were then small; and no greater accommodation
was required than was afforded by the ferry. -Its franchise was not
limited, it is contended, to the ferry ways; but extended to the whole
line of travel between the two towns.
iltcannot be very material to inquire whether this ferry was
originally public or private property; or whether the landing places
were vested in the college, or their use only, and .the profits of the
ferry. The beneficial interest in the ferry was held by the college,
and-it received the tolls.
The regulation of the ferry, it being a matter of public concern,
belonged to the government. It prescribed the number of boats to
be kept, and the attendance necessary to be given; and on a failure
to comply with these requisitions, the college would have been subjected to the forfeiture of the franchise, and the other penalties provided by statute.
Was this right of ferry, with all its immunities, transferred to the
Charles River Bridge Company?
It is not contended that there is any express assignment of this
right by deed or otherwise; but the complainants claim that the
evidence of the transfer is found in the-facts of the case. Before
the charter was granted, the college was. consulted on the subject;
so soon'as the bridge was constructed, the use of the ferry ceased;

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge y. Warren Bridge et al.)

and the college has iegularly received from the complainants the
annuity of two hundred pounds. This acquiescence, it is contended,
taken in coilnection'with the other facts in the case, goes to establish
the relinquishment of the right to the ferry for the annual compensation required-to be paid under the charter.
That there was a substitution of the bridge for the ferry, with the
consent of the college, is evident; but there seems to have, been no
assignment of the rights of the ferry. The original bridge charter
was granted for forty years; at the expiration of which period, the
property of the bridge was to revert to the commonwealth, "saving
to*the college a reasonable and-annual compensation for the annual
income of the ferry, which they might have received, had not said
bridge been erected."
Had the bridge been destroyed by fire or otherwise, there was no
investiture of right to the ferry in the complainants,* that would
have enabled them to keep up the ferry, and realize the profits of it.
On the destruction of the bridge, the college, it is presumed, might
have resumed all the rights and responsibilities attached to the ferry.
At least, it is very clear, that these rights and responsibilities would
not have devolved on the complainants. They stipulated to afford
a different, accommodation to the public. If then these rights could
not have been claimed and exercised by the complainants, under
such circumstances; how can they be considered as enlarging, or
in any way materially affecting the franchise under the charter of
1785?
That the franchise of a ferry at common law, and in the state of
Massachusetts, extends beyond the landing places, is very clear from
authority. 10 Petersdorf, 53; 13 Vin. 513; Willes' Rep. 512, note;
12 East, 330; 6 Barn. & Cres. 703; Year Book, Hen. 6, 22; Rolles'
Ab. 140; Fitz. 428. n; Com. Digest, Market, C. 2; Piscary, B. Action
on the Case, A; 3 Blk. 219; Nott & M'Cord,. 387; 2 Saund. 172; 6
Mod. 229; 2 Vent. 344; 3 Levinz. 220; Com. Dig. Patent, F. 4,5, 6,
7; 2 Saund. 72, n. 4; 2 Inst. 406; Chit.,Pre. 12 chap. 3; 10 chap.- 2;
3 Salk. 198; Willes, 512; 4 Term, 666; Saund. 14; Croke, E. 710.
The annuity given to the college was a compensation for the profits of the ferry; and Shows a willingness by the college to suspend
its rights to the ferry, durifig the time specified in the act. And if
indeed jt might be construed into an abandonment of the ferry, still
it wias an abandonment to the public, on the terms, specified, for a
better accommodation.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

The bridge was designed not only to answer all the purposes of
the ferry, but to enlarge the public convenience. - The profits contemplated by the corporators, were not only those which had been
realized from the ferry, but such as would arise from the increased
facilities to the public.
If there was no assignment of the ferry franchise to the complainants, its extent cannot be a matter of importance in this investigation:
nor is it necessary to inquire, into the effect of an assignment, under
the circumstances of the case, if ithad been made.
There is no provision in the act of incorporation vesting the company with the privileges of the ferry. 'A reference is made to it
merely with the view of fixing the site of the bridge. The right and
obligations of the complainants must be ascertained by the construction of the act of 1785.
This act must be considered in the light of a contract, and tlhe law
of contracts applies to it. In one sense it is a law, having passed
through all the forms of legislation, and received the necessary sanctions; but it is essentially a contract, as to the obligations. imposed
by it, and the privileges it confers.
Much discussion has been-had at the bar, as to the rule of construing a charter or grant, and many authorities have been referred
to on this point. In ordinary cases, a grant is construed favourable
to the grantee, and against the grantor. But it'is.contended, that in
governmental grants, nothing is taken by implication.
The broad rule, thus laid down, cannot be sustained by authority.
If an office be granted by name, all the immunities of that office are
taken by implication. Whatever is essential to the enjoyment of
the thing granted, must be taken by implication. And this rule
holds good, whether the grant emanate from the royal prerogative of
the king in England, or under an act of legislation in this country.
The general, rule is, that "1a grant of the king, at the suit of the
grantee, is to be construed most beneficially for the king, and most
strictly against the grantee;" but grants obtained as a matter of special favour of the king, or on a consideration, are more licerally construed. Grants of limited political powers are construed strictly.
Corn. Dig. tit. Grant, E. 5; 2 Dane's Ab. 683; 1 Nott & M-Cord,
Stark v. M'Gowan; Pop. 79; Moore, 474; 8 Coke, 92; 6 Barn. &
Cres. 703; 5 lb. 875: 3 M. & S. 247; Hargrave, IS to 23; Angel
on Tide Water, 106, 7; 4 Burr. 2161; 4 Durn. & East. 439; 2 Bos.

SUPREME COURT.
[Chatles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

& Pul. 472; 1 Term, 669; 1 Con. Rep. 382; 17 Johns. 195; 8 M. &
S. 247; 6 Mass. 437; 1 Mass. 231; 17 Mass. 289; Angel, 108; 4
Mass. 140, 522; Bac. Pre. T. 2; Plow. 336, 7; 9 Coke, 30; 1 Vent.

409; Croke J. 179; Dyer, 30; Saville, 132; 10 Coke, 112; Com.
Dig. Gtant, 9, 12; Bar. tit. Prerog. 2; 5 Barn. & Cres. 875; 1
Mass. 3515.

Where the legislature, with a view of advahcing the public interest
by the constiuction of a bridge, a turnpike road, or any other work
.of public ,tjlity, grants a charter, no reason is perc6ived why such
a charter should not be construed by the same rule that governs contracts between individuals.
The public, through their agent, enter into the contract with the
company; and a valuable consideration is received in the construction of the contemplated improvement. This consideration is paid
by the company, and sound policy requires, that its rights should be
ascertained and protected, by-the same rules as are applied to private
contracts.
In the argument, great reliance was placed on the case of the Stourbridge Canal v. Whee]ey and others; 2 Barn. & Ald. 792.
The question in this case was, whether the plaintiffs had a right to
charge toll in certain cases; and lord Tenterden said, "the canal
having been made under the provisions of an act of parliament, the
rights of the plaintiff are derived entirely from that act. This, like
many other leaseg, is a bargain between a company of adventurers,
and the public, the terms of which are expressed in the statute; and:
the rule of construction in all such cases, is now fully established to
be- this-that any ambiguity in the terms of the contract must operate against the adventurers, and in favour of the public; and the
plaintiffs can claim nothing, which is not clearly given to them by
the act."
This is relied on to show, that nothing is taken, under such a grant,
by implication or inference. His lordship says, the right must he
clearly giyen-he does not say expressly given, which would preclude-all inference. In another part of the same opinion, his lordship says, "Now it is quite certain that the company have no right,
expressly given, to receive any compensation, except the tonnage
paid for goods carried through some of the locks on the- canal, or the
collateral cuts; and it is therefore incumbent upon them to show
that they have a right, clearly given by inference, from some of the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

other causes." May this right be shown by inference; and is not
this implication?
. The doctrine laid down in this case, is simply this; that the right
to charge the toll, must be given expressly, or it must be clearly
made out by inference. Does not this case establish the doctrine of
implication, as applied to the construction of grants? Is not the
right to pass by-laws incident to a corporation? A right cannot be
claimed by a corporation, under ambiguous terms. It must clearly
appear to have been granted, either in express terms, olr
by inference,
as stated by lord Tenterden.
A corporate power to impose a tax on the land of the company,
as considered in the case of Beatty v. The Lessee of Knoel'es, 4
Peters, 168, must, in its nature, be strictly construed; and so in all
cases where corporate powers, in the nature of legislation, are exercised. In that case, the directors were authorized to impose a ,tax
under certain circumstances; and the Court held that ihey had no
power to impose the tax under-other circumstances.
Charles river being a navigable stream, any'obstructions to its
navigation, by,the erection of a bridge, or any other work, wouid
have been punishable, unless authorized by law.
By the act,of 1785, the complainants were authorized to build the
bridge, elect their officers, &c. and charge certain rates of toll. The
power to tax'passengers, was the consideration on which the expense
of building the bridge, lighting it, &c. and keeping it in repair, was
incurred. The grant then of tolls, was the essential part of the franchise.
That course of reasoning which would show the consideration to
consist in any thing short of this power to tax, and the profit arising
therefrom, is too refined for practical purposes. The builders of the
bridge had no doubt a desire to increase the public accommodatioji:
but they looked chiefly to a profitable investment of their funds; and
that part of the charter which secured this object, formed the consideration on which the work was performed.
But it is said, there was no exclusive right given; and that consequently the legislature might well cause another bridge to be built,
whenever, in their opinion, the public convenience required it.
On the other hand, it is insisted that tUe franchise of the bridge
was as extensive as that of the ferry; and that the grant of this franchise having been made by the legislature, it had no power to grant
a part of it to the new bridge.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

That this part of the cast presents considerations of great importance, and of-much difficulty, cannot be denied. To inquire into the
validity of a solemn act of legislation is at all times a task of much
delicacy; but it is peculiarly so, when such inquiry is made by a
federal tribunal, and relates to the act of a state legislature. There
are cases, however, in the investigation of which such an inquiry
becomes a duty; and then no court can shrink, nor desire to shrink
from its performanc- Under such circumstances, this duty will
always be performed with the high respect due w, a branch of the
government, which, more than any other, is clotned with discretionary powers, and influenced by the popular will.
The right granted to the Charles River Bridge Company, is, in its
nature, to a certain extent, exclusive; but to measure this extent,
.presents the chief difficulty. If the boundaries of this right could be
clearly 'established, it would scarcely be contended by any one, that
the legislature could, without compensation, grant to another company the whole or any part of it.
As well might it undertake to grant a tract of land, although an
operative grant had been previously made for the same land. In
such a case the second grant would be void, on the ground that the
legislature had parted with the entire interest in the premises. As
agent of the public it had passed the title to the first grantee; and
having done so, it could convey no right by its second grant.
The principle is the same in regard to the question under consideration. If the franchise granted io the complainants extended beyond the new bridge; it was as much above the power of the legislature to make the second grant, as it would be to grant a part of a
tract of land for which a patent had been previously and regularly
issued,
The franchise, though incorporeal in legal contemplation, has body
and extension; and having been granted, is not less scrupulously
guarded by the. principles - of law than an interest in the soil. It is
a substantive right in law, and can no more be resumed by the legislature, when once granted, than any other right.
But would it not be unsafe, it is suggested, for the judicial authority to interpose and limit this exercise of legislative discretion?
The charter of the Warren Bridge, it is said, was not hastily
granted; that all the circumstances of the case, year after year, were.
duly examined by the legislatute; and at last the act of incorporation
was passed, because, in the judgment of the legislature, the public

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

561

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

accommodation required it; and it is insisted that the grant to the
complainants was necessarily subject to the exercise of this discretion.
It'is undoubtedIy the province of the legislature to provide for.
the public exigencies, and the utinost respect is always due to their
acts; and the validity of those acts can only be questioned judidially,
where they infringe Upon private ights. At the time the Charles
River Bridge was built, the population of Boston and Charlestown
was small in comparison with their present numbers; and it is probable that the icrease has greatly exceeded any calculation made at
the time. The bridge was sufficient to accommodat6 the public; and
it was, perhaps, believed that it would be sufficient, during the time
limited in the charter. If, however, the increased population and
intercodrse between these towns and the surrounding country, required greater accommodation, than was affofded by the bridge,
there can be no doubt that the legislature could make provision
for it.
On the part of the complainants' counsel it is contended, if increased: facilities of intercourse between these places were required
by the public, the legislature was bound in good faith to give the
option to the Charles River Bridge Company, either to enlarge their
bridge, or construct a new one, as might be required. And this
argument rests upon the ground that the complainants' franchise
included the whole line of travel between the two places.
Under this view of their rights, the company proposed to the legislature, before the new charter was granted to the respondents, to do
any thing which should be deemed requisite for the public accommodation.
In support of the comiplainants' right, in this respect,'a case is referred to in 7 Barn. and Cres. 40; where it is laid down, that the
lord of an ancient market may, by law, have a right to prevent other
persons from selling goods in their private houses, situated within
the limits of his franchise: and also to 5 Barn. and Cressw. .363.
These cases show, that the grant to the lord of the market ig exclusive; yet, if the place designated for the market- is made too
small by the act of the owner, any person may sell in the vicinity
of the market, without incurring any responsibility to the lord of the
market.
Suppose the 'legislature had passed a law requiring the complainVOL. XI.-4 B

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

ants to enlarge their bridgei or construct a new one, would they have
been bound by it? Might they have not replied to the legislature,
we have constructed our briage of the dimensions required by the
charter; we have, therefore, provided for the public all the accommodation which we are bound to give. And if the legislature could
not require this of the complainants, is it not clear that they cannot
assert an exclusive claim to the advantages of an enlarged accommodation. In common with other citizens, they.submitted propositions
to ther legislature, but -they could urge no exclusive right to afford
any accommodation beyond what was given by their bridge.
When, the Charles River Bridge was built, it was considered a
work of great magnitude. It was, perhaps, the first experiment
made to throw a bridge of such length over an arm of the sea;
and in the construction of it great risk and expense were incurred.
The, unrestricted profits contemplated, were necessary to induce or
justify the undertaking. Suppose within two or three years after
the Charles River Bridge had been erected, the legislature had authorized another bridge to be built alongside of it, which could only
accommodate the same line of travel. Whether the profits of such
a bridge were realised by a company or by the state, would not the
act of the legislature have been deemed .so gross a violation of the
rights of the complainants, as to be condemned by the common sense
and common justice 'of mankind?
Thc plea, that the timbers or stone of the new bridge did not interfere with the old one, could not, in such a case, have availed.
The -ialue of the bridge is not estimated by the quantity of timber
and stone it may, contain, but by the travel over it. And if one-half
or two-thirds of this travel, all of which might conveniently have
passed-over the old bridge, be dravn to 'the new one; the injury is
much greater than would have been the destruction of the old bridge.
A reconstruction of the bridge, if destroyed, would secure to the
company the ordinary profits; but the division or destruction of the
profits, by the new bridge, runs to the end of the charter of the old
one. And shall it be said, that the greater injury, the diversion of
the profits, may be inflicted on the company with impunity; while
for the less injury, the destruction of the briage, the law would give
an adequate remedy?
I am not here about to apply the principles which have been long
established in England, for the protection of ancient ferries, markets,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

s, mills, &c. In my opinion, this doctrine, in its full extent, is
not adapted to the cohdition of our country. And it is one of -the
most valuable traits in the common law, that it forms a rule of right,
only in cases and under circumstances adapted to its principles.
In this country there are few rights founded on prescription. The
settlement of our country is Comparatively recet; and its rapid
growth in popukatoa and advance in improvements have prevented,
in a great degree, interests from being acquired by immemorial
usage. Such evidence of right is found in countries where society
has become more fixed, and improvements are in a great degree stationary. But without the aid of the principles of the common law,
we should be at a loss how to constru - the charter of the complainants, and ascertain their rights.
Although the complainants cannot fix their franchise by showing
the extent of the ferry rights; yet, under the principles -f the common law, which have been too long settld in Massachusetts, in my
opinion, to be now shaken; they may claim their franchise beyond
the timbers of their bridge. If .they may go beyond these, it is
contended that no exact limit can be prescribed. -And because it
my be difficult, and perhaps impracticable, to designate with precision the exact limit; does it follow that the complainants' franchise
is as narrow as their bridge.
Is it more difficult to define, with reasonable certainty, the'extent
of this right, than it is, in many other cases, to determine the character of an offence against the laws, from established facts. What
shall constitute a public or private nuisance? What measure of individual wrong shall be sufficient to convict a person 3f the latter? And
what amount of inconvenience to the public shall constitute the
former?
Would it be more difficult to define the complainants' franchise,
than to answer these questions? And yet public and private nuisances are of daily cognizance in courts of justice. How have ferry
rights, depeiiding upon the same principles, been protected for centuries in England?
The principles of the common law are not apj'lied with that mathematical precision, of Whi%3h the principles of the civil law are susceptible. But if the complainants' franchise cannot be measured by
feei and inches, it does not follow that they have no rights.
In determining upon facts which establish rights or wrongs, pub-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

lic as well as private, an exercise of judgment is indispensable; the
facts and circumstances of each case are considered, and a sound and
legal conclusion is drawn from them.
The bridge of the complainant- was substituted t6r the ferry; and
it was designed to accommodrte the course of travel between Boston
and Charlestown. *This was the view of t6e legislature in granting
the charter,. and of the complainants in accepting it. And if it be
admitted that the great increase of population has required the erection of other bridges than that which is cofiplained of in this suit,
over this arm of the sea, that can afford no protection to the defendants. If the interests of the complainants have been remotely injured by the construction of other bridges, does that give a license
-to the defendants to inflict on them a more direct and greater
injury? By an extension of the complainants' charter, thirty years,
an indemnity was given and accepted by ihem for the construction
of the West Boston bridge.
The franchise of the complainants must extend a reasonable distance above and below the. timbers of their bridge. This distance
must not be so great as to subject the public to serious inconvenience,
nor so limited as to authorize a ruinous competition. It may not be
necessary to say, that for a remote injury the law would afford a
remedy; but where the injury is ruinous, no doubt can exist on the
subject. The new bridge, while tolls were charged, lessened the
profits of the old one about .one-half, or two-thirds; and now that
it is a free bridge by law, the tolls received by the complainants
are merely nominal. On what principle of law can such an act be
sustained? Are rights acquired under a solemn contract with the
legislature, held-by a more uncertain tenure than other rights? Is
the legislative power so omnipotent in such cases, as to resume what
it has granted without compensation? It will scarcely be contended,
that if the legislature may do this, indirectly, it may not do it directly. If it rhay do it through the instrumentality of the Warren
Bridge Company, it may dispense with that instrumentality.
But it is said that any check to the exercise of this discretiori by
the legislature, will operate against the advance of improvements.
Will not a different effect be produced? If 6very bridge or turnpike
company were liable to have their property wrested from them,
under an act of the legislature, Without compensation; could much
value be attached to such property? Would prudent men expend
their funds in making such improvements?

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

566

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Can it be considered as an injurious check to legislation, that private property shall not be taken for public purposes, without compensation? This restriction is imposed by the federal constitution,
and by the constitutiofis of the respective states.
But it has been urged that the property of the complainants has
not been taken, as the tolls in anticipation cannot be denominated
property. The entire value of the bridge consists in the right of
exacting toll. Is not this right property, and cannot its value be
measured? Do not past receipts and increased intercourse, afford a
rule by which future receipts may be estimated? And if the whole
of these tolls are taken under an act of the legislature, is not the property of the complainants taken?
The charter of the complainants has been compared to oa bank
charter, which implies no obligation on the legislature not to establish another bank in the same place. This is often done; and-it is
contended, that fbr the consequential injury done the old bank by
lessening its profits, no one supposes that an action would lie; nor
that the second charter is unconstitutional. This case bears little or
no analogy to the one under consideration. A bank may wind up
its business, or refuse its discounts, at the pleasure of its stockholders
and directors. They are under no obligation to carry on the operations of the institution, or afford any amount of accommodation to
the public. Not so with the complainants. Under heavy penalties
they are obliged to keep their bridge in repair, have it lighted, the
gates kept open, and to pay two hundred pounds annually to the
college. This the complainants are bound to do, although the tolls
received should scarcely pay for the oil consumed in the lamps of
the bridge.
The sovereign power of the state has taken the tolls of the complainants, but it has left them in possession of their bridge. Its
stones and timbers are untouched, and the roads that lead to it, remain unobstructed.
One of the- counsel in the defence, with emphasis,.declared, that
the legislature can no more repeal a charter, than it can lead a citizen
The legislature- cannot bring a citizen to the block;
to the blocl
may it open his arteries? It cannot cut off his head; may it bleed
him to death? Suppose the legislature had authorized the constrhetion of an impassable wall, which encircled the ends of the bridge,
so as to prevent passengers from crossing on it. The wall may be

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

as distant from the abutments of the bridge as the Warren Bridge.
Would this be an infringement of the plaintiffs' franchise? On the
principles contended for, how could it be so considered? If the
plaintiffs' franchise is limited to their bridge, then they are not injured by the, construction of -this wall; or, at least, they are without
remedy.. This wall would be no more injurious to the plaintiffs
than the free bridge. And the plaintiffs might be told, as alleged
in this case, the wall does not touch your bridge. You are left in
the full exercise of your corporate faculties. You have the same
right to charge toll as you ever had.
The legislature had the same right to destroy the plaintiffs' bridge
by authorizing the construction of the wall, as they had by authorizing the construction of a free bridge. In deciding this question
we are not to consider what may be the law on this subject in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia or Ohio; but what it is in Massachusetts. And in that state, the doctrine has been sanctioned that
associations of men to accomplish enterprises of importance to the
public, and who have vested their funds on the public faith, are entitled to protection. That their rights do not become the sport of
popular excitement, no more than the rights of other citizens. The
case under consideration forms, it is believed, a solitary exception to
this rule; whether we look to the action of the legislature, or the
opinions of the distinguished jurists of the state, on the bench, and at
the bar.
The expense of keeping up the bridge, and paying-the annuity to
the college, is all that is left by the state to the complainants. Had
this been. proposed. or any thing which might lead to such a result,
soon after the construction of the complainants' bridge, it is not probable, that it would have been sanctioned; and y&t it might as well
have been done Ehen as now. A free bridge thea ouldhave-been
no more injurious to the plaintiffs than it is now. No reflection is
intended on the commonwealth of Massachusetts, which is so renowned in our-history for its intelligence, -virtue and patriotism. She
wil not withhold justice, when the rights of the complainants shall
be established.
Much reliance is placed on the argument, in the case reported in
4 Peters, 560, in which it was decided, that a law of the state of
Rhode Island, imposir . a taxupon banks, is constitutional. As these
banks were chartered by the state, it was contended that there was
no implied obligation on the legislature not to tax them. That if

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

567

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

this power could be exercised, it might be carried so far as to destroy
the banks. But this Court sustained the right of the state to tax.
The analogy between the two cases is not perceived. Does it fpllow, because the complainants' bridge is not exempt from taxation,
that it may be destroyed, or its value greatly impaired by any other
means? The power to tax extends to every description of property
held within the state, which is not specially exempted; and there is
no reason or justice in withholding from the operation of this power,
property held directly under the grant of the state.
The complainants' charter has been called a monopoly; but in no
just sense can it be so considered. A monopoly is that which has
been granted without consideration; as a monopoly of trade; or of
the manufacture of any particular article, to the exclusion of al.1 competition. It is withdrawing that which is a common right, from the
community, and vesting it in one or more individuals to the exclusion of all others. Such monopolies are justly odious, as they operate not only injuriously to trade, but against the general prosperity
of society. But the accommodation afforded. to the public by the
Charles River Bridge, and the annuity paid to the college, constitute a valuable consideration for the privilege granted by the charter.
The odious features of a monopoly do not, thetefore, attach to the
charter of the plaintiffs.
The 10th article of the declaration of rights in the constitution of
Massachusetts, provides; "Whenever the public exigencies require
that the property of any individual should be appropriated to public
uses, he shall receive a reasonable compensation therefor." And in
the 12th article it is declared, that, "no subject shall be deprived of
his property, immunities, privileges or estate, but by the judgment
of his peers or the law of the land." Here is a power recognised
in the sovereignty, and is incident to it, to apply private property to
public uses by malting for it a just compensation. This power overreaches every other, and must be exercised 't the discretion of the
government; and a bridge, a turnpike road, a tract of land, or any
other property, may be taken in whole, or in par4 for public purposes, on the condition of making compensation.
In the case of Chadwick v. The Proprietors of the Haverhill
Bridge, reported in Dane's Abridgment, it appears that a bridge
was built under a charter within forty rods of the plaintiff's ferry,
and over the same water. By an act of the legislature, commissioners were authorized to ascertain the damages sustained by the plain-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.)

tiff; but he preferred his action at law, which was prosecuted, and
adequate damages were recovered. It is true, this matter was referred to-arbitrators; but they were men of distinguished legal attainments and great experience; and they, after determining, that the
phlintiff could sustain his action, assessed the damages. This award
was sanctioned by the court. Under the circumstances of this case,
at least as great a weight of authority belongs to it, as if the decision
had been made by a court on the points involved. The case presented by the complainants is much stronger than Chadwick's; and
if he was entitled to reparation for the- injury done, no doubt can
exist of the complainants' right.
In the extension of the national road through the state of Ohio, a
free bridge was thrown across a stream by the side of a tollbridge,
which had some ten or fifteen years of its charter to run. The new
bridge did not in the least obstruct the passage over the old one;
and it was contended, that as no exclusive right wa i given under the
first grant, the owner of the toll bridge was entitled to no compensation. It was said on that occasion, as it has been urged on this, that
the right was givern subject to the discretion of the legislature, as to
a subsequent grant; and that the new bridge could not be objected
to by the first grantee, whether it was built under the authority of
the state, or federal government.
This course of reasoning influenced a decision against the claimant in the first instance; but a reconsideration of his case, and a more
thorough investigation of it, induced the proper authority to reverse
fthe decision, and award an indemnity for the injury done. The
value of the charter was estimated, and a just compensation was
made. This, it is true, was not a judicial decision, but it was a decision of the high functionailes of the government, and is entitled to
respect. It was dictated by that sense of justice which should be
felt on the bench, and by every tribunal having the power to act
upon private rights.
It is contended by the respondents' counsel, that there was not
only no exclusive right granted in the complainants' charter, beyond
the timbers of the bridge; but the broad ground is assumed, that the
legislature had no power to make such a grant; that they cannot
grant any part of the eminent domain, which shall bind a subsequent
legislature. And a number of authorities were cited to sustain their
position; 1 Vattell, ch. 9, see. 101, 4 Litt. R. 327; Domat. Book 1,
tit. 6, see. 1; 17 Vin. 88f Chitt. on Prer. 81; 10 Price, 350; Puff.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

569

(Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
ch. 5, sec. 7; 5 Cowen, 558; 6 Wheat 593; 20 Johns. R. 25; Hargrave's Law Tracts, 36; 4 Gill. and Johns. 1.
If this doctrine be sustainable, as applied to this case, it is not perceived why an exception should be made in favour of the plaintiffs,
within the timbers of their bridge. It is admitted, that their grant
is good to this extent; and if the legislature may grant a part of the
eminent domain to this extent, why may it not go beyond it? If it
may grant any part of the eminent domain, must not the extent of
the grant be fixed at its discretion? In what other mode can it be
determined, than by a judicial construction of th. grant?
Acts of incorporation, when granted on a valuable consideration,
assume the nature of contracts; and vested rights under them are no
more subject to the legislative power than any other vested rights.
In granting the charter to the Charles River Bridge Company, the
legislature did not divest itself of the power to grant similar charters.
But the thing granted passed to the grantee; and can no more be resumed by the legislature, than it can resume the rigfit to a tract of
land which has been granted. When land ,is granted, the state can
exercise nc acts of ownership over itj unless it be taken for public
use; and the same rule applies to a grant for a bridge, a turnpike
road, or any other public improvement. It would assume a bold position to say, that a subsequent legislature may resume the ownership of a tract of land. which had been granted at a preceding session; and yet the principle is the same in regard to vested rights,
under an act of incorporation. By granting a franchise, the state
does not divest itself of any portion of its sovereignty; but to advance the public interests, one or more individuals are vested with a
capacity to exercise the powers necessary to attain the desired object. In the case under consideration, the necessary powers to construct and keep up the Charles River Bridge wero given to Thomas
Russell and his associates. This did not withdraw the bridge from
the action of the state sovereignty, any more than it is withdrawn
from land which it has granted. In both cases the extent of the
grant may become a question for judicial investigation and decision;
but the rights granted are protected by the law.
It is insisted that, as the complainants accepted the extension of
their charter in 1792, under an express assertion' of right by the legislature to make new grants at its discretion, they cannot now object to the respondents' charter. In the acceptance of the extended
charter, the complainants are bound only by the provisions of that
VOL. X.-4
C

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v..Warren Bridge et al.]

charter. Any general declarations, which the legislature may have
made, as regards -its power to grant charters, could have no more
bearing on the rights of the complainants than on similar rights
throughout the state. There was no reservation of this power in the
prolonged charter, nor was there any general enactment on the subject. Of course, the construction of the charter must depend upon
general and established principles.
It has been decided by the supreme court of New York, that unless the act making the appropriation of private property for public
use, contain a provision of indcrnnity, it is void. Where property
is taken under great emergencies, by an officer of the government,
he could hardly be considered, I should suppose, a trespasser; thougl"
he does not pay for the property at the time it is taken.
There can be no doubt, that a compensation should be provided
for in the same act which authorizes the appropriation of the pro-perty, or in a cotemporaneous act. If, however, this be omitted,
and the property be taken, the law unquestionably gives a remedy
adequate to the damages sustained. No government which. rests
upon the basis of fixed laws, whatever form it may have assumed, or
wherever the sovereignty may reside, has asserted the right, or exercised the power of appropriating private property to public purposes,
without making compensation.
In the 4th section of the act to establish the Warren Bridge, there
is a provision that the corporation shall make compensation fbr any
real estate that may be taken for the use of the bridge. The property of the complainants, which was appropriated under the new
charter, cannot strictly be denominated real estate; and consequently
this special provision does not reach their case. In this respect the
law must stand as though no such provision had been made.
But was the complainants' property ppropriatcd under the charter granted to the respondents, for public purposes? If the new
bridge were deemed -necessary, by the legislature, to promote the
general convenience, and the defendants were consequently authorizdd to construct it, and apart of the plaintiffs' franchise were granted to the defendants; it wds an appropriation of private property for
iublic use. It was as much an appropriation of private property for
public use, as would have been an appropriation of the ground of an
individual, for a turnpike, or a rail road, authorized by la
By the charter of the Warren Bridge, so soon as the company
snould be reimbursed the money expended in the construction of
the bridge, the expenses incurred in keeping it up, and five per cent.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

571

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge at al.]

interest, per annum, on the whole amount, the bridge was to become
the property of the state; and whether these sums should be received
or not, it was to become public property in six years from the time
it was completed. The cost of construction, and the expenses,
together with the five per cent. interest, have been reimbursed, and
in addition, a large sum has been received by the state from the tolls
of this bridge. But it is now, End has been since March last, it is
admitted, a free bridge.
In granting the charter of the Warren Bridge, the legislature seem
to recognise the, fact that they were about to appropriate the property of the complainants for public uses, as they provide, that the
new company shall pay annually to the college, in behalf of the old
one, a hundred pounds. By this provision, it appears that the
legislature has undertaken to do what a jury of the country only
could constitutionally do;.-assess the amount of compensation to
which the complainants are entitled.
Here, then, is a law which not only takes away the property of
the complainants, but provides, to some extent, for their indemnity.
Whether the complainants have availed themselves of this provision
or not, does not appear, nor is it very material. The law, in tbis
respect, does not bind them; and they are entitled to an adequate
compensation for the property taken. These considerations belong
to the case, as it arises under the laws and const'tution of Massachusetts.
The important inquiry yet remains, whether this Court can take
jurisdiction in the form in which the case is presented. The jurisdiction of this Court is resisted on two grounds. In the first place,
it is contended that the Warren Bridge has become the property of
the state, and that the defendants have no longer any control over
the subject; and also, that the supreme court of Massachusetts have
no jurisdiction over trusts.
The chancery jurisdiction of the supreme court of Mass'achusetts,
is admitted to be limited; but they are specially authorized in cases
of nuisances, to issue injunctions; and where this ground of jurisdiction is sustained, all the incidents must follow it. If the law incorporating the Warren Bridge Company was unconstitutional, on the
ground that it appropriated to public use the property of the complainants, without making compensation; can there be any doubt,
that the supreme court of Massachusetts had jurisdiction of the
case? And having jurisdiction, is it not clear that the whole matter

in controversy way be settled by a decree, that the defendants shll

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et a].]

account to the complainants for moneys received by them after they
had notice of the injunction?
It is also insisted, that the state is the substantial party to this suit,
and as the Court has no jurisdiction against a sovereign state, that
they can sustain no jurisdiction against those who act as agents under
the authority of a state. That if such a jurisdiction were asserted by
this Court, they would do indirectly, what the law prohibits them
from doing directly.
In the case of Osborn et al. v. Bank United States, 9 Wheat. 733,
this Court says, "The circuit courts of the United States haye jurisdiction of a bill in equity, filed by the Bank of the United States
for the purpose of protecting the bank in the exercise of its franchises,
which are threatened with invasion and destruction under an unconstitutional state'law; and as the state itself cannot be made a defendant, it may be maintained against the officers and agents of the
state who are appointed to execute such law."
As it regards the question of jurisdiction, this case, in principle, is
similar to the one under consideration. Osborn acted as the agent,
or officer of the state of Ohio, in collecting from the bank, under an
act of the state, a tax or penalty unconstitutionally imposed: and if
in such a case jurisdiction could be sustained against the agent of
the state, why can it not be sustained against a corporation acting as
agent under an unconstitutional act of Massachusetts, in collecting
tolls which belong to the plaintiffs?
In the second place, it is conitended, that this Court cannot take
jurisdiction of this case under that provision of the federal constitution, which prohibits any state from impairing the obligation of contracts, as the charter of the complainants has not been impaired. It
may be necessary to ascertain, definitely, the meaning of this p-ovision of the constitution; and the judicial decisions which have been
made under it.
What was the evil against which' the constitution intended to provide, by declaring, that no state shall pass any law impairing the
obligation of contracts? What is a contract, and what is the obligation of a contract?
A contract is defined to be an agreement between two or more
persons to do or not to do a particular thing. The obligation of a
contract is found in the terms of the agreeuient, sanctioned by moral
and legal principles.
The evil which this inhibition on the states was- intendea to pre

3 kNUARY TERM, 1837.
'[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

vent, is found in thehistory of our revolution. By repeated acts of
legislation in the different states, during that eventful period, the'
obligation of contracts was impaired. The time and molde of piyment were altered by law; and so far was this interference of legislation carried, that confidence between man and man was well' nigh
destroyed. Those proceedings grew out of the paper system of that
day; and the injuries which they inflicted, were deeply felt in the
country at the time the constitution was adopted. The provision
was designed to prevent the states from following the precedent of
legislation, so demoralizing in its effects, and so destructive to the
commercial prosperity of a country. If it had not been otherwise
laid down in the case of Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 125; i should
have doubted, whether the inhibition did not apply exclusively to
executory contracts. This doubt would have arisen as well from the
consideration of the mischief against which this provision was intended to guard, as from the language of the provision itself.
An executed contract is the evidence of a thing done; and it would
seem, does not necessarily impose any duty or-obligation on either
party to do any act or thing. If a state convey land which it had
previously granted, the second grant is void; not, it would seem to
me,.because the second grant impairs the obligation of the first, for
in fact it does hot impair it: but because, having no interest in the
thing granted, the state could convey none. The second grant w6uld
be void in this country, on the same ground that it would be void
in England, if made by the king. This is a principle of the common law; and is as immutable as the basis of justice. It derives no
strength from the above provision of the constitution; nor does it
seem to me to come within the scope of that provision.
When we speak of the obligation of a contract, the mind seems necessarily to refer to an exiecutory contract; to a contract, unier.which
something remains to be done, and there is an obligation orate or
both of the parties to do it. No law of a *tate shall impair this-obligation, by altering it in any material part. This prohibition does
not apply to the remedy, but to the terms used by the liarties to the
agreement, and which fix their respective rights and obligations.
The obligation, and the mode of enforcing the obligation, are distinct
things. The former consists in the acts of the parties, and is ascer.
tained by the binding words of the contract. The other emanates
from the law-ma-king power, which may be exercised at the discretion of the legislature, within the prescribed limits of the constitu-

SUPREME COURTa
[Charles Rivbr Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

tion. A modification of ihe remedy for a breach of the contract,
does not, in the sense of the constitution, impair its obligation. The
thing to be done, and the time of performance, remain on the
face of the contract in all their binding force upon the parties; and
these are shielded by the constitution, from legislative interference.
On the part of the complainants, it is contended that on the question of jurisdiction, as in reference to any other matter in controversy, the Court must look at the pleadings, and decide the point
raised in the form presented. The bill charges that the act to establish the Warren Bridge, purports to grant a right repugnant to the
vested rights of the complainant , and that it impairs the obligation
of the contract between them and the commonwealth; and, being
contrary to the constitution of the United States, is void. In their
answer, the respondents deny that the act creating the corporation
of the Warren Bridge, impairs the obligation of any contract set
forth in the bill of the complainants.
The 'Court must look at the case made in the bill) in determining
any questions which may arise; whether they relate to the merits or
the jurisdiction of the Court. But in either case, they are not bound
by any technical allegations or responses, which may be found in the
bill and answer. They must ascertain the nature of the relief sought,
and the ground of jurisdiction, from the tenor of the bill.
In this case, the question of jurisdiction under the constitution is
broadly presented; and may be examined free from technical embarrassment.
Chief Justice Parker, in the state court, says, in reference to the
charter of the complainants, " The contract of the government is,
that this right shall not'be disturbed or impaired, unless public necessity demand; and if it shall so demand, the grantees shall be indemnified." Such a contract, he observes, "is founded upon the principles of our constitution, as well as natural justice; and it cannot be
impaired without a'violation of the constitution of the United States:
and I think, also, it is against the -principles of our state constitution."
In the conclusion of his opinion, Mr. Justice Putnam says, in
speaking of the defendants' charter, " It impairs the obligation of
the grants before made to the plaintiffs. It takes away their property for public uses without compensation, against their consent,
and without a provision for a trial by jury. It is therefore Void,"
Mr. Justice Wilde, and Mr. Justice Morton, did not consider the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.].

new charter as having been granted either in violation of the constitution of the state, or of the United States.
In their decree, the court say, "That no property belonging to the
complainants was taken and appropriated to public use, within the
terms and meaning of the 10th article of the declaration of rights
prefixed to the constitution of this commonwealth."
This decree can, in no point 6f view, be considered as fixing the
construction of the constitution of Massachusetts, as it applies to this
case. The decree was entered, pro forma, and is opposed to the opinion of two members of the court.
But if that court had deliberately and unanimously decided that
the plaintiffs' property had not been appropriated to public use,
under the constitution of Massachusetts; still, where the same point
becomes important on a question of jurisdiction before this Court,
-they must decide for themselves. The jurisdiction of this Court
coula, in no respect, be considered as a consequence of the decision
of the above question by the state court, in whatever way the decree
might have been entered. But no embarrassment can arise on this
head, as the above decree was made, as a mattbr of form, to bring the
case before this Court.
To sustain the jurisdiction of this Court, the counsel for complainants place great reliance upon the fact, that the right, charged to be
violated, is held directly from the state; and they insist, that there
is an implied obligation on the state, that it will do nothing to impair the grant And that, in this respect, the complainants' right
rests upon very different grounds from other rights in the community, not held by grant directly from the state.
On the face of the complainants' grant there is no stipulation that
the legislature will do nothing that shall injure the rights of the
grantees; but it is said that this is implied; and on what ground does
the implication arise? -Doesit arise from the fact, that the complainants are the immediate grantees of the state?
The principle is admitted, that the grantor can do nothing that
shall destroy his deed; and this rule applies as well to the state as to
an individual. And the same principle operates with equal force
on all grants, whether made by the state or individuals.
Does an implied obligation arise on a grant made by the state, that
the legislature shall do nothing to invalidate the grant, which does
not arise on every other grant or deed in the commonwealth?
The legislature is bound by the constitution of the state, and it

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

cannot be admitted, that the immediate grantee of the state has a
stronger guarantee for the protection of fiis vested rights against unconstitutional acts, than may be claimed by any other citizen of the
state. Every citizen of the state, for the protection of his vested
rights, claims the guarantee of the constitution. This, indeed, imposes the strongest obligation on the legislature not to violate those
rights. Does the legislature give to its grantee, by virtue of its
grant, an additional pledge that it will not violate the constitution of
the state? Such an implication, if it exist, can scarcely be considered
as adding any thing to the force of the constitution. But this is not,
it is said, the protection which the complainants invoke. In addition
to their property having been taken without compensation, they allege that their charter has been impaired by the Warren Bridge
charter; and, on this ground, they ask the interposition of this
Court.
The new charter does not purport to repeal the old one, nor to
alter it in any material or immaterial part. It does not, then, operate upon the complainants' grant, but upon the thing granted. It
has, in effect, taken the tolls of the complainants and given them to
the public. In other words, under the new charter, all that is valuable under the charter of the complainants has been ippropriated
to public use.
It is urged, that the legislature did. not intend to appropriate the
property of the complainants; that there is nothing in the act of the
legislature, which shows an intention by the exercise of the eminent
domain, to take private property for public use; but that, on the
contrary, it appears the Warren Bridge charter was granted in the
exercise of a legislative discretion, asserted and sustained by a
majority of the legislature.
In this charter provision is made to indemnify the owners of real
estate, if it should be taken for the use of the bridge; and the new
company is required to pay, in behalf of the Charles River Bridge
Company, one-half of the annuity to the college.
This would seem to show an intention to appropriate private property, if necessary, for the establishment of the Warren Bridge; and
also an intention to indemnify the complainants, to some extent, for
the injury done them. There could have been no other motive tnan
this, in proviling'that the new company should pay the hundred
pounds.
But the Court can only judge of the intention, of the legislature

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

by its language; and when, -by its act, the franchise of the complainants is taken, and, through the instrumentality of the Warren
Bridge Company, appropriated to the public use, it is difficult to say
that the legislature did not intend to do, what in fact it has done.
Throughout the argqlment the counsel for the complainants have
most ably contended. that their property had been taken and appropriated to the public use without making compensation; and that the
act was consequently void, under the constitution of Massachusetts..
If this be the character of the act; if, under its provisions the property of the complainants has been apptopriated to public purposes;
it may be important to inquire whether it car be considered as impairing the obligation of the contract, within the meaning of the
federal constitution.
That a state may appropriate private property to public use, is
universally admitted. This power is incident to sovereignty, and
there are no restrictions on its exercise, except such as may be imposed by the sovereignty itself. It may tax at its discretion, and
adapt its policy to the wants of its citizens; and use their means for
the promotion of its objects under its own laws.
If an appropriation of private property to public use impair the
obligatiop of a contract within the meaning of the constitution, then
every exercise of this power by a state is unconstitutional. From
this conclusion there is no escape; and whether compensation be
made or not, cannot vary the result.
The provision is not, that no state shall pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts, unless compensation be rmade; but the power
is.absolutely inhibited to a state. If the act of the state come within
the meaning of the provision, the act is void. No condition which
may be annexed to it, no compensation that can be made, can give
it validity. It is in conflict with the supreme law of the land, and
is therefore a nullity.
Can a state postpone the day fixed in an obligation for payment,
or provide that a bond for the payment of money shall be discharged
by the payment of any thing else than money? This no one will
contend can be done, because such an act would clearly impair the
obligation of the contract; and no compensation, which the state
could give, would make the act valid.
The question is asked whether the provision implied in the constitution of Massachusetts, that private property may be taken by
making compensation, is riot impliedly incorporated in every conVoro X1--4 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v..Warren Bridge et al.]

tract made under it; and whether the obligation of the contract is not
impaired, when property is taken by the state without compensation?
Can the contract be impaired within the meaning of the federal
constitution, when the action of the state is upon the property? The
contract is not touched, but the thing covered by the contract is
taken under the power to appropriate private property for public
use. If taking the property impair the obligation of the contract,
within the meaning of the constitution, it cannot be taken on any
terms. The provision of the federal constitution, which requires
compensation to be made when private property shall be taken for
public use, acts only upon the officers of the federal government.
This case must be governed by the constitution of Massachusetts.
Can a state, in any form, exercise a power over contracts which
is expressly prohibited by the constitution of the Union? The parties making a contract may embrace any conditions they please, if
the conditions do not contravene the law, or its established policy.
But it is not in the power of a state to impose upon contracts which
have, been made, or which may afterwards be made, any condition,
which is prohibited by the federal conktitution. No state shall
impair the obligation of contracts. Now, if the act of a state, in
appropriating private property to public use come Vithin the meaning of this provision, is not the act inhibited, and, consequently, void?
This point would seem to be too plain for controversy. And is it
not equally clear, that no provisions contained n the constitution of
a state, or in its legislative acts, which subject the obligation of a
contract to an unconstitutional control of the .state, can be obligatory
upon the citizens of the state? If the state has attempted to exercise
a power which the federal constitution prohibits, no matter under
what form the power may -be assumed, or what specious pretexts
may be urged in favour of its exercise, the act is unconstitutional
and void.
That a state may take private property for public use, is controverted by no one. It is a principle, which, from the foundation of
our government, has been sanctioned by the practice of the states,
respectively; and has never been considered as coming in conflict
with the federal constitution.
This power of the state is admitted in the argument; but it is contended that the obligation of the contract has been impaired, as the
property of the complainants has been taken without compensation.
Suppose the constitution of Massachusetts provided that no land

JANUARY TERM, 18.7.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.

should be sold for taxes without valuation, nor unless it shall sell for
two-thirds of its value, due notice being given in some newspaper;
and suppose a law of thp legislature should direct land to be sold for
taxes, without a compliance with these requisites; would this act impair the obligation of the grant by which the land is held, wi.-iin
the meaning of the constitution? The act would be clearly repugnant to the state constitution, and, consequently, all proceedings
under it would be void. But it would not be repugnant to the constitution of the Union. And how does this case differ, in principle,
from the one under consideration? In both cases, the power of the
legislature is unquestionable; but, by the constitution of the state it
must be exercised in a particular manner; and, if not so exercised, the
act is void. Now, if, in either case, the obligation of the contract
under which the property is held is impaired, then it must follow
that every act of a state legislature which affects the right of private
property, and which is repugnant to the state constitution, is a violation of the federal constitution.
Can the construction of the federal constitution depend upon a
reference to a state constitution, and by which, the act complained of
is ascertained to be legal or illegal? IBy this doctrine, the act, if
done in conformity to the state constitution, would be free from objections under the federal constitution; but if this conformity. do not
exist, then the act would not be free from such objection. This, idi
effect, would incorporate the state constitution in, and make it a part
of the federal constitution. No such rule of construction exists.
Suppose the legislature of Massachusetts had taken the farmi of the
complainants for the use of a poor house, or any asylum for-lunatics,
without making adequate compensation; or, if, in ascertaining the,
damages, the law of the state had not been strictly pvrsued: could
this Court interpose its jurisdiction through the supreme court of
the state, and arrest the power of appropriation? In any form, in
which the question could be made, would it not arise under the constitution of the state, and be limited between citizens of the same
state to the local jurisdiction? Does not the state constitution,
which declares that private property shall not be taken for public
purposes, without compensation, afford a safe guarantee to the citizens
of the state against the illegal exercise of this power; a power essential to the well-being of every sovereign state, and which is always exercised under its own rules?
Had an adequate compensation been made to the complainants,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v: Warren Bridge Ct al.]

under the charter of the Warren Bridge, would this question have
been raised? Can any one doubt, that- it was in the power of the
legislature of Massachusetts to take the whole of the complainants'
bridge for public use, by making compensation? Is there any power
that can control the exercise of this discretion by the legislature? I
know of none, either in the state-or out of it; but it must be exercised in subordination to the provisions of the constitution of the
state. And if it be not so exercised, the judicial authority of tbe
state only, between its own citizens, can interpose and prevent the
wrong, or repair it in damages.
In all cases where private property is taken by a state for public
use, the action is on the property; and the power, if it exist in the
state, must be above the contract. It does not act on the contract,
but takes from under it vested rights. And this power, when exercised by a state, does not, in the sense of the federal constitution, impair the obligation of the contract. Vested rights are disturbed, and
compensation must be made; but this is a subject which belongs to
the local jurisdiction. Does this view conflict with tile established
doctrine of this Court? A reference to tile points adjudged will
show that it does not.
The case of Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters, 390, presented the
following facts. Satterlec was the tenant of Mathewson, who claimed
at the time of the lease under a Connecticut title, in Luzerne county,
Pennsylvania. Afterwards, Satterlce purchased a Pennsylvania title
for the same land. An ejeetment was brought by Mathewson for
the land, and the court of common pleas decided that as Satterlee
was the tenant of the plaintiff, he could not set up a title against his
landlord. On a writ of error, this judgment was reversed by the
supreme court, on the ground that the relation of landlord and tenant
could not exist under a Connecticut title. Shortly afterwards, the
legislature of Pennsylvania passed a law, that, under such a title the
relation of the landlord and tenant should exist, and the supreme
court of the state having decided that this act was valid, the question
was brought before this Court by writ of error. In their opinion,
the Court say, "We come now to the main question in the cause. Is
the act, which is objected to, repugnant to any provision of the conatitution of the United States? It is alleged to be particularly so,
because it impairs the obligation of the contract between. the state of
Pennsylvania and the plaintiff, who claims under her, grant, &c."
The grant vested a fee simple in the grantee, with all the rights,

.JANUARY TERM, 1837.

581

(Charles I',ver Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

privileges, &c. "Wer(. any of these rights disturbed or impaired
by the act under consideration? It does not appear from the
record, that they were in any instance denied, or ever drawn in
question."
The objection most pressed upon the Court was, that the effect of
this act was to divest rights which were vested by law in Satterlee.
"There is certainly no part of the constitution of the United States,"
the Court say, "which applies to a state law of this description; nor
are we aware of any decision of this, or any circuit court which has
condemned such a law upon this ground, provided its effect be not to
impair the obligation of the contract." And the Court add, that in
the case of Fletcher v. Peck, it is no where intimated, that a state
statute, which divests a vested right, is repugnant to the constitution
of the United States. There is a strong analogy between this case
and the one under consideration.
The effect of the act of Pennsylvania was, to defeat the title of
Satterlee, founded upon the grant of the state. It made a title valid,
which, in that very case, had beea declared void by the Court, and
which gave the right to Mathewson, in that suit, aga;nst the prior
grant of the state. And this Court admit that a vested right was
divested by the act; but they say it is not repugnant to the federal
constitution. The act did not purport to affect the grant which was
left with its covenants untouched; but it created a paramount right,
which took the land against the grant.
In the case'under consideration, the Warren Bridge charter does
not purport to repeal or in any way affect the complainants' charter.
But, like the Pennsylvania act, in its effects it divested the vested
rights of the complainants. Satterlee was not the immediate grantee
of the state; but that could not affect the principle involved in the
case. He claimed under the grant of the state, and the fact that
there was an intermediate grantee between him and the state, could
not weaken his right.
In the case of Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, the legislature of
Georgia attempted to annul its own grant. The law, under which
the first grant was issued, was attempted to be repealed; and all
grants under it were declared to be -null and void hiy the second act.
I-ere the state acted directly upon th6 contract; and the case comes
within the rule, that to impair the obligation of the contract, the
state law must act upon the contract.
The act of the legislature, complained of in the case of Sturgis v.
Crowninshield, 4 Cond. Rep. 409, had a direct bearing upon the con-

SIUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v.. Warren Bridge et al.]

tract. The question was, whether* under the bankrupt law of New
York a debtor was discharged from his obligation by a surrender of
his property: and so in the case of The Trustees of Dartmouth College, v. Woodward, 4 Cond. Rep. 426, the question was, whether the
legislature could, without the consent of the corporation, alter its
charter in a material part, it being a private corporation.
In the case of Terret and others v. Taylor and others, 9 Cranch,
52, the uncontroverted doctrine is asserted, that a legislature cannof
repeal a statute creating a private corporation, and thereby destroy
vested rights.
The case of Green et al. v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, has also been cited
to sustain the jurisdiction of the Court in this case. The Court decided in that case, that the compact, which guarantied to claimants
of land lying in Kentucky under titles derived from Virginia, their
rights as they existed under the laws of Virginia, prohibited the state
of Kentucky from changing those rights. In other words, that Kentucky could not alter the compact. And when this Court were
called on to give effect to the act of Kentucky, which they considered repugnant to the compact, they held the provisions of the
compact paramount to the act..
After a careful examination of the questions adjudged by this
Court, they seem not to have decided in any case that the contract
is impaired, within the meaning of the federal constitution, where
the action of the state has not been on the contract. That though
vested rights have been divested under an act of a state legislature,
they do not consider that as impairing the grant of the state, under
which the property is held. And this it appears is the true distinction; and the one, which has been kept in view in the whole current
of adjudications by this Court, under the above clause of the constitution.
Had this Court established the doctrine that where an act of a
state legislature affected vested rights held by a grant from the state,
the act is repugnant to the constitution of the United States, the
same principle must have applied to all vested rights. For, as has
been shown, the constitution of a state gives the same guarantee of
their vested rights to all its citizens, as to those who claim directly
under grant from the state. And who can define the limit of a jurisdiction founded on this principle? It would necessarily extend
over the legislative action of the states; and control, to 'a fearful extent, the exercise of their powers.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

The spirit of internal improvement pervades the whole country
There is perhaps no state in the Union, where important public
works, such as turnpike roads, canals, rail roads, bridges, &c. are not
either contemplated, or in a state of rapid progression. These cannot
be carried on without the frequent exercise of the power to appropriate private property for public use. Vested rights are daily
divested by this exercise of the eminent domain. And if in all these
cases this Court can act as a court of supervision for the correction
of errors, its power may be invoked in numberless instances. If to
take private property impairs the obligation of the contract under
which it is held, this Court may be called to determine in almost
every case where the power is exercised; as well where compensation is made, as where it is not made. For, if this Court can take
.jurisdiction on this ground, every individual whose property has
been taken has a constitutional right to the judgment of this Court;
whether compensation has been made in the mode required by the
constitution of the state.
In ascertaining the damages, the claima nt has a right to demand
a jury, and that the damages shall be assessed in strict conformity to
the principles of the law To revise these cases would carve out for
this Court a new jurisdiction, not contemplated by the constitution,
and which cannot be safely exercised.
These are considerations which grow out of our admirable system of government, that should lead the judicial tribunals both of
the federal and state governments to mutual forbearance, in the exercise of doubtful powers. The boundaries of their respective jurisdictions can never, perhaps, be so clearly defined on certain questions, as to free them from doubt. This remark- is peculiarly applicable to the federal tribunals, whose powers are delegated, and consequently limited. The strength of our political system consists in
its harmony; and this can only be preserved by a strict observance
of the respective powers of the state and federal government. Believing that this Court has no jurisdiction in this case; although I am
clear that the merits are on the side of the complainants; I am in
favour of dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice STORY, dissenting.
This cause was argued at a former term of this Court, and having
been then held under advisement by the Court for a year, was,

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

upon a difference of opinion among the judges, ordered to be again
argued; and has accordingly been argued at the present term.
The arguments at the former term, were conducted with' great
learning, research and ability; and have been renewed with equal
learning, research and ability, at the present term. But the grounds
have been, in some respects, varied; and new grounds have been
-assumed, which require a distinct consideration. I have examined
the case with the most anxious care and deliberation, and with all
the lights which the researches of the years, intervening between
the first and last argument, have enabled me to obtain; and I am
free to confess, that the opinion which I originally formed after the
first argument, is that which now has my most firm and unhesitating
conviction. The argument at the present term, so far from shaking
my confidence in it, has at every, step served to confirm it.
In now delivering the results of that opinion, I shall be compelled
to notice the principal arguments urged the other way; and as the
topics discussed and the objections raised have issumed various
forms; some of which require distinct, and others the same answers;
it will be unavoidablk that some repetitions should occur in the progress of my own reasoning. My great resnect for the counsel who
have pressed them, and the importance of the cause, will, I trust, be
thought a sufficient apology for the course which I have, with great
reluctance, thought it necessary to pursue.
Some of the questions involved in the case are of local law. And
here, accordiug to the known principles of this Court, we are bound
to act upon that local law, however different from, or opposite to
the jurisprudence of other states it either is, or may be supposed to
be. Other questions seem to belong exclusively to the jurisdiction
of the state tribunals, as they turn upon a conflict, real or supposed,
between the state constitution and the state laws. The only question,
over which this Court possesses jurisdiction in this case, (it being an
'appeal from a state court and not from the circuit court,) is, as has
been stated at the bar, whether the obligation of any contract within
the true intent and meaning of the constitution of the United States
has been violated, as set forth in the bill. . All the other points
argued, are before us only as they are preliminaries and incidents
to this.
A question has, however, been made-as to the jurisdiction of this
Court to entertain the present writ o.f error. It has been argued
that this bridge has now become a free bridge, and is the property

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et-al.) -

of the state of Massachusetts; that the state cannot be made a party
defendant to any suit to try its title to the bridge; and that there is
no difference between a suit against the state directly, and against
the state indirectly,  rough its servants and ageots. And in further
illustration of this argument it is said, that no tolls can be claimed in
this case under the notion of an implied trust; for the state court has
no jurisdiction in equity over implied trusts, but only over express
trusts; and, if this Court has no jurisdiction 6ver the principal subject matter of the suit, the title to the bridge, it can have none over
the tolls, which are but incidents.
My answer to this objection will be brief. In the first place, this
is a writ of error from a state court, under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20; and in such a case, if tl.ere is
drawn in question the construction of any clause of the constitution
of the UnitedStates, and the decision of the state court is against the
right or title set up under it, this Court has a right to entertain the
suit, and decide the question; whoever may be the parties to the original suit, whether private persons, or the state itself. This was
decided in the case of Cohens v. The State of Virginia; 6 Wheat.
R. 264. In the next place, the state of Massachusetts is not a party
on the record in this suit, and therefore the constitutional prohibition
of commencing any suit against a state does not apply; for that
clause of the constitution is strictly confined to the parties on the
record. So it was held in Osborn v. The Bank of the United States,
9 Wheat. Rep. 738; and in the Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky
v. Wister, 2 Pet. R. 819, 323. In the next place, it is no objection to
the jurisdiction, even of the circuit courts of the United States, tjat
the defendant is a servant or agent of the state, and the act complained
of is done under its authority, if it be tortious and unconstitutional.
So it was held in the cases last cited. In the next place, this Court,
as an appellate court, has nothing to do with ascertaining the. nature
or extent of the 'jurisdiction of the state court over any persons,
or parties, or subject matters, given by the state laws; or as to the
mode of exercising the same; except so far as respects the very
question. arising under the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789,
ch. 20.
There are but few facts in this case which admit of any controversy. The legislature of Massachusetts, by an act passed on the 9tih
of March, 1785, incorporated certain persons by the name of the
proprietors of the Charles River Bridge, for the purpose of building
VOL. XI.-4 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

a bridge over Charles river, between Boston and Charlestown; and
granted to them the exclusive toll thereof, for forty years from the
time of the first opening of the bridge for passengers. The bridge
was built and opened for passengers, in June, 1786. In March, 1792,
another corporation was created .by the legislature, for the purpose
of building a bridge over Charles river, from the westerly part of
Boston to Cambridge; and on that occasion the legislature, taking
into consideration the probable diminution of the profits of the
Charles River Bridge, extended the grant of the proprietors of the
latter bridge to seventy years from the first opening of it for passengers. The proprietors have, under these grants, ever since continued
to possess and enjoy the emoluments arising from the tolls taken for
travel over the bridge; and it has proved a very profitable concern.
In March, 1828, the legislature created a corporation, called the
Proprietors of the Warren Bridge, for the purpose of erecting
another bridge across Charles river, between Boston and Charlestown. The termini of the last bridge; (which has been since erected,
and was, at the commencement of this suit, in the full receipt of toll,
and"is now a free bridge;) are so very near to that of Charles River
Bridge, that for all practical purposes, they may be taken to be identical. The same travel is accommodated by each bridge, and necessarily approaches to a point, before it reaches either, which is nearly
equidistant from each. In short, it is impossible, in a practical view,
and so was admitted at the argument, to distinguish this case from
one where the bridges are contiguous from the beginning to the end.
The present bill is filed by the proprietors of Charles River
Bridge, against the proprietors of Warren Bridge, for an injunction,
and other relief; founded upon the allegation, that the erection of the
Warren Bridge, under the circumstances, is a violation of their
chartered rights, and so is void by the constitution of Massachusetts,
and by the constitution of the United States. The judges of the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts, were (as is well known)
equally divided in opinion upon the main points in the cause; and,
therefore, a pro formg decree was entered, with a view to bring before this Court the great and grave question, whether the legislature
of Massachusetts, in the grant of the charter of the Warren Bridge,
has violated the obligation of the constitution of the KInited States?
If the legislature has done so, by mistake or inadvertence, I am quite
sure that it will be the last to insist upon maintaining its own act.
It has that stake in the Union, and in the maintenance of the con-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

587

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

stitutional rights of its own citizens, which will, I trust, ever be found
paramount to all local interests, feelings and prejudices; to the pride
of power, and to the pride of opinion.
In order to come to any, just conclusion in regard to the only
question which this Court; sitting as an appellate court; has a right
to entertain upon a writ of error to a state court; it will be necessary
to ascertain what are the rights conferred on the proprietors of
Charles River Bridge by the act of iilcorporation. The act is certainly not drawn with any commendable accuracy. But it is difficult,
upon any principles of common reasoning, to mistake its real purport
and object. It is entitled, "an act for incorporating certain persons,
for the purpose of building a bridge over Charles river, between
Boston and Charlestown, and supporting the same during the terhii
Yet it no where, in terms, in any of thq enacting
of forty years."
clauses, confers any authority upon the corporation, thus created, to
build any such bridge; nor does it state in what particular place the
bridge shall commence or terminate on either side of the river, except by inference and implication from the preamble. I mention
this at the threshold of the present inquiry, as an irresistible proof
that the Cout must, in the construction of this very act of incorporation, resort to the common principles of interpretation; and imply
and presume things, which the legislature has not expressly declared.
If the Court were not at liberty so to do, there would be an end of
the cause.
The act begins by reciting, that "the erecting of a kIdge over
Charles river, in a place where the ferry between Boston hnd Charlestown is now kept, will be of great public utility, and Thomas Russell -nd others, having petitioned, &c. for the act of incorporation,
to empower them to build said bridge, and many other persons,
under the expectation of such an act, have subscribed to a fund for
executing and completing the aforesaid purpose." It then proceeds
be a corpoto enact that the proprietors of the fund or stock shall
ration under the name of the Proprietors of Charles River Bridge;
and it gives them the usual powers of corporations, such as the power
to sue and be sued; &c. In the next section it provides for the organization of the corporation; for choosing officers; for establishing
rules and regulations for the corporation; and for effecting, completing, and executing the purpose aforesaid. In the next section, "for
the purpose of reimbursingthe said proprietors the money expended in building and supporting the said bridge," it provides, that a

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL].

toll be, and thereby is granted and established, for th sole benefit
of theproprietors,for forty years from the opening of the bridge
for travel, according to certain specified rates. In the next section,
it provides, that the bridge shall be well built, at least forty feet
wide, of sound and suitable materials, with a convenient draw or
passage way for ships and vessels, &c.; and "that the same shall be
kept in good, safe, and passable repair for the term aforesaid, and,
ht the end of the said term, the said bridge shdll be left in like repair." Certain other provisions are-also made, as to lighting the
bridge, erecting a toll-board, lifting the draw.fr all ships and vessels, without toll or pay," &c. &c. The next section declares, that,
after the tolls shall commence. the proprietors "shall annuallypay
to Harvardcollege, or university, the sum of two hundred pounds
during the said term of forty years; and, at the end of the said term,
the said bridge shall revert to, and be the property of the commonwealth, saving to the said college or university, a reasonable and annual compensation for the annual income of the ferry, which they
might have received, had not such bridge been erected." The next
and last section of the act, declares the act void, unless the bridge
should be built within three years febm the passing of the act.
Such is the substance of the charter of incorporation, which the
Court is called upon to construe. But, before we can properly enter
upon the consideration of this subject, -a preliminary inquiry is presented as to the proper rules of interpretation applicable to the charter. Is the charter to receive a strict or a liberal construction? Are
any implications to be made, beyond the express terms? And if so,
to what extent are they justifiable by the principles of law? No
one doubts, that the charter is a contract, and a grant; and that it is
to receive such a construction as belong to contracts and grants, as
contradistinguished from mere laws. But the argument has heen
pressed here, with unwonted earnestness; and it seems to have had
an irresistible influence elsewhere, that this charter is to be construed
as a royal grant, and that such grants -are always construed with a
stern and parsimonious strictness. Intdeed, it seems tacitly conceded
that unless such a strict construction is to prevail, (and it is insisted
on as the positive dictate of the common law,) there is infinite danger to the defence assumed on behalf of the Warren Bridge proprietors.I Under such circumstances, I fe'el myself, constrained to go at
large into, the doctrine of the common law in respect to royal grants;
because I cannot help thinking, that, upon this point very great er-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

rors of opinion have crept into the argument. A single insulated
position seems to have been taken as a general axiom. In my own
view of the case, I should not have attached so much importance
to the inquiry. But it is now fit that it. should be sifted to the
bottom.
It is 'a well known rule in the construction of private grants, if the
meaning of the words be doubtful, to construe them most strongly
against the grantor. But it is said that an opposite rule prevails, in
cases of grants by the king; for, where there is any doubt, the construction is made most favourably for the king, and against the
grantee.. The rule is not disputed. But it is a rule of very limited
application. To what cases does it apply? To such cases only,
where there is a real doubt, where the 'grant admits of two interpretations, one of which is more extensive, and the other more restricted; so that a choice is fairly open, and either :may be adopted
without any violation of the apparent objects of the grant. If the
king's grant admits of two interpretations, one of which will make
it utterly void and worthless, and the other will give it a reasonable
effect, then the latter is to prevail: for the reason, (says the common
law,) "that it will be more for the benefit of the subject, and the lenour of the king, which is to be more -egarded than hls profit"
Com. Dig. Grant, G. 12; 9 Co. R. 131. a.; 10 Co. R. 67. b; 6 Co. R. 6.
And in every case, the rule is made to bend to the real justice and
integrity of the case. No strained or extravagant construction is to
be made in favour of th6 king. And, if the intention of the grant is
obvious, a fair and liberal interpretation of its terms is enforced.
The rule itself is also expressly dispensed with, in all cases where
the grant appears upon its face, to flow, not from the solicitation of
the subject but from the special grace, certain knowledge, and mere
motion of the crow.n;, or, as-it stands in thd old royal patents, "ex
speciali gratia, certg scientig, et ex mero motu regis;" (See Arthur
Legate's case, 10 Co. R. 109, 112, b.; Sir John Moulin-s case, 6"Co.
R. 6; 2 Black. Comm.- 347; Com. Dig. Grant, G. 12.) 'and these
words are accordingly inserted in most of the modern grants of the
crown, in order to exclude any narrow construction of them. So
the court admitted the doctrine to be in Attorney General v. Lord
Eardly, 8 Price, 69. But what-is a most important qualification of
the rule, it never did apply to grants made for a valuable consideration by the crown; for, in such grants the same rule has always
prevailed, as in cases between subjects. The mere grant of a bounty

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bri6g et al.]

of the king may properly be restricted to its obvious intent. But
the contracts of the king for value are liberally expounded, that the
dignity and justice of the government may never be jeoparded by
petty evasions, and technical subtleties.
I shall not go over all the cases in the books, which recognise these
principles, although they are abundant. Many of them will be found
collected in Bacon's Abridgment, Prerogative, F. 2, p. 602 to 604;
in Comyn's Diffest, Grant, G. 12; and in Chitty on the Prerogatives
of the Crown, chap. 16, s. 3. But I shall dwell on some of the more
prominent, and especially on those which have been mainly relied
on by the defendants; because, in my humble judgment, they teach
a very different doctrine from what has been insisted on. Lord
Coke, in his Commentary on the Statute of Quo Warranto, 18
Edw. I., makes this notable remark: "Here is an excellent rule for
construction of the king's patents, not only of liberties, but of lands,
tenements, and other things, which he may lawfully grant, that they
*have no strict or narrow interpretation for the overthrowing of them,
sed secundum earundum plenitudinem judicentur; that is, to have a
liberal and favourable construction, for the making them available in
law, usque ad plenitudinem, for the honour of the king." Surely,
no lawyer would contend for a more beneficent or more broad exposition of any grant whatsoever, than this.
So in respect to implications in cases of royal grants, there is not
the slightest difficulty, either upon authority or principle, in giving
them a large effect. so as to include things which are capable of
being the subject of a distinct grant. A very remarkable instance of
this sort arose under the Statute of Prerogative, (17 Edw. II, Stat. 2,
ch. 15) which declared, t'hat when theking granteth to any a manor
or land with the appurtenances, unless he makes express mentton
in the deed, in writing, of advowsons, &c. belonging to such manor,
then the king reserveth to himself such advowsons. Here, the statute itself prescribed a strict rule of interpretation.* Yet, in Whistler"s case, (10 Co. R. 63) it was held, that a royal grant of a manor
with the appurtenances, in as ample a manner as it came to the king's
hands, conveyed an advowson, which was appendant to the manor,
by implication from the words actually used, and the apparent intent.
This was certainly a very strong case of raising an implication from
words susceptible of different interpretations, where the statute had
furnished a positive rule for a narrow construction, excluding the ad* S. P.in Atty. General v. Sitwell, 1 Younge's Rep. 583.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

591

[CharIle River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

vowson:

So, it has been decided that if the king grants a messuage

and all landq spectantes, aut cum eo dismissas, lands which have been
enjoyed with it for a convenient time, pass; 2 Rolle. Abridg. 186.
C. 25, 30L; Cro. Car. 169; Chitty on the Prerogatives, ch. 16, s. 3, p.
393; Corn. Dig. Grant, G. 5. In short, wherever the intent from the
words is clear, or possesses a reasonable certainty, the same construction prevails in crown grants, as in private grants; especially
where the grant is presumed to be from the voluntary bounty of the
crown, and not from the representation of the subject.
It has been supposed, in the argument, that there is a distinction
between grants of lands held by the king, and grants of franchises
which are matters of prerogative, and held by the crown for the
benefit of the public, as flowers of prerogative. I know of no such
distinction; and lord Coke in the passage already cited, expressly
excludes it; for he insists that the same liberal rule of interpretation
is to be applied to cases of grants of liberties, as to cases of grants
of lands.
I am aware, that Mr. Justice Blackstone, in his Commentaries, (2
Black. Corn. 347) has laid down some rules apparently varying from
what has been stated. He says, "the manner of granting by the king
does not more differ from that by a subject, than the construction of
his grants when made. 1. A grant made by the king, at the suit of
the grantee, shall be taken most beneficially for the king and against
the party; whereas the grant of a subject is construed most strongly
against the grantor, &c. 2. A subject's grant shall be construed to
include many things besides what are expressed, if necessary for the
operation of the grant. Therefore, in a private grant of the profits'
of lond for one year, free ingress, egress, and regress, to cut and
carry away those profits, are also inclusively granted, &e. But the
king's grant -shall not enure to any other intent, than that which is
precisely expressed in the grant. As if he grants land to an alien,
it operates nothing; for such a grant shall not enure to make him a
denizen, that so he may be capable to take by the grant." Now, in
relation to the last position, there is nothing strange or unnatural in
holding that a crown grant shall not enure to a totally different purpose from that which is expressed, or to a double intent; when all
its terms are satisfied by a single intent. It is one thing to grant
land to an alien and quite a different thing to make him a denizen.
The one is not an incident to the other, nor does it naturally flow
from it. The king may be willing to grant land to an alien, when

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

he may not be willing to give him all the privileges of a subject. It
is well known that an alien may take land by grant, and may bold
it.against every person but the king, and it does not go to the latter
until office found; so that, in the mean time, an alienation by the
alien will be good. A grant therefore, to an alien, is not utterly
void. It takes effect, though it is not indefeasible. And, in this
respect, there does not seem any difference 'between a grant by a
private person, and by the crown; for the grant of the latter takes
effect, though it is liable to be defeated.- See Com. Dig.&Alien, C.
4; 1 Leon. 47; 4 Leon. 82. The'question in such cases, is not
whether there may not be implications in a crown grant; but whether a totally different effect shall be given to a crown grant from
what its terms purport. The same principle was acted upon in Englefield's case; 7 Coke, R. 14, a. There the crown had demised certain lands which were forfeited by a tenant for life by attainder, to
certain persons for forty years; and the crown being entitled to a
condition which would defeat the remainder over after the death of
the person attainted, tendered performance of the condition to the
remainder man, who was a stranger to the demise; and he contended,
that by the demise the condition was suspended. And it w s held,
that the demise should not operate to a double intent, viz. to pass the
term, and also, in favour of a stranger, to suspend the condition: for
(it was said) "the grant of the crown shall be taken according to the
express intenticqn comprehended in the grant, and shall not extend
to any other thing by construction or implication, which doth not
appear by the grant, that the intent did extend to;" though it might
have been differeht in the ease of a subject.
In regard to Ihe other position of Mr. Justice Blackstone, it mar
be supposed that be means to assert, that in a crown grant of the
profits of land for a year, free ingress, egress and regress to take the
profits, are not included by implication, as they would be in a subjects grant. If such be his meaning, he is certainly under a mistake.
The same construction would be put upon each; for otherwise nothing would -pass by the grant. It is a principle of common sense,
as well as of law, that when a thing is granted, whatever is necessary to its enjoyment is granted also. It is not presumed that the
king means to make a void -grant;and, therefore, if it admits of two
constructions, that shall be followed which will secure its validity
and operation. In Comyn's Digest (Com. Dig. Grant E. 11. Co.
Litt. 56, a.) a case is cited from the Year Book 1 Hen. 4, 5; (it
should be 6, a.) that if there be a grant of land, cur pertinentiis,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

593

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
to which common is appendant, the common passes as an incident,
even though it be the grant of the king. So, it is said in the same
case, if the king grant to me the foundation of an abbey, the coroAdy
passes. So, if the king grant to. me a fair, I shall have a court of
Piepoudre, as incident thereto. And there are other cases in the
books to the same effect. See Bac. Abridg. Prerogative, F. 2,.p.
602; Comyn's Dig. Grant, G. 12; Lord Chandos's case, 6 Co. R. 55;
Sir Robert Atkyn's case, 1 Vent. 399, 409; 9 Co. R. 29, 30. Finch
in his treatise on the law, contains nothing beyond the common
authorities; Finch's Law, b; 2, ch. 2, p. 24, edit. 1613 ; Cro. Eliz.
591; Per.Popham, 40. J. 17 Vin. Abridg. Prerogative, 0. c. pl. 13;
Com. Dig. Franchite, C. 2; Inst. 282.
Lord Coke, after stating the decision of Sir John MQulin's case,
(6 Co. R. 6,) adds these words: "Note the gravity of the ancient
sages of the law to construe the king's grants beneficially for his
honour, and not to make any strict or literal construction in subverThis is an admonition, in my humble judgsion of such grants."
ment, very fit to be fremembered and acted upon by all judges, who
are called upon to interpose between the government and the citizen in cases of public grarits. Legat's case (10 Co. R. 109,) contains
nothing, that in the slightest degree impugns the general doctrine
here contended for. It proceeded upon a plain interpretation of the
very words of the grant; and no implications were necessary or
proper, to give it its full effect.
The case of the Royal Fishery of the Banne, decided in Ireland,
in the privy council in 8th James 1st, (Davies' Rep. 149,) has been
much relied on to establish the point, that the king's grant shall pass
nothing by implication. That case, upon its actual circumstances,
justifies no such sweeping conclusion. The king was owner of a
royal fishery in gross, (which is material,) on the rivep"Banne, in navigable"waters, where the tide ebbed and flowed, about two leagues,
from the sea; and he granted to Sir R. M'D. the territory of Rout,
which is parcel of the county of Antrim, and adjoining to the river
Banne, in that part where the said fishery is;. the grant containing
the following words, "omnia castra, messuagia, &c. & .., piscarias,
piscationes, aquas, aquarum cursus, &c., ac omnia alia hereditamenta
in vel infra dictum, territorium de Rout, in comitatu Antrim,. exceptis, et ex hac concessione nobis heredibus et successoribus nostris reservatis tribus partibus piscationibus fluminis de Banne."
The question was, whether the grant passed the royal fishery in the

VOL. XI.-4 F

SUPREME. COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

Banne to the grantee? And it was held, that it did not; first, because the river Banne, so far as the sea ebbs and flows, is a royal navigable river, and the fishery there a royal fishery; secondly, because
no part of this royal fishery could pass by the grant of the land adjoining, and by the general grant of all the fisheries, [in or within
the territory of Rout;] for this royal fishery is not appurtenant to
the land, but is a fishery in gross, and parcel of the inheritance of the
crown itself; and general words in the king's grant shall not pass
such special royalty, which belongs to the crown by prerogative;
thirdly, that by the exception in the grant of three parts of this
fishery, the other fourth part of this fishery did: not pass by this grant;
for the king's grant shall pass nothing by implication; and for this
was cited 2 Hen. 7, 13.
Now, there is nothing in this case, which is not easily explicable
upon the common principles of interpretation. The fishery was a
royal fishery in gross, and not appurtenant to the territory of Rout;
Ward v. Cresswell, Willes' R. 265. The terms of the grant were
of all fisheries in and within this territory; and this excluded any
fishery not within it, or not appurtenant to it. The prenses, then,
clearly did not, upon any just construction, convey the fishery in
question, for it was not within the territory. The only remaining
question was, whether the exception of three quarters, would, by implication, carry the fourth part which was not excepted; that is,
whether terms of exception in a crown grant should be construed
to be terms of grant and not of exception. It is certainly no harsh
application of the common rules of interpretation to hold, that al
implication which required such a change in the natural meaning
of the words, oughf not to be allowed to the prejudice of the crown.
Non constat, that the king might not have supposed, at the time of
.the grant, that he was owner of three parts only of the fishery, and
not of the fourth paxt. This case of the fishery of the Banne, was
cited and commented on by Mr. Justice Bayley in delivering the
opinion of the court in the case of the Duke of Somerset v. Fogwell, (5 Barn. and Cres:. 875 and 885,) and the same view was
taken of the grounds of the decision, which has been here stated:
the learned judge adding, that it was further agreed in that case, that
the grant of the king passes nothing" by implication; by which he
must be untderstood to mean, nothing, which its terms do not, fairly
and reasonably construd, embrace as a portion of or incident to the
subject matter of ths grant.
As to. the case cited froth 2 Hen. 7, 13, (which was the sole au-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

thority relied on,) it turned upon a very different principle. There,
the king by letters patent granted to a man that he might give
twenty marks annual rent to a certain chaplain to pray for souls,
&c.; and the question was, whether the grant was not void for uncertainty, as no chaplain was named. And the principal stress of
the argument seems to have been, whether this lcense should be
construed to create or enable the grantee to create-a corporation capable of taking the rent. In the argument it was asserted that the
king's grants should not be construed, by implication, to create a
corporation, or to enure to a double intent.- In point of fact, however, I find (Chronica Juridicialia, p. 141,) that neither of the persons, whose opinions are stated in the case, was a judge at the time
of the argument, nor does it appear what the decision was; so that
the whole report is but the argument of counsel. The same case is
fully reported by lord Coke, in the case of Sutton's Hospital, (10
Co. Rep. 27, 28,) who says that he had seen the original record, and
who gives the opinions of- the judges at large, by which it appears
that the grant was held vaiid. And so says lord Coke, "1Note,
reader, this grant of the king enures to these intents, viz. to make
an incorporation; to make a succession; and to grant-a rent." So,
that here we have a case, not only of a royal grant being construed
liberally, but divers implications being made not at all founded in
the express terms of the grant. The reason of which was, (as lord
Coke says,) because the king's charter made for the erection of
pious and charitable works, shall be always taken in the most favourable and beneficial sense. This case was recognised by the
judges as sound law, in the case of Sutton's Hospital. And it was
clearly admitted by the judges, that in a charter of incorporation by
the crown, all the incidents to a corporation were tacitly annexed,
although not named; as the right to sue and be sued; to purchase,
-hold, and alien lands; to make by-laws, &c. &c. And if power is
expressly given to purchase, but no clause to alien, the latter follows
by implication, as an incident; Comyn's Dig. Franchise, F. 6, F. 10,
F. 15. It is very difficult to affirm iii the teeth of such authorities,
that in the king's grants nothing is to be taken by implication; as is
gravely asserted in the case in Davies' Reports, 149. The case..
cited to support it is directly against it. In truth, it is obvious, that
the learned judges mistook the mere arguments of counsel, for the
solemn opinions of the court. And the case, as decided, is a direct
authority the other way.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles Rivet Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

The case of Blankley v. Winstanley, (3 T. R. 279,) has also been
relied on for the same purpose. But it has nothing to do with the
point. The court there held that by the saving in the very body of
the charter, the concurrent jurisdiction of the county magistrates
was preserved. There was nothing said by the court, in respect to
the implications in crown grants. The, whole argument turned upon
the meaning of the express clauses.
Much reliance has also been placed upon the language of lord
Stowell in the Elsebe, 5 Rob. 173. The main question in that case
was, whether the crown had a right to release captured property
before adjudication, without the consent of the captors. That question depended -upon the effect of the king'i orders in council, hiN
proclamation, and the parliamentary prize act; for, indep'endently of
these acts, it was clear, that all captured property, jure belli, belonged
to the crown; and was subject to its sole disposal. Lord Stowell,
whose eminent qualifications as a judge entitle him to great reverence, on that occasion said, "A general presumption arising from
these considerations is, that government does not mean to divest
itself of this universal attribute of sovereignty conferred for such
purposes, (to be used for peace, as well as war) unless it is so clearly
and unequivocally expressed. In conjunction with this universal
presumption; must be taken, also, the wise policy of our own peculiar law, which interprets the grants of the crown in this respect, by
*other rules than those which are applicable in the construction of
the grants of individuals. Against an individual it is presumed that
he meant to convey a benefit, -with the utmost liberality that his
words will bear. It is indifferent to the public, in which person an
interest remains, whether in the grantor or the taker. With regard
to the grant of the sovereign, it is far otherwise. It is not held by
the sovereign himself as private property, and no alienation shall be
presumed, except what is clearly and indisputably expressed." Now,
the right of the captors in that case, was given by the words of the
king's order in council only. It was a right to seize and bring in
for adjudication. The right to seize then was given, and the duty
to bring in for adjudication was imposed. If nothing more hid
existed, it would -be clear that the Crown would have the general
property in the captures. Then, again, the prize act'aud prize prothe property after adjudicaclamation gave to the captors a right ifi
tion, as lawful prize,'and not before. This very limitation naturally
implied, that until adjudication they had no right in.the property.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

And this is the ground, upon which lord Stowell placed his judgment, as the clear result of a reasonable interpretation of these acts;
declining to rely on any reasoning from considerations of public
policy. And it is t6 be considered that lord Stowell was not
speaking of an ordinary grant of land, or of franchises, in the common course of mere municipal regulations; but of sovereign attributes and prerogatives, involving the great rights and duties of war
and peace, where, upon every motive of public policy, and every
ground of rational interpretation, there might be great hesitation in
extending the terms of a grant beyorid their fair interpretation.
But, what I repeat, is most material to be stated, is, that all this
doctrine in relation to the king's prerogative of having a construction in his own favour, is exclusively confined to cases of mere
donation, flowing from the bounty of the crown. Whenever the
grant is upon a valuable consideration, the rule of construction ceases;
and the grant is expounded exactly as it would be in the case of a private grant, favourably to the grantee. Why is this rule adopted?
Plainly, because the grant is a contract, and is to be interpreted
according to its fair meaning. It would be to the dishonour of the
government, that it should pocket a fair consideration, afid then
quibble as to the obscurities and implications of its own contract.
Such was the doctrine of my lord Coke, and of the venerable sages
of the law in other times, when a resistance to prerogative was
equivalent to a removal from office. Even in the worst ages of arbitrary power, and irresistible prerogative, they did not hesitate to
declare, that contracts founded in a valuable consideration ought to
be construed liberally for the subject, for the honour of the crown;
2 Co. Inst. 496. See also Com. Dig. Franchise, C. F. 6. If we are
to have the grants of the legislature construed by the rules applicable
to royal grants, it is but common justice to follow them throughout, for the honour of this republic. The justice of the commonwealth will not, (I trust,) be deemed less extensive than that of the
crown.
I think that I have demonstrated, upon authority, that it is by no
means true, that implications may not, and ought not to be admitted
in regard to crown grants. And I would conclude what I have to
say on this head, by a remark made by the late Mr. Chief Justice
Parsons, a lawyer equally remarkable for his extraordinary genius,
and his professional learning. '" In England, prerogative is the
cause of one against the whole. Here, it is the cause of all against

SUPREME COUR T .
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

one. In the first case, the feelings and vices, as well as the virtues,
are enlisted against it; in the last in favour of it. And, therefore,
here, it is of more importance that the judicial courts should take
care that the claim of prerogative should be more strictlywatc/ed;"
Martin v. Commonwealth, 1 Mass. R. 356.
If, then, the present were the case of a royal grant, I should most
strenuously contend, both upon principle and authority, that it was
to receive a liberal, and not a strict construction. I should so contend upon the plain intent of the charter, from its nature and objects,
and from its burthens and duties. It is confessedly a case of contract, nd not of bounty; a case of contract for a valuable consideration; for objects of public utility; to encourage enterprise; to advance the public convenience; and to secure a just remuneration
for large outlays of private capital. What is there in such a grant of
the crown, which should demand from any court ofjustice a narrow
and strict interpretation of its terms? Where is the authority
which contains such a doctrine, or justifies such aconclusion? Let
it not be assumed, and then reasoned from, as an undisputed concession. If the common law carries in its bosom such a principle,
it can be shown by some authorities, which ought to bind the judgment, even if they do not convince the understanding. In all my
researches I have not been able to find any, whose reach does not
fall far, very far short of establishing any such doctrine. Prerogative has never been wanting in pushing forward its own claims for
indulgence, or exemption. But it has never yet (as far as I know)
pushed them to this extravagance.
I stand upon the old law; upon law established more than three
centuries ago, in cases contested with as much ability and learning,
as any in the annals o^ our jurisprudence, in resisting any such encroachrnents upon the rights and liberties of the citizens, secured by
public grants. I will not consent to shake their title deeds, by any
speculative niceties or novelties.
The present, however, is not the case of a royal grant, but of a
legislative grant, by a public statute. The rules of the common law
in relation to royal grants have, therefore, in reality, nothing to do
vith the case. We are to give this act of incorporation a rational
and fair construction, according to the general rules which govern in
all cases of the exposition of public statutes. We are to ascertain
the legislative intent; and that once ascertained, it is our duty to give
it a full and liberal operation. The books are full of cases to this

JAN UARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

effect; see Com. Dig. Parliament, R. 10, to R. 28;,Bac. Abridg. Statute;) if indeed so plain a principle of common sense and common
justice stood in any need of authority to support it. Lord Chief
Justi Eyre, in the case of Boulton v. Bull, (2 H. 136, 463, 500,)
took notice of the disetinction between the construction of a crown
grant, and a grant by an act of parliament; and held the rules of the
common law, introduced for the protection of the crown in respect to
its own grants, to be inapplicable to a grant by an act of parliament.
"It is to be observed" (said his lordship,) "that there is nothing technical in the composition of an act of parliament. Iii the exposition of
statutes, the intent of parliament is the guide: It is expressly laid
down in our books (I do not here speak of penal statutes,) that every
statute ought to be expounded, not according to the letter, but the
intent." Again, he said: "This case was compared to the case of
the king being deceived in his grants. But I am not satisfied, that
the king, proceeding by and with the advice of parliament, is in that
situation, in respect to which he is under the special protection of the
law; and that he could on that ground be considered as deceived in
his grant. No ease was cited to prove that position."
Now, it is to be remembered, that his lordship was speaking upon
the construction of an act of parliament of a private nature; an act
of parliament in the nature of a monopoly; an act of parliament
granting an exclusive patent for an invention to the celebrated Mr.
Watt. And let it be added, that his opinion as to the validity o'
that grant, notwithstanding all the obscurities of the act, was ultimately sustained in the king's bench by q definitive judgment in
its favour; see Hornblower v. Boulton, 8 T. R. 95. A doctrine.
equally just and liberal has been repeatedly recognised by the supreme court of Massachusetts. In the case of Richards v. Daggett,
(4 Mass. R. 534, 537,) Mr. Chief Justice Parsons, in delivering
the opinion of the court, said; "It is always to be presumed, that the
legislature intend the most beneficial construction of their acts, when
the design of them is not apparent;" see also Inhabitants of Somerset
v. Inhabitants of Dighton, 12 Mass. R. 383; Whitney v. Whitney,
14 Mass. R. 88; 8 Mass. R. 523; Holbrook v. Holbrook, 1 Pick. R.;
Stanwood v. Pierce, 7 Mass. IL 458. Even in relation to mere private statutes, made for the accommodation of particular citizens, and
which may affect the rights and privileges of others; courts of law
will give them a large construction, if it arise from necessary implication; Coolidge v. Williams, 4 Mass. R. i45.

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles Rive'r Bridge v. Warren Bridge et a].]
As to the manner of construing parliamentary grants for private
enterprise, there are some recent decisions, which, in my judgment,
establish two very important principles applicable directly to the
present case; which, if not confirmatory of the views, which I have
endeavoured to maintain, are at least not repugnant to them. The
first is, that all grants for purposes of this sort are to be construed as
contracts between the government and the grantees, and not as mere
laws; the second is, that they are to receive a reasonable construction; and that if either upon their express terms, or by just inference
from the terms, the, intent of the contract can be made out, it is to
be recognised and enforced accordingly. But if the language be
ambiguous, or if the inference be not clearly made out, then the
contrct is to be taken most strongly against the grantor, and most
favourably for the public. The first case is The Company of Proprietors of the Leeds and Liverpool Canal v. Hustler, (1 Barn. and
Cressw. 424,) where the question was upon the terms of the charter, granting a toll. The toll was payable on empty boats passing a
lock of the canal. The dourt said; "no toll was expressly imposed
upon empty boats,. &c., and we are called upon to say that such a
toll was imposed by inference. Those who seek to impose a burthen upon the public, shiuld take care that their claim rests upon
plain and unambiguous language. Here the claim is by no means
clear." The next case was the Kingston-upon-Hull Dock Company
v. La Marche, (8 Barn. and Cresswell, 42,) where the question was
as to a right to wharfage of goods shipped off from their quays.
Lord Tenterden, in'delivering the judgment of the court in the negative, said; "this was clearly a bargain made between a company
of adventurers and the public; and, as in many similar cases, the
terms of 'the bargain are contained in the act: and the plaintiffs
can claim nothing which is not clearly given." The next case is
the Proprietors or the Stourbridge Canal v. Wheeley, (2 Barn. and
Adolph. 792,) in which the question was as to a right to certain tolls.
Lord Tenterden, in delivering the opinion of the court, said; "this
lik? many other cases, is a bargain between a company of adventurers and the public, the terms of which are expressed in the statute.
And the rule of construction in all such cases is now fully established
to be this: That any ambiguity in the terms of the contract must
operate against the adventurers, and in favour of the public; and tfic
plaintiffs can claim nothing which is not clearly given to them by
the act." "Now, it is quite certain, that the company have no right
expressly given to receive any compensation, except, &c.; and therc-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

601

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

fore it is incumbent upon them to show, that they have a right,
clearly given by inference from some other of the clauses." This
latter statement shows, that it is not indispensable, that in grants of
this soft,'the contract or the terms of the bargain should be in express language; it is sufficient if they may be clearly proved by implication or inference.
I admit, that where the terms of a grant are to impose burthens
upon the public, or to create a restraint injurious to the public interest, there is sound reason for interpreting the terms, if ambiguous,
in favour of the public. But at the same time, I insist, that there is
not the slightest reason for saying, even in such a case, that the grant
is not to be construed favourably to the grantee, so as to secure
him in the enjoyment of what is actually granted.
I have taken up more time in the discussion of this point than,
perhaps, the occasion required, because of its importance, and the
zeal, and earnestness, and learning, with which the argument for a
strict construction has been pressed upon the Court; as in some sort
vital to the merits of this controversy. I feel the more confirmed in
my own views upon the subject, by the consideration, that every
judge of the state court, in delivering his opinion, admitted, either
directly, or by inference, -the very principle for which I contend.
Mr. Justice Morton, who pressed the doctrine of a strict construction most strongly, at the same time said; "although no distinct
thing or right will pass by implication, yet I do not mean to quest
tion, that the words used-should be understood in their most natural
and obvious sense; and that whatever is essential to the enjoyment
of the thing granted will be necessarily implied in the grant;" 7
Pick.'R. 462. Mr. Justice Wilde said; "in doubtful cases it.seems
to me a sound and wholesome rule of construction to interpret pub-*
lie grants most favourably to the public interests,. and that they are
not to be enlarged by doubtful implications." "When therefore
the legislature makes a grant of a public franchise, it is not to be
extended by construction beyond its clear and obvious meaning."
"There are some legislative grants, no doubt, that may admit of a different rule of construction; such as grants of land on a valuable consideration, and the like;" 7 Pick. 469. These two learned judges
were adverse to the plaintiffs' claim. But the two other learned
judges, who were in favour of it, took a much broader and more
liberal view of the rules of interpretation of the charter.
An attempt has, however, been made to put the case of legislativo
VOL. XI.-4 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

grants upon the same footing as royal grants, as to their construction;
upon some supposed analogy between royal grants and legislative
grants under our republican forms of government. Such a claim in
favour of republican prerogative is new; and no authority has been
cited which supports it. Our legislatures neither have, nor affect to
have any royal prerogatives. There is no provision in the constitution authorizing their grants to be construed differently from the
grants of private persons, in regard to the like subject matter. The
policy of the common law, which gave the crown so many exclusive
privileges, and extraordinary claims, different from those of the subject, was founded in a good measure, if not altogether, upon the
divine right of kings, or at least upon a sense of their exalted dignity
and pre-eminence over all subjects, and upon the notion, that they
are entitled- to peculiar favour, for the protection of their kingly
.rights and office. Parliamentary grants never er joyed any such
privileges. They were always construed according to common sense
and common reason, upon their language and their intent. What
reason is there, that our legislative acts should not receive a similar
interpretation? Is it nut at least as important in our free governments, that a citizen should have as much security for his rights and
estate derived from the grants of the legislature, as he would have in
England? What solid ground is there to say, that the words of a
grant in the mouth of a citizen, shall mean one thing, and in the
mouth of the legislature shall mean another thing? That in regard
to the grant of a citizen, every word shall in case of any question of
interpretation or implication be construed against him, and in regard
to the grant of the goi .-rnment, every word shall be construed in its
favour? That language shall be construed, not according to itA natural import ind implications from its own proper sense, and the objects
of the instrvment; but shall change its meaning, as it is spoken by
.,the whole people, or by one of them? There may be very solid
grounds to say, that neither grants nor charters ought to be extended
beyond the fair reach of their words; and that no implications ought
to be made, which are not clearly deducible from the language, and
the nature and 6bjects of the grant.
In the case of a legislative grant, there is no ground to impute surprise, imposition or mistake to the same extent as in a mere private
grant of the crown. The words are the words of the legislature,
.upon solemn deliberation, and examination, and debate. Their perport is presumed to be well known, and the public interests are

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Chauies River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

watched, and guarded by all the varieties of local, personal and professional jealousy; as well as by the untiring zeal of numbers, devoted to the public service.
It should also be constantly kept in mind, that in -construing this
charter, we are not construing a statute involving political powers
and sovereignty, like those involved in the case of the Elsebe, 5
Rob. R. 173. We are construing a grant of the legislature, which
though in the form of a statute, is still but a solemn contract. In
such a case, the true course is to ascertain the sense of the parties
from the terms of the instrument; and that once ascertained, to give
it full effect. Lord Coke, indeed, recommends this as the best rule,
even in respect to royal grants. ",The best exposition"' (says he,)
"of the king's charter is, upon the consideration of the whole charter, to expound the charter by the charter itself; every material
part thereof [being] explained according to the true and genuine
sense, which is the best method." Case of Sutton's Hospital, 10
Co. R. 24, b
But with a view to induce the Court to withdraw from all the
common rules of reasonable and liberal interpretation in favour of
grants, we have been told at the argument, that this very charter is
a restriction upon the legislative power; that it is in derogation of
the rights and interests of the state, and the people; that it tends to
promote monopolies, and exclusive privileges; and that it will interpose an insuperable barrier to the progress of improveinent. No,#,.
upon every one of these propositions, which are assumed, and not
proved, I entertain a directly opposite opinion; and, if I did not, I
am not prepared to admit the conclusion for which they are adduced.
If the legislatuire has made a grant, i;hich involves any or all of these
consequences, it is not for courts, of justice to overturn the plain
sense of the grant, because it has been improvidently 'or injuriously
made.
But I deny the very ground work of the'argument. This chatter
is.not (as I have already said) any restriction upon the legislative
power; unless it be true, that because the legislature cannot grant
again, what it has already granted, the legislative power is restricted. If so, then every grant of the public land is a restriction upon
that power; a doctrine, that has never yet been estpblished, nor (as
far as I know) ever contended for. Every grant of a franchise is,
so' far as that grant extends, necessarily, exclusive; and cannot -be
resumed, or interfered with. All the learned judges in the state

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL.]

court admitted, that the franchise of Charles River Bridge, whatever
it be, could not be resumed, or interfered with. The legislature
could not recall its grant, or destroy it. It is a contract, whose obligation cannot be constitutionally impaired. In this respect, it does
not differ from a grant of lands. In each case, the particular land,
or the particular franchise, is withdrawn from the legislative operation. The identical land, or the identical franchise, cannot be regranted, or avoided by a new grant. But the legislative power
remains unrestricted. The subject matter only (I repeat it) has
passed from the hands of the government. If the legislature should
order a government debt '.o be paid by a sale of the public stock,
and it is so pgid, the legislative power over the funds of the government remains unrestricted, although it has ceased over the particular
stock, which has been thus sold. For the present, I pass over all
further consideration of this topic, as it will necessarily come again
under review, in examining an objection of a niore broad and comprehensive nature.
Then, agdin, how is it established that this is a grant in derogation of the rights and interests of the people? No individual citizen has any right to build a bridge, over navigable waters; and consequently he is deprived of no right, when a grant is made to any
other persons for that purpose. Whether it promotes or injures the
particular interest of an individual citizen, constitutes no ground for
judicial or legislative interference, beyond what his own rights justify. When, then, it is said, that such a grant is in derogation of
the rights and interests of the people, we must understand that reference is had to the rights and interests common to the whole people, as such, (such as the right of navigation,) or belonging to them
as a political body; or, in other words, the rights and interests of the
state. Now, I cannot understand how-any grant of a franchise is a
derogation from the rights of the people of the state, any more than
a grant of public land. The right, in each case, is gone to the extent of the thing granted, and so far may be said .to derogate from,
that is to say, to lessen the rights of the people, or of the state. But
that is not the sense in whieh the argtment is pressed; for, by derogation, is here meant -an injurious or mischievous detraction from
the sovereign rights of the state. On the other hand, there can be
no derogation from the rights of the people, as such, except it applies to rights common there before; which the building of a bridge
over navigable waters certainly is not. If it had been said that

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the grant of this bridge was in derogation of the common right
of navigating the Charles River, by reason 'of its obstructing, pro
tanto, a free and open passage, the ground would have been intelligible. So, if it had been an exclusive grant-of the navigation of
that stream. But, if at the same time, equivalent public rights of a
different nature, but of greater public accommodation and use, had
been obtained'; it could hardly have been said, in a correct sense,
that there was any derogation from the rights of the people, or the
rights of the state. It would be a mere exchange of one public
right for another.
Then, again, as to the grant being against the interests of the peonot to
ple. I know not how that is established; and certainly it 'is
that
every
grant
of
the
be assumed. It will hardly be contended
government.is injurious to the interests of the people; or that every
grant of a franchise must necessarily be so. The erection of a bridge
may be of the highest utility to the people. It may essentially promote the public convenience, and aid the public interests, and protect the public property. And if no persons can-be found willing to
undertake such a work, unless they receive in return the exclusive
privilege of erecting it, and taking toll; surely it cannot e said, as
of course, that such a grant, under such, circumstances, is, per se,
against the interests of the people. Whether the grant of a franchise
is, or is not, on the whole, promotive of the public interests; is a
question of fact and judgment, upon which different minds may entertain different opinions. It is not to be judicially assumed to be
injurious, and then the grant to be reasoned down. Itis a matter
exclusively confided to the sober consideration of the legislature;
which is invested with full discretion, and possesses ample means to
decide it. For myself, meaning to speak with all due deference for
others, I know of no power or authority confided to the judicial department, to rejudge the decisions of the legislature upon such a subject. It has an exclusive right to make the grant, and to decide
whether it be, or be not, for the public interests. It is to be presumed, if the grant is made, that it is made from a high sense of
public duty, to promote the public welfare, and to establish the public prosperity. In this very case, the legislature has, upon the very
face of the act, made a solemn declaration as to the motive fof passing it; that-" The erecting of a bridge over Charles River, &c., will
be of great public utility."
What court of justice is invested with authority to gainsay this

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

declaration? To strike it out of the act, and reason upon the other
words, as if it were not there? To pronounce that a grant is against
the interests of the people, which the legislature has declared to be
of great utility to the people? It seems to me to be our duty to interpret laws, and not to wander into speculations upon their policy.
And where, I may ask, is the proof that Charles River Bridge has
been against the interests of the people? The record contains no
such proof; and it is, therefore, a just presumption that it does not
exist.
Again, it is argued that the present grant is a grant of a monopoly,
and of exclusive privileges; and therefore to be construed by the
most narrow mode of interpretation. The sixth article of the bill of
rights of Massachusetts has been supposed to support the objection;
"No -man, nor Corporation, or association of men, have any other
title to obtain advantages or particular and exclusive privileges distinct from those of the community, than what arises from the consideration of services rendered to the public; and this title being in
nature neither hereditary nor transmissive to children, or descendants, or relations by blood, the idea of a man born a magistrate, lawgiver, or judge, is absurd and unnatural." Now, it is plain, that
taking this whole clause together, it is not an inhibition of all legislative grants of exclusive privileges; but a promulgation of the reasons
why there should be no hereditary magistrates, legislators, or judges.
But it admits, by necessary implication, the right to grant exclusive
privileges for public services, without ascertaining of what nature
those services may be. It might be sufficient co say, that all the
learned judges in the state court, admitted that the grant of-an exclusive right to take toll at a ferry, or a bridge, or a turnpike, is not a
monopoly which. is deemed odious in law; nor one of the particular
and exclusive privileges, distinct from those of the community,
which are reprobated in the bill of rights. All that was asserted by
the judges, opposed to a liberal interpretation of this grant, was, that
it tended to promote monopolies. See the case, 7 Pick. R. 116, 132,
137.
Again; the old colonial act of 1641 against monopolies, has been
relied on to fortify the same argument. That statute is merely in affirmance of the principles of the English statute against monopolies,
of 21 James I. ch. 3; and if it were now in force, (which it is not)
it would require the same construction.
There is great virtue in particular phrases: and when it is once

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

suggested, that a grant is of the nature or tendency of a monopoly,
the mind almost instantaneously prepares itself to reject every construction which does not'pare it down to the narrowest limits. It
is an honest prejudice, which grew up in former times from the
gross abuses of the royal prerogatives; to which, in America, there
are no 'anarogous authorities. But, what is a monopoly, ts understood in law? It is an exclusive right granted to a few, of something which was before of common right. Thus, a privilege granted
by the king for the sole buying, selling, making, working, or using
a thing, whereby the subject, in general, is restrained from that
liberty of manufacturing or trading, which before he had, is a monopoly; 4 Black. Comm. 159; Bac. Abridg. Prerogative, F. 4.
My lord Coke, in his Pleas of the Crown; 3 Inst. 181; has given
this very definition of a monopoly; and that definition was approved
by Holt and Treby, (afterwards chief justices of king's bench,)
arguendo, as counsel, in the great case of the East India Company v.
Sandys; 10o Howell, State Trials, 386. His words are, that a monopoly is "an institution by the king, by his grant, commission, or
otherwise, to any persons or corporations, of or for the sole buying,
selling, making, working or using of every thing, wsmreby any p ersons or corporations are sought to be restrained of any freedom or
liberty they had. before, or hindered in their lawful trade." So,
that it is not the case of a monopoly, if the subjects had not the common right or liberty before to do the act, or possess and enjoy the
privilege or franchise granted, as a common right; 10 Howell, State
Trials, 425. And it deserves an especial remark, that this doctrine
was an admitted concession, pervading the entire arguments of the
counsel who opposed, as well' as of those who maintained the grant
of the exclusive trade in the case of the East India Company v.
Sandys, (10 How. St. Tr. 386,) a case which constitutes, in a great
measure, the basis of this branch of the law.
No sound lawyer will, I presume, assert that the grant of a right
to erect a bridge over a navigable stream, is a grant of a common
right. Before such grant, had all the citizens of the state a right to
erect bridges over navigable streams? Certainly they had not; and,
therefore, the grant was no restriction of any common right. It was
neither a monopoly; nor, in a legal sense, had it any tendency to a
monopoly. It took from no citizen what he possessed befdre; and
had no tendency to take it from him. It took, indeed, from the legislature the power of granting the same identical privilege or fran-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles Itiver Bridge v..Warren Bridge et al.]

chise to any other persons. But this .made it no more a monopoly,
than the grant of the public stock or funds of a state for a valuable
consideration. Even in cases of monopolies, strictly so called, if
the nature of the grant be such that it is for the public good,-as in
cases of patents for inventions, the rule has always been to give
them a favourable construction in support of the patent, as Lord
Chief Justice Eyre sail, ut res magis valeat quam' pereat; Boulton
v. Bull,'2 H. B1. 463, 500.
* But it has been argued, and the argument has been pressed in
every form which ingenuity could suggest, that if grants of this nature are to be construed liberally, as conferring any exclusive rights
on the grantees, it will interpose an effectual barrier against all general improvements of the country. For myself, I profess not to feel
the cogency of,this argument; either in its general application to the
grant of franchises, or in its special application to the tresent grant.
This is a subject upon which different minds may well arrive at different conclusions, both as to policy and principle. Men may, and
will, complexionally differ upon topics of this sort, according to their
natural and acquired habits of speculation and opinion. For my own
part, I can conceive of no surer plan to arrest all public .improvements, founded, on private capital and enterprise, than to make the
outlay of that capital uncertain, and questionable both as to security,
and as to productiveness. No man will hazard his capital in any
enterprise, in which, if there be a loss, it must be borne exclusively
by himself; and if there be success, he has not the slightest 'security
of enjoying the rewards of that success for a single moment. If the
government means tq invite its citizens to enlarge the public comforts and conveniences, to establish bridges, or turnpikes, or canals,
or railroads, there must be .some pledge, that the property will be
safe; that the enjoyment will be co-extensive with the grant: and
that success' will not be the signal of a general combination to overthrow its rights, and to take away its profits. ' The very agitation of
a question of this sort,-is sufficient to alarm every stockholder in
every public enterprise of this sort, throughout the whole country.
Ajready, in my ngtive.state, the legislature has found it necessary
expressly to concede the exclusive privilege here contended against;
"n order to insure thc"accomplishment of a rail road for the benefit
of the public. Ahd yet, we are told, that all such exclusive grants
are to the detriment of the public.
But if there were any foundation for the argument itself in a

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

609

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

general view, it would totally fail in its application to the present
case. Here, the grant, however exclusive, is but for a short and
limited period, more than two-thirds of which have Already elapsed;
and, when it is gone, the whole property and franchise are to revert
to the state. The legislature exercised a wholesome foresight on
the subject; and within .a reasonable period it will have an unrestricted authority to do whatever it may choose, in 'the appropriation of the bridge and its tolls. There is not, then, under any fair
aspect of the case, the slightest reason to presume that public improvements either can, or will, be injuriously retarded by a liberal
construction of the present grant.
I have thus endeavoured to answer, and I think I have successfully answered all the arguments, (which indeed run into each
other) adduced to justify a strict construction of the present charter.
I go further, and maintain not only, that it is not a case for strict
construction; but that the charter upon its very face, by its terms,
and for its professed objects, demands from the Court, upon undeniable principles of law, a favourable construction for the grantees. In
the first place, the legislature has declared, that the erecting of the
bridge will be of great public utility; and this exposition of its own
motives for the grant, requires the Court to give a liberal ititerpretation, in order to- promote, and not t9 destroy an enterprise of great
public utility. In the next place, the grant is a contract for a valuable consideration, and a full and adequate consideration. The proprietors are to lay out a large sum of money, (and in those times it
was a very large outlay of capital,) in erecting a bridge; they are to
keep it in repair during the whole period of forty years;.they are to
surrender it in good repair at the end of that period to the state, as
its own property; they are to pay, during the whole period, an
annuity of two hundred pounds to Harvard college; and they are
to incur other heavy expenses and burthens, for the public accommodation. In return. for all -these charges, they are entitled to no
more than the receipt of the tolls during the forty years, for their
reimbursement of capital, interest and expenses. With all this they
are to take upon themselves the chances of success; and if the enterprise fails, the loss is exclusively"their own. Nor let any man
imagine, that there was not, -at the time when this charter was
granted, much solid ground for doubting success. In order to entertain.a just view of this subject, we must go back to that period of
general bankruptcy, and distress and difficulty. the constitution of
VOL. XI.-4 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles Rivei Bridge v..Warren Bridge et al.]

the United States was iot only not then in existence, but it was not
then even dreamed of. The union of the states was crumbling into
ruins, under the old confederation. Agriculture, manufactures and
commerce, were at their lowest ebb. There was infinite danger to
all the states from local interests and jealousies, and from the apparent impossibility of a much' longer adherence to that shadow of a
government, the continental congress. And even four years afterwards, when every evil had been greatly aggravated, and civil war
was added to other calamities, the constitution of the United States
was all bat shipwrecked in passing through the state conventions.
It was adopted by very slender majorities. These are historical
facts which required no colouring to give them effect, and admitted
of no concealment to seduce men into schemes of future aggrandizement. I would even now put it to the common sense of every man,
whether, if the constitution of the United States had not been
adopted, the charter would have been worth a forty years' purchase
of the tolls.
This is not all. It is well known, historically, that this was the
very first bridge ever constructed in New England, over navigable
tide waters so near the sea. The rigours of our climate, the dangers
from sudden thaws and freezing, and the obstructions from ice in
a rapid current, were deemed by many persons to be insuperable
obstacles to the success of such a project. It was believed, that the
bridge would scarcely stand a single severe winter. And I myself
am old enough to know, that in regard to other arms of the sea, at
much later periods, the same doubts have had a strong and depressing
influence upon public enterprises. If Charles River Bridge had
been carried away during the first or second season after its erection,
it is far from being certain, that up to this moment another bridge,
upon such an arm of the 'sea, would ever have been erected in
Mossachusetts. I state these things which are of public notoriety,
to repel the notion that the legislature was surprised into an incautious grant, or that, the reward was more than adequate to the
perils. There was a full -and adequ te consideration, in a pecuniary
sense, for the charter. But; in a more general sense, the erection of
the bridge, as a matter of accommodation, has been incalculably
beneficial to the public.. Unless, therefore, we are wholly to disregard the declarations of the legislature, and the objects of the charter,
and the historical facts of 'the times; and indulge in mere private
speculations of profit and loss by our present lights and experience;

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

it seems to me, that the Court is bound to come to the interpretation
of this charter, with a persuasion that it was granted in furtherance,
and not in derogation of the public good.
But I do not insist upon any extraordinary liberality in interpreting this charter. All I contend for is that it shall receive a fair and
reasoxiable interpretation; so as to carry into effect the legislative
intention, and secure to the grantees a just security for their -privileges. I might, indeed, well have spared myself any investigation
of the principles upon which royal and legislative grants are ordinarily to be construed; for this.Court has itself furnished an unequivocal rule for interpreting all public contracts. The present grant
is confessedly a contract; and in Huidekooper's Lessee v. Douglas,
(3 Cranch, R. 1; S. C., I Peters' Cond. R. 446,) this Court said:
"This is a contract, and although a state is a party, it ought to be
construed according to those well established principles which regulate contracts generally;" that is, precisely as in cases between mere
private persons, taking into consideration the nature and objects of
the grant. A like rule was adopted by this Court in the case of a
contract by the United States; United States v. Gurney, 4 CranchA,
333; S. C., 2 Peters' Condensed R. 132. And the good sense and
justice of the rule seem equally irresistible.
Let us now enter upon the consideration of the terms of the charter. In my judgment, nothing can be more plain than that it is a
grant of a right to erect a bridge between Boston and Charlestown,
in the place where the ferry between those towns was kept. It has
been said that the charter itself does not describe the bridge as between Charlestown and Boston; but grants an authority to erect "a
bridge over Charles river, in the place where the old ferry was then
kept;" and that these towns are not named, except for the purpose
of describing the then ferry. Now, this seems to me, with all due
deference, to be a distinction without a difference. The bridge is to
be erected in the place where the old' ferry then was. But where
was it to begin, and where was it to terminate? Boston and Charlestown are the only possible termini, for the ferry ways were there;
and it was to be built between Boston and Charlestown, because the
ferry was between them. Surely,,according to the true sense of the
preamble, where alone the descriptive words occur, (for it is a great
mistake to suppose, that the enacting clause any where refers, except
by implication, to the location of the bridge,) it is wholly immaterial, whether we read the clause, "whereas the erecting of a bridge

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v.,Warren Bridge et al.]

over Charles river in the place where the ferry between Boston and
Charlestown is now kept;" or "whereas the erecting of a bridge over
Charles river between Charlestown and Boston, where the ferry is
now kept." In each case the bridge is to be between Boston and
Charlestown; and the termini are the ferry ways. The title of the
act puts this beyond all controversy; for it is "an act for incorporating certain persons for the purpose of building a bridge over Charles
But, then, we are told
river between Boston and Charlestown, &c."
that no rule in construing statutes is better settled, than that the title
of an act does not constitute any part of the act. If by this no more
be meant, than that the -title of an act constitutes no part of its enacting clauses, the accuracy of the position will not be disputed. But
if it is meant to say that the title of the act does not belong to it for
any purpose of explanation or construction, and that in no sense is
it any part of the act; I, for one,,must deny, that there is any such
settled principle of law. On the contrary, I understand that the
title of an act, (though it is not ordinarily resorted to,) may be legitimately resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining the legislative intention, just as much as any other part of the act. In point of fact
it is usually'resorted to, whenever it may assist us in removing any
ambiguities in the enacting clauses. Thus, in the great case of S utton's Hospita1, (10 Co. R. 23,24, b.) the title of an act of parliamaent
-wasthought not unworthy to b6 examined in construing the design of
the act. In Boulton v. Bull, (2 Hen. Bl.463, 500,) the effect of the
title of an act was largely insisted upon in the argument, as furnishing a key to the intent of the enacting clauses. And Lord 'Chief Justice Eyre admitted the propriety of the argument, and met it by
saying, that, in thht case, he would, if necessary, expound the word
"engine," in the body of-the bill in opposition to the title to it, to
mean a "method" in order to support the patent. In the case of the
United States v. Fisher, (2 Cranch, R. 358; S.C., 1 Peters' Con. R.
42,1,) the Supreme Court of the United States expressly recognised
the doctrine, and gave it a practical application. In that case the
Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion ofthe Court, after adverting
to the argument at the bar, respecting the degree of influence which
the title, of an act ought to have in construing the enacting clauses,
said: "Where the mind labours to discover the design of the legislature, it seizes every thing from which aid can be derived; and in
such a case the title claims a degree of notice, and will have its due
share of consideration."

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

613

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

According to my views of the terms of the charter, the grant,
then, is of the franchise of erecting a bridge over Charles river, between Charlestown and Boston, and of taking tolls or pontage from
passengers. It is, theiefore, limited to those towns; and does not
exclude the legislature from any right to giant a bridge over the
same river between any other towns and Boston; as, for example,
between Chelsea and Boston, or Cambridge and Boston, or Roxbury
and Boston.
But although, in my judgment, this is the true construction of the
limits of the charter, ex vi terminorum, my opinion does not, in any
important degree, rest upon it. Taking this to be a grant of a right
to build a bridge over Charles river, in the place Where the old ferry
betweed Charlestown and Boston was then kept, (as is contended for
by the defendants;) still it has, as all such grants must have, a fixed
locality, 6nd the same question meets us: is the grant confined to the
mere right to erect a bridge on the proper spot, and to take toll of'
the passengers, who may pass over it, without any exclusive, franchise on either side of the local limits of the bridge? Or does it;
by implication, include an exclusive franchise on each side to qn extent, which shall shut out any injurious competition? In other
words, does the grant still leave the -legislature at liberty to erect
other bridges on either side, free or with tolls, even in juxta-position
with the timbers and planks of this bridge? Or is there an implied
obligation on *thepart of the legislature, to abstain from all acts of
this sort, which shall impair or destroy the value of the grant? The
defendants contend, that the exclusive right of the plaintiffs extends
no further than the -planks- and timbers of the bridge; and that the
legislature is at full :liberty to grant any new bridge, however near;
and although it may take away a large portion, or even the whole of
the travel which would otherwise pass over the bridge of the plain-.
tiffs. And to this extent the defendants must contend; for their
bridge is, to all intents and purposes, in a legal and practical sense,
contiguous to that of the plaintiffs.
The argument of the defendants is, that the plaintiffs are to take
nothing by implication. Either (say they) the exclusive grant extends only to the local limits of the bridge; or it extends the whole
length of the river, or at least up to old Cambridge bridge. The
latter construction would be absurd and monstrous; and therefore
the former must be the true one. Now, I utterly deny the alternatives involved in the dilemma. The right to build a bridge over a

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v.. Warren Bridge et al.]

river, and to take toll, may well include an exclusive franchise beyorid the local limits of the bridge; and yet not extend through the
whole course of the river, or even to any considerable distance on
the river. There is no difficulty in common sense, or in law, in
maintaining such'a doctrine. But then, it is asked, what limits can
be assigned to such a franchise? - The answer is obvious; the grant
carries with it an exclusive franchise to a reasonable distance on the
river; so that the ordinary travel to the bridge shall not be diverted
by any new bridge to the injury or ruin of the franchise. A new
bridge, which would be a nuisance, to the old bridge, would be within the reach of its exclusive right. The question would not be so
much as to the fact of distance, as it would be as to the fact of nuisance. There is nothing new, in such expositions of ineorporeal
rights; and nothing new in thus administering, upon this foundation,
'remedies in regard thereto. The doctrine is coeval with the common
law itself. Suppose an action is brought for shutting up the ancient
lights belonging to a messuage; or for diverting a water-course; or
for flowing back a stream; or for erecting a nuisance near a dwelling
house; the question in cases is not a question of mere distance; of
mere feet and inches, but of injury; permanent, real, and substantial
injury to be decided upon all the circumstances of the case. But .of
this I shall speak again hereafter.
Let us see what is the result of the narrow construction contended
for by the defendants. If that result be such as is inconsistent with
all reasonable presumptions growing out of the case; if it be repugnant to the principles of equal justice; if it will defeat the whole
objects of the grant; it will not, I trust, be insisted on, that this
Court is bound to adopt it.
I have before had occasion to take notice that the original charter
is a limited one for forty years; that the whole compensation of the
proprietors for all their outlay of capital, their annuity to Harvard
college and their other annual burthens and charges, is to arise out of
the tolls allowed them during that period. No other fund is provided
fo their indemnity; and they are to take it subject to all the perils
of failure and the chances of an inadequate remuneration. The moment the charter was accepted, the proprietors were bound to all the
obligations of this contract, on their part. Whether the bargain
should turn out to be good -or bad, productive or unproductive of
profit, did not vary their duties. The franchise was not a mere jus
privatum. From the moment of its acceptance, and the erection of

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the bridge, it became charged with a jus publicum. Tlhe government had a right to insist that the bridge should be kept in perfect
repair for public travel by the proprietors: that the bridge should be
lighted: that the draw should be raised without expense, for the purposes of nivigation. And if the proprietors had refused or neglected
to do their duty in any of these respects, they would have been liable'to a public prosecution. It could be no apology or defence that
the bridge was unprofitable; that the tolls were inadequate; that the
repairs were expensive; or that the whole concern was a ruinous
enterprise. The proprietors took the charter cum onere, and must
abide by their choice. It is no answer to all this, lo say that the
proprietors might surrender their charter, and thus escape from the
burthen. They could have no right to make such a surrender. It
would depend upon the good pleasure of the government, whether it
would accept of such a surrender, or not: and until such an acceptance, the burthens would be obugatory to the last hour of the
charter. And when that hour shall have arrived, the bridge itself, in
good repair, is to be delivered to the state.
Now, I put it to the common sense of every man, whether if at
the moment of granting the charter the legislature had said to the
proprietors; you shall build the bridge; you shall bear the burthens;
you shall be bound by the charges; and your sole reimbursement
shall be from the tolls of forty years: and yet we will not even
guaranty you any certainty of receiving any tolls. On the contrary
we reserve to ourselves the full power and authority to erect other
bridges, toll, or free bridges, according to our own free will and
pleasure, contiguous to yours, and having the same termini with
yours; and if you are successful we may thus supplant you, divide,
destroy your profits, and annihilate your tolls, without annihilating
your burthens: if, I say, such had been the language of the legislature, is there a man livingof ordinary discretion or prudence, who
would have accepted such a charter upon such terms? I fearlessly
answer, no. There would have been such a gross inadequacy of
consideration, and such a total insecurity of all the rights of property,
under such circumstances, that the project would have dropped, still
barn. And I put the question farther, whether any legislature,
meaning to promote a project of permanent public utility, (such as
this confessedly was) would ever have dreamed of such a qualification of its own grant; when it sought to enlist private capital and
private patronage to insure the accomplishment of it?

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]

Yet, this is the very form and pressure of the present case. It is not
an imaginary and extravagant case. Warren Bridge has been erected,
under such a supposed reserved authority, in the immediate neighbourhood of Charles River Bridge; and with the same termini, to accommodate the same line of travel. For a half dozen years it was to
be a toll bridge for the benefit of the proprietors, to reimburse them
for their expenditures. At the end of that period, the bridge is to become the property of the state, and free of toll; unless the legislature
should hereafter impose one. In point of fact, it has since become,
and now is, under the sanction of the act of incorporation, and other
subsequent acts, a free bridge without the payment of any tolls for
all persons. So that, in truth, here now is a free bridge, owned by
and erected under the authority of the commonwealth, which necessarily takes away all the tolls from Charles River Bridge; while its
prolonged charter has twenty years to run. And yet the act of the
legislature establishing Warren Bridge, is said to b- no violation of
the franchise granted to the Charles River Bridge. The legislature
may annihilate, nay has annihilated by its own acts all chance of
receiving tolls, by withdrawing the whole travel; though it is admitted that it cannot take away the barren right to gather tolls, if any
should occur, when there is no travel to bring a dollar. According
to the same course of argument, the legislature would have a perfect
right to block up every avenue to the bridge, and to obstruct eviery
highwaay which should lead to it, without any violation of the chartered iights of Charles River Bridge; and at the same time it might
require every burthen to be punctiliously discharged by the proprietors, during the prolonged period of seventy years. I confess, that
the very statement of such propositions is so startling to my mind,
and so irreconcilable with all my notions of good faith, and of any
fair interpretation of the legislative intentions "that I shouk always
doubt the soundness of any reasoning which should conduct me to
such results.
But it is said that there is no prohibitory covenant in the charter,
and no implications are to be made of any such prohibition. The
proprietors are to stand upon the letter of their contract, and the
maxim applies, de non apparentibus et non existentibus, eadem est
lex. And yet it is conceded, that the legislature cannot revoke or
resume this grant. Why not, I pray-to know? There is no negative covenant in the 'charter; there is no express prohibition to be*
found there. The reason is plain. The prohibition arises by natu-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

617

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

ral, if not by necessary implication. It would be against the first
principles of justice to presume that the legislature reserved a righ
to destroy its own grant. That was the doctrine in Fleteher v.
Peck, 6 Crauch 87, in this Court: and in other cases turning upon
the same great principle of political and constitutional duty and
right. Can the legislature have power to do that indirectly, which
it cannot do directly? If it cannuL take away, or resume the franchise itself, can it take away its whole substance and value? If the
law will create an implication that the legislature shall not resume
its own grant, is it not equally as natural and as necessary an implication, that the legislature shall not do any act directly to prejudice
its own grant, or to destroy its value? If there were no authority
in favour Qf so reasonable a doctrine, I would say, in the langliage of
the late lamented Mr. Chief Justice Parker, in this very case: "I
ground it on the principles of our government and constitution, and
on the immutable principles of justice: which ought to bind governments, as well as people."
But it is most important to remember, that in the construction of
all legislative grants, the common law must be taken into consideration; for the legislature must be presumed to have in view the general principles of construction which are recognised by the common
law. Now, no principle is better established, than the principle
that when a thing is given or granted, the law giveth, impliedly,whatever is necessary for the taking and enjoying the same. This
is laid down in Co. Litt. 56, a; and is, indced, the dictate of common sense applicable to all grants. Is not the unobstructed possession of the tolls, indispensable to the full enjoyment of the corporate
rights granted to the proprietors of Charles River Bridge? If the
tolls were withdrawn, directly or indirectly, by the authority of the
legislature, would not the franchise be utterly worthless? A burthen,
and not a benefit? Would not the reservation of authority in the legislature to create a rival bridge, impair, if it did not absolutely destroy the exclusive right of the proprietors of Charles River Bridge?
I conceive it -tterly impossible to give any other than an affirmative
answer to each of these questions. How, then, are we to escape
from the conclLsion, that that which would impair or destroy the
grant, is prohibited by implication of law, from the nature of the
grant? "We are satisfied,' said Mr. Chief Justice Parsons, in delivering the opinion of the court in Wales v. Stetson, 2 Mass. R.
143, 146, "that the rights legally vested in any corporation cannot
VoL. XI.-4 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]

be e6ntrolled or destroyed by any subsequent statute, unless a power
for that purpbse be reserved to the legislature, in theact of incorporation." Where is any such reservation to be found in the charter
of Charles River B:idge?
My brother Washington, (than whom few judges ever possessed
a sounder judgment, or clearer learning;) in his able opinion in the
case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. R. 658, took this
same view of the true sense of the passage in lBlackstone's Commentaries; and uses the following strong language in the subject of a
charter of the~government. "Certain obligations are created (by it)
both on the grantor and the grantees. On the part of the former, it
amounts to an extinguishment of the king's prerogative to bestow
the same identical franchise on another corporate body, because it
would prejudice his former grant. It implies, therefore, a contract
not to reassert the right to grant the franchise to another, or to impair it." I know not how language more apposite could be applied
to the present case. None of us then doubted its entire correctness,
when le uttered it; and I am not able to perceive how the legal
inference can now be escaped. The case of The Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal Company v. The Baltimore and Ohio Rail Road Company, 4 Gill and Johnson's R. 1, 4, 6, 143, 146, 149, fully sustains

the same doctrine; and most elaborately expnnds its ntture, and
operation, and extent.
'But we are not left to mere general reasoning on this subject.
There are cases of grants of the crown in which a like construction
has prevailed, which are as conclusive upon this subject in point of
authority, as any can be. How stands the law in relation to grants
by the crown 6f fairs, markets, and ferries? I speak of grants, for
all claims of this'sort resolve themselves into grants; a prescription
being merely evidence of, and presupposing an ancient grant, which
can be no longer traced, except by the constant use and )ossession
of the franchise. If the king grants af iir, or'a market, or a ferry,
'has the franchise no existence beyond the local limits where it is
erected? Does the grant import no more than a right to set up such
fair, or market,'or ferry, leaving in the crown full power and authority to make other grants of the same nature, in juxtaposition
with those local limits? No case, I will venture to say, has ever
maintained such a doctrine; and the common law repudiates it (as
will he presently shown,) in the most express terms.
The authorities are abundant. to establish, that the king cannot

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren.Bridge et al.]

make any second grant which shall prejudice the profits of the
former grant. And why not? Because the grant imposes public
burdens on the grantee, and subjects him to public charges, and the
profits constitute his only means of remuneration; and' the crown
shall not be at liberty directly to impair, much less to destroy the
whole value and objects of its grant. In confirmation of this reasoning, it has been repeatedly laid down in the books, that when the
king grants a fair, or market, or ferry, it is usual to insert in all such
grants a clause or proviso that it shall not be to the prejudice of any
other existing franchise of the same nature; as a fair, or market, or
ferry. But if such a clause or proviso is not inserted, the grant is
always construed with the like restriction; for such a clause will be
implied by law. And, therefore, if such new grant is without iuch
a clause, if it occasion any damage either to -the king, or to a subject
in any other thing, it will be revocable. So my Lord Coke laid it
down in 2 Inst. 406. The judges laid down the same law in the
house of lords in the case of The King v. Butler, (3 Leo. !?20, 222;)
which was the case of a grant of a-new market to the supposed prejudice of an old market. Their language on that occasion deserves
to be cited. It was, "that the king has an undoubted right to repeal
a patent wherein he is deceived, or his stbjects prejudiced, and that
by scire facias." And afterwards, referring to cases where a writ
of ad quod damnum had been issued, they added, "there, the. king
takes notice, that it is not ad damnum; and yet, if it be ad damnum;
the patent is void; for in all such paten..s the cofidition is implied,
viz., that it be not ad damnum of the neighbouring merchants."
And they added faither; "this is positively alleged, (in the scire
facias,) that concessio predicta est ad damnum et depauperationem
&c.; which is a sufficient cause to revoke the patent, if there were
nothing more." The same doctrine is laid down in Mr. Sergeant
William's learned note (2y to the case of Yard v. Ford; 2 Saund. R.
174. Now, if in the grant of any such franchise of a fair, or market,
or ferry, there is no implied obligation or condition that the king'
will not make any subsequent grant to the prejudice of such prior
grant, or impairing its rights, it is inconceivable why such a proviso
should be implied. But, if, (as the law certainly is,) the king can
make no subsequent grant to the prejudice of his former grant, then
the reason of such implication is clear; for the king will not be presumed to intend to violate his duty, but rather to be deceived in his
second grant, if to the prejudice of the first.

620

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

It is upon this ground, and this ground only, that we can explain
the established doctrine in relation to ferries. When the crown grants
a ferry from A. to B. without using any words which import it to be
an exclusive ferry, why is it, (as will be presently shown) that by
the common law the grant is construed to be exclusive of all other
ferries between the same places, or termini; at least, if such ferries
are so near that they are injurious to the first ferry, and tend to a
direct diminution of its receipts? Plainly, it must be because from
the nature of such a franchise it can have no permanent value, unless
it is exclusive; and the circumstance that during the existence of the
grant, the grantee has public burdens imposed upon him, raises the
implication that nothing shall be done to the prejudice of it, while it
is a subsisting franchise. .The words of the grant do, indeed, import
per se merely to confer a right of ferry between A. and B. Bat the
common law steps in, and, ut res magis valeat quam pereat, expands
the terms into an exclusive right; from the very nature, and objects,
and motives, of the grant.
I say this is the theory of the common law on this subject. Let
us now see if it is not fully borne out by the authorities in relation
to ferries; a franchise, which approaches so near to that of a bridge,
that human ingenuity has not as yet been able to state any assignable
difference between them; except that one includes the right of pontage, and the other of passage or ferriage; see Webb's case, 8 Co.
.R. 46, (b); that is, each includes public duties, and burdens, and an
indemnity for these duties and burdens by a right to receive tolls.
A grant of a ferry must always be by local limits; it must have some
termini; and must be between some fixed points, vills, or places.
But is the franchise of a ferry limited to the mere ferry ways?
Unless I am greatly mistaken, there is an unbroken series of authorities establishing the contrary doctrine; a doctrine firmly fixed in
the common law, and brought to America by our ancestors as a part
of their inheritance. The case of a ferry is put as a case of clear
law by Paston, Just. as long ago as in 22 Hen. V. 14, b. - "If, says
he, I have a market or a fair on a particular day, and another sets up
a market or fair on the same day in a ville, which is near to my market, so that my market, or my fair is impaired, I shall have against
And the same
him an assize of nuisance, or an action on the case."
law is, "If I have an ancient .ferry in a ville, and another sets up
another ferry upon the same river near to my ferry, so that the profits of my ferry are impaired, I shall have an action on the case

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v..Wai-ren Bridge et al.]

against him." And Newton, (who it seems was of counsel for the
defendant in that case) admitted the law to be so; and gave as a
reason, "for you are bound to support the ferry, and to serve and
repair it for the ease of the common people, and otherwise you shall
be grievously amerced; and it is enquirable before the sheriff at his
tourn, and also before the justices in Eyre." As to the case of a
market or fair, Newton said, that in the king's grant of a market or
fair, there is always a proviso that it should not be to the nuisance
of another market or fair. To which Paston, lust. replied; "suppose the king grants to me a market without -anyproviso, if one sets
up after that time another market, which is a nuisance to that, I shall
have against him an assize of nuisance."
The doctrine here laid down seems indisputable -law; and it was
cited -and approved by Lord Abinger in Huzzy v. Field, 2 Cromp.
Mees. and Roscoe, 432; to which reference will presently be made.
In Bacon's Abridgment, Prerogative, F. 1, it is laid down, "that if
the king creates or grants a fair, or market, to a person, and afterwards grants another to another person to the prejudice of the first,
the second grant is void;" see li Viner's Abridg. Nuisance, G. pl.
2. The same law is laid down in 3 Black. Comm. 218, 219. "If
(says he) I am entitled to bold a fair or market, and another person
sets up a fair or market, so near mine that it does me a prejudice, it
is a nuisance to the freehold which I have in, my market or fair."
He adds; "if a ferry is erected on a river, so near another ancient
ferry as to draw away the custom, it is a nuisance to the old one;
for where'there is a ferry by prescription, the owner is bound always to keep it in repair and readiness for the ease of the king's
subjects, otherwise he may be grievously amerced. It would be,
therefore, extremely hard if -a new ferry were suffered to share the
profits, which does not also share the burden." The same doctrine
is to be found in Comyn's Digest (Action upon the case for a Nuisance, A.) and in many other authorities; see Yard v. Ford, 2 Saund.
R. 175, and note (2); Fitz. N. Brev. 184; Hale de Port. Maris, ch.
5; Harg. Law Tracts, p. 59; Com. Dig. Piscary, B. Id; Market C. 2,
C. 3; 2 Black. Comm. 27.
The doctrine is in England just as true now, -and just as strictly
enforced, as it was three centuries ago. In Blissett v. Hart, ('Vyilles'
R. 508) the plaintiff recovered damages for a violation of his right
to an ancient ferry against the defendant who had set up a neighbouring ferry to his nuisance. The court said; "A ferry is publici

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge -. Warren Bridge et ah]

juris. It is a franchise, that no one can erect without a license from
the crown; and when one is erected, another cannot be erected
without an ad quod damnum. If a second is erected without a
license, the crown has a remedy by a quo warranto; anil the former
grantee has a remedy by action." The case of Tripp v. Frank, 4
Term. R. 666, proceeds upon the admission of the same doctrine; as
does Prince v. Lewis, 5 Barn. & Cress..363; Peter v. Kendall, 6
Barn. & Cress. 703; Mosley v. Chadwick,. 7 Barn. & Cress. 47, note
a; and Mosley v. Walker, 7 Barn. & Cress. 40.
'There is a very recent case, (already alluded to) which was decided by the court of exchequer, upon the fullkst consideration, and
in which the leading authorities upon this point were discussed with
great acuteness and ability. I mean the case of Huzzy v. Field, in
1835; 13 Law Journ. 239; S.C. 2 Cromp. Mieson & Rose. 432.
LordAbinger, in delivering the opinion of the court on that occa-.
sion, used the following language: "So far the authorities appear to
be clear, that if a new ferry be put up without the king's license, to
the prejudice of an old one, an action will lie; and there is no case,
'which has the appearance of being.to the contrary, except that of
Tripp. v. Frank, hereafter mentioned. These old authorities proceed upon the ground, first, that the grant of the franchise is good
in law, being for a sufficient consideration to the subject, who as he
received a benefit, may have by the grant of the crown a corresponding obligation imposed upon him in return for the benefit
received; and secondly, that if another, without legal authority interrupts the grantee in the exercise of his franchise-by withdrawing the
profits of passengers, which he would otherwise havpe had, and which
he has in a manner purchased from the public at the price 5f his corresponding -liability; the disturber is subject to an action for the
injury. And the case is in this respect analogous to the grant of a
fair or market, which is also a privilege of the nature of a rponopoly.
A public ferry, then, is a public highway of a special description;
-and its termini must be in places where the public have rights, as
towns, Dr vills, or highways leading to towns br vills. The right of
the grantee is in one case an exclusive right of carrying from town
to town; in the other of carrying from one point to the other, all,
who are going to use the highway to the nearest town or ville to
which the highway leads on the othef side. Any new ferry, therefore, which has the effect of taking away such passengers, must be
injurious. For instance, if any one should construct a new landing

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
(Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aLl

place at a short distance of one terminus of the ferry, and make a
proclamation of carrying passengers over from the other terminus,
and then landing them at that place, from which they pass to the
same public highway. upon which the ferry is established, before it
reaches any town or vill, by. which the passengers g 6 immediately
to the first and all the vills, to which that highway leads; there could
not be any doubt but such an act would be an infringement of the
right of ferry, whether the person so acting intended to defraud the
grantee of the ferry, or not. If such new ferry be nearer, or the
boat used more commodious, or the fare less; it is obvious, that all
the custom must be inevitably withdrawn from the old ferry.
And, thus, the grantee would be deprived of all the benefit of the
franchise, whilst he continued liable to all the burdens imposd
upon him."
Language more apposite to the preseii case could scarcely have
been used. And, what makes it still stronger, is, that the very case
before the court was of a new ferry starting on one side from the
same town, but not at the same place in the town, to a terminus on
the other side different from that of the old ferry house, and more
than a half a mile from it, and thence by a highway communicated
with the highway which was connected with the old ferry, at a mile
distance from the ferry. Now, if the right of the old ferry did not,
by implication, extend on either side beyond its local termini, no
question could have arisen as to the disturbance. Trotter v. Harris,
2 Younge and Jerv. R. 285, proceeded upon similar principles;
though it did not call for so exact an exposition of them.
It is observable, that in the case of Huzzy v. Field the'defendant
did not claim under any license or grant from the crown;, and therefore it may be supposed in afagument,.that it does not apply to a case
where that is a grant of the new- ferry from the crown. But in
point of law there is no difference b;etweon the cases. In each case
the new ferry must be treated as a clear disturbance of the rights of
the old ferry, or it is not iD either case; for if the first grant does
not, by implication, carry an exclusive right above and below its
local termini, then there can ba no pretence, in either case, for the
grantee of the old ferry to complain of the new ferry; for it does
not violate his rights under his grant. If the first grant does, by
implication, carry an exclusive right above and below its local termini, so far as it may b6 prejudiced or disturbed by a new ferry,
then it is equally clear, upon established principles, that the king

624

SUPREME COURT.

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
cannot, by a new grant prejudice his former grant; for the law deprives him of any such prerogative. It is true that where the new
ferry is got up without a license from the crown, it may be abated
as a nuisance; upon a quo warranto, or information, by the crown.
But this will not confer any right of action on the grantee of the old
ferry, unless his own rights have been disturbed.
I have said that this is the result of established principles; and
the case of the Islington Market, recently before the-judges of England upon certain questions submitted to them by the house of
lords, isan authority of the most solemn and conclusive nature upon
this identical point of franchise. What gives it still more importance is, that in the three last questions proposed to the judges by
the house of lords, the very point as to the power of the king to
make a second grant of -a market to the prejudice of his former
grant, within the limits of the common law, arose, and was pointedly answered in the negative. On that occasion the judges said,
that while the first grant of a market remains unrepealed, even the
default of the grantee of the franchise, in not providing, according to his duty, proper accommodatio-ns for the public, iannot operate, in point of law, as a ground for granting a new charter to another to hold a market within the common law, which shall really be
injurious tpthe existing market. The judges, after adverting to the
usual course of the issuing of a writ of ad quod damnum, in cases
where a new market is asked for, added: "'We do not say, that a
writ of ad qUod damnum is absolutely necessary. But if the crown
were to grant a new charter without a writ of ad quod damnum, and
it should appear, that the interests of other persons were prejudiced,
the crown would be supposed to-be deceived, and the grant might
be rqpealed on a scire facias." And they cited, with approbation,
the doctrine of Lord Coke, in 2 Inst. 406, that "If one held a market either by prescription or by letters patent, and another obtains a
market to the nuisance of the former market, he shall not tarry till
be hava avoided the letters patent of the latter market by course of
law, that he may have an assize of nuisance:" thus establishing the'
doctrine, that there is no difference in point of law, whether the first
market be,by prescription or by grant; or whether the new market
be with or without a patent from the crown. In each case the remedy is the same for the owner of the first market if the new market~is a nuisance to him. The judges also- held, that the eircum-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

stance of the benefit of the public requiring a new market would
not, of itself, warrant the grant of the neav market.
Mr. Dane, in his Abridgment, (2 Dane's Abridg. ch. 67, p. 683,)
lays down the doctrine in terms equally broad and comprehensive, ai"
applicable to America. After having spoken of a ferry as imposing
burdens, publici juris, he adds; "in this way a ferry becomes property, an incorporeal hereditament; the owners of which, for the
public convenience being obliged by law to perform certain public
services, must, as a reasonable equivalent, be protected in this property." And he cites the case of Chadwick v. the Proprietors of
the Haverhill Bridge, as directly in point; that the ere,'tion of a
neighbouring bridge under the authority of the legislature is a nuisance to a ferry. Notwithstanding all the commentary bestowed on
that case to escape from its legal pressure, I am of opinion that the
report of the referees never could have been accepted by the court,
or judgment given thereon, if the declaration had not stated a right
which in point of law was capable of supporting such a judgment.
The court seems, from Mr. Dane's statement of the case, clearly to
have recognised the title of the plaintiff, if le should prove himself
the owner of a ferry. Besides, without disparagement to any other
man, Mr. Dane himself, (the chairman of the referees,) from his
great learning and ability, is well entitled to speak with the authority
of a commentator of the highest character upon such a subject.
It is true, that there is the case of Churchman v. Tunstal, (Hard.
R. 162,) where a different doctrine, as to a ferry, was laid down.
But that case is repugnant to all former cases, as well as later cases;
and Lord Ch. Baron Macdonald, in 'Attorney General v. Richard, (2
Anst. R. 603,) informs us, that it was afterwards overturned. Lord
Abinger in Huzzy v. Field, (13 Law Jour. 239; S. C., 2 Cromp.
Mees. and Roscoe, 432,) goes farther, and informs us, thataier the
bill in that case was dismissed; (which was a bill by a farmer of a
ferry, as it should seem, under the crown, for an injunction to restrain the defendant, who had lands on both sides of the Thames,
three-quarters of a mile off, and who was in the habit of ferrying
passengers across, from continuing to do so;) another bill was brought
after the restoration, in 1663, and a decree made by lord Hale in fa-your of the plaintiff, that the new ferry should be put down. This
last determination is exceedingly strong, carrying the implication in
regard to the franchise of a ferry, as exclusive of all other ferries
VoL. XI.-4 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

injurious to it, to a very enlarged extent; and it was made by one of
the greatest judges who ever adorned the English bench.
But it has been suggested that the doctrine as to ferries is confined
to ancient'ferries by prescription, and does not apply to those where
there is a grant, which 'may be shown. In the former case the exclusive right may be proved by long use, and exclusive use. In the
latter, the terms of the grant show whether it is exclusive or not;
and if not stated to be exclusive in the grant, it cannot by implication be presumed to be exclusive. Now, there is no authority shown
for such a distinction; and it is not sound in itself. If a ferry exists
by prescription, nothing more, from the nature of the thing can be
established by long possession, than that the ferry originated in some
grant, and that it has local limits, from the ferry ways on one side to
those on the other side. The mere absence of any other near ferry
-proves nothing, except that there is no -ompetition; for until there
is some interference by the erection of another ferry, there can be
nothing exclusive above or below the ferry ways established by the
mere use of the ferry. If such an interference should occur, then
the question might arise; and the long use could establish no more
than the rightful possession of the franchise. The question, whether
the franchise is exclusive or not must depend upon the nature of such
a franchise at the common law, and the implications belonging to
it. In short, it is in the authorities taken to be exclusive, unless
a contrary presumption arises from the facts, as it did in Holcroft
v. Heel, 1 Bos. and Pull. 400. But lord Coke, (in 2 Inst. 406,)
lays down the law as equally applicable to all cases of prescription
and of grant. "If, says he, one hath a market either by prescription
or by letters patent of the king, and another obtains a market to the
nuisance of the former market, he shall not tarry till he have avoided the letters patent of the latter market, by course of law; but he
may have an assize of nuisance." The same rule must, for the same
reason, apply to fairs and ferries. The case'of Prince v. Lewis, 5
B. and Cresw. 363, was the case of the grant of a market, and not of
a market by prescription; yet no one suggested any distinction on
this account. Holcroft v. Heel, (1 Bos. and Pull. 400,) was the case
of a Zgrant of a market by letters patent.
In Ogden v. Gibbons, (4 John Ch. R. 150,) Mr. Chancellor Kent
recognises, in the most ample manner, the general principles of the
common law. Speaking of the grant in that case of an exclusive right
to navigate with steamboats from New York to Elizabethtown Point,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.J

&c., he declared, that the true intent was to include not merely that
point, but the whole shore or navigable part of Elizabethtown. "Any
narrower construction" said he, "in favour of the grantor would render the deed, a fraud ipon the grantee. It would be like granting an
exclusive right of ferriage between two given points, and then setting
up a rival ferry within a few rods of those very points, aid within
the same course of the line of travel. The common law contained
principles applicable to this very case, dictated by a sounder judgment, and a more enlightened morality. If one had a ferry by prescription, and another erected a ferry so near to it as to draw away
its custom, it was a nuisance; for which the injured party had his
remedy by action, &c. The same rule applies, in its spirit and substance, to all exclusive grants and monopolies. The grant must be
so construed so as to give it due effect by excluding all contiguous
and injurious competition." Language more apposite to the present
case could not well be imagined. Here, there is an exclusive grant
of a bridge from Charlestown to Boston on the old ferry ways; must
it not also be so construed as to exclude all contiguous and injurious
competition? Such an opinion, from such an enlightened, judge, is
not to be overthrown by general suggestions against making any.
implications in legislative grants.
The ease of the Newburgh Turnpike Company v. Miller, (5 Johns.
Ch. R. 101,) decided by the.same learned judge; is still nfore directly
in point; and, as far as his authority can go, conclusively establishes
the doctrine, not only that the franchise of a ferry is not confined to
the ferry ways, but that the franchise of a bridge is not confined to
the termini, and local limits of the bridge. In that case, the.plaintiffs
had erected a toll bridge over the river Wallkill in connexion with
a turnpike, under an act of the legislature; and the defendants afterwards erected another road and bridge near to the former, and thereby
diverted the toll from the plaintiffs' bridge. The suit was a bill in
chancery, for a perpetual injunction of this nuisance of the plaintiffs'
bridge; and it was accordingly, at the hearing, granted by the Court.
Mr. Chancellor Kent, on that occasion, said: "Considering the proximity of the new bridge, and the. facility that every traveller has %y
means of that bridge, and the road connected with it, to shun the
plaintiffs' gate which he would otherwise be obliged to pass, I
cannot doubt, for a moment, that the new bridge is a direct and
immediate disturbance of the plaintiffs' enjoyment of their privileges," &c. "The new road, by its termini, created a competition

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge at al.]

most injurious to the statute franchise; and becomes, what is deemed
in law, in respect to such franchise, a nuisance." And,.after adverting to his own language, already quoted in Ogden v. Gibbons, (4
John. Ch. R. 150, 160,) he added: "The same doctrine applies to
any exclusive privilege created by statute. All such privileges come
within the equity and reason of the principle. No rival road,
bridge, or ferry, or other establishment of a similar kind, and for like
purposes, can be tolerated so near to the other as materially to affect
or take away its custom. It operates as a fraud upon the grant, and
goes to defeat it. The consideration, by which individuals are in-vited to expend money upon great, and expensive, and hazardous
public works, as roads and bridges; and to become bound to keep
them in constant and good repair; is the grant of an exclusive toll.
This right, thus purchased for a valuable consideration, cannot be
taken away by direct or indirect means devised for the purpose,
both of which are equally unlawful." Now, when the learned chancellor here speaks of an exclusive privilege, or franchise, he does not
allude to any terms in the statute grant expressly giving such a privilege beyond the local limits; for the statute contained no words to
such an effect. The grant, indeed, was by necessary implication
exclusive, as to the local limits, for the legislature ould not grant
any other bridge in the same place with the same termini. If was
to such a grant of a franchise, exclusive in this sense, and in no other,
that his language applies. And he affirms the doctrine in the most
positive terms, that such a grant carries with it a necessary right to
exclude all injurious competition, as an indispensable incident. And
his judgment turned altogether upon this doctrine.
It is true, that in this case, the defendants did not erect the new
bridge tinder any legilative act. But that is not material in regard
to the point now under consideration. The point we are now considering is, whether the grant of a franchise- to erect a bridge or a
ferry, is confined to the lopal limits or termini, to the points and
planks of the bridge, or to the ferry ways of the ferry.. The learned
chancellor rejects such a doctrine, with the most pointed severity of
phrase. "It operates" (says he) "as a fraud upon the grant, and
goes to defeat it." The grant necessarily includes "a right to an
exclusive toll." "No rival road, bridge, or ferry can be tolerated
so near to the former as to affect or take away its custom." Now,
if such be the true construction of tle grant of such a franchise, it is
just as true a construction in relation to the government as in rela-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Chlarcs River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al]

tion to private persons. It would be absurd to say that the same
grant means one thing as to the public, and an entirely opposite
thing in relation to individuals. If the right to an exclusive franchise or toll exists, it exists from the nature and objects of the grant;
and applies equally in all directions. It would be repugnant to all
notions of common sense, as well as of justice, to say that the legislature had a right to commit a fraud upon its own grant. The whole
reasoning of the learned chancellor repudiates such a notion.
But in what manner is the doctrine to be maintained, that the
franchise of a ferry is confined to the ferry ways, and the franchise
of a bridge to the planks? It is said, that in Saville's Reports, 11, it
is laid down "that a ferry is in respect to the landing place, and not
of the water; which water may belong to one, and the ferry to another." There can be no doubt of this doctrine. A ferry must have
local limits. It must have termini, or landing places; and it may
include only a right of passage over the water. And is not this
equally true, whether it be a ferry" by prescription, or hy grant? If
so,. can there be any difference as to the value of the exclusive
right in cases of grant, or of prescription? Does not each "rest on
its landing places? But it is added, in Saville: "And in every ferry,
the land on both sides of the water ought to be (belong) to the owher
of the ferry; for otherwise he cannot land upon the other pirt."
Now, if by this is meant that the owner of the ferry must be the
owner of the land, it is not law; for all that is required is, that he
should have a right or easement in the landing places. So it was
adjudged in Peter v. Kendall, 6 Barn. and Cress. 703; and the dictum of Saville was there overruled.'- If the same principle is to be
applied, (as I think it must be,) to a bridge, then, as there must be a
subsisting right in the proprietors of Charles River Bridge to have'
such landing places on the old ferry ways, there must be an assignrnent or grant implied of those ferry ways by Harvard college, to
the proprietors for that purpose.. But of this I shall speak hereafter.
One of the learned judges in the state court (who was against the
plaintiffs) admitted, that if any person should be forcibly prevented
from passing over the plaintiffs' bridge, it would be an injury; for
which an action on the case would lie. I entirely assent to this doctrine, which appears to me to be foundcd in the most sound reasoning. It is supported by the case of the Bailiffs of Tewksbury v.
Diston, 6 East, R. 438, and by the authorities cited by lord Ellen-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al]

borough on that occasion; an~d especially by the doctrine of Mr.
Justice Powell, in Ashby v. White, 2 Lord Raym. 948; and S. C., 6
Mod. 49. But how can this be, if the franchise of the bridge is confined to the mere local limits or timbers of the bridge? If the right
to take toll does not commence or attach in the plaintiffs, except
when the passengers arrive on the bridge, how can an action lie for
the proprietors for obstructing passengers from coming to tbe bridge?
The remedy of the plaintiffs can only be coextensive with their
rights and franchise. And if an action lies for an obstruction of
passengers, because it goes to impair the right of toll, and to prevent
its being earned, why does not the diversion of passengers from the
bridge by other means, equally give a cause of action, since it goes,
equally, nay more, to impair the right of the plaintiffs to toll? If
the legislature could not impair or destroy its owl grant by blocking up all avenues to the bridge, how can it possess the right to
draw away all the tolls by a 'free bridge, which must necessarily
withdraw all passengers? For myself, I cannot perceive any ground
upon which a right of action is maintainable for any obstruction of
passengers, which does not equally apply to the diversion of passengers. In each case, the injury, of the franchise is the same, although
,the means used are, or may be different.
The truth is, that the reason why the grant of a franchise, as, for
example, of a ferry, or of a bridge, though necessarily local in its
limits, is yet deemed to extend beyond those local limits by operation and intendment of law; is founded upon two great fundamental
maxims of law applicable to all grants. One is the doctrine already
alluded to, and laid down in Liford's case, in 11 Co. R. 46, 52, a.
Lex est cuicunque, aliquis, quod concedit, concedere videtur et id,
sine quo res ipsa esse non potuit; or, as it is expressed with pregnant
brevity by Mr. Justice Twisden, in Pomfret v. Ricroft, 1 Saund. R.
321, 323: "When the use is granted, every thing is granted. by
which the grantee may have and enjoy the use." See also Lord
Darcyv. Askwith, Hob. R. 234; 1 Saund. R. 323; Note (6) byWilliams; Co. Lit. 56, (a). Another is, that wherever a grant is made
for a valuable consideration, which involves public duties and charges,
the grant shall be construed so as to make the indemnity coextensive with the burden. Qui sentit onus, sentire debet et commodum. In the case of a ferry, there is a public charge and duty.
The owner must keep the ferry in good repair, upon the peril of an
indictment. He must keep sufficient accommodations for all travel-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

lers, at all reasonable times. He must content himself with a reasonable toll. Such is the jus publicum. In return, the law will exclude
all injurious competition, and deem every new ferry a nuisance
which subtracts from him the ordinary custom and toll. See Com.
Dig. Piscary, B. Id. Ferry. So strong is the duty of the ferry owner
to the public, that it was held, in Paine v. Patrick, 3 Mod. 289, 294,
that the ferry owner could not excuse himself from not keeping
proper boats, even by showing that he had erected a bridge more
convenient for passengers. It would be a fraud upon such a grant
of a ferry, to divert the travel, and yet to impose the burden. The
right to take toll would, or might be useless, unless it should be exclusive within all the bounds of injurious rivalship from another
ferry. The franchise is therefore construed to extend beyond the
local limits, and to be exclusive within a reasonable distance; for the
plain reason that it is indispensable to the fair enjoyment of the
franchise and right of toll. The same principle applies, without a
shadow of difference that I am able to perceive, to the case of a
bridge; for the duties are publici juris, and pontage and passage are
but different names for exclusive toll for transportation.
In the argument at the present term it has been further contended,
that at all events, in the state of Massachusetts, the ancient doctrine,
of the common law in relation to ferries is not in force, and never
has been recognised; that all ferries in Massachusetts are held at the
mere will of the legislature, and may be established by them and
animihilated by them at pleasure; and of course that the grantees hold
them durante bene placito of the legislature. And in confirmation
of this view of the subject, certain proceedings of the colonial legislature have been relied on, and especially those stated in the record,
between the years 1629 to 1650; to the colonial act of 1641, against
monopolies, (which is, in substance, like the statute of monopolies.
of the 21 of James I. ch. 3); and to the general colonial and provincial and state statutes, regulating ferries, passed in 1641, 1644,
1646, 1647, 1695, 1696, 1710, 1719, 1781, and 1787; some of
which contain special provisions respecting Charlestown and Boston
ferry.
As to the proceedings of the colonial government, so referred
to, in my judgment they establish no such conclusion. But some
of them, at least, are directly opposed to-it. Thus, for example,
in 1638 a ferry was granted to Garret Spencer at Lynn for two
years. In 1641, it was ordered that they that put two boats be-

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

tween Cape Ann and Annisquam, shall have liberty to take sufficient toll, as the court shall think fit, for one-and-twbnty years.
Could the colonial government have repealed these grants within the
terms specified at their pleasure? In 1648 John Gloverhad power
given him to let a ferry over Neponset river between Dorchester
and Braintree, to any person or persons for the term of seven years,
&c.; or else to take it to himself and his heirs, as his inheritance forever; provided it be kept in such a place and at such a price as may
be most convenient for the country, and pleasant to the general
court. Now, if Glover, according to this act, had taken this ferry
to him and his heirs as an inheritance, could. the colonial legislature
have revoked it at its pleasure? Or rather, can it be presumed that
the colonial legislature intended such a ferry, confessedly an inheritance, to be an estate held only.at will? It would be repugnant to
all notions of legal interpretation.
In 1637, the general court oiedered the ferry between Boston and
Charlestown to be let for three years. It was afterwards, in 1640,
granted to Harvard colleges From that time down to 1785,-it was
always held and claimed by the college as its inheritance. But the
college never supposed that it was not subject to the regulation of
the legislature, so far as the public interests were concerned. The
acts of 1650, 1654, 1694, 1696, 1710 and 1781, establish this.
But they show no more. That many of the ferries in Massachusetts were held, and perhaps we're always-held under mere temporary licenses of the legislature, or of certain magistrates to whom
they were entrusted, is not denied. But it is as clear, that there
were other ferries held under more ipermanent tenures. The colonial act of 1644, authorizing magistrates to pass ferries toll free,
except such ferries as are appropriated .to any, or rented out,
and are out of the countries' hands; and then it is "ordered that
their passages be Paid by the. contry." The act of 1694 excepts
from its operation "such ferries as are" already stated and settled
either by the court or town, to whom they appertain." The colonial act of 1670, as an inducement to the town of Cambridge or
other persons to-repair the bridge at Cambridge, or to erect a new one,
declared, "that this order, (granting certain tolls) should continue
'in force so long a time as the said bridge is maintained serviceae
and safe for passage." So that it is plain, that the colonial legislature did contemplate both ferries and.bridges to be held by permanent tenures, and not to be revocable at pleasure.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

But to all the general laws respecting ferries, one answer may be
given, that their provisions are generally confined to the due regulation of public ferries and matters publici juris; and so far as the
public'have rights which ought to be enforced and protected, and
which the legislature had a proper right to enforce and protect by
suitable laws. And in regard to matters .not strictly of this nature,
the enactments may well apply to all such ferries within the state as
were held under the mere temporary license of the state, and were
revocable and controllable at pleasure by the legislature, in which
predicament a very large number of ferries in the state were; and
also to those ferries, (among which Charlestown ferry seems to have
been,) over which a modified legislative control had been, at their
original establishment, reserved. Beyond these results, I am not prepared to admit that these statutes either had, or ever were supposed
to have any legitimate operation. And before I should admit such
a conclusion, I should require the evidence of some solemn judgment
of a court of justice, in Massachusetts, to the very point.
But the argument presses the doctrine to an extent which it is impossible can be correct, if any principles respeeting vested rights
exist, or have any recognition in a free government. What is it?
That all ferries in Massachusetts are revocable and extinguishable at
pleasure. Suppose, then, the legislature of Massachusetts for a valuable consideration should grant a ferry from A to B to a grantee and
his heirs, or to a grantee for forty years, or for life; will it be contended that the legislature can take away, revoke, or annihilate that
grant within the period? That it may make such a grant cannot
well be denied; for there is no prohibition touching it in the constitution of Massachusetts. That it can take away or resume such a
grant, has never yet been held by any judicial tribunal in that state.
The contrary is as well established as to all sorts of grants, unlegs an
express power be reserved for the purpose, as any principle in its
jurisprudence. In the very case now before this Court, every judge
of the supreme court of the state admitted that the legislature could
not resume or revoke its charter to Charles River Bridge. Why
not, if it could revoke its Solemn grant of a ferry to a private person,
or to a corporation, during the stipulated period of the grant? The
legislature might just as well resume its grant of the public land, or
the grant of a turnpike, or of a rail road, or of any other franchise,
within the period stipulated by its charter.
The doctrine then is untenable. The moment that you ascertain
VOL. XI.--4 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warton Bridge et al.]

what the terms and stipulations of a grant of a ferry, or any other
franchise, are, that moment they are obligatory. They cannot be
gainsaid, or resumed. So this Court has said in the case of Fletcher
v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 871; and so are the unequivocable principles of
justice, which cannot be overturned without shaking every free government to its very foundations. If, then, the ferry between
Charlestown and Boston was vested, in perpetuity ir, the corporation of Harvard college, it could not be taken away without its
consent by the legislature. It was a ferry, so far withdr..vn froni
the power of any legislation trenching on its rights and franchises.
It .is assuming the very point in -controversy, to say that the ferry
was held at the mere pleasure of the legislature. An exclusive
claim, and possession, and user, and taking of the profits thereof for
one hundred and fifty years by the corporation of Harvard college,
without interruption; was as decisive evidence of i s exclusive right
to the franchise in perpetuity, as the title deed of any man to his own
estate. The legislature of Massachusetts has never, as far as I know,
breathed a doubt on the point. All the judges of the state court admit the exclusive right of Harvard college to the ferry, in the most
unequivocal terms. The. argument, then, that the English doctrine
as to ferries has not been adopted, and is not in force in Massachusetts, is. not supported. For myself, I can only say that I have always understood that the English doctrine on this subject constitutes
a part of the common law of Massachusetts. But what is most material to be stated, not one of the learned judges in the state court
doubted or denied the doctrine, though it was brought directly before them; and they gave, seriatim, opinions containing great diversities of judgment on other points. * It is also fully established by
the case of Chadwick v. the Proprietors of Haverhill Bridge, already
cited.
But it is urged that some local limits must be assigned to such
grants; and the Court must assign them, for otherwise they would
involve the absurdity of being coextensive with the range of the
river; for every other bridge or ferry must involve some diminution
of toll; and how much (it is asked) is necessary to constitute an infringement of the right? I have already given an answer, in part, to
this suggestion. The rule of law is clear. The application of it must
depend upon the particular circumstances of each case. Wherever
* See Proprietors of Charles River Bridge v. Proprietors of Warren Bridge, 7

Pic~k. R. 341.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Char -s Rivet Bridge v. Warren Bridge etal.]

any other bridge or ferry is so near that it injures the franchise, or
diminishes the toll in a positive and essential degree, there it is a
nuisance, and is actionable. It invades the franchise, and ought to
be abated. But whether there be such an injury or not, is a matter,
not of law, but of fact. Distance is no otherwis important, than as
it bears on the question of fact. All that is required, is, that there
should be a sensible, positive injury.. In the present case there is
no room to doubt upon this point, for the bridges are contiguous;
and Warren Bridge, after it was opened, took away three-fourths of
the profits of the trAyel from Charles River Bridge; and when it became free, (as it now is,) it necessarily took away all the tolls, or all
except an unimportant and trivial amount of tolls.
What I have said, however, is to be understood with this qualifcation, that the franchise of the bridge has no assigned local limits; but,
it is a simple grant of the right to erect a bridge across a river from
one point to another, without being limited between any particular
vilrs or towns, or by other local limits. In the case now before the
Court, I have already stated that my judgment is that the franchise is
merely to erect abridge between Charlestown and Boston; and therefore it does not, necessarily, exclude the legislature from md' " .g any
other grant fof the erecting of a bridge between Boston and any other
town. The exclusive right being between those towns, it only precludes another legislative grant between those towns which is injurious to Charles River Bridge. The case of Tripp v. Frank (4 T. R.
666) is a clear authority for this doctrine. It was there decided that the
grant of an exclusive ferry between A and B, did not exclude a ferrybetween A and C. But the argument of -the plaintiffs' counsel was
tacitly admitted by the Court, that "ferries in general must have
some considerable extent, upon which their right may operate; otherwise the exclusive privilege would be of no avail. That extent must
And there is the greatest
be governed by local, circumstances."
reason for supporting such rights, because the owners Df ferries-are
bound at their peril to supply them to the public use; and are therefore fairly entitled to the public advantage arising from them.
But it is said, if this is the law, what then is to become of turnpikes and canals? Is the legislature precluded from authorizing new
turnpikes or new canals, simply because they cross the path of the
old ones, and incidentally diminish their receipt of tolls? The answer
is plain. Every turnpike has its local 4imits and- local termini; its
points of beginning and of end. No one ever imagined thet the

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

legislature might grant a new turnpike, with exactly the same location and termini. That would be to rescind its first grant. The
grant of a turnpike between A and B, does not preclude the legislature from the grant of a turnpike between A and C, even though it
should incidentally intercept some of the travel; for it is not necessarily a nuisance to the former grant. The termini being different,
the grants are or may be substantially different. But if the legislature should grant a second turnpike, substantially taking away the
whole travel from the first turnpike between the same local points;
then, I say, it is a violation of the rights of the first turnpike. And
the opinion of Mr. Chancellor Kent, and all the old. authorities on
the subject of ferries, support me in the doctrine.
Some reliance has been placed upon the cases of Prince v. Lewis,
(5 Barn. and Cress. 363) and Mosley v. Walker, (7 Barn. and
Cress. 40,) as impugning the reasoning. But, it appears to me,
that they rather fortify than shake it. In the former case, the king
granted a market to A and his heirs, in a place within certain specified limits, and the grantee used part of the limits for other purposes,
and space enough was not ordinarily left for the marketing. It
was held, that the owner of the market could not maintain an action against a, person for selling marketable goods in the neighbourhood, without showing that at the time of the sale there was room
.enough in the market for the seller. This clearly admits the exclusive right of the owner, if there is room enough in the market.
The other case affirms the same principle, as indeed'it was before
affirmed in Mosley v. Chadwick, 7 Barn. and Cress. 47, note.
But then again, it is said, that all this rests upon implication, and
not upon the words of the charter. I admit that it d6es; but I again
say, that the implication is natural and necessary. It is indispensable to the proper effect of the grant. The franchise cannot subsist
without it, at least for any valuable or jractical purpose. What
objeL ion can there be to implications, if they arise from the very
nature and objects of the grant? If it be indispensable to the full enjoyment of the right to take toll, that it should be exclusive wi.hin
certain limits, is it not just and reasonable, that it should be so construed? If the legislative power to erect a new bridge would annihilate a franchise already granted, is it not, unless expressly reserved,
necessarily excluded by intendment of law? Can any reservations be
raised by mere implication to defeat the operation of a grant, especially when such a reservation would be coextensive with the whole

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

right granted, and amount to the reservation of a right to recall the
whole grant?
Besides, in this very case it is admitted on all sides, that from the
defective language and wording of the charter, no power is directly
given to the proprietors to erect the bridge; and yet it is agreed,
that the power passes by necessary implication from the grant, for
otherwise it would be utterly void. The argument, therefore, surrenders the point as to the propriety of making implications; and
reduces the question to the mere consideration of what is a necessary
implication. Now, I would willingly put the whole case upon this
point, whether it .is not as indispensable to the fair and, full operation
of the grant, that the plaintiffs should be secure in the full enjoy:
ment of their right to -tolls,without disturbance or diversion; as that
they should have the power to erect the bridge. If the tolls-may be
all swept away by a contiguous- free bridge, ekected the next day,
can it be said, in any sense, that the object of the- franchise is obtained? What does the sound logic of the common law teach us on
this point? If a grant, even of thr- crown, admits of two construetions, one of which will defeat, and the other will promote and secure the fair operation of the grant; the latter is to be followed.
The truth is, that the whole argument of the defendants turns
upon an implied reservation of power in the legislature to defeat and
destroy its own grant. The grant, construed -upon its own terms,
upon the plain principles of construction of the common law, by
which alone it ought to be judged, is an exclusive grant. It is the
grant of a franchise, publici juris, with 9 right of tolls; and in all.
such cases The common law asserts the grant to be exclusive, so as to
prevent injurious competition. The argument seeks to exclude the
common law from touching the grant, by implying- an exception in
favour of the legislative authority to make any new grant. And let
us change the position of the question as often as we may, it comes
to this, as a necessary result; that the legislature has reserved -the
power to destroy its own grant, and annihilate the right of pontage
of the Charles River Bridge. If it stops short of this exercise of
its power; it is its own choice, and not its duty. Now, I maintain,
that such a reservation is equivalent to a power to resume the
grant; and yet it has never been for a moment contended, that the
legislature was competent to resume it.
To the answer already given to the objection, that, unless such a
reservation of power exists. there will be a stop put to the progress

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]

of all public improvements; I wish, in this connexion, to -add, that
there never can any such consequence follow upon the opposite doctrine. If the public exigencies and interests require that the fran-

chise of Charles River Bridge should be taken away, or impaired; it
may be lawfully done upon making due compensation to the proprietors. " Whenever" says the constitution of Massachusetts, "the
public exigencies require that the property of any individual should
be appropriated to public uses, he shall receive a reasonable compensation therefor:" and this franchise is property; is fixed, determinate
property. We have been told, indeed, that where the damage is
merely consequential, (as, by the erection of a new-bridge, it is said
.that it would be,) the constitution does not entitle the party to compensation; and Thruston v. Hancock, 12 Mass. R. 220, and Callender
v. Marsh, 1 Pick. R. 418; are cited in support of the doctrine. With
all possible respect for the opinions of others, I confess myself to be
among those who never could comprehend the law of either of those
cases; and I humbly continue to doubt, if upon principle or authority
they are easily maintainable; and I think my doubts fortified by the
recent English decisions. But, assuming these cases to be unquestionable, they do not apply to a case like the present; if the erection
of such a new bridge is a violation of the plaintiffs' franchise. That
franchise, so far as it reaches, is private property; and so far as it is
injured, it is the taking away of private property. Suppose a man is
the owner of a mill, and the legislature authorizes a diversion of the
water course which supplies it, whereby the mill is injured or
ruined; are we to be told, that this is a consequential injury, and
not within the scope of the constitution? If not within the scope of
the constitution, it is, according to the fundamental principles of a
free government, a violation of private rights, which cannot be taken
away without compensation. The case of Gardner v. The Village
of Newburgh, 2 John. Oh. R. 139, would be a sufficient authority
to sustain this reaspning; if it did not stand upon the eternal principles ofjustice, recognised by every government which is not a pure
despotism.
Not a shadow of authority has been introduced to establish the
position of the defendants, that the franchise of a toll-bridge is confined to the planks of the bridge; and yet it seems to me, that the
onus probandi is on them; for all the analogies of the common law
are against them. They are driven, indeed, to contend that the
same principles apply to ferries, which are limited to the ferry ways,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
rCharles

639

River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

unless some prescription has given them a more extensive range.
But here, unless I am entirely mistaken, they have failed to establish their position. As I understand the authorities, they are, unequivocally, the other way. Are we then to desert the wholesome
principles of the common law, the bulwark of our public liberties,
and the protecting shield of our private property; and assume a
doctrine, which substantially annihilates the security of all franchises
affected with public easements?
But it is said, that if the doctrine contended for be not true, then
every grant to a corporation becomes, ipso facto, a monopoly or exclusive privilege. The grant of a bank, or of an insurance company,
or of a manufacturing company, becomes a monopoly; and excludes
all injurious competition. With the greatest deference and respect
for those who press such an argument, I cannot but express my surprise that it shoiild be urged. As long ago as the case in the year
book, 22 Hen. VI. 14; the difference was pointed out in argument
between such grants as involve public duties and public matters for
the common benefit of the people, and such as are for mere private
benefit, involving no such consideration. If.a bank, or insurance
company, or manufacturing company, is established in any town by
an act of incorporation; no one ever imagined that the corporation
was bound to do business, to employ its capital, to manufacture
goods, to make insurance. The privilege is a mere private corporate privilege for the benefit of the stockholders, to be used or
not at their own pleasure; to operate when they please; and to
stop when they please. Did any man ever imagine that he had
a right to have a note discounted by a bank, or a policy underwritten by an insurance company? Such grants are always deemed
privati juris. No indictment lies for a non user. But in cases of
ferries and bridges, and other franchises of a like nature, (as has been
shown,) they are affected with a jus publicum. Such grants are
made for the public accommodation; and pontage and passage are
authorized to be levied upon travellers; (which can'only be by public authority;) and, in return, the proprietors are bound to keep up
all suitable accommodations for travellers, under the penalty of indictment for their neglect.
The tolls are deemed an equivalent for the burden, and are deemed exclusive, because they might not otherwise afford any just indemnity. In the very case at bar, the proprietors of Charles River
Bridge, (as we have seen,) are compellable to keep their draws and

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

bridge in good repair, during the period of seventy years; to pay an
annuity to Harvard college; to give all reasonable accommodations
to the public travel: and, if they do not, they may be grievously
amerced. The burdens being exclusively on them, must not the
tolls granted by way of remuneration; (I repeat it,) must they not
be equally exclusive, to insure an indemnity? Is there any analogy
in such a case to the case of a bank, or an insurance company, or a
manufacturing company? The case of Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Peters' R. 280, contains no doctrine which, in the slightest degree, interferes with that which I have been endeavouring to establish in
the present case. In that decision, I believe that I concurred; and I
se3 no reason now to call in question the soundness of that decision.
That case does not pretend to inculcate the doctrine that no implications can be made, -as to matters of contract, beyond the express
terms of a grant. If it did, it would be in direct conflict with other
most prcfoundly considered adjudications of this Court. It asserted,
only, that the grant in that case carried no implication that the
grantee should enjoy the land therein granted, free from any legislative regulations to be made in violation of the constitution of the
state. Such an implication, so broad and so unmeasured, which
might extend far beyond any acts which could be held in any just
sense to revoke or impair the grant, could, by no fit reasoning, be
deduced from the nature of the grant. What said the Court on that
occasion? "The only contract made by the state, is a grant to J. C.,
his heirs, and assigns, of the lard iki question.. The patent contains
no covenant to do or not to do any further act in relation to the
land; and we do not, in this case, feel at liberty to create one by
implication. The state has not, by this act, impaired the force of
the grant. It does not profess or attempt to take the land from the
assigns of C., and give it to one not claiming under him. Neither
does the award produce that effect. The grant remains in full force;
the property conveyed is held by the grantee; and, the state asserts
no claim to it." But suppose the reverse had been the fact. Suppose that the state had taken away the land, and granted it to another; or asserted its own right otherwise to impair the grant: does
it not follow, from this very reasoning of the Court, that it would
have been held to have violated the implied obligations of the grant?,
Certainly it*must have been so held, or the Court would have overturned its own most solemn judgments in other cases. Now, there
is not, and cannot be, any real distinction between a grant ofJand

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

641

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

and a grant of franchises. The implication, in each case, must be
the same, viz. that the thing granted shall not b'e resumed, or impaired by the grantor.
It has been further argued, that even if the charter of the Charles
River Bridge does imply such a contract on the part of the legislature as is contended for, it is void for want of authority inthe legislature to make it; because it is a surrender of the right of eminent
domain, entrusted to the legislature and its successors for the benefit
of the public, which it is not at liberty to alienate. If the argument
means no more than that the legislature, being entrusted with the
power to grant franchises, cannot, by contract, agree to surrender
or part with this power, generally, it would be unnecessary to consider the argument; for no one supposes that the legislature can
rightfully surrender its legislative power. If the argument means
no more than that the legislature, having the right by the constitution
to take private property, (among which property are franchises,) for
public purposes, cannot divest itself of such a right by contract,
there would be as little reason to contest it. /Neither of these cases
is like that beiore the Coprt. But the argument, (if I do not misunderstand it,) goes further, and denies the right of the legislature to
make a contract granting the exclusive right to build a bridge between Charlestown and Boston, and thereby taking from itself the.
right to grant another bridge between Charlestown and Boston, at its
pleasure; although the contract does not exclude the legislature from
taking it for public use upon making actual compensation; because
it trenches upon the sovereign right of eminent domain.
It is unnecessary to consider whether the phrase " eminent domain," in the sense in which it is used in the objection, is quite
accurate. The right of eminent domain is usually understood to be
the ultimate right of the sovereign power to appropriate, not only
the public property, but the private property of all citizens within
the territorial sovereignty, to public purposes. Vattel (B. 1, ch. 20,
s. 244) seems so to have understood the terms; for he says, that the
right, which belongs to the society or the sovereign of disposing, in
case of necessity, and for the public safety, of all the wealth (the
property) contained in the state, is 'called the "eminent domain."
And he adds, that it is placed among the prerogatives of majesty;
which, in another section, (B. 1, ch. 4, s. 45,) he defines to be, "all
the prerogatives without which the sovereign command, or authority,
I VOL. X.--4 M 

SUPREME -COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

could not be exerted in the manner most conducive to the public
welfare." The right of "eminent domain," then, does not comprehend all, but only is among the prerogatives of majesty.
But the objection uses the words in a broader sense, as including
what may be deemed the essential and ordinary attributes of sovereignty; such as the right to provide for the public welfare, to open
highways, to build bridges, and from time to time to make grants of
franchises for the public good. Without doubt, these are proper
attributes of sovereignty, and prerogatives resulting from its general
nature and functions. And so Vattel considers them in the passage
cited at the bar; b. 1, ch. 9, sec. 100, 101. But they.are attributes
and prerogatives of sovereignty only, and can be exercised only by
itself, unless specially delegated.
But, without stopping to examine into the true meaning of phrases,
it may be proper to say, that however extensive the prerogatives
and attributes of sovereignty may theoretically be, in free governments they are universally held to be restrained within some limits.
Although the sovereign power in free governments may appropriate
all the property, public as well as private, for public purposes,
making compensation therefor; yet it has never been understood,
at least never in our republic, that the sovereign power can take the
private property of A and give it to B, by the right of "eminent
domain;" or, that it can take it at all, except for pullic purposes; or,
that it can take it for public purposes, without the duty and responsibility of making compensation for the sacrifice of the private property of one, for the good of the whole. These limitations have
been held to be fundamiental axioms in free governments, like ours;
and have accordingly received the sanction of some of our most eminent judges and jurists. Vattel himself lays them down, in discussing the question of the right of eminent domain, as among the fundamental principles of government, bi--ing even upon sovereignty
itself. "If," says he, "the nation itself disposes of the public property in virtue of this eminent domain,, the alienation is valid, as
having been made with a sufficient power. When it disposes in like
manner, in a case of necessity, of the possessions (the property) of a
community, or of an individual, the alienation will be valid for the
same reason. But justice demands, that this community,,or this individual be recompensed out of the public money; and, if the treasury is not able to pay, all the citizens are obliged to conttibute to it;"

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]
20, S. 244. They have also been incorporated

Vattel, b. 1, ch.

into most of our state constitutions, and into that of the United
States; and, what is most important to the present argument, with
the state coustitutiort of Massachusetts. So long as they remain in
those constitutions, they must be treated as limitations imposed by
the sovereign authority upon itself; and, a fortiori, upon all its delegated agents. The legislature of Massachusetts is in no just sense

sovereign. It is but the agent, with limited authority, of the state
sovereignty; and it cannot rightfully transcend the bounds fixed in
the constitution. What those limits are, I shall presently consider.
It is but justice to the argumeLt to say, that I do not understand it
to maintain that the legislature ought not in all cases, as a matter of
duty, to give compensation; where private property or franchises are
taken away. But that the legislature is the final judge as to the
time, the manner, and the circumstances, under which it should bz
given or withheld; whether when the property is taken, or afterwards; and whether it is, or is not a case for compensation at all.
But let us see what the argument is in relation to sovereignty in
general. It admits, that the sovereign power has, anmong its prerogatives, the right to make grants, to build bridges, to erect ferries, to lay out highways; and to create franchises for public and pri-vate purposes. If it has a right to make such grants, it follows that
the grantees have a right to take, and to hold these franchises. It
would be a solecism to declare that the sovereign po*er could grant,
and yet no one could have a right to take. If it may grant such franchises, it may define and limit the nature and extent of such franchises; for, as the power is general, the limitations must depend upon
the good pleasure and discretion of the sovereign power in making
the particular grant. If it may prescribe the limits, it may contract
that these limits shall not be invaded by itself or by others.
It follows, from this view of the subject, that if the sovereign
power grants any franchise, it is- good and irrevocable within the
limits granted, whatever they may be; or else, in every case, the
grant will be held only during pleasure; and the identical franchise
may be granted to any other person, or may be revoked at the will
of the sovereign. This latter doctrine is not pretended; and, indeed,
is unmaintainable in our systems of free government. If, on the other
hand, the argument be sound, that the sovereign power cannot grant a
frauchise to be exclusive within certain limits, and cannot contract

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v Warren Bridge et al.]

not to grant the same, or any like ifranchise, within the same limits,
to the prejudice of the first grant, because it would abridge the sovereign power in the exercise of its right to grant franchises; the argument applies equally to all grants of franchises, whether they are
broad or, narrow: for, pro lanto, they do abridge the exercise of the
sovereign power to grant the same franchise within the same limits.
Thus, for example, if the sovereign power should expressly grant an
exclusive right to build a bridge over navigable waters, between the
towns of A and B, and should expressly contract with the grantees,
that no other bridge should be built betweeii the same towns; the
grant would, upon the principles of the argument, be equally void
in regard to the franchise within the planks of the bridge, as it would
be in regard to the franchise outside of the planks of the bridge; for,
in each case, it would, pro tanto,. abridge or surrender the right of
the sovereign to grant a new bridge within the local limits. I am
aware that the argument is not pressed to this extent; but it seems to
me a necessary consequence flowing from it. The grant of the franchise of a bridge, twenty feet wide, to be exclusive within those
limits, is certainly, if obligatory, an abridgment or surrender of the
sovereign power to grant another bridge within the same limits; if
we mean to say that every grant that diminishes the things upon
which that power can rightfully act, is such an abridgment. Yet the
argument admits, that within the limits and planks of the bridge
itself, the grant is exclusive; and cannot be recalled. There is no
doubt, that there is -anecessary exception in every such grant, that
if it is wanted for public use, it may be taken by the sovereign power
for such use, upon makiig compensation. Such a taking is not a
violation of the contract; but it is strictly an exception resulting
from the nature and attributes of sovereignty; implied from the very
terms, or at least acting upon the subject matter of the grant, suot
jure.
But the legislature of Massachusetts is, as I have already said, in
no just sense the sovereign of the state. The sovereignty belongs
to the people ot the state in their original character as an independent commun;ty; and the legislature possesses those attributes of
sovereignty, and those only, which have been delegated to it by the
pe ople of the state, under its constitution.
There is no doubt, that among the powers so delegated to the legislature, is the power to grant the franchises of bridges and ferries,
and others of a like nature. The power to grant is not limited by

-JANUARY TERM, 1837.

1645

[Charles River Bridgo v. Warren Bridge et al]

any restrictive terms in the constitution; and it is of course general
and'unlimited as to the terms, the manner, and the extent of granting franchises. These are matters resting in its sound discretion;
and having the right to grant, its grantees have a right to hold, according to the terms of their grant, and to the extent of the exclusive privileges conferred. thereby. This is the necessary result of
the general authority, upon the principles already stated.
But this doctrine does not stand upon general reasoning alone. It
is directly and positively affirmed by all the judges of the state court,
(the.trueand rightful expositors of the state constitution,) in this very
case. All of them admit that the grant of an exclusive franchise of
this sort, made by the legislature, is absolutely obligatory upon the
legislature, and cannot be revoked or resumed; and that it is a part
of the contract, implied in the grant, that it shall not be revoked or
resumed; and that, as a contract, it is valid to the extent of the exclusive franchise granted. So that the highest tribunal in the state
which is entitled to pass judgment on this very point, has decided
against the soundness of the veryobjection now stated; and has affirmed the validity and obligation of such a grant of the franchise.
The question, among the. learned judges, was not whether the grant
was valid dr not; for all of them admitted it to be good and irrevocable. But the question was, what was, in legal construction, the
nature and-extent of the exclusive franchise granted. This is not
all. Although the legislature have an unlimited power to grailt franchises, by the constitution of Massachusetts; they are not entrusted
with any general sovereign power to recall ot r-sume theme:- On the
contrary, there is an"express prohibition in the bill of rights in that
constitution, restraining the legislature from taking any private property, except upon two conditions; first, that it is wanted for public
use: and secondly, that due compensation is made. So that the
power to grant franchises, which are conife, edly property, is general; while the power to impair the obligation of the grant, and to resume the property, is limited. An act of the legislature transcending these bounds, is utterly void; and so it has been constantly held
by the state judges. The same doctrine has been maintained by this
Court, on various occasions; and especially in Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch, R. 136; and in Woodward v. Trustees of Dartmouth College, 4 Wheaton, R. 518.
Another answer to the argument has been, iii fact, already given,
It is, that by the grant of a particular franchise the legislature does

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL.]

not surrender its power to grant franchises, but merely parts with
its power to grant the same franchise; for it cannot grant that which
it has already parted with. Its power remains the same; but the
thing on which it can alone operate, is disposed of. It may, indeed,
take it again for public uses, paying a compensation. But it cannot
resume it, or grant it to another person; under any other circumstances, or for any other purposes.
In truth, however, the argument itself proceeds upon a ground
which the Court cannot act upon or sustain.

The argument is, that if

the state legislature makes a grant of a franchise exclusive, and contracts that it shall remain exclusive within certain local limits; it is an
cxcess of power, and void as an abridgment or surrender of the rights
of sovereignty, under the state constitution. But this is a point over
which this Court has no jurisdiction. We have no right to inquire
in this case, whether a state law is repugnant to its own constitution; but only whether it is repugnant to the constitution of the
United States. If the contract has been made, we are to say whether
its obligation has been impaired; and not to ascertain whether the
legislature could rightfully make it. Such was the doctrine of this
Court in the case of Jackson v. Lamphire, already cited; 3 Peters'
R. 280-289. But the conclusive answer is, that the state judges
have already settled that point, and held the present grant a contract;
to be valid to the extent of the exclusive limits of the grant, whatever they are.
To sum up, then, the whole argument on this head; I maintain,
that, upon the principles of common reason and legal interpretation, the present grant carries with it a necessary implication that
the legislature shall do no act to destroy or ssentially to impair the
franchise; that, (as one of the learned judges of the state court expressed it,) there is an implied agreement that the state will not grant
another bridge between Boston and Charlestown, so near as to draw
away the custom from the old one; and, (as another learned judge
expressed it,) that there is an implied agreement of the state to graot
the undisturbed use of the bridge and its tolls, so far as respects any
acts of its own, or of any persons acting under its authority. In
other words, the state, impliedly, contracts not to resume its grant,
or to do any act to the prejudice or destruction of its grant. I maintain, that there is no authority or principle established in relation to
the construction of crown grants, or legislative grants;, which does
not concede and justify this doctrine. Where the thing is given,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

the incidents, without which it cannot be enjoyed, are also given; ut
res magis valeat quam pereat. I maintain that a different doctrine
is utterly repugnant to all the principles of the common law, applicable to all franchises of a like nature; and that we must overturn
-some of the best securities of the rights of property, before it can be
established., I maintain, that the common law is the birthright of
every citizen of Massachusetts, and that he holds the title deeds of
his property, corporeal, and incorporeal, under it. I maintain, that
under the principles of the common law, there exists no more right
in the legislature of Massachusetts, to erect the Warren Bridge, to
the ruin of the franchise of the Charles River Bridge, than exists to
transfer the latter to the former, or to authorize the former to demolish the latter. If the legislature does not mean in its grant to
give any exclusive rights, let it say so, expressly; directly; and in
terms admitting of 'no misconstruction. The grantees will then
take at their peril, and must abide the results of their overweening
confidence, indiscretion, and zeal.
My judgment is formed: upon the terms of the grant, its nature
and objects, its design and- duties; and, in its interpretation, I seek
for no new principles, but I apply such as are as old as the very rudimehts of the common law.
But, if I could persuade myself that this.view of the case were
not conclusive upon the only question before this Court, I should
rely upon another ground, which, in my humble judgment, is equally
decisive in favour of the plaintiffs. I hold, that the plaintiffs are the
equitable assignees .(during the period of their ownership of the
bridge) of the old ferry, belonging to Harvard college, between
Charlestown and Boston, for a valuable consideration; and, as such
assignees, they are entitled to an exclusive right to the ferry, so as
to exclude any new bridge from being erected between those places
during that period. If Charles River Bridge did not exist, the erection of Warren Bridge would be a nuisance to that ferry, and Vould
in fact ruin it. It would be exactly the case of Chadwick v. The
Proprietors of Haverhill Bridge; which, notwithstanding all I have
heard to the contrary, I deem of the very highest authority. But;
independently of that case, I should arrive at the same conclusion
upon general principles. -The general rights and duties.of the owners of ferries, at the common law, were not disputed by any of the
learned judges in the state court to be precisely the same in Massachusetts, as in England. I shall not; therefore, attempt to go over

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et aL]
that ground with any farther illustrations, than what have already,
in another part of this opinion, been suggested. I cannot accede to
the argument, that the ferry was extinguished by operation of law
by the grant of the bridge, and the acceptance of the annuity. In
my judgment, it was indispensable to the existence of the bridge, as
to its termini, that the ferry should be deemed to be still'a subsisting franchise; for otherwise, the right of landing on each side
would be gone. I shall not attempt to go over the reasoning, by
which I shall maintain this opinion; as it is examined with great
clearness and ability by Mr. Justice Putnam, in his opinion in the
state court, to which I gladly refer, as expressing mainly all my own
views on this topic. Indeed, there is in the whole of that opinion
such a masculine vigour, such a soundness and depth of learning,
such a forcible style of argumentation and illustration; that in every
step of my own progress I have sedulously availed myself of his enlightened labours. For myself, I can only say that I have as yet
heard no answer to his reasoning; and my belief is, that in a juridical sense, it is unanswerable..
Before I close, it is proper to notice, and I shall do it briefly,
Another argument strongly pressed at the bar against the plaintiffs;
and that is, that the extension of the term of the franchise of the
plaintiffs for thirty years, by the act of 1792, (erecting the West
Boston Bridge, between Boston and Cambridge,) and the acceptance
thereof by the plaintiffs, amounted to a surrender or extinguishment
of their exclusive franchise, if they ever had any, to build bridges
over Charles river; sa that they are barred from now setting it up
against the Warren Bridge. In myjudgment, there is no foundation
whatsoever, either in law, or in the facts, to sustain thisobjection. If
any legitimate conclusion be deducible from the terms of that act, it
is, that the plaintiffs, if they had claimed any such exclusive right
over the whole river, would by their acceptance of the new term of
years have been estopped to clahu any damages done to their franchise by the erection of West Boston Bridge; and that their consent
"must be implied to its erectiom But there is no warrant for the ob-'
jeetion.in any part of the language of the act.. The extension of the
term isnot granted upon any condition whatsoever. No surrender
of pny-right is asked, or required. The clause extending the term,
purportsi- in its face, to be c, mere donation or bounty of the legislature, foundecd on motives of public liberality and policy. It is granted
expiessly, As an encouragement to enterprise, and ds a compensation

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

649

[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

for the supposed diminution of tolls, which West Boston .Bridge
would occasion to Charles River Bridge; and in no manner suggests
any sacrifice or surrender of right whatsoever, to be made by the
plaintiffs. In the next plate, the erection of West Boston Bridge
was no invasion, whatsoever, of the franchise of the plaintiffs. Their
right, as I have endeavoured to show, was limited to a bridge, and
the travel between Charlestown and Boston; and did not extend beyond those towns. West Boston Bridge was between Boston and
Cambridge, at the distance of more than a mile by water, and by
land of nearly three miles; and as the roads then ran, the line of
travel for West Boston Bridge would scarcely ever, perhaps never,
approach nearer than that distance to Charles River Bridge. The
grant, therefore, could not have been founded in any notion of any
surrender or extinguishment of the exclusive franchise of the plaintiffs; for it did reach to such an extent. It did not reach Cambridge,
and never had reached it.
As to the report of the committee, on the basis of which the
West Boston Bridge was granted, it has in my judgment no legal
bearing on the question. The committee say, that they are of
opinion, that the act of 1785, did not confer "an exclusive grant of
the right to build over the waters of Charles river." That is true;
and it is equally true, that the plaintiffs never asserted., or pretended
to have any such right. In their remonstrance against the erection
of West Boston Bridge, they assert no such right; but they put
themselves upon mere equitable considerations, addressing themselves to the sound discretion of the legislature. If they had asserted
such a broad right, it would not justify any conclusion that they
were called upon to surrender, or did surrender their real and unquestionable rights. The legislature understood itself to be granting a
boon; and not making a bargain, or asking a favour. It was liberal,
because it meant to be just, in a case of acknowledged hazard, and of
honourable enterprise, very beneficial to the public. To Suppose,
that the plaintiffs meant to surrender their present valuable and exclusive right of franchise for thirty-four remaining years, and to put
it in the power of the legislature, the next day, or the next year, to
erect a bridge, toll or free, which by its-contiguity should ruin theirs,
or take away all their profits; is a supposition, in my judgment, truly
extravagant, and without a scintilla of evidence to support it. The
burdens of maintaining the bridge were to remain; the paymert of
the 'an;, ity to Harvard college was to remain: and yet, upon this
VOL. XI.-4 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.]

supposition, the extension of the term of their charter, granted in
the shape of a bounty, would amount to a right to destroy the franchise the next day, or the next hour, at the pleasure of the legislature. I cannot perceive, upon what ground such an implication can
be made; an implication, not arising from any words or intent expressed on the face of the act, or fairly inferrible from its purposes;
and wholly repugnant to the avowed objects of the grant, whicfi are
to confer a benefit, and not to impose an oppressive burden, or create
a ruinous competition.
Upon the whole, my judgment is, that the act of the legislature of
Masswchn.setti granting the charter of Warren Bridge, is an act impairing the obligation of the prior contract and grant to the proprietors of Charles River Bridge; and, by the constitution of the United
States, it is, therefore, utterly void. I am for reversing the -decree
of the state court, (dismissing the bill;) and for remandingThe cause
to the state court for further proceedings, as te law and justice shall
appertain.
Air. Justice THOMPSON.

The opinion delivered by my brother, Mr. Justice Story, .1 have
read over, and deliberately considered. On this full consideration, I
concur entirely in all the principles and reasonings contained in it;
and I am of opinion the decree of the supreme judicial court of Massachu oAts should be reversed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from tie supreme judicial court, holden in and for'the county of Suffolk, in the commonwealth of Massachusetts, and was argued by
counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and decredd by this Couit, that the, decree of the said supreme judicial
court in this cause; be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

