JANUARY TERM, 1837.

CRAWFORD ALLEN, APPELLANT V. JOHN HAMMOND, APPELLEE.
The brig Ann, of Boston, on a voyage from New Orleans to Madeira, &c. was unlawfully captured by a part of the Portuguese squadron; and was, with her cargo,
condemned. Upon the remonstrance of the government of the United States, the
claim of the owner for compensation for this capture was, on the 19th of January,
1832, admitted by the government of Portugal, to an amount exceeding $33,000;
one-fourth of~which was soon after paid. On the 27th of January, 1832, the owner
of the Ann and cargo, neither of the parties knowing of the admission of the claim
by Portugal, made an agreement with the appellant, to allow him a sum, a little'
below one-third of the whole amount of the sum admitted, as commissions, on his
agreeing to use his utmost efforts for the recovery thereof. At the time this agreement was made, which was under seal, H. the appellee, was indebted to the appellant A. $268 for services rendered to him in the course of a commercial agency
for him. In the contract, it was agreed that this debt should be released. Under
the contract, A. received the payment of one-fourth of the amount admitted to be
due to H. by Portugal; and H. filed a bill to have the contract iescinded, and delivered up to him; the debt of $268 to be deducted fi-m the same, with interest,
&c. The circuit court made a decree in favour of H., and on the payment of
$268, with interest, the contract was ordered to be delivered up to be cancelled.
The decree of the circuit court was affirmed; the court being of opinion, that the
agreement had been entered into by both the parties to it, under a mistake, and
under entire ignorance of the allowance of the claim of the owner of the Ann,
and her cargo. It was without consideration: services long and arduous were
contemplated, but the object of those services had been attained.
If a life estate in land is sold, and at the time of the sale, the estate is terminated by
the death of the person in whom the right vested, a court of equity would rescird
the purchase. If a horse is sold,'which both parties believed to be-alive, the purchaser would not be compelled to pay. the consideration.
The law on this subject, is clearly stated in the case of Hitchcock v. Giddings;
Daniel's Exchequer Reports, 1, where it is said that a vendor is bound to know he
actually has that which he professes to sell. And even though the subject of the
contract be known to both parties to be liable to a contingency, which may destroy
it immediately; yet if the contingency has already happened-,it-will be void.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States, for the district
of Rhode Island.
In the circuit court of Rhode Island, the appellee, John Hammond, filed a bill praying that-a certain instrument in writing, executed by him and the appellant, in January, 1832, by which he had
stipulated to allow to the appellant a compensation for establishing
a claim on the Portuguese government, for the illegal capture of a

SUPREME COURT.
[Allen v. Hammond.1

vessel belonging to him, should be cancelled; The consideration for
the said stipulation having failed. The bill also prayed for other
relief? and that the instrument should be delivered up to be cancelled.
The circuit court gave a decree in favour of the complainant; and
the defendant appealed to this Court.
The facts of the case are fully stated in the arguments of counsel;
and in the opinion of the Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Green, and Mr. Ogden, for the appellant i and by Mr. Webster for the appellee.

-

IThis was a case in equity, and came before the Court on an appeal
from a decree of the circuit court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
John Hammond filed his bill against the- appellant, praying,
among other things, that a certain power of attorney, and a certain
agreement between said Hammond and Allen, mentioned in the bill,
might be decreed to be delivered up to the complainant to be cancelled. The power of attorney referred to is an irrevocable power
fromHammond to Allen, to receive from the government of Portugal,
or of the United States, and of and from all and every person and persons whomsoever, a certain claim or demand which said Hammond
had for and on account of the capture and condemnation of the American brig Ann, of B oston, and her cargo, on a voyage from New Orleans to Goree, (intending to stop and trade at Fayal, Madeira, and
Teneriffe,) by the Portuguese squadron cruising off the island of Terceira, and condemned by the tribunal sitting at Lisbon, under the
authority of the Portuguese government, on the 22d of December, 1831. The agreement was made on the 27th day of January,
1832, between Hammond and Allen, by which Hammond agreed
to.pay Allen ten per cent. on all sums recovered until the amount
should equal 8000 dollars, and on all sums, over that amount, thirtythree per cent.; and Allen agreed to use his utmost efforts to bring the
claim to a favourable isbue, and to receive the aforesaid commission
in full compensation for his services and expenses, already incurred,
or thereafter to be incurred, in prosecuting the claims.
The bill, amongst other things, alleges that on the 19th of January,
1832, in consequence of measures taken by the representatives of
the government of tfie United States, at Lisbon, the Portuguese go-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

65

[Allen v. Hammond.]

vernment recognised and admitted the complainant's- claim to the
amount of 33,700 dollars, of which he alleges he was ignorant until
the month of March, 1832. That the power of attorney was executed. in consequence of certain representations made by Allen, that
he could render important services in prosecuting the claim against
the Portuguese government, without which services the claim would
be lost; and that Allen proposed to Hammond to appoint him his
agent; that he was then ignorant his claim had been recognised, and
also that the agreement was executed while he remained ignorant of
the fact.
The bill also charges, that the claim has not been liquidated or
paid, in consequence of any interference or exertions of the defendant, or through any agency or influence on his part.
That both said instruments were executed without due consideration, and when the complainant was ignorant of the situation of.his
claim on the Portuguese government. That the contract of January
27th, 1832, "was entered -into and executed without any adequate
consideration or services to be by the said Crawford Allen paid or
performed," under mistaken views and ignorance of the then situation of the complainant's claim; and is hard, unconscionable, and unequal, and ought, on that account, to be set aside, even if said claim
had not been liquidated by the Portuguese government, at the time
said contract was made and executed.
The answer gives the history of the acquaintance between the
complainant and defendant; shows the measures to enforce this
claim, which the defendant had taken as the agent of the- complainant, prior to the execution of -the power of attorney; that those
measures were approved by the complainant; that the power was
read to him; that three copies were executed; and that the complainant saw all the letters which the defendant had received. It alleges that the defendant relinquished all claims for commissions and
services, amounting to 268 dollars, then due him; and that the consideration to the complainant for executing said instruments, was
the defendant's relinquishment of the immediate payment of the
money then in his own hands, of what was then justly due to him
for commissions and for services already rendered in regard to the
reclamation of said vessel from the Portuguesegovernment, fnd the
agreement on the part of said defendant, to use his "utmost efforts to
bring the aforesaid claim to a favourable issue," and to sustain all
the expenses in prosecuting said claim.
VOL
1 . XI.-I

SUPREME COURT.
[Allen v. Hammond.]

The defendant expressly denies that it was any part of the understanding or agreement between him and the complainant, that
the defendant was not to receive said stipulated sums in case there
should be little or no trouble in obtaining said money.
On the contrary (he states) the understanding and agreement was
that the defendant was to receive said sums and no more, even though
his trouble and expenses should much exceed said sums, and to receive said sums also if his trouble and expenses should be but very
small; and both parties fully understood that the value of the bargain
to the defendant depended on these contingencies-and the defendant avers that he had no knowledge at the time of the situation of
the claim, except that derived from the letters annexed to his answer, that all the information he had was made known to the complainant and was common to them both; that it was made known to
the complainant in conversations and by exhibiting said letters; and
he denies that the. agreement, when executed, was to depend for its
validity on any subsequent information, from any source whatever.
" On the contrary, it was fully understood that contingencies like the
one which unexpectedly happened, or others of an opposite character, might render the agreement very advantageous, or very disadvantageous to the defendant."
The decree requires the defendant to bring the agreement of
January 27th, 1832, into the clerk's office within ninety 'days, for
cancellation, and enjoins the defendant from asserting any title at
law or in equity, under the same: and it also orders the payment of
268 dollars by the complainant, to the defendant.
Mr. Green and Mr. Ogden for the appellant contended, that this
decree ought to be reversed, because it appears by the evidnce in
the cause,
1. That the agreement was fairly made, and for a valuable consideration, and is not unconscionable or oppressive.
2. That it was made with an equal knowledge of all the circumstances on the part of each of the contracting parties,
3. That the fact that the claim might have been allowed by the
Portuguese government must have been contemplated by the parties
when the agreement was made, and was one, of the contingencies
which might make it maore or less profitable to theoefendant; and
that the allowance of the claim of that government did not relieve
the defendant from other duties to be performed, and expenses to be

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Allen v. Hammond.]

incurred, under the agreement; nor was the recognition of the claim,
or even obtaining its payment, the sole consideration for the agreement.
4. That the defendant, by his acts, affirmed the agreement after he
had full knowledge that the claim had been allowed by the Portuguese government.
The evidence fully shows that the agreement was fairly made, and
for a valuable consideration. The consideration was a relinquishment of a debt of 268 dollars, due by the appellee, and of a compensation for services in prosecuting a claim. Heavy expenses
would be incurred in the prosecution of the same; and at the time
the arrangement was made, the issue of the undertaking of the appellant was very doubtful.
The agreement was made with an equal knowledge of all the
facts by both parties to it. At the moment the agreement was made,
both parties might have supposed the Portuguese government had
recognised it; as it was known to both that the government of the
United States had made the injury done to the appellee the subject of diplomatic complaint, and had demanded satisfaction for it.
Thus, the objection to the rights of the appellant, founded on a want
of consideration, or too great a compensation for services done, or
to be done by him, which was sustained by the circuit court, should
not have prevailed. The contract was made with a view to every
contingency; and that of an actual acknowledgment of the claim
having been made, was one of those contingencies contemplated by
the parties. There was also a sum of money actually paid for the
contract. This the appellant was not to have returned to him under
any circumstances. The situation of the claim of the appellee on
the Portuguese government, at this time, even since its acknowledgment, and an agreement to pay the amount admitted to be du~e;
shows that there was more in uncertainty than the mere fact that the
claim was not allowed. But one of the instalments has been paid;
and although the period for the payment of further sums has arrived, nothing more has been received. The government of Portugal
is convulsed by intestine divisions, and is without the means of discharging its obligations. The appellant has, under his contract dities yet to be performed. He is bound to keep an agent in Portpgal,
whose efforts are constant to procure the payment of the remaining
sums due to the appellee.
Mr. Webster, for the appellee, contended that at the period of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Allen v. Hammond.]

contract with the appellee, there was no state of things existing,
which could furnish a consideration for the sum agreed to be allowed
to the appellant. He was to prosectite the claim in the Portuguese
government, for the capture of the property of the appellee. In
doing this, it was expected he would be obliged to pay considerable sums for expenses; to devote much time to the object; to
employ agents; and yet, at the instant it was agreed to pay him for
all these services, or to provide for all these expenses, nothing was
to be done; for all bad been accomplished without his agency.
Thus no foundation for the contract existed. As to the sum of $268
paid by the appellant, the same principles which prevent his obtaining any thing from the appellee under the contract, entitle him to have
thatsum repaid to him with interest. Where a fact of leading importance to parties entering into a contract, was supposed to exist,
and did not exist, the contract formed on the belief that it was in
existence, should be set aside. This was the case between these
parties; nothing remained to be done by the appellant. It cannot
be contended that the payment of the sum of $268 to the appellee,
was a consideration which entitled him to receive the thousands of
dollars the contract was to give him, and which he now claims.
In Hitchcock v. Giddings, Daniel's Exchequer Reports, 1, the
principles upon which this case is rested by the appellee, are sustained by the court. If the contingency which was the object of
the contract has happened, the contract is void.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit in chancery is brought before this Court, by an appeal
from the decree of the circuit court for the district of Rhode Island.
The bill was filed in the circuit court by the appellee, to compel
the appellant to deliver up to be cancelled, a certain contract, on the
ground of its having been given through mistake.
In the year 1830, the appellee being the sole owner and master of
the brig Ann, of Boston, while on a voyage from New Orleans to
Madeira, and thence to the coast of Africa, was illegidly captured,.
off the Western Islands, by a part of a Portuguese squadron. 'Notice
of the capture was given to the American government, but the vessel and cargo were condemned.
Such remonstrances were made by the American government, that
on the 19th day of January, 1832, the claim of the appellee was ad-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

69

[Allen v. Hammond.]

mitted, to the amount of thirty-three thousand'and seven hundred
dollars, by the Portuguese government
On the return of the appellee to the United States, he executed a
power of attorney to the appellant, which is stated to be irrevocable;
authorising him to prosecute his claim against 'the government of
Portugal. And on the 27th of January, 1832, the parties entered
into a contract, under seal, in which Hammond agreed to pay Allen
ten per centum on all sums which he should recover, up to eight thousand dollars, and thirty-three per cent. on- any sum above that
amount, as commissions. And Allen -agreed to use his utmost
efforts to recover the claim.
Prior to this period, and before the power of attorney was given,
Allen, who was a commission merchant at Providence, Rhode Island,
had acted as the agent of Hammond in procuring, insurances on his
vessel and cargo, at various'times, and also in the traniaction of other
business. Commissions were charged by Allen as in ordinary cases;
and ii appears that Hammond was indebted to him for these services,
at the date of the above agreement, the sum of two hundred and
sixty-eight dollars.
Allen had effected an insurance on the brig for the voyage in which
it was captured, and so soon as he heard of the capture, he made representations of the fact to the secretary of state, at Washington.
This was not only sanctioned by Hammond, but from his correspondence with Allen, he seems to have placed great confidence in
his disposition and ability to serve him.
There are a great number of facts which are proved in the case,
and contained in the record; but it-is unnecessary to state them, as
they can have no direct bearing on' the principal, and indeed the only
question in the cause.
It appears tliat eight days before the agreement was entered. into
by the parties, the Portuguese government admitted the claim of
Hammond, one-fourth of which was shortly afterwards paid. And
the question arises, whether an agreement, entered into under such
circumstances, ought to be delivered up and cancelled.
No one can read the contract without being struck with the large
sum that Hammond is willing to pay on the contingency of recovering his claim. Allen was to receive as a compensation for his-services, a sum little below the one-third of the amnunt recovered. This
shows, in the strongest point of view, that HaTtrniond could have entertained but a remote prospect of realising his- claim; and indeed

SUPREME COURT.
[Alien v. Hammond.]

it would seem, when the circumstances of the case are considered,
that he could have had litt'e or no ground to hope for success.
His vessel and cargo had been condemned; the Portuguese government was in an unsettled state, and its finances in the greatest
confusion and embarrassment.
In his vessel and cargo Hammond appears to have lost his entire
property; and this very naturally threw !1im into despondency, and
induced hirn. to agree to pay nearly one-third of his demand to an
agent who might, by possibility, recover it. He no doubt supposed,
that by interesting his agent so deeply in the claim, he would secure
his sympathies, and his utmost exertions. And the prospect was,
if the claim, or any part of it, should be obtained, it would be the
work of time, and of great effort.
Allen is not chargeable with fraud in entering into the contract,
or in using the most persevering efforts to get possession of the instalment paid.
That the contract was entered into by both parties, under a mistake, is unquestionable. Neither of them knew that the Portuguese
government had allowed the claim. Can a court of equity enforce
such a contract? Can it refuse to cancel it? That the agreement was
without consideration is clear. Services long and arduous were contemplated as probable, by both parties, at the time the contract was
executed. But the object of pursuit was already attained. No services were required under the contract, and for those which Allen
had rendered to Hammond prior to it regular chargesseem to have
been made.
It is true the amount of services required by the agent, was
uncertain. He took upon himself this contingency; and had not the
claim been allowed by the. Portuguese government, until after the
contract, he would have been entitled to his commissions, however
small his agency might have been, in producing the result. This, it
may be supposed, was a contingency within the contemplation of
the parties at the time of the contract; so that, unconnected with
other circumstances, the smallness of the service rendered could
have constituted no ground on which to set aside the contract.
But no one can for a moment believe that Hammond intended to
give to his agent nearly ten thousand dollars, on the contingency
of his claim having been allowed at the time of the contract. And
it is equally clear, that his agent under such a circumstance, had no
expectation of receiving that, or any other amount of compensation.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Allen v. Hammond.]

The contract does not provide for such a case; and it could not have
been within the contemplation of either party., Services were mdde
the basis of the compensation agreed to be paid; but the allowance
of the claim superseded all services in the case.
The equity of the complainant is so obvious, that it is difficult to
make it more clear by illustration. No case, perhaps, has occurred,
or can be supposed where the principle on which courts of equity
give relief, is more strongly presented than in this case. The contract was entered into through the mistake of both parties; #
imposes great hardship and injustice on the appellee, and it is without consideration. These grounds, either of which in ordinary cases,
is held sufficient for relief in equity, unite in favour of the appellee.
Suppose a life estate in land be sold, and at the time of the sale,
the estate has terminated by the death of the person in whom the
right vested; would not a court of equity relieve the purchaser? If
the vendor kinew of. the death, relief would be given on the ground
of fraud; if he did nof know it, on the ground of mistake. In
either case, would it not be gross injustice, to enforce the payment
of the consideration.
If a horse be sold which is dead, though believed to be living by
both parties, can the purchaser be compelled to pay the consideration?
These are cases in which the parties enter into the contract, under
a material mistake as to the subject matter of it.
In the first case the vendor intended to sell, and the vendee to
purchase a subsisting title, but which in fact, did not exist; and in
the second, a horse was believed to. be living but which was in fact
dead.
If in either ot these cases, the payment of the purchase money
should be required, it would be a payment without the shadow of
consideration; and no court of equity is believed ever to have sanctioned such a principle. And so in the case-under consideration; if
Hammond should be held liable to pvy the demand of the appellant,
it would be wilhout consideration.
There may be some cases of wager, respecting certain events,
where one of the contingencies had happened at the time of the
wager, which was upknown to both parties, and which was held not
to invalidate the contract. Of this character, is tl .case of the Earl
of March v. Pigot, 5 Burr. 2802. But the question in that case,
arose upon the verdict of a jury, on a rule to show cause, &c.; and

SUPREME COURT.
[Allen v. Hammond.]

Lord Mansfield says: "the nature of the contract, and the manifest
intention of the parties, support the verdict of the jury (to whom it

was left without objection,) that he who succeeded to his estate
first, by the death of his father, should pay to the other without any
distinction, whether the event had or not, at that time, actually happened."
In 1 Fonblanque's Equity, 114, it is laid down, that where there
is an error in the thing for which an individual bargains, by the
get/eraJ rules of contracting, the contract is null, as in such a ease
the parties are supposed not to give their assent. And the same
doctrine is laid down in Puffendorff's Law of Nature and Nations.
b!1. c.3. sec. 12.
The law on this subject is clearly stated, in the case of Hitchcock
v. Giddings, Daniel's Reports, 1; where it is said, that a vendor is
bound to know that he actually has that which he professes to sell.
And even though the subject matter of the contract be known to
both parties to be liable to a contingency, which may destroy it
immediately; yet if the contingency has already happened, the contract will be void.
By the decree of the circuit court, on the payment of die amount,
including interest, which is due from the appellee to the appellant, he
is required to deliver up to be cancelled the agreement entered into
on the 27th of January, 1832, which leaves the parties as they were
before the contract; and as we consider the decree just, and sustained by principle, it is affirmed.

This cause camie on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Rhode
Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here prdered, adjudged and decreed, by this Court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause, be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

