JANUARY TERM, 1837.

SAMUEL VEAZIE V. IRA. WADLEIGH ET AL.
On the trial of a. cause in the circuit court of the district of Maine, upon certain
questions which arose in the progress of the trial, the.judges of the court were divided in opinion, and the questions were, at the request of the plaintiff, certified to
the Supreme Court, to January term, 1835. In December, 1836, the plaintiff filed
in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of Maine, a notice to the defendant that
he had discontinued the suit in the circuit court, and that as soon as the Supreme
Court should meet at Washington, the same disposition would be made of it there,
and that the costs would ba. paid when made up. A copy of this notice was given
to the counsel of the defendants. The plaintiff's counsel asked the Court for leave
to discontinue the cause ; and the discontinuance was allowed.
Quere. Whether the party on whose motion questions are certified to the Supreme
Court, under the act of congress, has a right, generally, to withdraw the record,
or discontinue the case in the Supreme Court; the original dause being detained
in the circuit court for ulterior proceedings.

ON a certificate of division from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Maine..
An action of trespass was instituted in 1836, in the circuit court
of the district of Maine; and the question between the plaintiff and
the defendant was as to the title in certain lots of ground, described
in the declaration, in the county of Penobscot, in the state of Maine.
The case came on to be tried before the eiruit court at October
term, 1835; and the judges of the court being divided in opinion on
certain questions arising in the trial of the cause, the same were, at
the request of the plaintiff, by the order of the court; certified to the
Supreme Court of the United States. The case was docketed at
January term, 1836.
On the 15th of December, 1836, the plaintiff filed a notice ih the
circuit court, that the case then under a certificate of division to the
Supreme Court of the United States, was discontinued in the circuit
court; and that the same would be discontinued in the Supreme
Court at Washington, as soon as that Court would meet. The notice
also stated the readiness of the. plaintiff topay the legal costs of the
defendant, when the same should be made up. Notice of this paper
was given to the defendants.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Butler, of couhsel for the plaintiff, movcd the
Court to discontinue the case.

SUPREME COURT.
[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

Mr. Webster, against the motion, stated that the action had been
brought to try the title to a very valuable quantity of land in Maine;
and on the trial the questions, which were decisive as to the rights
of the parties to the controversy, had been certified to this Court.
The cause was continued at the last term of this Court, at the instance
of the plaintiff, and now he asks the discontinuance of the case. This
cannot be done by either party without the consent of the other.
This is the general ground of objection.
At present, there is no discontinuance on the record of the circuit
court in Maine, for no discontinuance can take place in vacation.
But if application had been made to the circuit court to allow the
discontinuance, that court had no power over the case. There is no
statute of Massachusetts or of M'laine, declaring the cases in which a
plaintiff may discontinue. The authority referred to from Dane's
Abridgment, is applicable to costs only. It does not recognise it
as a general doctrine, that a plaintiff may always discontinue.
A- discontinuance after the trial, is always in the discretion of the
court; and the rule is universal, that when any thing has occurred
in the course of the cause, which gives the defendant an interest to
have the case decided, the plaintiff cannot discontinue. This is
stated in 5 Dane's Abridg. 672, 6 Dane's Abridg. 194, art. 1, sect.
12, afid in the cases referred to.
These authorities show that there cannot be a discontinuance by
the plaintiff where there ha been a reference under a rule of court;
as the defendant. has, by the reference, acquired an interest in the
termination of the cause.
The present proceeding is entirely a statutory one, and it was in'tended to take the place of a provision'fwhich should give to the parties in a case a full opportunity of having a final decision in this
Court over those questions which, when decided, would govern the
circuit court in the case. In the' early history of the circuit courts
there was no such provision, and when a difference of opinion prevailed betwebn the judges of the court, the case was adjourned to
the succeeding terni, until another judge of the Supreme Court
should hold the circuit court; these courts being then held by the
judges of the Supreme Court sitting in rotation or in succession, in
each circuit; and if thi court should again be divided in opinion, the
judge of the Supreme Court holding the court, should decide. The
act of 1802, 3 Laws U. S. 482, was passed after the judges of the
Supreme Court were assigned to each circuit.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

57

[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

Two ejectment suits, involving the same questions is those presented in this cause, were depending when the case was certified.
The deferdant has, therefore, an interest to have the qiuestions settled. But whether he has, or not, it is enough, under the provisions
of the act of congress, that he desires to have the law settled.
All the proceedings under this statute are prescribed by it. Nothing is said about the case being withdrawn. The questions upon
which the court may divide in opinion are to be certified, anl the
Supreme Court are to decide upon them, and certify their decision
to the circuit court. When this is done, the plaintiff may discontinue the cause, with the consent of the circuit court i but until the
cause is again in -the circuit court, he has no power over it. But
it is not denied that, both parties agreeing, the case may be withdrawn.
By the provisions of the law, the cask may be certified, at the in-.
stance of either party; and in the present case, it was done by the
plaintiff. The defendant might have done it. The law says the
division shall be certified, and that the Supreme Court shall decide it.
Rule nineteen of this Court, relating to writs of error, provides
that the plaintiff in error shall not discontinue. If he does, the defendant may go on. This rule, by analogy, applies to the case before
the Couft. Cited 12 Mass. 49, as'to Discontinuances.
Mr. Smith, and Mr. Butler, for the plaintiff, contended that the
plaintiff had a full right to discontinue the case in the circuit court,
where it was still pending; the certificate not having removed it
into this Court. The law of Maine recognises this right. 5 Dane,
Abridg. Tit. Discontinuance, 671. The case in 15 Mass. Rep. 179,
is to the same point.
This is n6t like 1 discontinuance after verdict. After this Court
shall have decided the questions certified, a jury must be called, and
the case will proceed. Nothing is in the Supreme Court but the .questions certified, and they are only incidents to the case. By- the
statute, notwithstanding the fact that questions on which the judges
of the circuit court have differed, have been certified, the cause may
go on and be tried, unless the questions are. such as to prevent it.
Cifed Wayman v. Southard, 1d Wheat. 1. United States v. Daniel,
,6 Wheat. 542.
These cases show, that if the decision on the questions certified
VOL. XI.-IH

SUPREME COURT.
[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

shall be a decision of the cause, yet this Court cannot give judgment;
nor can -the whole case be sent up to this Court for decision. U. S.
v. Bailey, 9. Peters, 273.
What were the rights of the parties -in the circuit court? We
aver, that-either of them could have had the questions on which the
judges differed, in opinion certified to this CourL The plaintiff
alone has chosen to exercise this right. It is admitted that these
questions are important; but, if the defendant chose to take the
chance of the plaintiff's discontinuing the cause here, he must abide
by the consequences. He omitted to secure the decision of this Court
on these questions, by requesting to have them certified; and the
case is now befbre this Court, on the request of the plaintiff only.
He withdraws it from the court, and what, then, is its authority to
proceed? Until the argument of the case comes on, the record is
not here for the benefit of both parties. It is here until then, only
for the party at whose request it has been certified. This does not
apply to costs.
It will not be denied, that if this case had been discontinued by
order- of the court below, this Court would not afterwards go on.
Has there been a discontinuance? Has it not been substantially
withdrawn from the circuit court? It is technically correct to say
a case cannot be discontinued, without the act of the court in which
it is depending; but, yet, substantially, a discontinuance may be made
in vacation, which will have the effect of a discontinuance.
It is understood that the act of the plaintiff in this case, is, according to the practice in Maine, a discontinuance; and that he cannot
now go on in the circuit court with the cause. The paper having
been filed, it has become the property of the court, and of the defendant; and the plaintiff cannot afterwards appear in the case. The
paper states that the case is discontinued; and this has been followed
up by the application now made. No more proceedings can take
-place. In England, on the filing of such a paper, the court would
order a nonsuit.
The statute of Maine, on giving costs on a discontinuance, affirms
the right. By the common law, no costs were given on a discontinuance, except in certain cases on the condition of paying costs.
After the jury has retired, and after they have returned, and are
ready to give their verdict-, the plaintiff must be called, and he may
retire. The penalty of costs is imposed in such cases. It is when
a party seeks to liscontinuc without costs, he must apply to the
court.

JANUARY TERM, 1837,
[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

As to the case of a reference under a rule of court, in which it is
admitted neither party can withdraw, here, by agreement, the cause
is out of court, and neither party can go to court and discontinue,
without the consent of the other. A different tribunal has been substituted, and each party has a right to its adjudication of the case.
But there is no such right in this case.
Suppose the case had been argued and decided in this Court, on
the points certified, and had gone back to the circuit court of Maine;
could that court proceed in the cause, if the plaintiff, on being called,
does not appear? Could a venire be issued, and a jury be called?
Could he not after the jury was sworn, suffer a nonsuit? If all
this may be done after the cause has proceeded so far, may not the
same be done in an earlier period of the proceddings?
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a case certified from the circuit court for the district of
Maine, upon a division of opinion of the judges of that court, upon
certain questions which arose in the progress of the trial of the
cause. These questions were certified to this Court at the last term,
upon the motion of the plaintiff. On the 15th of December last, the
plaintiff filed in the clerk's office of the circuit court, (it being vacation,) a written declaration, as follows :-" I hereby notify you that
the action of trespass, which is now pending in said court, to await
the decision of certain questions carried up to the Supreme Court, is
discontinued by me; and that the same disposition will be made of
the case in the Supreme Court at Washington, as soon as it meets at
Washington. You will therefore please to fiJe this in the case, and
notify the counsel for the defendants of the same, and that their legal,
costs in the said circuit court may be immediately made up, and the
same will be paid." Due notice was accordingly given to the counsel of the defendants; and the counsel for the plaintiff have accord
ingly, at the present term, made a motion in this Court, under these
circumstances, to discontinue the cause here, and to withdraw the
record. The motion is resisted on the other side, upon the ground
that the defendants have an interest in having these certified questions decided by this Court; of which they cannot be deprived without their own consent, by the dismissal of the cause.
The point is confessedly new, and we, have therefore thought it
right, after the argument, to give it full consideration, with reference
to the future practice of the Court.

SUPREME COURT.
[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

The act of 1802, ch. 31, sec. 6, under which this case has been
certified, provides, " That whenever any question shall occur before
a circuit court, upon which the judges shall be opposed, the point
upon which the disagreement shall happen, shall, during the same
term, upon the request of either party, or their counsel, be stated,
under the direction of the judges; and certified, under the seal of the
court, to the Supreme Court, at their next session to be held thereafter, and shall, by the said Court, be finally decided. And the decision of the Supreme Court, and their order in the premises, shall
be remitted to the circuit court, and be there entered on record, and
shall have effect according to the nature of the said judgment and
order; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the cause from proceeding, if, in the opinion of the court, further proceedings can be had without prejudice to the merits."
In construing a statute providing for such a novel mode of obtaining the decision of an appellate court upon the matters of controversy
between the parties, it is not surprising that there should be some
difficulty in ascertaining the precise rights of the parties; whether
the party upon whose motion the questions are brought here, is to
be treated like a plaintiff in error, as entitled to dismiss his own certified cause at his pleasure; or whether the other party is entitled to
retain the cause for his own benefit, and to insist upon a final adjudication of the questions here. It is clear that the statute does not, upon
the certificate of division, remove the original cause into this Court;
on the contrary, it is left in the possession of the court below for the
purpose of further proceedings, if they can be had without prejudice
to the merits; so that, in effect, the certified questions only, and not
the original cause, are removed .to this Court. In the next place,
looking to the intent and objects of the provision,. which are to enable the court below to proceed to a final- adjudication of the merits
of the cause; it seems equally clear, that if the original cause is entirely withdrawn from the cognisance Uf the Circuit court by discontinuance, or otherwise, there is no ground upon which this Court
should be required to proceed to decide the certified questions, since
they are thus become mere abstract questions. They are but incidents to the original cause, and ought to folfow the fate of their principal. We have no doubt, then, that upon the true construction of
the statute, if a discontinuance had been actually entered in the circuit court of Maine, in term, the record here ought not further to be
acted upon by us but a withdrawal or dismissal of the certified ques-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

'ions ought to be allowed. If it were necessary to accomplish this
object in the most formal wa'y, we should order the case to stand
continued until the next term of this Court; so that the plaintiff might,
in the intermediate time, make an application to the circuit court in
term, to enter a discontinuance thereof in that court.
The only point of difficulty is, whether the filing of the above
paper in the circuit court, in vacation, constitutes, per se, a-discontinuance of the original cause; without any action of the circuit court
thereon, upon which this Court ought now to act. According to the
practice of some of the courts in the Union, it is understood to be
the right of the plaintiff to enter a discontinuance of the cause at any
time, either in term or in vacation, upon the payment of costs, before
a verdict is given, without any formal assent of, or application to, the
court; and that thereupon the cause is deemed, in contemplation of
law, to be discontinued. In Massachusetts and Maine, a different
practice is understood to prevail; and the discontinuance can only
be in term, and is generally upon application to the court. In many
cases, however, in these.states, it is a matter of right. in Haskell v.
Whitney, 12 Mass. R. 49, 50, this docrine was expressly recognised. The court, on that occasion,*said: "The plaintiffor demandant may, in various modes, become nonsuit, or discontinue his cause
at his pleasure. At the beginning of every term at which he is demandable, he may neglect or refuse to appear. If the pleadings are
not closed, he may refuse to reply, or to join an issue tendered; or
after issue joined, he may decline to open his cause to the jury. The
court also may, upon stifficient cause shown, allow him to discontinue, even when it cannot be claimed as a right, or after the cause
is opened and submitted to the jury." Before trial, thei, the plaintiff may, in many cases, as a matter of right, discontinue his cause
according to the practice of the state .courts; 'at any time. when he is
demandable in court. After a trial or verdict, he can do so only by
'eave of the court, which it may grant or refuse, in its discretion.
But, under ordinary circumstances before verdict, it is almost a mater of course to grant it upon payment of costs, when it is not strictly
demandable of right.
Under the circumstances of the present case, we have no doubt
that the plaintiff is estopped, hereafter, to withdraw his assent to the
discontinuance of his suit in the circuit court; and that that court
possesses full authority to enter such discontinuance at its next term,
upon the mere footing of the paper filed in the clerk's office,.without

SUPREME COURT.
[Veazie v. Wadleigh.]

any further act of the plaintiff. We think, too, that it would be the
duty of that court to allow the entry of such discontinuance, upon
the application of the plaintiff; as he certainly has a right, in that or
some other form, to decline to proceed further in the suit, or to prosecute it further, subject to the payment of costs to the defendants.
In substance, then, we thirak the original cause in the circuit court
ougpjmow to tm treated by us as virtually at an end, for all the purposes of requiring our decision upon the certified questions; and that
the motion to withdraw the record, and discontinue the case, ought
to be granted.
In making this decision, we wish to be understood as not meaning
to intimate that the party, upon whose motion any questions are certified to this Court under the statute, has a right, generally, to withdraw the record, or discontinue the case here; while the original
cause is retained in the circuit court for ulterior proceedings. That
is a point of a very different nature from that now before us, and
may-require very different principles to govern it. It will be sufficient to decide it, when it shall arise directly in judgment.

On consideration of the motion made in this cause, on a prior day
of the present term of this Court, to wit: Thursday, the 12th inst. by
Mr. Smith, of counsel for the plaintiff, to dismiss this cause, and of
the arguments thereupon had, as well in support of as against the
motion, it is now here considered by the Court, that said motion be,
and the same is hereby granted. Whereupon it is now here ordered
and adjudged by this Court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby
dismissed.

