226

SUPREME COURT.

THE STATE,oF RHODE ISLAND V. THE STArE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
In acase depending between the states of Rhode Island and Massachusetts, the
senior counsel appointed to argue the cause for the state of Rhode Island, by the
legislature, was prevented, by unexpected and severe illness, attending the Court;
the Court, on the application of the attorney-general of the state, ordered a continuance far the term.

Mr. Green, the attorney-general of the State of Rhode Island,
moved the court for a continuance of this cause.

He stated, that at the session of the general assembly of Rhode
Island, in January, 1836, a resolution was passed, associating Mr.
Hazard, with the attorney-general of the state, as counsel in the
cause. Mr. Hazard had since been attacked with a disease, which was
supposed to be temporary in its character; and until within a few
days, confident eypectations of his recovery, and that he would be
able to attend and argue this case, were entertained. By an arrangement with the attorney-general of Massachusetts, attending the
Court, this case has been left open, in the hope of the arrival of Mr.
Hazard. This hope no longer exists; as his indisposition has increased, so as to prevent his commencing the journey from Rhode
Island to this place.
Mr. Hazard is the senior counsel in the case, and has been relied
upon by the state of Rhode Island to argue it. It was his report, as
chairman of the committee of the legislature of the state, upon which
the resolution of that body was adopted, ordering this bill against
the state of Massachusetts to be filed. No other counsel has been
emplo'yed to argue the cause in the place of Mr. Hazard; and, at the
advanced period of the session of this Court at which this motion is
submitted, no counsel can be prepared to go into the argument.
Questions between the different states of the Union, are always of
deep concern and of high importance. An appeal to this Court for
the decision of such questions, is an application to the highest powers,
of the Court. Where these questions are for a part of thb territory
in possession of cith6r of the contending states, occupied by a large
population, they become of the deepest and the highest interest.
Such is the present controversy.

JANUARY, TERM, 1827.
[State of Rhode Island v. State of Massachusetts.]

It is submitted, that this Court will not apply the strict rules
which govern other cases to this. The peace and tranquillity of the
Union may be disturbed by the decision of such a case, however just
and proper; if a belief shall prevail, that every opportunity for its full
and complete discussion was not afforded to each party. Although
'no imputation of wrong would be charged to this Court, which, in
conformity with its established rules,'had proceeded to the decision
of the cause, against the party opposing the application of those
rules, under an existing or asserted disadvantage to - the opposing
party; strong feelings of dissatisfaction and discontent might prevail:
always, if possible to be prevented between the citizens of neigh-'
bouring commonwealths.
The questions which will be raised in the argument of this case,
are of great and general importance; and some of them have not been
decided. Questions of the jurisdiction of this Court in a case between two states; and whether, if ft exists, provrision has been made
by legislation for its exercise, are involved; and must he determined
in the final disposition of the~cause. These questions were raised
in the case of The State of New Jersey v. The State of New York,
but they were not decided. ' The weight and interest of these questions were felt, when that case was before thig Court some years
since. The controversy between those states was adjusted by commissioners, and the case was not decided here.
To the state of Massachusetts the postponement of the final decision
of this case to the next term, can do no injury. She is in possession
of the territory which is claimed by.Rhode Island, and the inhabitants
of the same are subject and obedient to her laws. Rhode Island,
this1 Court will believe, does not, on other than grounds which she considers will sustain her claims, come into this high tribunal to assert
her rights to that territory. Although the bill in this case was filed
by a gentleman who is a member of this bar, Mr. Robbins, yet he
was never counsel in the case, but acted only as the representative
of the attorney-general of Rhode Island, in presenting it to this
Court. By the act of God the state is deprived of the assistance of
the counsel on which she relied in this cause; and this Court, it is
hoped, will order the postponement which has been asked. In the
state of Rhode Island, illness of counsel is a sufficient ground for. the
continuance of a cause, depending in a state court.
Mr. Austin, the attorney-general of the state of Massachugetts, opposed the continuance.

SUPREME COURT.
[State of Rhode Island v. State of Massachusetts.]

The state of Massachusetts is before the Court, represented by
counsel, and this at yery considerable expense. She had notice that
the case would be argued at this term; and she has attended in conformity with this requisition. The case is one of a'character which
gives it a peculiar interest; and which, while it is unsettled, affects the
tranquillity of not less than five thousand persons, who are inhabi.tants of the territory claimed by Rhode Island.
No difference exists between states and individuals in suits depending before this Court; if any do exist, the case of a state brought
here to defend her possession of her territory, and her jurisdiction
over a part of her population in the occupation of it; has a strong
claim to. obtain an early decision of the Court.
The state of Rhode Island has chosen to come to this Court, and
she should be at all times prepared to sustain her claim for the interference of the Court, in a controversy which she has brought forward, and has chosen her own time for its presentation.
It is admitted that the indisposition of counsel may furnish an inducement to a court to postpone a cause, until a subsequent day in
term; but it cann6t be the foundation for a continuance for the whole
term. It appears that the bill which was filed on the commencement
of this cause, was signed by a gentleman of this bar, now in the city
of Washington, Mr. Robbins, a member of the senate; and thus
Rhbde Island is represented by two most able counsel.
The cause has been pending for six years; and two years have
passed since the answer of the state of Massachusetts was filed: since
which the cause could have been disposed of, at either of the two
terms which have occurred subsequent to the putting in of the
answer.
While every disposition to accommodate the wishes of the counsel
representing the state of Rhode Island exists, and the circumstances
under which the motion has been. made, are fully appreciated; as the
official representative of the state of Massachusetts, Mr. Austin
stated, that he could not consent to the continuance of the cause.
Mr. Chief Justice TANry, -on the day following the argument on
the motion, said: the Court had decided to order the cause to be continued.

