THE DECISIONS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITFD STATES,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

LEssEE OF JOSEPH MARLATT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN SILK,
AND

JOHN

MDONALD.

Ejectment. A tract of land situated in that part of the state of Pennsylvania, which,
by the compact with the state of Virginia, of 1780, was acknowledged to be within
the former state, was held under the provisions of an act of assembly of Virginia,
passed in 1779, by which actual bona fide settlers, prior to 1778, were declared to
be entitled to the land on which the settlement was made, not exceeding four
hundred acres. The settlement was made in 1772. Of this tract, in the year
1786, a survey was made, and returned into the land office of Pennsylvania, and a
patent was granted for the same. The title set up by the defendants in the ejectment was derived from two land warrants from the land office of Pennsylvania,
dated in 1773, under which surveys were made in 1778, and on which patents
were issued on the 9th of March, 1782. The compact confirms private 'property
and rights existing previous to its date, under and founded on, and recognised by
the laws of either state, falling within the other; preference being given to the
elder or prior right: subject to the payment of the purchase money required by
the laws of the state in which they might be, for -such lands. HELD: that the
title derived under the Virginia -law of 1779, and afterwards perfected by the
patent from Pennsylvania, in 1788, was a valid title, and superior to that asserted
under the warrants of 1773, and the patent founded on them, and issued in 1782.

VOL. XI.-A

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]
The title derived under the act of the legislature of Virginia, of 1779, commenced in
1772 when the settlement was made; and therefore stands as a right, prior in its
commencement to that originatibg under the warrants of 1773. The question of
title between the contending parties is not to be decided by the laws or decisions
of either Pennsylvania or Virginia, but by the compact of 1780.
The principles on which the case of Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 163, are decided,
ard not affected by the decisions of the court in this case. In the case of Jackson
v. Chew, the court said that it adopted the state decisions, when applicable to the
title of lands., That was in a case the decision of which depended on the laws of
the state, and on their construction by the tribunals of the state, In the case at
bar, the question arises under, and is to be decided by a compact between two
states, where the rule of decision is not to be collected from the decisions of either
state, but is one of an international character.

IN error to the district court of. the United States for the western
district of Pennsylvahia.
The plaintiff in error, a citizen of the state of Ohio, instituted an
actiozi of ejectment against the defendants, at October term, 1831, to
recover a tract of land situated in Alleghany county, Pennsylvania;
and the case was tried before the district court for the western district of Pennsylvania, in October, 1835. A verdict and judgment,.
under the charge of the court, were rendered in favour of the defendants, and the plaintiff having taken exceptions to the charge, prosecuted this writ of error.
The case, as stated, in the opinion of this Court was as follows:Thomas, Watson, under whom the plaintiff in error claims, on the
25th of April, 1780, obtained from certain commissioners of' Virginia, a certificate, entitling him to four hundred acres of land, by
virtue of an act of assembly of Virginia, passed in May, 1779; the
f6urth section of which, after reciting that great numbers of people
-had settled in the country upon the western waters, upon waste and
unappropriated land, for which they have been hitherto prevented
from suing.out patents, or obtaining legal titles, &c., enacts, "that all
persons who at any time before the first day of January, in the year
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight, have really and bona
fide settled themselves or their families, or at his or her or their
charge, have settled others upon any waste or unappropriated lands
on the said western waters, to which no other person hath any legal
right or claim, shall be allowed for every family four hundred acres
of land, or such smaller quantity as the party chooses to include in
such settlement." This certificate was granted in right of a settle-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

ment which had been made by Watson, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and seventy-two. This evidence of right under Virginia, was subsequently transferred to the-land office of Pennsylvania, (the land having, under a compact between that state and Virginia, been ascertained to be within the limits of Pennsylvania) and
on the first of November, 1786, a survey of his claim was made and
returned to the land office of that state, and a patent issued thereon
by that state, in the year seventeen hundred and ninety-one, including the settlement made in 1772, and including the land in controversy. The defendants claim under Edward Hand, who, by virtue of two land warrants granted by Pennsylvania, one for three
hundred acres, dated 24th November, 1773, the other for the same
quantity, dated 27th November, 1773, caused surveys to be made on
both on the 21st January, 1778, and on the 9th of March, 1782, obtained patents on both surveys, embracing the land in controversy.
Both Pennsylvania and Virgidia having claimed the territory, of
which the land in controversy is a part, as being within their limits.
The dispute was finally adjusted by a compact made between them,
which was ratified by Virginia on the 23d of June, 1780, with certain conditions annexed; and absolutely by Pennsylvania, on the 23d
of September, 1780, with an acceptance of the conditions annexed
by Virginia.
The compact declares; "That the private property and rights of
all persons acquired under, founded on, or recognised by the laws of
either country, previous to the date hereof, shall be secured and confirmed to them, although they should be found to fall within the
other; and that in disputes thereon, preference shall be given to the
elder or prior right, whichever of the said states the same shall have
been acquired under; such persons paying to the said states, in
whose boundary the same shall be included, the same purchase or
consideration money, which would have been due from them to the
state under which they claimed the right."
The case was presented to the court in printed arguments, by Mr.
Forward and Mr. Fetterman for the plaintiff in error: and by Mr.
Ross for the defendants.
It was contended for the plaintiff that, in the construction given,
the district court had erred.
The rights of the parties to this cause will turn upon the constructioa that may be given to the compact for the settlement of

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v: Silk.]

boundaries, entered into between Virginia and' Pennsylvania, in the
year 1780, and finially ratified in 1784. Smith's edition of the laws
of Pennsylvania, 2d vol. 261. Sims' lessee v. Irvine, 3d Dall.
Rep. 426. "It *was a condition of the compact, that the private
property and rights of all persons acquiredunder, founded on,
or recognised by the lciws of either country previous to the date
hereof,be secured and confirmed to them, although they should be
found to fall within theother, and that in disputes thereon,preference shall be given to the elder or prior right, whichever of the
said states the same shall have been acquired under; such persons
paying to the states, within whose boundary their lands shall be included, the same purchase or consideration money, which would
have been due from them to the state under which they claimed the
right." Thomas Watson in 1772, entered with his family on a tract
of vacant land, of which the land in dispute is a part. He continued
to reside on and cultivate the tract until his death in 1806. He sold
from time to time parcels of this .land; and in the year 1790, transferred and conveyed part of the tract, including his mansion house
and improvements.
At the same time he removed to'the piece now In dispute, where
he built a house, commenced a new clearing, and resided until his
death. His heirs, and those claiming under them, continued the
possession until expelled by the sheriff under a writ of haberefacias
possessionem, issued in 1830,-pursuant to a judgment obtained in the
case of Brien et al. v. Elliot and others,' reported in 2 Penn.Reports,
page 49. Whether Watson entered on the lands originally as a Virginia settler, doesuot appear. But the land commissioners of that
state being in his neighbourhood, he appeared before them on the
25th of April, 1780, and caused his claim to be entered agreeably
to the requisitions of an act of assembly of Virginia, passed in May,
1779, Sec. 8. 10. Henning's Statutes at Large, p. 42, 43, 45, 46.
After the ratification of the compact in 1784, his Virginia entry was
transferred to the land office of Pennsylvania; and on the 1st of November, 1786, a survey of his claim was made, returned and accepted in thfe land office, and a patent issued in 1791. The amount
of purchase money paid by Watson to the state of Pennsylvania, was
the same that he would have paid tO the state of Virginia, had his
title been completed in that state. The defendant gave in evidence
three Virginia entries, dated in February, 1780. Upon these entries no surveys had ever been made, nor had the inceptive equity,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

which they are alleged to have conferred, been prosecuted in any
way by the owners or holders thereof. It was not shown that those
entries described or called for the land in dispute; nor did it appear
in evidence, that'the improvement, which by the law of Virginia
was made the basis of a Virginia entry, had ever been made. Having no legal foundation, and being moreover abandoned; the defendant's Virginia entries are regarded as mere nullities, and undeserving of farther notice. The defendants' title rests upon warrants
issued by the land office of Pennsylvania, on the 24th of November,
1773, surveyed in January, 1778, and patented the 9th of March,
1782; and the important question is this, whether," under the compact between Pehnsylvania and Virginia, his title is to be preferred
to that of Watso*n, which, although perfected by a patent from the
government of Pennsylvania, was, in its inceptive state, recognised
by the state of Virginia. It is admitted by the court below, that if
Watson had waved his Virginia entry, and prosecuted his earlier
settlement right under Pennsylvania, there could be no doubt of the
plaintiff's right to recover. "Watson had it in his power to obtain
a warrant from Pennsylvania, and to charge himself with interest
from the date of his settlement: if he had done so, his survey made
under such -warrant would have given him the preference; but
having his election, he chose to resort to a Virginia entry in 1780,
thereby asserting a different jurisdiction, &c."
A like concession is
found in the opinion of the chief justice of the supreme court of
Pennsylvania. "As an improver under Pennsylvania, Watson might
have appropriated the land in dispute, by a survey in a reasonable
time." This improvement was begun in the year 1760, [1772] "but
as a Pennsylvaniasettler he had no survey at all," 2 Penn. Rep. 60.
It is proper to remark here, that in Pennsylvania, a right founded
on a prior actual settlement which has not been abandoned, is just
as valid in law as a right vested by a prior warrant or patent.
"Title by settlement and improvement, is now as well established
as any species of title in Pennsylvania; and very often has been preferred to warrant, survey and patent."
Less. of Bonnet v. Dembaugh et al. 3 Binney Rep. 175. Nicholas v. Lafferty, 3 Yeates,
272. Lessee of Elliott v. Bonnet, 3 Yeates, 287.
It is not even necessary to the validity of a settlement right) so
long as the settler remains in actual possession, that his boundaries
be defined by an official survey; and if encroached upon or expelled from his possession, he may, recover in ejectment. Davis v.

SUPREME COURT.
[Mar]att v. Silk.]

Keeper, 4 Bin. 161, and Gilday v. Watson, 2 S. & R. 410. The
only difficulty is, that without a survey, the claim of the settler is so
indefinite, that an action cannot be supported by reason of the uncertainty of the land to be recovered: but in the first place, it cannot
be denied that the land on which a man has built a house, and that
also which has been cultivated and enclosed by him, may be ascertained with absolute certainty. Neither do we thifik it can be denied, that in the case now under consideration, the claim of the settler may be reduced to certainty, because it is bounded by the lines
of adjoining surveys. So likewise may a claim by a settlement be
precisely ascertained, when the settler has defined his Ifinits by an
unofficial survey marked on the ground, and made known to the
neighbourhodd: Chief J. Tilghman in Luck et al v. Duff, 6 Sergeant & Rawle, 19!. The holder of a later warrant is' not permitted
to encroach upon a prior settler, and cut off land adjacent to his improvement; under the pretext that there is surplus land, and that the
settler can fill his claim in another direction. Such encroachment
was held unlawful, although made in 1814, upon a settlement which
commenced in 1775, and upon which no legal survey had ever been
made: Blair v. M'Kee, 6 Sergeant & Rawle, 193: and the same
principle is recognised in Breck et al. v. Moon et al. 7 Sergeant &
Rawle, 330, 335.
These -cases show how settlenient rights have been appreciated
in Pennsylvania. They demonstrate not only that Watson, by
waving his Virginia entry, and obtaining a wprrant and patent
under Pennsylvania, might have held the lands against the pateitas of the defendants, but that by waving his Virginia entry, he
might have held it under his actual settlement alone. Had a controversy arisen in a Pennsylvania court, between Watson and Hand,
prior to the ratification of the compact in 1784, Watson's settlement
right would have been adjudged, without hesitation, to be valid; and
Hand's title would have been treated as a nullity. The fact, if true,
that Watson originally settled under what he supposea to be the
rightful jurisdiction of Virginia, or that he had acknowledged her
jurisdiction by appearing before her land commissioners, and procuring au entry of his land; would not have impaired, or in the least
affected the merits of his settlement, title: Pennrs31vania always favoured and encouraged actual settlements, and they were sanctioned
and held sacred, without any inquiry as to the opinion which the
settlers might have entertained upon the abstfuse and doubtful ques-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

7

[Marlatt v. Silk.]

tion of state jurisdiction. Had Pennsylvania receded from the contest, and yielded to Virginia without any.compact the territory
which included the land in dispute, Watson's title would have been
unquestionable. For although it.may be true, that before the passage of the Virginia act of May, 1779, the land in dispute might
have been entered and patented under that state by any person, notwithstanding a prior settlenient by another; and although the same
act of assembly of 1779 .may "apply only to controversies between
mere settlers;" yet the fourth section of that act enacts, "that all
persons who at any time before the first day of January, 1778, have
really and bona fide settled themselves andtheir families upon any
waste lands on the said western waters, to which no other person
hath any legal right, a claim shall be allowed for every family so
settled, of 400 acres of land:" and as Watson had really and bona
,fide settled himself with his family on the lands in dispute, in 1772;
was residing on it as a bonafide settler in January, 1778, and May,
1779, he was therefore entitled, as a settler, to the protection of the
act, until a superior title by settlement, warrant or patent, under
Virginia, should appear against him. No such superior title has
been shown to have existed in General Hand; and as against him,
Watson's title, in a Virginia court, would have been valid and undeniable. How then does it happen, that this title, which in the absence of the compact would have prevailed without difficulty in the
courts of either state, is under and by the compact rendered worthless? The reason assigned by the court below for this strange result
is, that Watson, instead of obtaining a warrant from Pennsylvania,
has lost his preference by resorting to his Virginia entry, and thereby asserting a different jurisdiction.
Had the compact been less careful in saving and preserving the
rights of property originating under the respective governments than
we find it to be; had the claimants under Virginia been thrown upon
the courtesy or compassion of Pennsylvania without a guaranty or
stipulation in their behalf; it might be very properly urged, that a
party who persisted in holding on to his bad title, because it was the
cheapest, should not have the benefit of a good one which he had
thereby repudiated. But the compact is not silent on the subject of
Virginia claimants. Their rights are anxiously guarded by clauses
which would seem to exclude the possibility of their being either
postponed or frittered away by any effort of construction. "The
private property and rights of all persons acquired under or recog-

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlattv Silk.]

nised by the- laws of either country, are saved and eo11firiucd tu
them, althoggh they should fall within.the other: and 1)reference
shall be given to the elder or prior right, whicliever of the said
states the same shall have been acquired under, such person paying
the same purchase money which would have been iuLe
to the state
under which they claimed the right."
The reasoning of the court
below is repugnant. not only to the sense and spirit of the a)bovC
provision in the compact, but is flatly opposed to its words. If
Watson could not, without disadvanlage or peril, obtain a patent
upon his settlement and Virginia entry, on paying the price originally due to Virginia; then the stipulation which pro)osed to set
forth the terms upon which all his rights should le saved, was a
mere decoy or trap. The injustice of this exposition is not limited
to settlers under Virginia; it would be equally fital to the claim
founded upon warrants and surveys under that state. The rights to
perfect such title by a patent from Pennsylvania, on payment of the
Virginiaprice of the land, if not already paid; rests upon a footing
neither brader nor more safe, than that of the settler with a Virginia entry.
The rights of both are secured by the same words; and if the nonpayment of the Pennsylvania price of the land, with interest from
the origin of the title, is a fatal delinquency in the one case, it must
be equally so in the other; and the consequence must necessarily
be, that the holder of a Virginia title, of any description, which has
been completed by a patent from Pennsylvania,on paying the same
purchase or consideration money, which would have been due from
him to Virginia, must falil
in a conflict with a Pennsylvania title; although the Pennsylvania title be not the elder or prior right. These
consideration-s show that the construction given 1o the compact, by
the court below, is hostile to its terms; and would be, if carried out
in practice, disreputable to Pennsylvania. The titles of Watson and
Hand constituted one of the subjects of controvers,, in the ease of
Brien and Wife v. Elliot and others, reported in 2(1 Penn. Rep.
49. In that case the court was equally divided: and the opinion
which appears in the printed report would not, aside of its intrinsic merits, be entitled to any weight in an inferior court of the
state in which it.was pronounced: much less will it be regarded here
as conveying the views of the supreme court of Pennsylvania upon
the question under on:sideration, as under the law of Pennsylvania
onq verdict and judgment are not conclusive: and it is p)erlipls (Ie

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

to the learned Chief Justice to remark, in conclusion," that his opinion
may have been influenced by an unfortunate misconception of the
facts of the case. He supposed the title of Hand to have originated
in a location bearing date the 3d April, 1769, three years before the
settlement of Watson. But the commencement of- Hand's title was
the warrant of 1773 above referred to. No location was given in evidence by either party applicable to this land. But even if it were
so regarded, the construction given by that court, to the compact
with Virginia, although regarded with all proper deference, would
not be adopted by this court as a matter of course. The possibility
if not the certainty of a different and opposite construction, prevailing in the courts of Virginia, makes it both proper and necessary,
that the true meaning of the compact shoull be sought for and declared by this court, unfettered by the opinions of. others. It is
found in its terms, to recognise and save every description of right.
The high contracting parties designed that the benefits secured by it
to the claimants under both governments, should be equal and reci.procal; and that their titles should have, respectively, all the advantage and efficacy, that could be derived under the laws of either.

This is so plain as never to have been questioned or doubted, in any
cage arising under the compact. In the case of Brien et al. v. Elliot,
2 Penn. R. 60, 61, it is premised as the basis of the argument of Chief

Justice Gibson, an argument which conducted him to a conclusion directly opposite to the premises from "which it-was drawn. His language is as follows: "Whatever may have been the case originally,
the titles of both 'states' were, as regards the question of priority
put by the compact, exactly on a footing, and are by a fair construction to be treated as if they had always been so. Unless they were

considered to have-been in relation to each other, valid coexistent
rights from the beginning, as far as regards jurisdiction, how could
there be any comparison as to dates ?"
The very basis of the compact is an admission that the jurisdiction shall be taken to have been in common, and that claimants under the one state shall be entitled to the same protection against
claimants under.the other, " that they wouid be entitled to between
Upon this construction of the comp'act, it would seem
themselves."
follow,.that Watson in a contest with Hand, wic
to
necessarily
claimed under Pennsylvania warrants, would be entitled to all the
advanthges of a Pennsylvania settler, and must of course prevail.
But this natural inference was rejected by the learned Chief Justice;

VOL. XI.--B

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

and instead of allowing to Watson's improvement the merit to
which, under his own -proposition it was entitled, he treats it as a
nrere Virginia settlement, giving no colour of title till 1779; and
then, by transmuting Hand's Pennsylvania warrants, into Virginia
warrants, he discovers that they are the "elder or prior title."
With all possible respect for the learned Chief Justice, we must be
allowed to say, that in this instance, the use made of his own construction of the compact is most inapt and injurious. It is not true
that as against Pennsylvania warrants, Watson had no colour of title
prior to 1779; as against those warrants, his title under the laws of
Virginia, was valid from the date of his settlement. But the learned
judge supposed that by the compact, Hand's Pennsylvania warrants
,were converted into Virginia warrants; and that the rule applied in
the case of Jones v. Williams, 1 Wash. Rep. 231, which was a conflict between Virginia claimants, unaffected by the compact, was decisive of the present case. We contend, however, that if under the
compact a Pennsylvania warrant is clothed with ihe merit and efficacy of a Virginia warrant, a Virginia settlement is also invested
with all the attributes and advantages of a Pennsylvaniasettlement.
This is not only the clear import of the compact, but it is adopted by
the learned Chief Justice himself; and it is only by denying to his
own rule, the reciprocity secured by the compact, and dictated by
every principle of reason and equity, that Watson's title can be rendered doubtful.
The learned Chief Justice says, that Virginia "having recognised
the grants of another stat e as being equally valid as her own, it is
fair to say she recognised them as being attended with all the incidents of her own, against which, it appears by her own court, the
doctrine of priority by relation never prevailed." This reasoning
of the learned Chief Justice may be very pertinent and true, but if
it be so, then it mtis follow; that Pennsylvania also having recognised the rights of all persons acquired finder, founded on, or recognised by the laws of Virginia, as being equally valid as her own;
it is fair to say,. she recognised them as being attended with all the
incidents of her own: consequently, that Watson's settlement is, in
the compact, recognised by her, as equally valid as a Pennsylvania
settlement. This is plain reasoningiand a fair exposition of the
compact. The error of the learned judge is in applying it to the
claims originating under Pennsylvania, while he denies its application to claims origiiating under Virginia.

Ji-NUARY TERM, 1837.

11

[Marlatt v. Silk.]

Keeping in view the application of the compact, as made by the
learned judge, to the case of a Pennsylvania warrant in conflict with
a Virginia settlement, it may be inquired, What would be the fate
of a Virginia warrant dated in 1773, in conflict with a Pennsylvania
settlement originating in 1772? The reasoning, of the learned judge
requires the postponement of the Virgipia title in this case also; and
thus, while a Pennsylvania warrant is made to prevail against a prior
Virginia settlement, a Pennsylvania settlement will prevail against a
Virginia warrant. Further, it has been shown that such settlement
is by the laws of Pennsylvania a perfectly valid title from its commencement, and cannot be over-reached or affected by a later warrant and survey and patent. Such being the case, the argument of
the learned judge would give to a settler under Pennsylvania, who
may have entered in that character upon Watson's tract in 1778, an
older and better title than Watson's; and had such settler been removed by an action of ejectment at the suit of Watson before the
compact, he (like a Pennsylvania warrantee or patentee, removed in
the same manner) might, after the compact, have re-entered upon
Watson and turned him out by action of ejeetment Proving
thereby, that the law and the rights of the parties were one way before the compact, and another way after the compact. The learned
Chief Justice appears to have foreseen this result of his reasoning,
and he has accordingly provided for it by asserting (2 Penn. R.
61) thaL "the power of the two states to regulate questions of title to
the soil even at the expense of rights previously vested under either,
is not now to be questioned The compact is necessarily founded
on an assumption of it. Here was no constitutional limitation on
either side, and the parties acting in the capacity of sovereignsy were
fettered by no rule but their sense of expediency and'justice. The
consideration was the compromise of an international dispute; and
the individuals whose titles were jeoparded, had no right to call on
the state under which they held, to assert their rights to the soil."
This is a aling very plainly with the compact, and with titles claiming its protection. The fact that Watson had a vested right prior
to the date of the compact,,which might have been maintained under
either government against the warrants and surveys of Hand, has
been 'clearly demonstrated; and the fact, that by the judgment of
the supreme court of Pennsylvania, the compact which expressly
guarantied his right, has been made.the instrument of its destruction,
is equally certain. A latent intention which the compact expressly

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

repels by the declaration of a contrary intention, is finally imputed
to it: and as Virginia had the pQwer of annihilating the vested rights
of claimants to whom her faith was pledged, it is insinuated that
she has actually .done it. If such be not the meaning of the learned
judge, then his language is inapplicable and out of place. We insist
that this implied imputation upon the faith and honour of Virginia,
rests on nothing better than mere assumption; that it is disclaimed by
her in express terms, and repudiated by the confirming act of Pennsylvania, cited by the learned judge, in support of his opinion referred to. "Although the conditions annexed by the legislature of
Virginia to the ratification of the boundary line agreed to by the
commissioners of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Maryland, may seem
to countenance-some unixarrantable claim which may be made under
Virginia in consequence of pretended purchases or settlements pending the controversy; yet this state does agree to the condition proposed by the state of Virginia," &c. 3d Dallas' Reports, 426, Sims'
lessee v. Irvine. Such was the understanding of the legislature of
Pennsylvania; and like every other document emanating from the
government of either state, respecting their controversy about limits,
their desire to save and protect every description of private right, is
a fact beyond cavil; and when it is recollected that neither state proposed to compromise or touch any rights of soil previously vested in
individuals; that the controversy was carefully restricted to the adjustment of boundaries, and-that it terminated in an explicit, recorded disclaimer of any purpose ta unsettle or jeoparid pyivate rights;
a construction of the compact which displaces a pre-existing valid
title, by one that is pfoved-to have been comparatively worthless, is
a violation of its terms, and a palpable breach of the public faith.
The learned Chief Justice remarks, 2 Penn. R. 62, that the confirming
act of Pennsylvania was doubtless an agreement to close with Virginia on her own terms, and to encounter the danger of fraud and
imposition of surreptitious titles which these terms rendered more
imminent; not to waive all scrutiny and submit to fraud and imposition when it might be detected.
If, by this language, a suggestion is intended to be conveyed, that
WcVatson's title is liable to the imputation of fraud, or that the case
b~for6 the supreme court of Pennsylvania involved any question
as to his Virginia entry hnving been fraudulently obtained; then the
case was totally misconceived by the learned Chief Justice. For it
was neither proved nor pretended that Watson's title was surrepti-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

13

[Marlatt v. Silk.]

tious or fraudulent If the learned Chief Justice intended to express
a truism which no one ever disputed, and to take the risk of its
being adopted by others, as a proper and the only basis of his conclusion; then his language was inapplicable to the case.
The cases of Smith v. Brown, 1Yeates, 516, and Hyde's less. v.Torrence, 2 Yeates, 445, referred to by the learned Chief Justice, afford
no countenance whatever to his opinion. In the case of Smith v.
Brown, the plaintiff claimed under Pennsylvania, by a title origina.ting in an actual settlement which commenced in 1769. The defendant claimed under a Virginia entry, ieciting a settlement commenced in 1770, but which was not proved on the trial. It was decided, that the recital of the settlement in the Virginia entry, was
not conclusive as against the Pennsylvania claimant. In that case,
the general rule of the compact is affirmed, viz: that there can be
no reason for making a distinction between settlers under Virginia and Pennsylvania, 1 Yeates, 517. In the case of Hyde's
lessee v. Torrence, 2 Yeates, 440, 442, the court reiterated the principle decided in the case of Smith v. Brown. In both cases, however, the question whether prior settlements. had been made under
Virginia, was regarded by t4e counsel and court as material, if not
vital: and in this respect they are authorities in favour of Watson's
title.
Mr. Ross, for the defendants, argued.
A preliminary question arises, whether the decision of the supreme court of Pennsylvania, in this very controversy, must not be
deemed conclusive. An attempt may be made to break its force by
asserting that the judges were divided on the point now brought up.
Where is the evidence of such division? A great number of pointssome of them of little importance-were discussed on that occasion;
and a difference of opinion, upon any one of them, would lead, to the
brief memorandum of dissent made hby the reporter. But, asid6
from this consideration, is it not enough that in the state courts of
Pennsylvania, this controversy, relating to a tract of land within
her boundaries, would be considered as closed? In 12 Wheaton,
107, Mr. Justice Thompson, delivering the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the United States, says, "This court adopts the state decisions, because they settle the law applicable to the case; and the reasons assigned for this course apply as well to rules of construction
growing out of the common law as the statute law of the state, when

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

applied to the title of lands. And such a course is indispensable in
order to preserve uniformity; otherwise the peculiar constitution of
the judicial tribunals of the states *ofthe United States would be productive of the greatest mischief and confusion." The civil jurisdiction of the federal tribunals was conferred, in order to secure to the
foreigner, or to the citizen of another state, an impartial hearing; and
the institution is perverted when litigation may there be renewed,
long after it had been put an end to, as between citizens of the state
whose soil is the subject of controversy.
Supposing, however, the opinion of the supreme court of Pennsylvania to be open to criticism and reversal, can it be successfully
assailed?
Previous to the act passed by the legislature of Virginia in
1779, a title to waste lands in that state, could not be acquired by
improvement.
"Before that time, those lands might have, been entered and patented, notwithstanding prior settlements by others; and even this
act, which considers settlers entitled to some compensation for the
risk they had run, allows them a preference only to such settlements
as at that time were waste and unappropriated. As to priority of
settlement, it might still remain a question between persons, both of
whom claim under the same sort of title; but the law of 1779 does
not set up rights of this sort so as to defeat those legally acquired
under warrants: it applies to controversies between mere settlers."
Such are the words of the president of her court of appeals, in delivering its opinion in Jones v. Williams, 1 Wash. Rep. 231. It is
said, however, that this is predicated of prior appropriations under
grants by Virginia, and not those of Pennsylvania, which were disregarded before the period of the compact. Be it so. But whatever may have been the case originally, the titles under both were, "as
regards the question 6f priority, put by the compact exactly on a
footing; and are by fair construction of it, to be treated as if they,
had always been so. Unless they were considered to have been, in
relation to each other, valid, co-ekistent rights from the beginning,
as far as regards jurisdiction, how could there be any comparison as
to dates? The very basis of the compact is an admission that the
jurisdiction shall be taken to have been in common; and that claimants under the one state, shall be entitled to the same protection
against claimants under the other, that they would be entitled to between themselves. If then the plaintiff's title under Pennsylvania

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

was perfected before Watson had even colour of fitle by the laws of
Virginia, will an expost facto law, which it is conceded would noi
give him his title by relation against a prior grantee of Virginia, be
more efficient against a grantee of Pennsylvania? It is an unfair
construction to say, that a Virginia title shall be judged of as it
happened to' stand by the. laws of that state at the time of the compact. If the actual origin of a title under either state be the earlier,
it is not to be over-reached by a law of the other, assigning to the
opposing title a fictitious origin by the doctrine of relation. Granting Virginia might lawfully declare that an unauthorized impro rement should be taken to have vested title fiom its inception, against
herself,yet having recognised the grants of another state as being
equally valid as her own; it is fair to say she recognised them as
being attended with all the incidents of her own, against which, it
appears by the judgment of her own court, the doctrine of priority
by relation never prevailed. Neither is the power of the two states
to regulate questions of title to the soil, even at the expense of rights
previously vested under either, now to be questioned. The compact
is necessarily founded in an assumption of it. There was no constitutional limitation on either side; and the partl.- acting in the capacity of sovereigns, were fettered by no rule but their sense of expediency and justice. The consideration was the compromise of an
international dispute; and the individuals whose titles were jeoparded, had no right to.call on the state from which they held, to assert.
their rights to the soil.
In the act of ratification by Pennsylvania, it was resolved, "That
although the conditions annexed by the legislature of Virginia to
the ratification of the boundary line agreed to by the commissioners
of Pennsylvapia and Virginia, on the 31st of August, 1779, may
tend to couNTENANCE some unwarrantable claims which may be
made under the state of Virginia, in consequence of pretended purchases or settlements pending the controversy, yet this state, (Pennsylvania,) determining to give to the world the most unequivocal
proof of its desire to promote peace and harmony with a sister state,
so necessary in this great contest with the common enemy, does
agree to the conditions proposed by the state of Virginia in its resolves of the 31st of June last." And this was at one time supposed
to be a waiver of objection to any Virginia title that should be certified. It was doubtless an agreement to close with Virginia on her
own terms, and to encounter the danger of fraud and imposition of

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v Silk.]

surreptitious titles which those terms rendered more imminent; not
'to waive all scrutiny and submit to fraud and imposition where it
might be detected. Such a construction would, in all cases, have
made the certificate conclusive evidence of the facts stated in it;
vvhich it was held in Smith v. Brown, 1 Yeates, 516, and the Lessee
of Hyde v. Torrence, 2 Yeates, 445, not to be. In the latter it was
declared that a Pennsylvania claimant may show fraud, mistake or
trust; or that the Virginia claimant was not in the country before
the 1st of January, 1778-the point of time limited for the commencement of his settlement.
The following is a true history of the whole controversy:
1779, August 31. Compact between Virginia and Pennsylvania
entered into.
1780, June 23. Ratified by Virginia with conditiens annexed.
1780, September 23. Ratified by Pennsylvania, absolutely; with
-acceptance of the annexed condition.
The compact was closed, and took effect on the 23d of September,
1780.
Both titles were then conclusively settled.-The states might compensate losers; but could not alter the right.
At that epoch the title of Gen. Hand stood thus:
Warrant in name of Edward Hand for three hundred acres, dated
the 24th of November, 1773i surveyed the 21st of January, 1778,
three hundred and eighty-nine acres. Warrant in the name of John
Elder for three hundred acres, dated the 27th of November, 1773,
surveyed the 21st of January, 1778, three hundred and seventy-one
acres. Three Virginia certificates for four hundred acres each, in
right of these settlements, made. in 1770. All regularly entered
with the Virginia surveyor, and transcribed in his entry book.
The title of all his lands in that disputed region was effectually
protected against both states. When the compact was finally closed,
Gen. Hand, on the faith of it, had all his surveys returned into the
land office and accepted. The purchase-money and surveying and
office fees paid, exceeding (on the two tracts) 260 dollars; and on the
99th of March, 1782, patents issued on both surveys, and actual possession of both tracts by his tenants occupying the land.
At this period of time there was no caveat by Watson, or any
other person; there was no dispute, no complaint.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

17

[Marlatt v. Silk.]

Thomas Watson, in 1780, April 25, obtained a Virginia certificate,
for four hundred acres, in right of his settlement made in the year
1772. His cabin and improvement were distant half a mile from the
nearest part of any of Hand's surveys. No lines run or marked.
No request made after the compact, to the surveyor in Pennsylvania
to inclose his claim until.the 1st of November, 1786, when he caused
a survey to be made and returned to the land office. But it was here
found to interfere with the patented surveys of other persons, and
returned to him to be corrected; on 'the 17th of March, 1791, he
presented the corrected re-survey, and obtained a patent for two
hundred and seventy-three acres, "corrected and altered agreeably
to a request of the surveyor-general." [Hand's patent was dated the
9th of March, 1782. That such proceeding in Pennsylvania was
illegal and void, see 13 S. & R. 23.] On this false suggestion he obtained his patent which is now the basis of the plaintiff's title. He
then sold all the survey outside of Hand's land, and removed from
his house and improvement, and took possession of the cabin and
land now in dispute.
Soon afterwards West Elliot set up a claim to these forty-seven
acres, and gave notice that he would prosecute a suit'against Watson
unless he would give up the land to him.
In the autumn of 1794, Gen. Rand came with the army to Pittsburg, and went out to visit his lands. Soon after his return to town,
he and Watson came to the house of Gen. Gibson, where they stated
that Hdild had agreed to protect Watson against Elliot, and let him
hbld the forty-seven acres, for his lifetime, he (Watson) paying
yearly a bushel of Indian corn; and desired Gibson to defend him,
and get counsel for him when necessary. To. this Watson agreed,.
and several times afterwards called on Gibson to explain, the threats
used by Elliot, but Gibson encouraged him to persevere and hold on.
He did contihue on the land during his life. Nor is it known that
he at any time expressed any dissatisfaction at this arrangement.
After his death speculators purchased the supposed rights of his
children, and employed counsel to bring and prosecute suits to recover these forty-seven acres, which are now the subject of controversy.
Gen. Hand's titles under Pennsylvania and Virginia are clearly
the eldest, and under the compact must prevail.
It is an unalterable regulation, founded in equity, to preserve the
honour and good faith of both states as far as possible; each had
VOL. XI.-C

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

-

made grants for the same lands; let the good old rule prevail "prior
in tempore, potior est in jUre." Watson was culpably negligent;
he never indicated his claim or boundary until he made an erroneous
survey, the 1st of November, 1786, four years after Hand's patents
had been issued; five years afterwards he sends an amended survey
to the office, falsely pretending he had corrected his errors and
thrown out the interfering patented lands. This trick would, of itself, postpone and preclude him, and all claiming under him, forever,
from sustaining any suit in a court of justice Besides this, he surrendered to Gen. Hand all his claim to the piemises, for a life estate
which he enjoyed and with which he was satisfied as long as he lived;
and the plaintiffs, for a trifle, have brought'up the claim that he had"
ceased to assert and was too honest to revive.
Hand's lands were patented the 9th of March, 1782; 'Watson's
the 17th of March, 1791, nine years afterwards. 'Watson's assignees being now plaintiffs, and holding under the junior grant;
cannot maintain an ejectment, or recover in a court of the United
States against the eldest patent.
More especially must Watson's patent fail, when a solemn compact has established the relative efficacy of each, and expressly stipulated that all conflicting titles in the disputed territory shall, lyithout
exception, be governed by this rule.
A survey breaking into and including patented land, is void; was
always illegal and inoperative in Pennsylvania. 13 Sergeant and
Rawle, 23.
Upon the whole, therefore, of this record, the defendants in error
ubimit with great confidence that the judgment of the district court
of the United States will be affirmed with costs.
Mr. Justice BAR]ouR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the district court of the United States,
for the western district of Pennsylvania, in an action of ejectment,
in which the plaintiff in error was plaintiff in the court below; and
in which judgment was given for the defendant in that court. "It
comes up upon two bills of exception, taken by the plaintiff in error
to the opinion of the court, at the trial: the one, in Telation to the
admission of certain evidence which he alleges to have been improperly received; the other, to the ruling of the court, upon several
points of law, in its charge to the jury.
We think it unnecessary to discuss any of these points but one,

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

which we consider decisive of the case. And that is the relative
priority of the respective rights under which the parties claim.
The facts of the case are these. Thomas Watson, under whom
the plaintiff in error claims, on the 25th of April, 1780, obtained
from certain commissioners of Virginia, a certificate entitling him to
four hundred acres of land, by virtue of an act of the assembly of
Virginia, passed in May, 1779; the fourth section of which, after reciting that great numbers of people have settled in the country, upon
the western waters, upon waste and unappropriated lands, for which
they have been hitherto prevented from suing out patents, or obtaining legal titles,,&c., enacts, "That all persons, who, at any time
before the first day of Januar,, in the year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight, have really and bona fide settled themselves,
or their families, or at his, her, or their charges have settled others,
upon any waste, or unappropriated lands, on the said western waters,
to which no other person hath any legal right or claim, shall be allowed, for every family so settled, four hundred acres of land, or such
smaller quantity as the party chooses to include such settlement."
This certificate was granted in right of a settlement which had been
made by Watson, in the year 1772. His evidence of right under
Virginia was subsequently transferred to the land office of Pennsylvania, (the land having, undcr a compact between that state and Virginia, hereafter more particularly noticed, been ascertained to be
within the limits of Pennsylvania;) and on the 1st of November,
1786, a survey of his claim was made and returned to the land office
of the latter state, and a patent issued thereon by that state in the
year 1791, including his settlement made in 1772, and including the
land in controversy.
The defendants claim under Edward Hand, who, by virtue of two
land warrants, granted by Pennsylvania, the one for three hundred
acres, dated the 24th of November, 1773, the other for the same
quantity, dated the 27tb of November, 1773; caused surveys to be
made on both on the 21st of January, 1778; and on the 9th of March,
1782, obtained patents on both surveys, embracing the land in controversy.
Both Pennsylvania and Virginia-having'claimed the territory, of
which the land in controversy is a part, as being within their limits;
the dispute was finally adjusted by a compact made between them,
which was ratified by Virginia on the 23d of June, 1780, with certain conditions annexed; and absolutely by Pennsylvania, on the 23d

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt . Silk.]

of September, 1780, with an acceptance of the conditions annexed by
Virginia.
That compact, inter alia, contains the following stipulation: "That
the private property and rights of all persons, acquired under,
founded on, or recognised by the laws of either country, previous
to the date hereof, be secured and confirmed to them, although they
should be found to fall within the other, and that in disputes thereon,
preference shall be given to the elder, or prior right, whichever of
the said states the same shall have been acquired under; such persons paying to the states, in whose boundary their land shall be ineluded, the same purchase, or consideration-money, which would
haie been due from them to the state under which they claimed
the right."
The rights of the parties must be decided by the true construction
of this stipulation, as applied to the foregoing facts of the case. What
is that construction? In the first place it is declared, that the property and rights of all persons, acquired under, founded on, or recognised by the laws of either country, previous to the date of the
compact, (that is, the year 1780) shall be secured and confirmed to
them. The-act of Virginia of May, 1779, before cited, is in point
of chronology previous to the date of the compact. Is notthe settlement of Watson, made in 1772, recognised by that act? It is in
explicit terms, because the act makes an allowance of four hundred
acres of land to all those who shall have bona fide made a settlement
on waste and unappropriated land, before the first of January, 1778;
and it has been seen that Watson's settlement was made in 1772.
What was the motive which induced the legislature of Virginia fo
make this allowance? We find it declared in the preamble to the
fourth section of the act of May, 1779: it was, that persons who
had made settlements, had been prevented from suing out patents, or
obtaining legal titles, by the king of Great Britain's proclamations,
or instructions to his governors, or by the then late change of government, and the then present war having delayed, until that time,
the opening of a land office, and "the establishment of any certain
terms for granting lands. And what was the consideration, we do
not mean pecuniary, but valuable, on which the allowance was
founded? The same preamble informs us, that it consisted in the
justice of making some compensation for the charge and risque
which the settlers had incurred in making their settlements.
It is apparent, then, that the legislature did not pass the law in

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt. v. Silk.]

question as making a donation, but as allowing a reasonable compensation, for something of value, on the part of settlers; not of
money indeed, paid into the coflbrs of the state, but of charge and
risque incurred by the settlers. We. think, then, that the allowance
thus made, is, in the language of the compact, a right recognised by
the law of Virginia previous to the date of that compact. Considering
it as thus recognised, and consequently as secured and confirmed, we
come now, in the order of the argument, to the other part of the
stipulation aforesaid; which declares, that in disputes thereon, preference shall be given to the elder or prior right, whichever of the said
states the same shall have been acquired under.
How is this question of priority to be decided? In answering
this question, we think, that the first thing to be done is to ascertain
the character of the rights of the parties, as settled by the laws of
the states, under which they respectively claim, as these laws stood
at the date of the conmact. In this aspect of the subject, it has
been seen that the defendants claim under warrants granted by
Pennsylvania in 1773, and surveyed in 1778. But the act of Virginia of 1779, having allowed 400 dcies of land to those who had
made a settlement before the first of January, 1778, and having
founded that allowance on the charge and risque which they had incurred; in our judgment, the equitable claim, or the inchoate right
of the parties, must consequently be referred, for its commencement,
to the period when the charge and risque were incurred-that is, in
the case at bar, to the year 1772. If, as- we think, this principle be
correct, this mere comparison of dates would decide-the case. It has,
however, been argued, that if this case were in a Virginia court, it
would be decided in favour of the right under which the defendants
claim, because that is by warrant, before the act of 1779; and in support of this, the court has been referred to the case of Jones v. Williams, 1 Washington, 230, in which the-court of appeals of that state
says, that before the act of 1779, those lands (that is, lands on which
settlements had been made) might have been entered and patented
by any person, notwithstanding prior settlements by others. That
the act of 1779 applies to controversies between mere settlers. That
it does not set up prior rights of this sort, so as to defeat those legally acquired under warrants.
The error of this argument, as we conceive, consists in this; that
the doctrine here stated, however true in itself, does not apply to the
case at bar. That was laid down, in a case, between two persons,

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

both of whom claimed under Virginia, and was therefore governed
by the laws of Virginia, alone; whereas in this case, one of the parties claims under Pennsylvania, and the other, under Virginia; and
- the case is to be decided, not by the laws of either state, by themselves: except that as before remarked, the character of each right is
to be fixed by the laws of the state, as at the time of the compact
.under whichthe right is claimed; and then the comparison between
the two is to be made, not under the laws of either state, but under
the stipulation in the compact before referred to. Thus to illustrate,
the origin of the plaintiff's claim; being, in our opinion, as operated
upon by the act of Virginia of 1779, to be referred to the period of
Watson's settlement in 1772; and that of the defendants, as affected
by the laws of Pennsylvania, being of later date; the foundation being thus laid for deciding which is the prior or older title; we then
apply to the case the compact, which declares, that the preference
shall be given, to the prior or elder.
We suppose that it will scarcely be denied, that by the act of 1779;
Virginia recognised-the inception of the title of settlers, as being of
the date of the settlement as against herself; if so, can it be imagined, that by the compact, she intended their title to take its date
from a later period? If it should be said, that so also Pennsylvania
cannot be supposed to have intended to impair the force of the ttles
claimed under her; the answer, that each state intended that its own
laws should settle the character nf the right claimed under it $ as to
the time of its inception, and in every other respect; and then, that
according to the inception thus fixed, the rule of priority should
decide, as provided for in the compact.
-It was arg.eo, that the question had been settled in the supreme
court of Pennsylvania; and the doctrine stated in 12 Wheat. 167, was
referred to, where it is said-That this court adopts the state decisions, because they settle the law applicable to the case; and
the reasons assigned for this .course, apply as well to rules of construction growing out of the common law, as the statute law of the
state, when applied to the title of lands. To say nothing of the division of the court, in the case referred to, it is a decisive answer to
this argument, to say-That the principle does not at all apply. It
was laid down in reference to cases arising underi and to be decided
by the laws of a state; and then the decisions of that state are looked
to, to ascertain what that law is; whereas in the case at bar, the questibn arises under, and is to be decided by, a compact between two

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

states: where therefore the rule of decision is not to be collected
from the decisions of either state, but is one, if we may so speak, of
an international character. Upon the whole, we are of opinion,
that the judgment of the court below was erroneous in charging the
jury, that the title of the defendants was the elder and prior right,
and was therefore protected by the compact; on the contrary, we
think that of the plaintiff was the elder and prior: the judgment
must therefore be reversed, and a venire facias de novo awarded.
Mr. Chief Justice TAImEy and Mr. Justice M'LEAN, dissented.

Mr. Justice M'LEAN.
The Chief Justice and Justice MI'LEAN think that the condition of
the compact, "that the private property and rights of all persons acquired under, founded on, or recognised by the laws of either-country previous to the date hereof, be secured and confirmed to them,
although they should be found to fall within the other; and that in
disputes tbereon, preference shall be given to the elder or prior right,
whichever of the said states the same shall b acquired under,"
placed the land in controversy under the common jurisdiction of both
states; and that the first appropriation of the land, under the authority of either state must be considered, under the compact, as the

prior right.
The Pennsylvania warrant which was located on this land, was
surveyed on the 21st of January, 1778. At this time the Virginia
claimant, though he lived on the land, had no colour of right. He
was in fact a trespasser.
The Virginia act of 1779 provided, "1that all persons, who,at any
time before.the Ist of January, 1778, had bona fide settled upon
waste or unappropriated lands, on the western 'waters, to which no
other person hath any legal right or claim, shall be allowed four
hundred acres," &c.
Now, if the land in controversy was subject to the jurisdiction of
both states, and might be appropriated by either, was it not appropriated under the Pennsylvania warrant, before the Virginia claimant
had any right under tho act of 1779? This is too clear to be controverted. In the language of the compact, then, had not the Pennsylvania claimant "the prior right?"
The act of 1779 does not purport to vest any title in the settler

SUPREME COURT.
[Marlatt v. Silk.]

anterior to its passage. The settler, to bring himself within the act,
must, show that he was a bona fide settler before the 1st of January,
1778; and this entitled him to four hundred acres of land under the
act, provided;- no other person had ay legal right or claim
to it."
At this time the land, as has been shown, was appropriated under
the Pennsylvania law, and which appropriation, if effect be given to
"the prior right," under the compact, does constitute within the
meaning of the act of 1779, a "right or claim to the land."
. In 1 Wash. Rep. 231, the court of appeals of Virginia says, that
the law of 1779 does not "set up rights so as to defeat those legally
acquired under warrants."
This land, by the compact, was considered as liable to be appropriated by a Pennsylvania as by a Virginia warrant, before the act of
1779; and in ascertaining the priority of right the time of the appropriation is the fact to be established.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the diitrict court of the United States for the western district
(if Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
.*hereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that the
Judgment of the said district court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court, with directions to award a venire
facias de novo.

