OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

quired in § 5, by giving notice and appointing an appraiser to obtain a valuation of, and payment for their
shares of stock, they thereby ceased to be shareholders
beyond the original twenty-year term of the life of the corporation, and they could neither share its profits, nor be
compelled to bear its burdens.
The views here expressed require the affirmance of the
judgments in both cases.

Affirmed.

APPLEBY v. CITY OF BUFFALO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW

YORK.
No. 162.

Argued April 26, 27, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The right of this court to review the judgment of the highest court of a
State is specifically limited by § 709, Rev. Stat., and, in cases such as
this, depends on an alleged denial of a Federal right which the record
shows was specially set up and claimed in, and denied by, the state
court or that such was the necessary effect of the judgment.
Assignments of error made for the purpose of bringing the case to this
court cannot originate the right of review here.
An exception in the state court that the judgment deprives plaintiff
in error of his property without due process of law in violation of the
Constitution of the United States only affords ground for an inquiry
whether the proceedings themselves show a want of due process.
The Fourteenth Amendment forbids a State from taking private property for public use without compensation, C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v.
Chtcago, 166 U. S. 226, but where the State provides adequate machinery for ascertaining compensation on notice and hearing which
were availed of and there was no ruling by the state court which prevented compensation for property actually taken, there is no lack
of due process because of the amount awarded, even if only nominal.
Judgment entered on authority of 189 N. Y. 163, affirmed.

APPLEBY v. BUFFALO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an award for
property taken in condemnation proceedings, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. 0. 0. Cottle and Mr. Edmund P. Cottle for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Clark H. Hammond for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case originated in a proceeding begun by the city
of Buffalo to appropriate the lands of the plaintiff in
error under the waters of the Buffalo River between the
Buffalo Creek Indian Reservation line, at or near the
crossing of Hamburg street, and the easterly city line of
the city of Buffalo. These lands are said to lie under the
waters for about seven miles in the circuitous winding of
the river, and to embrace about one hundred and fortyone acres.
Application was made to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, at Buffalo, for the appointment of
commissioners to ascertain the compensation to be made
the owner for the lands described. The plaintiff in error
appeared, and three commissioners were appointed to
ascertain the just compensation to be awarded to the
owner. The commissioners were duly sworn, viewed the
premises, and heard a considerable amount of testimony,
both for the city and the plaintiff in error, and made a
report awarding compensation for the lands taken in the
sum of six cents. The plaintiff in error excepted to the
award, but the same was confirmed in the Supreme
Court of New York. Plaintiff in error moved to set aside
the order confirming the report, which was done, and
thereupon a new order of confirmation was entered setting
out the proceedings in greater detail.
From the order of the Supreme Court confirming the

OCTOBER TERM, 19iu.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

report of the commissioners appeal was -taken, by the
plaintiff in error, to the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court of New York, and that court held that the only
question presented by the appeal was the adequacy of
the award, and reached the conclusion that the evidence
showed conclusively that the property was valuable; that
while the exact value was difficult to determine, the evidence established that it was more than nominal. 116 App.
Div. 555.
The Appellate Division reversed the order of the Supreme Court, and adjudged that new commissioners
should be appointed, at Special Term, to determine the
compensation to be paid the owners of the premises in
question.
The Appellate Division granted leave to the city to appeal to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, and
certified to that court four questions for review, as follows:
. "1. Is Charles E. Appleby, as surviving trustee of the
Ogden Land Company, under the facts in this proceeding,
entitled to an award of more than six cents damages, on
the City of Buffalo acquiring the fee to the lands under
the waters of the Buffalo River in eminent domain proceedings, taken pursuant to its revised city charter, for
the purposes of a public highway?
"2. Were the appraisal commissioners authorized and
empowered, under the facts in this proceeding, to fix the
actual damages of Charles E. Appleby, as surviving trustee of the Ogden Land Company, on the city of Buffalo
acquiring the fee to the lands under the waters of the
Buffalo River, at six cents, and to award said sum as and
for the just compensation to be made to the said Charles
E. Appleby, as surviving trustee of the Ogden Land Company?
"3. Does the City of Buffalo in this proceeding show a
necessity for acquiring the fee of said lands?

APPLEBY v. BUFFALO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"4. Did any of the exceptions call for a reversal of
the order confirming the appraisal commissioner's report?"
The Court of Appeals overruled a motion to dismiss
the appeal. (This ruling is reported in 189 N. Y. 537.)
It answered the four questions propounded by the Appellate Division in an opinion reported in 189 N. Y. 163,
the questions being answered as follows: "The first question should be answered in the negative. The second question should be answered in the affirmative. The third
question is immaterial and not answered. The fourth
question should be answered in the negative."
The Court of Appeals held, among other things, that
the Buffalo River had been made a public highway by
law; that for a large part of the distance through the city
of Buffalo it is navigable to large boats from the lakes,
and is a stream of much commercial importance. It held
that the proceedings were under due authority of law as
enacted in the charter of the city of Buffalo. In answering the questions the Court of Appeals said: "We have
no great difficulty in answering these questions to the
effect that the commissioners were authorized upon the
evidence presented to them if they saw fit so to do to
award only nominal damages for the land sought to be
acquired by the City. In reaching this conclusion we
have assumed as did the City in the institution of the
proceedings that the respondent was vested with the fee
of the river bed. Upon the other hand there does not
appear to be any dispute that either by him or by the
company whose rights he represents substantially all of
the land abutting upon the river upon either side formerly
owned by the Company has been conveyed away. This
is a matter of importance as bearing upon the value of the
bed of the stream, because if the bed and fee to the abutting lands were owned by the same party it very well
might be that the possible connected use of the two

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

would be an element of much importance in passing upon
the value of the bed.
"Many witnesses were sworn before the commissioners
in regard to the value of this bed and the amount of the
damages which should be awarded for taking it. Their
evidence presented a well-defined question of fact, the
testimony ranging all the way from a valuation at nominal
figures to one of very substantial amount. In addition
to hearing the testimony of these witnesses the commissioners were under obligations to and we must assume
did view the premises to be taken. Various theories were
doubtless presented to them, as they have been to us
leading to the view that the land was of substantial value.
These theories are more or less speculative.
"We think that the commissioners were so justified by
the evidence in making the award which they did make
that we cannot say, as a matter of law, that there was no
evidence to sustain their conclusions."
The Court of Appeals further held that should the first
and second questions be regarded as questions of fact not
to be considered by it, and the third question be treated
as immaterial, there would be left for consideration only
the fourth question, and there being no exceptions calling
for a reversal of the order confirming the commissioner's
report the order of the Appellate Division would have
be reversed.
The case is now brought here for a review of the judgment of the Court of Appeals, for this is the effect of the
proceeding in error, although under the practice in New
York the judgment of the Court of Appeals is remitted to
the Supreme Court of New York, and the writ of error
runs to that court.
The case has been elaborately argued, orally and in the
voluminous brief of the plaintiff in error, and many alleged errors of procedure in rulings upon construction of
state statutes, and questions of practice in the state courts

APPLEBY v. BUFFALO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are pointed out. Indeed, the case has been argued, apparently, upon the theory that this court has the power,
embraced in a general right to review, to correct errors in
trials and procedure in the state courts.
This court has had frequent occasion to say that its
right to review the judgment of the highest court of a
State is specifically limited by the provisions of § 709 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States. This right of
review in cases such as the one at bar depends upon an alleged denial of some right, privilege or immunity specially
set up and claimed under the Constitution, or authority of
the United States, which it is alleged has been denied by the
judgment of the state court. In such cases it is thoroughly
well settled that the record of the state court must disclose
that the right so set up and claimed was expressly denied,
or that such was the necessary effect, in law, of the judgment. Sayward v. Denney, 158 U. S. 180, 183; Harding v.
Illinois, 196 U. S. 78; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S. 86, 97.
In the case at bar an elaborate assignment of error for
the purpose of bringing the case to this court is found in
the record, in which many rulings axe referred to, which,
it is alleged, resulted in deprivation of rights of Federal
creation. But it is well settled that the assignments of
error made for the purpose of bringing the case to this
court cannot be looked to for the purpose of originating a
right of review here. This must necessarily follow from
the provisions of § 709, which permit a review in this court
of rulings concerning claims of Federal right which were
set up and denied in the state court. Neither the petition
for writ of error in the state court after judgment, nor the
assignments of error in this court, can supply deficiencies
in the record of the state court, if such exist. Harding v.
Illinois, 196 U. S. supra, and previous cases in this court
therein cited.
The jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals of New York
VOL. ccxxi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

was invoked because of the questions propounded by the
Appellate Division. A reading of those questions shows
that no right under the Federal Constitution was asserted
or suggested.
We look in vain in the record to find any claim of Federal right prior to the judgment in the Court of Appeals,
unless it is to be found in the third exception to the report
of the commissioners.
"Third. The said report is also contrary to and in violation of the Constitution of the United States, which
provides that private property shall not be taken for public use without just compensation, and the sum awarded
by said report is less than just compensation."
If it be taken that the exceptions in this respect amount
to a claim of violation of the due process of law clause of
the Constitution, which protects against the taking of
private property without compensation, and that the effect of the judgment of the Court of Appeals is to deny
this claim, we proceed to inquire, do the proceedings show
a want of due process in the result reached and affirmed
by the Court of Appeals in its judgment answering the
questions propounded by the Appellate Division?
That the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution forbids a State to deprive any person of property
without due process of law, and to take private property
for public use without compensation amounts to such deprivation, is recognized and affirmed in a case wherein the
subject was given much consideration. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. After a
review of the authorities this court said:
"Due process of law as applied to judicial proceedings
instituted for the taking of private property for public use
means, therefore, such process as recognizes the right of
the owner to be compensated if his property be wrested
from him and transferred to the public. The mere form
of the proceeding instituted against the owner, even if he

APPLEBY v. BUFFALO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be admitted to defend, cannot convert the process used
into due process of law, if the necessary result be to deprive him of his property without compensation."
And furthermore:
"In our opinion, a judgment of a state court, even if it
be authorized by statute, whereby private property is
taken for the State, or under its direction for public use,
without compensation made or secured to the owner, is,
upon principle and authority, wanting in the due process
of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, and the affirmance of
such judgment by the highest court of the State is a denial by that State of a right secured by that instrument."
In summing up the matter, the court said:
"We are permitted only to inquire whether the trial
court prescribed any rule of law for the guidance of the
jury that was in absolute disregard of the company's right
to just compensation.
"We say 'in absolute disregard of the company's right
to just compensation,' because we do not wish to be understood as holding that every order or ruling of the state
court in a case like this may be reviewed here, notwithstanding our jurisdiction, for some purposes, is beyond
question. Many matters may occur in the progress of
such cases that do not necessarily involve, in any substantial sense, the Federal right alleged to have been
denied; and in respect of such matters, that which is done
or omitted to be done by the state court may constitute
only error in the administration of the law under which the
proceedings were instituted."
"In harmony with those views, we may say in the present case that the state court having jurisdiction of the
subject matter and of the parties, and being under a duty
to guard and protect the constitutional right here asserted, the final judgment ought not to be held to be in

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

violation of the due process of law enjoined by the Fourteenth Amendment, unless by its rulings upon questions
of law the company was prevented from obtaining substantially any compensation. See Marchant v. Penna.
Railroad Company, 153 U. S. 380."
The question of what amounts to due process of law in
cases of this character came again before this court in the
case of Backus v. Fourth Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S.
557. In summing up the essentials of due process of law
in condemnation cases this court said: "All that is essential is that in some appropriate way, before some properly
constituted tribunal, inquiry shall be made as to the
amount of compensation, and when this has been provided there is that due process of law which is required
by the Federal Constitution."
The only assignment of error which is here open for review does not show that the court below, by any ruling of
law, deprived the owner of the right of compensation for
his property. The alleged denial of Federal right rests
upon the assertion that the damages were nominal, while
the property taken was of greater value. But, as this court
has heretofore held, if the State has provided adequate
machinery for the ascertainment of compensation, upon
notice and hearing, and the record discloses no ruling of
law which prevented compensation to the owner for the
property taken, there is no lack of due process.
The proceedings in the present case were under a statute
which the highest court of the State has held adequate
to require condemnation, and against which no constitutional objection was urged. The same court has found that
the Buffalo River was a public highway, and a navigable
stream; that there was testimony before the commissioners that the land company, of which the plaintiff in error is trustee, had formerly owned land adjacent to the
river, which had been sold off, and that the only-remaining
title was in the lands covered by the river.

CARPENTER v. WINN.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

The record discloses that the testimony ranged all
the way from nominal valuation to one of considerable
amount. The Court of Appeals held that in view of these
facts, the testimony of the witnesses, and view of the
premises had by the commissioners, that it could not say,
as a matter of law, that there was no evidence to sustain
the commissioners' conclusions.
The record thus discloses that the plaintiff in error has
had a hearing as to the value of his property before a board
of commissioners acting under authority of law, which
order was affirmed in a reviewing court; that he was
again heard in the Appellate Division where that order
was reversed, and was finally heard in the Court of Appeals, where the finding of the Appellate Division was in
turn reversed. And the record fails to show any ruling of
law, to which an exception was properly reserved on the
ground of denial of Federal rights, which prevented the
plaintiff in error from obtaining just compensation for his
property.
Judgment affirmed.

CARPENTER v. WINN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 135.

Argued April 20, 21, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Section 724, Rev. Stat., has never been construed by this court, and
the decisions of the inferior courts have not had such uniformity as
to exert any controlling influence.

The word "trial" as used in § 724, Rev. Stat., refers to the final examination and decision of matter of law as well as facts, for which
every antecedent step is a preparation.

A court of equity does not lose its jurisdiction to entertain a bill for
the discovery of evidence or to enjoin the trial at law until obtained,
because the powers of the courts of law have been enlarged so as
to make the equitable remedy unnecessary in some circumstances.

