OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

its "individual expense." There is no reference to an
interlocking plant, nor any general language that would
include one. The words "semaphores or other signals"
do not do so. An interlocking plant is so much more than
a signalling device that it is quite beyond their usual
meaning. That meaning has been applied to them during
twenty-five years of practice under the contract, and
another ought not to be substituted now.
We conclude, as did the state court, that the contract
does not embrace the expense which the order entails,
and therefore that the order does not, by apportioning that
expense, impair the obligation of the contract.
But to avoid any misapprehension that otherwise might
arise, we deem it well to observe that we do not, by what
is here said, suggest or imply that the contract, if its terms
were broad enough to include the expense in question,
would be an obstacle to the apportionment of that expense
under the state statute. See Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57, 71-74; New

York & New England R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556,
567.

Affirmed.

SARGENT & LAHR v. HERRICK & STEVENS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 149.

Argued April 25, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

The mere location of a land warrant does not operate as a payment of
the purchase price and does not operate to pass the equitable title
from the United States.
A State is without power to tax public lands which have been located
under warrant until the equitable title has passed from the United
States.
Although if the locator had been the lawful owner of the warrant

SARGENT v. HERRICK.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

location would have entitled him to patent, if the Land Office found
him not to be the lawful owner, location does not operate to pass
the title until he substitutes and pays the Government price, and
meanwhile the United States has such an interest in the land as
renders its taxation by the State invalid.
140 Iowa, 590, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a State to tax
public lands located under warrant before substitution and
payment of government price, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert Healy, with whom Mr. M. F. Healy and
Mr. Charles A. Clark, were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
No brief was filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to quiet the title to 80 acres of land in the
State of Iowa, and the facts, in so far as they are material
here, are these: In 1857, Hartzell I. Shaffer located upon
the land a military bounty land warrant, issued to Jacob
Hutson under the act of Congress of March 3, 1855, 10
St. 701, ch. 207, and received from the local land office a
certificate of location. Shortly thereafter he transferred
the certificate and his right to the warrant and to the land
to Amos Stanley. When the location was reported to the
General Land Office, that office suspended it because
Hutson had made two assignments of the warrant, the
first to William Maltby and the second to Shaffer, and
because there was no relinquishment by Maltby. In
1875, Stanley, or a transferree of his, surrendered the
certificate of location to the General Land Office and
withdrew the warrant for the purpose of straightening
out the difficulty arising from its double assignment, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

that could be done. But apparently nothing was accomplished in that direction for the warrant never was returned. The suspension continued until 1904, when
Sargent and Lahr, who had succeeded to the rights of
Stanley, perfected the location by substituting the government price of the land for the warrant. This was done
under Rule 41 of the circular of the Land Department
relating to such locations, which reads as follows (27 L. D.
225):
"When a valid entry is withheld from patent on account
of the objectionable character of the warrant located
thereon, the parties in interest may procure the issue of a
patent by filing in the office for the district in which the
lands are situate an acceptable substitute for the said
warrant. The substitution must be made in the name
of the original locator, and may consist of a warrant, cash,
or any kind of scrip legally applicable to the class of lands
embraced in the entry."
At the time of the substitution Sargent and Lahr received from the local land office a certificate of purchase
issued in Stanley's name, and later in the same year received a patent issued in his name and reciting that it
was predicated upon the substitution of the purchase price
for the warrant. In 1875 the land was sold for the nonpayment of taxes levied upon it by the officers of Clay
County, Iowa, two years before, and whatever title passed
under that sale is held by Herrick and Stevens, who were
the plaintiffs in the trial court. Sargent and Lahr, who
were the defendants, claim under the warrant location as
ultimately perfected through the substitution of the purchase price and then passed to patent. The trial court
sustained the tax title and entered a decree for the plaintiffs, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. 140 Iowa, 590.
As the State was without power to tax the land until
the equitable title passed from the United States, and as

SARGENT v. HERRICK.
221 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that title did not pass until there was a full compliance
with all the conditions upon which the right to a patent
depended (Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price Co., 133
U. S. 496, 505), it is apparent that the validity of the tax
title depends upon the question whether the location of
the warrant in 1857, without more, gave a right to a
patent.
Among the conditions, upon compliance with which
such a right depends, none has been deemed more essential
than the payment of the purchase price, which in this
instance could have been made in money or by a warrant
like the one actually used. The warrant was assignable
and was usable at a rate which made it the equivalent of
the price of the land. And had Shaffer been the lawful
owner and holder of the warrant, there could be no doubt
that its location by him would, without more, have entitled him to a patent. But as the General Land Office
found, in effect, that he was not the lawful owner or
holder of the warrant, and as that finding is conclusive
in the circumstances in which it is brought into this case,
it is perfectly plain that the location of the warrant did
not, without more, give a right to a patent. In other
words, that location did not operate as a payment of the
purchase price and so did not operate to pass the equitable
title from the United States. Besides, until the payment
in 1904, it was wholly uncertain that the location ever
would be perfected, there being no obligation upon any
one to perfect it. It follows that during the intervening
years the United States had such an interest in the land
as to make its taxation by the State void.
The case of Hussman v. Durham, 165 U. S. 144, is like
this in all material respects, the most noticeable difference
being that there the assignment to the locator was forged
while here it was ineffectual because of a prior assignment.
In that case this court, after holding, in substance, that
the doctrine of relation canw't be invoked to give effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

to a title resting upon the wrongful taxation of land while
both the legal and the equitable title were in the United
States, said:
"Confessedly, though a formal certificate of location
was issued in 1858, there was then in fact no payment for
the land and the government received nothing until 1888.
During these intervening years whatever might have
appeared upon the face of the record the legal and the
equitable title both remained in the government. The
land was, therefore, not subject to state taxation. Tax
sales and tax deeds issued during that time were void.
The defendant took nothing by such deeds. No estoppel
can be invoked against the plaintiff. His title dates from
the time of payment in 1888. The defendant does not
hold under him and has no tax title arising subsequently
thereto."
For these reasons we hold that the Supreme Court of
the State erred in sustaining the tax title.
Reversed.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MILLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 831.

Submitted April 17, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

The protection of charter rights by the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution is subject to the rule that a legislature cannot bargain
away the police power, or withdraw from its successors the power
to guard the public safety, health and morals.
A provision in its charter exempting a railroad company from liability
for death of employ~s, even if caused by its own negligence, does not

