OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

one, and the security was of uncertain value and character, involving great expense and delay in collection. The
fact that the reservation of any surplus after paying the
debt secured was not disclosed in the assignment itself was
a circumstance of suspicious character, but not as matter

of law irconsistent with an honest intent. Two courts
have held that under all the circumstances the assignment was not made to hinder, delay or defraud creditors,
and as matter of law had no such result.
We are content to affirm this judgment.

Affirmed.

LIVERPOOL & LONDON & GLOBE INSURANCE

COMPANY v. BOARD OF ASSESSORS FOR THE
PARISH OF ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 92.

Argued April 18, 19, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Credits on open account are incorporeal and have no actual situs, but
they constitute property and as such are taxable by the power having jurisdiction.
The maxim of mobilia sequuntur persenam yields to. the fact of actual
control; and jurisdiction to tax intangible credits exists in the sovereignty of the debtor's domicile, such credits being of value to the
creditor because of the power given by such sovereignty to enforce
the debt. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 205. Such taxation does
not deny due process of law.
The jurisdiction of the State of the domicile over the creditor's person
does not exclude the power of another State in which he transacts
his business to tax credits there accruing to him from resident
debtors, and thus, without denying due process of law, to enforce
contribution to support the government under whose protection his
affairs are conducted.

LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO. v. ORLEANS ASSESSORS. 347
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Credits need not be evidenced in any particular manner in order to
render them subject to taxation.
Premiums due by residents to a non-resident insurance company and
which have been extended, but for which no written obligations have
been given, are credits subject to taxation by the State where the
debtor is domiciled; and so held that the statute of Louisiana to that
effect is not unconstitutional as denying due process of law.
In a suit for caricellation of an entire assessment as unconstitutional the
plaintiff cannot ask for a reduction of amount if there is a proceeding under the state statute for that purpose and which he has'not
availed of.
122 Louisiana, 98, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the power of a State to tax
premiums of insurance due by residents to a non-resident
insurance company which have been extended but not
evidenced by written instrument, and the constitutionality
of a statute of Louisiana to that effect, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Monte M. Lemann and Mr. Alexander C. King,
with whom Mr. Harry H. Hall and Mr. J. Blanc Monroe
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
A State cannot legally impose an assessment and tax
upon premiums due under open account by local policy
holders to non-resident or foreign insurance companies.
Such assessment and tax would be a taking of property
without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 429; Louisville &c. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 398; State Tax on
Foreign-Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss,
100 U. S. 491; United States v. Erie, 106 U. S. 327; Hagan
v. Reclamation, 111 U. S. 701; Pullman Palace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Erie R. R. v. Pennsylvania,
153 U. S. 628; Savings Society v. Multnomah, 169 U. S.
421; Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193; New Orleans v.
Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington County, 177
U. S. 133; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189; Board of
Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388; Metropoli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

221 U. S.

tan Life v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Buck v. Beach, 206
U. S. 407; Barber Asphalt Co. v. City, 41 La. Ann. 1015;
L. & L. & G. Insurance Co. v. Assessors, 44 La. Ann. 760;
Railey v. Assessors, 44 La. Ann. 766; Clason v. City, 46 La.
Ann. 1; State v. Assessors, 47 La. Ann. 1545; Bluefields
Banana Co. v. Assessors, 49 La. Ann. 43; Parkerv. Strouse,
49 La. Ann. 1173; L. & L. & G. Insurance Co. v. Assessors,
51 -La. Ann. 1028; Comptoir National v. Assessors, 52 La.
Ann. 1319; Williams v. Triche, 107 Louisiana, 92; Monongahela v. Assessors, 115 Louisiana, 566; Metropolitan
Life v. Assessors, 115 Louisiana, 698.
A plain distinction can be drawn between a premium
due on open account to a non-resident, or foreign, insurance corporation, by a local policy holder, on the one
hand, and on the other, an open account resulting from
the sale of merchandise to a local purchaser from a local
stock of goods belonging to a non-resident owner. General
Electric Co. v. Assessors, 121 Louisiana, 116.
Assessments admittedly the result of mere guesswork,
and so excessive as to exceed from ten to one hundred
times the admitted value of the thing assessed, are absolute nullities. 27 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 660; 26 La.
Ann. 694; 30 La. Ann. 261; 40 La. Ann. 371; 42 La. Ann.
374; 130 U. S. 177; Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed., 2; Merchants' Insurance Co. v. Assessors, 40 La. Ann. 372;
Natalbany Lumber Co. v. Assessors, 123 Louisiana, 174;
Union Oil Co. v. Campbell, 48 La. Ann. 1350; Waggoner v.
Maumus, 112 Louisiana, 232; Swift v. Assessors, 115
Louisiana, 321.
The denial by the assessors of the statutory right of the
owners to be heard, renders the assessment null, and
would amount to a taking of petitioner's property without
due process of law. Louisiana Acts, 1898, p. 360; 1906, p.
96; Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed., 361; 27 Am. & Eng. Ency.
of Law, 660, 704; 21 Fed. Rep. 99; 111 U. S. 708; 49 La.
Ann. 1350; Johnson v. Tax Collector, 39 La. Ann. 538;

LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO. v. ORLEANS ASSESSORS. 349
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Shattuck v. New Orleans, 39 La. Ann. 209; 2 Cooley on
Taxation, 2d ed., 362, 363.
Assessors have no right arbitrarily to refuse to believe
the evidence of the taxpayers. 1 Desty on Taxation, 543.
The statutory limitation does not apply to suits contesting the validity of the tax, Oteri v. Parker, 42 La. Ann.
374; Railroad Co. v. Sheriff, 50 La. Ann. 737; the decision
that the failure to file these suits prior to the first of
November, 1905-1907, barred averring the nullity or
excessive character of the assessments amounts to a
deprivation of plaintiff's property, without judicial action
and without due process of law. Central of Georgia v.
Wright, 207 U. S. 138; Travelers' v. Assessors, 122 Louisiana, 129, 136.
Mr. George H. Terriberry, Mr. H. Garland Dupr6 and
Mr. Harry P. Sneed for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Liverpool & London &
Globe Insurance Company of New York, a foreign corporation doing business in the State of Louisiana, to cancel an assessment made by the Board of Assessors for the
Parish of Orleans for the year 1906.
The assessment itself is not shown by the record, but
from the testimony the Supreme Court of the State concluded "that the property intended to be assessed was
the amount due plaintiff by its policy holders in this State
for premiums on which credit of thirty and sixty days had
been extended." Dealing with the case from this standpoint, that court affirmed a judgment dismissing the suit,
giving as its reasons "that the said credits are due in
this State and have arisen in the course of the business of
the plaintiff company done in this State, and are therefore
part and parcel of the said business in this State, and as a
consequence are taxable here." 122 Louisiana, 98.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

The Insurance Company brings this writ of error, insisting that the premium accounts did not constitute
property taxable in Louisiana and that in consequence
the assessment violated the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States in depriving the
Company of its property without due process of law.
The assessment was laid under Act 170 of 1898. Section
1 of this act in defining property subject to taxation
includes "all rights, credits, bonds, and securities of all
kinds; promissory notes, open accounts, and other obligations . . . and all movable and immovable, corporeal
and incorporeal articles or things of value, owned and
held and controlled within the State of Louisiana by any
person in any capacity whatsoever." Section 7 makes it
the duty of the tax assessors to place upon the assessment
list all property subject to taxation, and provides as
follows:
"Provided further, that in assessing mercantile firms
the true intent and purpose of this act shall be held to
mean, the placing of such value upon the stock in trade,
all cash, whether borrowed or not, money at interest,
open accounts, credits, etc., as will represent in their
aggregate a fair average of the capital, both cash and
credit, employed in the business of the party or parties
to be assessed. And this shall apply with equal force to
any person or persons representing in this State business
interests that may claim a domicile elsewhere, the intent
and purpose being that no non-resident, either by himself
or through any agent shall transact business here without
paying to the State a corresponding tax with that exacted
of its own citizens; and all bills receivable, obligations or
credits arising from the business done in this State are
hereby declared assessable within this State, and at the
business domicile of said non-resident, his agent or
representative."
In construing this statute, the Supreme Court of Loui-

LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO. v. ORLEANS ASSESSORS. 351
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

siana in Metropolitan Life Insurance Company v. Board
of Assessors, 115 Louisiana, 708, said: "There can be no
doubt that the seventh section of the act of 1898, .
announced the policy of the State touching the taxation
of credits and bills of exchange representing an amount
of the property of non-residents equivalent or corresponding to said bills or credits which was utilized by them
in the prosecution of their business in the State of Louisiana. The evident object of the statute was to do away
with the discrimination theretofore existing in favor of
non-residents as against residents, and place them on
an equal footing." Again, in General Electric Company
v. Board of Assessors, 121 Louisiana, 116, where open
accounts arising on the sale of merchandise were the subject of the assessment, the court said: "There can be no
serious question but that the legislature has provided that
credits due upon open accounts arising out of business
done in this State by non-residents, shall be taxed;
The State imposes this tax because of her need of the
revenue to be derived from it; she extends to the business the protection of her laws, and seeks to make the business bear its just proportion of the burden of taxation.
The situation would be, we repeat, unfortunate,-not to
say deplorable-if the State were left no choice between
having to forego this needed revenue, or else handicapping
with this tax the business of her own citizens and home
corporations in their competition with foreigners for the
business to be done here." And this decision was followed
in the present case.
This court has had repeated occasion to consider the
validity of taxes imposed under the Louisiana act. The
case of New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, arose under
Chapter 106 of the statutes of 1890, but the pertinent
features of the act were the same. There it appeared
that the assessed credits were evidenced by notes secured
by mortgages on real estate in New Orleans; that these

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

notes and mortgages were in that city, in the possession
of an agent, who collected the proceeds and the interest
as it became due and deposited the same in a bank in
New Orleans to the credit of the plaintiff, the guardian
of infant owners who like herself were domiciled in the
State of New York. The tax was sustained. In Board of
Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388, the question
arose under the statute of 1898. In that case, a foreign
banking company did business in New Orleans and there
made loans through a local agent. The loans were made
upon collateral security, the customer drawing his check
which was treated as an overdraft and held as a memorandum of the indebtedness. The court decided that the
credits so evidenced, created in the Louisiana business,
were taxable in that State. In Metropolitan Life Insurance Company v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395-also arising
under the act of 1898-the validity of a similar tax was
upheld. That case was one of loans made through the
local agent of the Insurance Company, a New York corporation doing business in Louisiana, to its policy holders
upon the security of their policies. The course of business
was that on the approval of a loan at the home office of
the Company, the Company forwarded to the agent a
check for the amount, with a note to be signed by the
borrower. The agent procured the note to be signed and
forwarded both note and policy to the home office. The
agent collected and transmitted the interest, and when
the notes were paid it was to the agent to whom they
were sent to be delivered back to the makers. At all
other times the notes and the policies securing them were
kept at the home office in New York. In Orleans Parish
v. New York Life Insurance Company, 216 U. S. 517, the
so-called credit consisted, in fact, of a payment to the
policy holder of a portion of the amount for which the
Company was bound by its policy. It was found that
despite the fact that notes were given there was no per-

LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO. v. ORLEANS ASSESSORS. 353
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sonal liability, but simply a deduction in account. As
there was no loan, there was no credit to be taxed; and a
decree in the Circuit Court restraining the collection of
the tax was affirmed.
Here an indebtedness actually existed. This is assumed
in the objections to the assessment. The indebtedness
had its origin in the course of business transacted by the
foreign corporation in Louisiana under the laws of that
State. If the Louisiana policy holders had given notes
for the premiums, which were to be collected through the
local agents, there could be no question as to the validity
of the tax. The difference between notes given for loans
on policies, and notes given for premiums, could not be
regarded as a material one so far as the taxing power of the
State is concerned. In both cases, the obligations to pay
would represent returns to the corporation upon business
conducted within the State; in the one, for the moneys
loaned with compensation for their use; in the other, for
the contracts of insurance. Nor would the power to tax
depend on the presence of the notes within the State.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company v. New Orleans,
supra; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133. The
notes, in these cases, had been removed to the creditor's
home; and, despite this removal, they were attributed to
the place of origin. Further, if there had been no notes
but the premium accounts had been otherwise evidenced
by written instruments, they would have been equally
taxable. The "checks" in Board of Assessors v. Comptoir
National, supra, were only memoranda of indebtedness or
vouchers. "While called 'checks,' and so referred to in
the record and by the parties in their dealings, the instrument delivered to the Comptoir, in form an ordinary
check as though drawn for payment on presentation from
moneys deposited, had no such function. The money
was paid to the customer upon the security of the collateral, and the so-called check taken and held as a memoVOL. ccxxi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

randum of the indebtedness to the Comptoir" (pp. 400,
401).
But it is said that the State of Louisiana had no power
to tax the credits here in question because they were not
evidenced by written instruments. The contention is
thus stated in the petition of the Insurance Company in
the state court. "Premiums due on open account to a
foreign corporation cannot be taxed. The legislature has
not the power to localize an abstract credit away from
the domicile of the creditor, the State's power of taxation
being limited to persons, property or business within its
jurisdiction. The levying of a tax upon incorporeal
things, such as abstract credits, not in so-called 'concrete'
form and without tangible shape violates the Fourteenth
Amendment of the United States Constitution."
The asserted distinction cannot be maintained. When
it is said that intangible property, such as credits on
open account, have their situs at the creditor's domicile,
the metaphor does not aid. Being incorporeal, they can
have no actual situs. But they constitute property; as
such they must be regarded as taxable, and the question
is one of jurisdiction.
The legal fiction, expressed in the maxim mobilia
sequuntur personam, yields to the fact of actual control
elsewhere. And in the case of credits, though intangible,
arising as did those in the present instance, the control
adequate to confer jurisdiction may be found in the
sovereignty of the debtor's domicile. The debt, of course,
is not property in the hands of the debtor; but it is an obligation of the debtor and is of value-to the creditor be-'
cause he may be compelled to pay; and power over the
debtor at his domicile is control of the ordinary means of
enforcement. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 205, 206.
Tested by the criteria afforded by the authorities we have
cited, Louisiana must be deemed to have had jurisdiction
to impose the tax. The credits would have had no exist-,

LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO. v. ORLEANS ASSESSORS. 355
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ence save for the permission of Louisiana; they issued
from the business transacted under her sanction within
her borders; the sums were payable by persons domiciled
within the State, and there the rights of the creditor were
to be enforced. If locality, in the sense of subjection to
sovereign power, could be attributed to these credits,
they could be localized there. If, as property, they could
be deemed to be taxable at all, they could be taxed there.
The decision in State Tax On Foreign-held Bonds, 15
Wall. 300, is not in point. There the tax was on the interest on bonds made and payable out of the State, and
issued to and held by non-residents of the State. See
Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S.428; New
Orleans v. Stempel, supra, 319, 320; Blackstone v. Miller,
supra, p. 206. Nor was the question determined in Murray v. Charleston, 96 U. S.432, where a city attempted to
tax its corporate stock, or public debt, owned by nonresidents, and the court limited its opinion to the holding
"that no municipality of a State can, by its own ordinances, under the guise of taxation, relieve itself from
performing to the letter all that it has expressly promised
to its creditors" (p. 448).
In Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S.491, it was held that
the Federal Constitution does not prohibit a State from
taxing her own citizens upon bonds belonging to them,
although they were made by debtors resident in other
States and secured by mortgage on real estate there situated. The sole inquiry was with respect to the validity
of the statute of Connecticut where the creditor was
domiciled. As the court said in New Orleans v. Stempel,
supra (p. 321), in referring to the Kirtland Case, "It was
assumed that the situs of such intangible property as a
debt evidenced by bond was at the domicile of the owner.
There was no legislation attempting to set aside that
ordinary rule in respect to the matter of situs. On the
contrary, the legislature of the State of Connecticut,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

from which the case came, plainly reaffirmed the rule,
and the court in its opinion summed up the case in these
words (p. 499): 'Whether the State of Connecticut shall
measure the contribution which persons resident within
its jurisdiction shall make by way of taxes, in return for
the protection it affords them, by the value of the credits,
choses in action, bonds or stocks which they may own
(other than such as are exempted or protected from taxation under the Constitution and laws of the United States)
is a matter which concerns only the people of that State,
with which the Federal Government cannot rightfully
interfere.' " See also Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730.
But, as we have seen, the jurisdiction of the State of
his domicile, over the creditor's person, does not exclude
the power of another State in which he transacts his business, to lay a tax upon the credits there accruing to him
against resident debtors and thus to enforce contribution
for the support of the government under whose protection his affairs are conducted. And that the jurisdiction of
the latter State rests upon considerations which are more
fundamental than that notes have been given, or that the
credits are evidenced in any particular manner, was
clearly brought out in the concluding statement of the
opinion in the case of the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company, supra. There the court said: "Moreover,
neither the fiction that personal property follows the
domicile of its owner, nor the doctrine that credits evidenced by bonds or notes may have the situs of the latter,
can be allowed to obscure the truth. Blackstone v. Miller,
188 U. S. 189. We are not dealing here merely with a
single credit or a series of separate credits, but with a
business. The insurance company chose to enter into the
business of lending money within the State of Louisiana,
and employed a local agent to conduct that business. It
was conducted under the laws of the State. The State
undertook to tax the capital employed in the business

LIVERPOOL &c. INS. CO. v. ORLEANS ASSESSORS. 357
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

precisely as it taxed the capital of its own citizens in like
situation. For the purpose of arriving at the amount of
capital actually employed, it caused the credits arising out
of the business to be assessed. We think the State had
the power to do this, and that the foreigner doing business
cannot escape taxation upon his capital by removing
temporarily from the State evidences of credits in the
form of notes. Under such circumstances, they have a
taxable situs in the State of their origin." Equally, then,
had the State the power to tax the premium accounts
here involved. They were not withdrawn from its constitutional authority, either by reason of the fact that they
were payable in consideration of insurance, instead of loans
or goods sold, or by the circumstance that the credits were
not evidenced by written instruments. They were none
the less enforceable credits arising in the local business.
. It is also urged that the assessment was excessive.
This question was not suitably presented in the state
court, for the suit was brought for the cancellation of the
entire assessment upon the ground that, as a whole, it was
without warrant of law, or if within the statute was beyond the power of the legislature to authorize. It is said
that so far as the assessment was in excess of the actual
credits it was a nullity, as one of property not in existence.
The subject of the assessment, however, was a class of
credits which was within the taxing power and the question is one of amount. Proper opportunity was afforded
for its correction if it was too great; and if the plaintiff in
errqr had seasonably sought a reduction, availing itself of
the remedy that was open to it under the state law, it
could have obtained appropriate relief. Orient Insurance
Company v. Board of Assessors, 124 Louisiana, 872. In no
aspect of the case, can it be said that there was want of
due process of law.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

