OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

alleged, distinguish this from the Nelson Case. The facts
bring the present case within the ruling of that case, and
we adhere to the principles there announced.
We are of opinion that as between the railroad company
and the appellee the latter has the better right to the land,
and that the Land Office incorrectly held that the company
was entitled to a patent. That was an error of law which
was properly corrected by the reversal in the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the decree of the Circuit Court, with directions to render a final decree recognizing Trodick's ownership of the lands in controversy and adjudging that the
title, under the patent was held in trust for him. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. HAMMERS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 314.

Argued April 12, 13, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Under the Desert Land Act of March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, as
added to by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1096, a desert
land entry is assignable.
Where a statute is so ambiguous as to render its construction doubtful
the uniform practice of the officers of the Department whose duty

has been to construe and administer the statute since its enactment
and under whose constructions rights have been acquired is determinatively persuasive on the courts.
There is confusion between the original desert land act of 1877 and the
act as amended in 1891 as to whether entries can be assigned, and
the court turns for help to the practice of the Land Department in
construing the act, and that has uniformly been since 1891 that entries were assignable.

UNITED STATES v. HAMMERS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the construction of Desert
Land Acts of 1877 and 1891 and the assignability
thereunder of entries of desert lands, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Ernest Knaebel, for the United States.
Mr. L. H. Valentine, with whom Mr. Nathan Newby was
on the brief, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Oscar A. Trippett, Mr. J. M. Eshleman, Mr. LeCompte Davis and Mr. William C. Prentiss filed a brief, by
leave of the court, as amici curiae, in support of the position of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case is here to review an order sustaining a demurrer to an indictment found against defendant in error,
herein called defendant.
Omitting the repetitions and accentuations which are
usually found in indictments, the following are the facts
stated in the indictment in this case: On the fourteenth
of August, 1907, one Granville M. Boyer made a desert
land entry for certain lands under the public land laws of
the United States, and particularly under and by virtue
of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1877, 19 Stat.
377, c. 107, or 2 U. S. Comp. Stat. 1548, the land being
then open to entry, settlement and reclamation and he
having the proper qualifications under the laws. The
record was number 3903. On the twenty-sixth of August
he assigned, by an instrument in writing, his entry and his
interest in the land which was the subject thereof to one
Beulah Rose Beekler, she being a citizen of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

States. She filed the assignment with the Register and Receiver of the United States land office of the Los Angeles,
California land district.
On the thirtieth of January, 1908, and while entry
No. 3903 was pending before the Register and Receiver,
Beulah Rose Beekler, "in pretended compliance" with the
public land laws of the United States and the rules and
regulations of the General Land Office of the Department
of the Interior relating to desert land entries, applied at the
office of one Daniel Elder, clerk of the Superior Court of
Imperial county, within the southern division of the southern district of California, to make her first yearly proof of
improvement, irrigation, reclamation and cultivation of
the land, with the intention of thereafter obtaining a patent from the United States therefor. Elder was an officer
authorized to receive such proof and to administer oaths
to witnesses.
Defendant appeared and gave testimony in such proceeding and subscribed the same, swearing that the statements therein were true.
The specific details of his testimony are not necessary
to the points of law which are involved. It is enough to
say that it is set out in the indictment with particularity
and showed that the improvements required by the desert
land laws were made, and it is charged, that the testimony
was wilfully and corruptly given, he knowing it to be false.
And it was further charged that the testimony was filed
with the Register and Receiver as part of the proceedings
in relation to the entry.
The indictment was demurred to on the ground that
it did not state facts sufficient to constitute an offense
against the United States. The demurrer was sustained.
The question of law in the case is the materiality of
defendant's affidavit, and that again depends upon
whether the desert land laws authorized an assignment of
the entry.

UNITED STATES v. HAMMERS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

These propositions have been argued at great length.
Besides oral argument a brief of 71 pages is presented by
the United States, which is replied to by defendant's brief
of 132 pages, and supported by a brief of amici curice of
135 pages, and there are supplemental briefs besides. In
our view, however, the case does not require so much
expansion, and for its general discussion we may refer to
the able opinion of the court below. We disagree, it is
true, with that learned court, but the grounds of our disagreement can be briefly stated.
We may assume that under the Desert Land Act of 1877,
an entry was not assignable. The contention of the Government, however, is, opposing that of the defendant, that
by the additions made by §§ 5 and 7 of the act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 1096, c. 561, to the desert land law an entry
is assignable. These sections read as follows:
"SEC. 5. That no land shall be patented to any person
under this act unless he or his assignors shall have expended in the necessary irrigation, reclamation, and cultivation thereof, by means of main canals and branch
ditches, and in permanent improvements upon the land,
and in the purchase of water rights for the irrigation of
the same, at least three dollars per acre of whole tract reclaimed and patented in the manner following: Within
one year after making entry for such tract of desert land
as aforesaid the party so entering shall expend not less than
one dollar per acre for the purposes aforesaid; and he shall
in like manner expend the sum of one dollar per acre during the second and also during the third year thereafter,
until the full sum of three dollars per acre is so expended.
Said party shall file during each year with the register
proof, by the affidavits of two or more credible witnesses,
that the full sum of one dollar per acre has been expended
in such necessary improvements during such year, and
the manner in which expended, and at the expiration of
the third year a map or plan showing the character and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

extent of such improvements. If any party who has made
such application shall fail during any year to file the testimony aforesaid the lands shall revert to the United States,
and the twenty-five cents advanced payment shall be forfeited to the United States, and the entry shall be cancelled.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a claimant from
making his final entry and receiving his patent at an earlier date than hereinbefore prescribed, provided that he
then makes the required proof of reclamation to the aggregate extent of three dollars per acre: Provided. That proof
be further required of the cultivation of one-eighth of the
land.
"SEc. 7. That at any time after filing the declaration,
and within the period of four years thereafter, upon making satisfactory proof to the register and receiver of the
reclamation and cultivation of said land to the extent and
cost and in the manner aforesaid, and substantially in accordance with the plans herein provided for, and that he or
she is a citizen of the United States, and upon payment to
the receiver of the additional sum of one dollar per acre
for said land, a patent shall issue therefor to the applicant
or his assigns; but no person or association of persons shall
hold by assignment or otherwise prior to the issue of patent, more than three hundred and twenty acres of such arid
or desert lands, but this section shall not apply to entries
made or initiated prior to the approval of this act. Provided, however, That additional proofs may be required
at any time within the period prescribed by law, and that
the claims or entries made under this or any preceding act
shall be subject to contest, as provided by the law, relating
to homestead cases, for illegal inception, abandonment, or
failure to comply with the requirements of law, and upon
satisfactory proof thereof shall be cancelled, and the lands
and moneys 1aid therefor shall be forfeited to the United
States."
The learned District Court in its discussion, stated

UNITED STATES v. HAMMERS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the following proposition is established: "Where an
applicant for public lands of any sort has done all that the
law requires to entitle him to a patent, he is justly regarded as its equitable owner and may, at any time thereafter, transfer his equitable estate, although the legal title
be in the Government," citing, among other cases, Myers
v. Croft, 13 Wall. 291; Deffebac v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 393;
and this ownership and right of assignment the court concluded §§ 5 and 7 only recognized. In other words did
not grant or create a new right, but referred to a right already existing, and that, therefore, the act of 1891 did
not authorize an assignment of the land by an entryman
until he had acquired such equitable title by the performance by him, and by him only, of the conditions prescribed.
It was conceded that the Interior Department had uniformly placed upon the act of 1891 a different construction
in five decisions, the earliest of which was rendered on
December 22, 1895, and the last in June, 1900, and it was
also conceded that the rule often authoritatively announced is that "where a court is doubtful about the meaning of an act of Congress, the construction placed upon the
act by the department charged with its enforcement is in
the highest degree persuasive if not controlling." Such
decision, however, it was said, only determined in cases
of doubt, and, as the court found no ambiguity in the act,
decided against the ruling of the Department and the contention of the Government. It recognized the force of
such a uniform practice in the Land Office and of the fact
which was urged upon its attention, that a large number
of reclamations had been effected by assignees in the very
valley where the entry in controversy had been made,
and said that such fact and practice would resolve doubts
in favor of the Government, if it, the court, had any.
We do not find the act of 1891 as clear as the learned
District Court did, and must give to decisions of the Land
1oL. ccxxi-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Department the weight to which in such case, the court
acknowledged, they are entitled.
The act of 1891, was an amendment of the act of 1877,
and made a change in the latter act, and a change in the
provisions of an act usually indicates, or is intended to indicate, a change of purpose, to enlarge or restrict the provisions of the prior law. This very natural presumption
seems to be contested by defendant. We say "seems"
because it may be that it is only its application in the
present case which is questioned. Counsel say the "intent to amend, modify or repeal any provision of the act
of 1877, must be made clearly to appear by the terms of
the amendatory act." In support of this it is urged that
the dominant purpose of the act of 1877, was that an entryman should personally reclaim the land in the manner prescribed by the act, and because of the purpose and
to secure it, the courts and the Department had ruled that
before reclamation the entryman had no rights which he
could transfer. Counsel, therefore, deny that a change
was made in the act of 1877 by the act of 1891, and urge
that where a statute which had been construed by the
courts has been reenacted in the same, or substantially
the same, terms, the legislature is presumed to have
adopted the construction as part of the law unless a different intention is expressly declared. But was there a
substantial reenactment of the act of 1877 by the act of
1891? In the act of 1877, the word "assignors" did not
appear at all, and the act required, it is contended, that
reclamation should be personally made by the entryman.
To this requirement the opening words of § 5 of the
act of 1891 present a contrast. It reads: "That no land
shall be patented to any person under this act unless he
or his assignors (italics ours) shall have expended in
the necessary irrigation, reclamation, and cultivation
thereof . . . three dollars per acre for the purpose
aforesaid. . . ." The meaning of these words con-

UNITED STATES v. HAMMERS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sidered alone is clear. An entryman or his assignors may
make reclamation. It is said, however, that the words
which follow them explain them and take all ambiguity
from them. It is provided that "within one year after
making entry . . . the party so entering shall expend not less than one dollar per acre" and that he (italics
ours) "shall in like manner" expend the same sum during
the second and third year. "Said party," it is further
provided, "shall file the proofs of such expenditure" and
at the expiration of the third year a map or plan showing
the character and extent of such improvements." And
again: "If any party fail to file the proofs the entry shall
be canceled." It is finally provided that nothing in the
section contained "shall prevent the claimant from making his final proof and receiving his patent at an earlier date
than that prescribed for the performance of the conditions
required. These provisions, it is insisted, designate the
entry and entryman and only him. This is made indubitable, it is urged, by the use of the pronouns "he"
and "his," excluding every other person, and requiring
the expenditure and improvements to be made by him
individually. But the opening sentences of the section
are to be accounted for, and these are, to repeat, "That
no land shall be patented to any person under this act unless he or his assignors shall have expended in the necessary
irrigation, reclamation, and cultivation thereof . . . at
. ," and the word "asleast three dollars per acre.
signs" is also used in § 7. Counsel feel the necessity of
accounting for the provision and to give it a meaning
that will neither contradict nor make doubtful that for
which they contend. Their explanation is, "that Congress used the words 'or his assignors' in § 5 and 'or his
assigns' in § 7 only in recognition of the right that every
entryman has under any of the public land laws of the
United States to make an assignment after he has acquired the equitable title to the land embraced within

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

his entry." In other words, as observed by the court
below, a new right was not created, but a right already
existing was incidentally referred to. In aid of this conclusion, and in opposition to the contention made by the
Government that "assignors" designated persons who
may legally do the things prescribed in § 5 before the
equitable title vests, it is answered that an applicant can
have more than one assignor but they must be assignors
of perfected entries, perfected by the performance of the
conditions by the respective entrymen. Examples are
given under the practice which obtained in the Land Department prior to 1908 (an act of that year limits the assignment to one) of issuing patents to an applicant who
had taken assignment of more than one entry if the aggregate area of the land embraced in the entries did not
exceed 320 acres. But to support this view reliance is
had upon decisions made after the act of 1891, and which,
it is admitted, "apply to assignments made before the
vesting of equitable title, as permitted by the Land Office
since 1891." That, it is insisted, is not material so far as
the point is concerned. But manifestly it is material.
To support and give force to a practice of the Land Department under the act of 1891, to impugn its construction
of the act, is certainly confusing. We cannot assume that
the Land Department did not know what it was about
and made its practice under the act oppose its construction
of the act. But, it may be granted that there is strength
in the argument, and in that based on the words of the
statute. They are, however, opposed by arguments of
equal, if not greater strength. Conceding then that the
statute is ambiguous, we must turn as a help to its meaning, indeed in such case, as determining its meaning, to
the practice of the officers whose duty it was to construe
and administer it. They may have been consulted as to
its provisions, may have suggested them, indeed have
written them. At any rate their practice, almost coinci-

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

dent with its enactment, and the rights which have been
acquired under the practice, make it determinately persuasive.
We are constrained, therefore, to reverse the order of
the District Court sustaining the demurrer and remand
the case for further proceedings.
Reversed.

WEST, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA, v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY.
APEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 916. Argued April 4, 5, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

.When a State recognizes an article to be a subject of interstate commerce it cannot prohibit that article from being the subject of interstate commerce; and so held that corporations engaged in interstate
commerce cannot be excluded from transporting from a State oil and
gasproduced therein and actually reduced to possession.
In matters of foreign and interstate commerce there are no state lines;
in such commerce instead of the States a new power and a new welfare appears that transcend the power and welfare of any State.
The welfare of the United States is constituted of the welfare of all the
States, and that of the States is made greater by mutual division of
their resources; this is the purpose and result of the commerce
cause of the Constitution.
Natural gas and oil when reduced to possession by the owner of the
land are commodities belonging to him subject to his right of sale
tOiereof, and are subjects of both intrastate and interstate comn erce

