OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 372.

Argued January 27, 30, 1911-Decided May 15, 1911.

An order of a court of equity, restraining defendants from boycotting
complainant by publishing statements that complainant was guilty
of unfair trade, does not amount to an unconstitutional abridgment of free speech; the question of the validity of the order involves only the power of the court to enjoin the boycott.
Quwre as to what constitutes a boycott that may be enjoined by a
court of equity; but, in order that it may be enjoined, it must appear that there is a conspiracy causing irreparable damage to complainant's business or property.
Where conditions exist that justify the enjoining of a boycott, the
publication and use of letters, circulars and printed matter, may
constitute the means of unlawfully continuing the boycott and
amount to a violation of the order of injunction.
The Anti-trust Act of 1890 applies to any unlawful combination resulting in restraint of interstate commerce including boycotts and
blacklisting whether made effective by acts, words or printed matter.
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
The court's protective powers extend to every device whereby property is irreparably damaged or interstate commerce restrained;
otherwise the Anti-Trust Act would be rendered impotent.
Society itself is an organization and does not object to organizations
for social, religious, business, and all other legal, purposes.
On appeal against unlawfully exercising power of organizations it is
the duty of government to protect the one against the many as well
as the many against the one.
An agreement to act in concert on publication of a signal makes the
words used as the signal amount to verbal acts, and, when the facts
justify it, the court having jurisdiction can enjoin the use of the
words in such connection; and so held as to words "unfair" and
"we don't patronize" as used in this case for the purpose of continuing a boycott.
Civil and criminal contempts are essentially different and are governed by different rules of procedure.
A proceeding, instituted by an aggrieved party to punish the other

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

419

Statement of the Case.

party for contempt for affirmatively violating an injunction in the
same action in which the injunction order was issued, and praying
for damages and costs, is a civil proceeding in contempt, and is part
of the main action, and the court cannot punish the contempt by imprisonment for a definite term; the only punishment is by fine measured by the pecuniary injury sustained.
In criminal proceedings for contempt the party against whom the
proceedings are instituted is entitled to the protection of the constitutional provisions against self-incrimination.
There is a substantial variance between the procedure adopted and
punishment imposed, when a punitive sentence appropriate only to
a proceeding for criminal contempt is imposed in a proceeding in
an equity action for the remedial relief of an injured party.
Where the main suit in which an injunction order has been granted is
settled and discontinued, every proceeding which is a part thereof,
or dependent thereon, is also necessarily settled as between the
parties; and so held as to a proceeding instituted by the party aggrieved against the other party for violation of an injunction.
The fact that the party aggrieved by the violation of an injunction
deprives himself, by settling the main case, of the right to pursue
the violator for contempt does not prevent the court, whose order
was violated, from instituting proceedings to vindicate its authority; and in this case the dismissal of the civil contempt proceeding is
without prejudice to the power and right of the court whose injunction was violated to punish for contempt by proper proceedings.
33 App. D. C. 516, reversed.

THis is a proceeding to reverse a judgment, finding that
Samuel Gompers, John Mitchell and Frank Morrison were
guilty of contempt in violating the terms of an injunction
restraining them from continuing a boycott, or from publishing any statement that there was or had been a boycott
against the Bucks Stove & Range Company. The contempt case grew out of litigation reported in 33 App. D. C.
83, 516. It will only be necessary to briefly refer to the
facts set out in that record.
The American Federation of Labor is composed of
Voluntary associations of labor unions with a large membership. It publishes the American Federationist, which
has a wide circulation among the public and the Federa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

tion. Samuel Gompers is president and editor of the
paper. John Mitchell is vice president of the Federation
and President of the United Mine Workers, one of the
affiliated unions. Frank Morrison has charge of the circulation of the paper. The Federation had a difference as
to the hours of labor with the Bucks Stove & Range Company, of which J. W. Van Cleave was president, who was
also president of the American Manufacturers' Association. This controversy over the hours of work resulted
in a boycott being declared against the Bucks Stove &
Range Company, and it was thereupon declared "Unfair"
and was published in the American Federationist on the
"Unfair" and "We don't patronize" lists. The company
filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia its
bill against the Federation, the defendants above named
and other officers, alleging that the defendants had entered into a conspiracy to restrain the company's state
and interstate business, in pursuance of which they had
boycotted it, published it on the unfair lists, and had by
threats also coerced merchants and others to refrain from
buying Bucks' products for fear that they themselves
would be boycotted if they continued to deal with that
company. The result of the boycott had been to prevent
persons from dealing with it and had greatly lessened its
business and caused irreparable damage.
After a lengthy hearing, the court on December 18,
1907, signed a temporary injunction, which became effective when the bond required was given on December
the 23d. The order is published in the margin.'
1 Ordered that the American Federation of Labor, Samuel Gompers,
Frank Morrison, . . . John Mitchell, . . . their and each
of their agents, servants, attorneys, confederates, and any and all
persons acting in aid of or in conjunction with them or any of them be,
and they hereby are, restrained and enjoined until the final decree in
said cause from conspiring, agreeing or combining in any manner to
restrain, obstruct or destroy the business of the complainant, or to

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

421

Statement of the Case.

Thereafter testimony was regularly taken, and on
March 23, 1908, the injunction was made permanent,
with provisions almost identical with the temporary order
of December 17, 1907.
From this final decree the defendants appealed, but beprevent the complainant from carrying on the same without interference from them or any of them, and from interfering in any manner
with the sale of the product of the complainant's factory or business by
defendants, or by any other person, firm or corporation, and from declaring or threatening any boycott against the complainant, or its business, or the product of its factory, or against any person, firm or corporation engaged in handling or selling the said product, and from
abetting, aiding or assisting in any such boycott, and from printing, issuing, publishing, or distributing through the mails, or in any other
manner, any copies or copy of the American Federationist, or any other
printed or written newspaper, magazine, circular, letter or other document or instrument whatsoever, which shall contain or in any manner
refer to the name of the complainant, its business or its product in the
"We don't patronize," or the 'fUnfair" list of the defendants, or any of
them, their agents, servants, attorneys, confederates, or other person
or persons acting in aid of or in conjunction with them or which contains any reference to the complainant, its business or product in
connection with the term "Unfair" or with the "We don't patronize"
list or with any other phrase, word or words of similar import, and from
publishing or otherwise circulating, whether in writing or orally, any
statement or notice of any kind or character whatsoever, calling attention to the complainant's customers, or of dealers or tradesmen, or
the public, to any boycott against the complainant, its business or its
product, or that the same are, or were, or have been declared to be
"unfair," or that it should not be purchased or dealt in or handled by
any dealer, tradesman, or other person whomsoever, or by the public,
or any representation or statement of like effect and import, for the
purpose of, or tending to, any injury to or interference with the complainant's business, or with the free and unrestricted sale of its product,
or of coercing or inducing any dealer, person, firm or corporation, or the
public, not to purchase, use, buy, trade in, deal in, or have in possession stoves, ranges, heating apparatus, or other product of the complainant, and from threatening or intimidating any person or persons
whomsoever from buying, selling, or otherwise dealing in the complainant's product, either directly or through orders, directions or suggestions to committees, associations, officers, agents or others, for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

fore a decision was had, the Bucks Stove & Range Company began contempt proceedings, by filing in the Supreme Court of the District a petition entitled "Bucks
Stove & Range Company, plaintiff, vs. The American
Federation of Labor et al., defendants, No. 27,305,
Equity," alleging that petitioner had "filed in this cause
its original bill of complaint, naming as defendants, among
others, Samuel Gompers, Frank Morrison and John
Mitchell." All of the record and testimony in the original
cause was made a part of the petition as follows:
"Reference is hereby made to the original bill and exhibits filed in support of the same, the answer and amended
answer of the defendants, the testimony taken on both
sides, the original order restraining and enjoining the dedefendants pendente lite, and the final decree in the cause,
and each and every other paper and proceeding in this
cause from the institution of the suit to the filing of this
performance of any such acts or threats as herein above specified, and
from in any manner whatsoever impeding, obstructing, interfering with
or restraining the complainant's business, trade or commerce, whether
in the State of Missouri or in other States and Territories of the United
States, or elsewhere wheresoever, and from soliciting, directing, aiding,
assisting or abetting any person or persons, company or corporation to

do or cause to be done any of the acts or things aforesaid.
And t is further ordered by the court that this order shall be in full
force, obligatory and binding upon the said defendants and each of
them and their said officers, members, agents, servants, attorneys, confederates, and all persons acting in aid of or in conjunction with them,
upon the service of a copy thereof upon them or their solicitors or
solicitor of record in this cause: Provided, The complainant shall first
execute and file in this cause, with a surety or sureties to be approved
by the court, or one of the justices thereof, an undertaking to make
good to the defendants all damage by them suffered or sustained by
reason of wrongfully and inequitably suing out this injunction, and
stipulating that the damages may be ascertained in such manner as the
justice of this court shall direct, and that, on dissolving the injunction,
he may give judgment thereon against the principal and sureties for
said damages in the decree itself dissolving the injunction.

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

423

Statement of the Case.

petition, and it is prayed that the same may be taken and
read as a part hereof at any and all hearings upon this
petition, whether in this court or on appeal from its decision herein rendered."
Some of the publications were charged to be in violation of the terms of the temporary injunction, dated December 23, 1907, and others were alleged to be in violation
of the final decree dated March 23, 1908.
The petition set out in nine distinct paragraphs, the
speeches, editorials and publications made at different
times by the several defendants, charging that in each
instance they continued and were intended to continue
the boycott, and to republish the fact that the complainant
was or had been on the "unfair list." It concluded by
alleging that by the devices, means, speeches and publications set forth, and in contempt of court the defendants
had disobeyed its orders and violated the injunction. The
prayer was (1) that the defendants be required to show
cause why they should not be attached for contempt, and
adjudged by the court to be in contempt of its order and
its decree in this cause and be punished for the same.
(2) And that petitioner may have such other and further
relief as the nature of its case may require. (Signed:
Bucks Stove & Range Company, by J. W. Van Cleave,
President.) It was also sworn to by the President of the
company and signed by its solicitors.
A rule to show cause issued, requiring each of the defendants to show cause why they should not be adjudged
to be in contempt and be punished for the same. Each
of the defendants answered under oath, and, as treating
the contempt proceeding as a part of the original cause,
admitted the allegations as to the history of the litigation
in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the petition, but "for
greater accuracy refer to the record in this cause." Publications were admitted but explained. Each of the defendants denied under oath that he had been in disregard or

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

contempt of the court's order and denied that any of the
acts and charges complained of constituted a violation of
the order. There were several issues of fact on which
much evidence was taken. This related to the question
of intent, and whether there had been a purpose and plan
to evade any injunction which might be granted. There
was also an issue as to whether John Mitchell had put a
resolution to the convention of the United Mine Workers;
whether Samuel Gompers and Frank Morrison had
rushed the mailing of the January issue of the American
Federationist, on December 22, so as to avoid the injunction dated December 17, which became operative on
giving bond by complainant on December 23; and also
whether they had thereafter sold and circulated copies of
this issue containing the Bucks Stove Company on the
"Unfair" and "We don't patronize" list. Evidence was
taken partly by deposition, partly before an Examiner in
Chancery.
Each of the defendants was called as a witness by the
complainant, and each testified as to facts on which the
allegation of intent or evasion was based, and as to the
publications, speeches and resolutions which he was accused of having made, and which the petition alleged constituted an act of disobedience and contempt of court.
The court made a special finding as to two of the nine
charges, and then found that all three of the defendants
were guilty of the several acts charged in paragraphs 17
and 26; that respondents Gompers and Morrison were
guilty of the several acts charged in the sixteenth and
twentieth paragraphs; that respondent Morrison was
guilty of the acts charged in the twenty-fifth paragraph,
and that respondent Gompers was guilty of the several
acts charged in the paragraphs 19, 21, 22 and 23. The
finding concluded: "The court being fully advised in the
premises, it is by it, this twenty-third day of December,
A. D. 1908, considered that the said respondents, Samuel

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

425

Statement of the Case.

Gompers, Frank Morrison and John Mitchell, are guilty
of contempt in their said disobedience of the plain mandates of the said injunctions; and it is, therefore ordered
and adjudged that the said respondent, Frank Morrison,
be confined and imprisoned in the United States jail in the
District of Columbia for and during a period of six months;
that the said respondent, John Mitchell, be confined and
imprisoned in the said jail for and during a period of nine
months, and that the respondent, Samuel Gompers, be
confined and imprisoned in the said jail for and during a
period of twelve months, said imprisonment as to each of
said respondents to take effect from and including the date
of the arrival of said respective respondents at said jail."
On the same day the defendants entered an appeal,
which was allowed, and bail fixed. After notice to the defendants the complainant moved "the court to amend or
supplement its decree by awarding to it its costs against
the defendants under the proceedings in contempt against
them." This motion was granted in an order which recited that "upon consideration of the motion of complainant, filed in the above cause for award of its costs in
the contempt proceedings in said cause against the defendants Samuel Gompers, John Mitchell and Frank
Morrison, and after argument by the solicitors of the
respective parties, the motion is granted, and it is ordered
that the complainant the Bucks Stove & Range Company do recover against the defendants named, its costs
in the said contempt proceeding, to be taxed by the clerk,
and that it have execution therefor as at law."
The parties also entered into a stipulation, the material
portions of which are as follows:
"For the purpose of avoiding unnecessary cost in the
matter of the appeal by the defendants Samuel Gompers, John Mitchell and Frank Morrison from the judgment against them under the contempt proceedings in the
above entitled cause, it is stipulated that,

.

.

. with

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

the approval of the Court of Appeals, the record in the
above cause [Bucks Stove & Range Co. v. American Federation of Labor et al.] . . . may be read from by either
party to the appeal in said contempt proceedings, in so far
as the same may be relevant and material, with like effect as if the said record of the original cause were embraced in the transcript, in the appeal from the said contempt proceedings."
This stipulation was signed by counsel for the defendants and for the Bucks Stove & Range Co.
The petition in the contempt proceeding, the answer,
orders, final decree, amended decree and stipulation were
all entitled in the original cause, "Buck's Stove & Range
Company v. The American Federation of Labor, Samuel
Gompers, John Mitchell, Frank Morrison, et al." The
appeal papers in the Court of Appeals of the District
were, and those here on certiorari are entitled "Samuel
Gompers, John Mitchell and Frank Morrison, appellants,
v. The Buck's Stove & Range Company."
On December 23, 1908, the defendants were found
guilty of contempt, and on the same day they appealed.
On March 26, 1909, the Court of Appeals rendered its decision in favor of the Bucks Stove Company on the appeal from the decree of March 23, 1908, and found that
the decree was, in some respect, erroneous, and modified
it accordingly. From that decision both parties appealed
to this court-the Bucks Stove Company contending that
it was error to modify in any respect; the American Federation of Labor et al., contending that the Court of Appeals erred in not reversing and setting aside as a whole
the decree granting the injunction.
There subsequently came on to be heard in the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia the appeal from
the decree in the contempt proceeding. On that hearing
the Bucks Stove & Range Company moved to dismiss the
appeal, because the evidence had not been incorporated

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

427

Statement of the Case.

in a bill of exceptions, claiming that it was a criminal
proceeding and was governed by the practice applicable
to law cases. This motion was resisted by the defendants,
who contended that the contempt proceedings were a part
of the equity cause and that the case was to be governed
by equity practice, in which the whole record could be
examined on appeal.
The Court of Appeals held that the proceeding was for
criminal contempt and that for want of a bill of exceptions it could not examine the testimony but must treat
the findings of fact by the judge as conclusive and limit
its consideration to the question whether as a matter of
law the petition charged and the finding found acts which
amounted to a violation of the injunction. It held that
some of the facts alleged did constitute a good charge of
contempt, and as each of the defendants were found to be
guilty of at least one of such acts of disobedience constituting a violation of the injunction and a contempt of
court, it held that the conviction must be sustained. This
ruling was put on the ground that on a general verdict of
guilty, the conviction and sentence on an indictment containing several counts, some of which were bad must
stand, if those which were good would sustain the sentence. It therefore not only refused to examine the evidence, to determine whether the proof was sufficient to
sustain the conviction, but it also declined to consider the
sufficiency of the other charges in the petition, of which the
defendants were also found guilty. It affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District. The defendants thereupon applied for and obtained a writ of certiorari.
The appeal and cross appeal in the original cause of the
Bucks Stove and Range Company v. The American Federation of Labor et al. were heard here together. During the
argument it appeared that the parties had settled their differences and, on the ground that the questions were moot,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Petitioner.

./

221 U. S.

this court dismissed both appeals. 219 U. S. 581. Following this disposition of those appeals, and on the same day,
the contempt case was called, and was argued by counsel
for the Bucks Stove and Range Company and counsel
for Samuel Gompers, Frank Morrison and John Mitchell.
Mr. Alton B. Parker and Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, for
petitioner, with whom Mr. F. L. Siddons, Mr. W. E.
Richardson and Mr. John T. Walker were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
Proceedings for contempt are of two classes,-those
prosecuted to preserve the power and vindicate the dignity of the courts and to punish for disobedience of their
orders, and those instituted to preserve and enforce the
rights of private parties to suits and to compel obedience
to orders and decrees made to enforce the rights and administer the remedies to which the court has found them
to be entitled. The former are criminal and punitive in
their nature and the Government, the court and the people are interested in their prosecution. The latter are
civil, remedial and coercive in their nature and the parties
generally interested in their conduct and prosecution are
the individuals whose private rights and remedies they
were instituted to protect or enforce. In re Nevitt, 117
Fed. Rep. 448, 460, and cases cited.
This classification of, or distinction between, civil and
criminal contempts was quoted with approval by this
court in Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 328. The
court adds that it may not be always easy to classify a
particular act as belonging to either one of these two
classes. It may partake of the characteristics of both.
A significant and generally determinative feature is that
the act is by one party to a suit in disobedience of a
special order made in behalf of the other, quoting approvingly from In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564.
The case at bar is clearly within the definitions of a

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

429

Argument for Petitioner.

civil contempt as set forth in these controlling authorities.
It was instituted by a petition made by the Bucks Stove
& Range Company; was entitled in the action which had
resulted in the order and decree which the petitioner
claimed the defendants Gompers, Mitchell and Morrison
had disobeyed; asked that all the pleadings, testimony and
proceedings in the action be deemed incorporated in the
petition and taken and read as a part thereof; prayed that
the defendants be punished for a violation of the order
and decree and that petitioner should have such other and
further relief as the nature of its case may require. The
petition was presented to the Supreme Court, sitting as a
court of equity, before one of the justices thereof, acting
as a chancellor; it was entitled in the equity cause and
marked "In Equity"; it was conducted from its beginning to its conclusion according to equity rules; all the
testimony was taken before examiners as in chancery
practice; it was all taken down in writing and reported to
the court; there was never an opportunity or occasion to
except to any ruling of the court in the rejection or the
admission of testimony; the hearing was had upon the
testimony thus reported and it was upon that testimony
that the decree or judgment or sentence was based.
The courts below erred, therefore, in holding the proceeding to be one for the presentation of a criminal contempt, and hence a reversal should follow.
The Court of Appeals also fell into error in refusing to
consider the evidence which the defendants contend
shows that there was no violation of either the order or
decree. The reason assigned by it for its action was that
exceptions were necessary to bring up the record. But
exceptions, are neither necessary nor permissible according to the course and practice in equity, and, as we have
seen, this was a proceeding in equity and conducted according to its rules from beginning to end by both court
and counsel. Hence a reversal is required.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Petitioner.

221 U. S.

If the court should conclude that it is nevertheless its
duty to examine into the merits to see whether a different
result would have been required, and examination be
made by the Court of Appeals, we urge that the record
does not disclose a violation of either the order or decree
by these defendants. On the appeal from the final decree
in the action the Court of Appeals held that certain provisions of the decree were in excess of the power of the
court because it deprived the defendants of the constitutional guarantees of freedom of the press and of speech,
and modified it accordingly. It is settled in this court
that in a case or proceeding within its jurisdiction as to
parties and subject-matter, if the court makes an order
in excess of its power it is void. Ex parte Rowland, 104
U. S. 604; Ex parte Harding, 120 U. S. 782; In re Ayres,
123 U. S. 243; Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289.
We urge that the provisions the court held to be void
were so interwoven with the valid provisions that they
cannot be separated without destroying the general
scheme and purpose of the decree, and hence that the
entire decree should be held to be void.
If, however, this position should not meet with the approval of the court, we claim that the conduct of the
defendants must be tested by the decree as modified by
the Court of Appeals and not as made by the trial court.
Thus tested it will appear that these defendants did not
.offend against either the letter or spirit of the decree. It
is true that the name of the Bucks Stove & Range Company did appear in the "We don't patronize" list of the
American Federationist after the order was made forbidding it. But it also appears that this was before the
date when the order became effective by its eery terms.
Certainly the defendants cannot be held to have violated the order before it became operative. Mo:-eover, it
should be noted that never after the order went into effect
was such a publication made. None of the other publica-

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

431

Argument for Respondent.

tions and speeches complained of offend against the decree as modified by the Court of Appeals.
If this court finds otherwise, the decrees of contempt
should nevertheless be vacated because they embrace
findings of which contempt was, but cannot lawfully be
predicated. It cannot be said that the learned justice did
not base this unusual and excessive punishment in part
upon these findings, for he says necessarily, that he did
when he presents them as a portion of the foundation of
his sentence.
Mr. Daniel Davenport and Mr. J. J. Darlington for respondent:
The willful violation of an injunction by a party to a
cause is a contempt of court constituting a specific criminal offense. Bullock v. Westinghouse Co., 129 Fed. Rep.
107; Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, 42; New Orleans v.
Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387, 392; Hayes v. Fischer, 102
U. S. 121.
The proceeding to punish for a contempt is in its nature
a criminal proceeding, whether the result be only punishment of the party for the insult to the court, or whether a
part of the punishment is by way of a fine payable to the
party injured as compensation for the damages inflicted
upon him by the contemptuous act. The fact that the
punishment operates remedially does not alter the nature
of the proceeding. Punishment for doing an act forbidden by the injunction is entirely different from punishment as a means of coercion to compel the doing of
something commanded. The latter proceeding is properly
speaking one for a civil contempt, the former one for a
criminal contempt. The nature of the proceeding can
readily be determined by an examination of the charge
made. If it is for the doing of an act forbidden it is
clearly a criminal proceeding, and not one for a civil contempt. It is perfectly apparent from the allegations of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Respondent.

221 U. S.

the complaint, the answers of the defendants and the punishment the court inflicted, that the parties concerned all
regarded the proceeding as one for the punishment of the
accused for doing what they were commanded not to do.
The prayer annexed to the complaint was that they be
punished for their contempt. It is true that the complainant asked for such further relief as the court might
allow as the nature of its case may require. Inasmuch as
the thing complained of was an act forbidden to be done,
the only relief possible was a fine payable to it as a part
of the punishment for the contempt. Many cases sanctioned by this court approve of such joint punishment.
In re Christensen Engineering Co., 194 U. S. 458, and cases
cited.
In a criminal proceeding to punish for a contempt for
the violation of an injunction, no particular method is
necessary to be pursued in bringing the matter to the
attention of the court. Any sworn statement setting
forth the facts is sufficient to authorize the court to proceed to investigate the charge. A rule to show cause why
he should not be punished for his contempt is sufficient to
bring him before the court, although an attachment may
be granted in the first instance, where the case is urgent
and the contempt flagrant. The trial may be had on answers, counter-affidavits or some other form of pleading
presented as a defense. The defendant must be given
opportunity to make explanation or defense. The court
may adopt such mode of trial as, in its discretion it sees
fit, in order to determine the fact of the contempt, provided due regard is had to the essential rules that obtain
in the matter of contempts. Particular questions or issues, upon which to take testimony, may be referred to a
referee, master or other designated person. The accusations must be supported by evidence sufficient to convince
the mind of the trier beyond a reasonable doubt of the
actual guilt of the accused. If satisfied of the guilt of the

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221

U. S.

433

Argument for Respondent.

accused the court can find him guilty and inflict the punishment either wholly by way of fine or imprisonment for
the public offense, or partially for the benefit of the complainant. And in such proceeding it is perfectly proper
and not unusual as a part of the punishment to award his
costs to the complainant.
The record in this case shows that all these requirements of the law were duly observed and the rights of the
accused properly safeguarded. The court properly found
the accused guilty of contempt of its authority and sentenced them to jail. Although it might have done so in
this proceeding it did not, however, fine the defendants as
a part of the punishment a sum payable to the complainant, except by way of costs.
Although the contempt consists in a violation of an injunction granted by a court of equity, since the proceeding for its punishment is one of law, review can be had
only by writ of error, and not by appeal, and as in other
law cases, a bill of exceptions is necessary to review any
claimed error not otherwise apparent on the face of the
record. Continental Gin Co. v. Murray, 162 Fed. Rep.
873.
Since there is no bill of exceptions here this court is confined therefore to a review of the sufficiency of the averments of the complaint, the answers, and the judgment
of the court thereon. It cannot undertake to determine
the fact of guilt or innocence, nor undertake to review
rulings on questions of evidence. But it can properly review the two questions about which there is serious controversy here: Was the original order of the injunction
void, for want of authority in the court to grant the injunction which was violated, and did the court exceed its
authority in punishing them for its violation?
The injunction which the defendants violated was valid.
It forbade the defendants to carry on a boycott against
the complainant by any means whatever, and particularly,
voL. ccxxi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Respondent.

221 U. S.

by putting its name on an unfair list, publishing it as unfair, sending out boycott circulars, or by any act whatever, verbal or otherwise, inciting others to engage in or
carry it on. This was a perfectly legitimate exercise of
power by the court, frequently exercised by it, sanctioned
by numerous precedents and not interfering in the least
with any legitimate use of speech or of the press.
That the boycott was illegal; that a person threatened
with irreparable injury to his business or property by a
boycott has the right to go into a court of equity for
protection from it; that the court has the right and power
to enjoin the prosecution of the boycott; that the court,
in thus enjoining the boycott can enjoin every act that
may be resorted to in carrying it out, including all verbal
and written acts, and particularly putting the victim on
an unfair list, sending out boycott notices and circulars,
making speeches for the purpose of prosecuting the boycott, etc., for without this power to prevent such publications it could not stop the boycott; and that the constitutional right of free speech and free press does not extend
to secure immunity to the boycotter in such cases, is so
well settled and declared by the courts as to render citations unnecessary.
If the injunction in this case had been erroneous, it
would have been the duty of the accused to obey it and
for the disobedience they would have been properly punished. It is only void injunctions which parties are at
liberty to disobey. An injunction erroneous but not void
must be as scrupulously obeyed as one entirely valid.
There is not the slightest ground for contention here that
this injunction was void. The court confessedly had
jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject-matter of the
cause, and in granting the injunction it exercised its power
in conformity with the well settled practice of equity
courts.
The court did not exceed its authority in the punish-

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

435

Opinion of the Court.

ment it inflicted. It was not excessive. Savin, Petitioner,
131 U. S. 270; United States v. Sweeny, 95 Fed. Rep. 452,
457.
And though the proceeding was begun at the instance
of the Bucks Company, and the procedure thereafter was
such as the record shows it to have been, the precedents
clearly show that the court was well within its authority
in proceeding to inflict the punishment it did in vindicating its dignity. It was a proceeding on its face looking
towards punishment, only punishment. There was absolutely nothing in the case which could suggest to the court
or the accused that the party was seeking coercion of the
accused into doing something which they had been commanded to do. It can only be by a forced construction,
violating the plain provisions of the whole record, that
even a plausible contention can be made that this was a
proceeding for a civil contempt. To reach such a conclusion it would be necessary to ignore the manifest difference between punishing the accused by a fine payable
to the complainant by way of reparation for the violation of the injunction, and fining or imprisoning him to
compel the performance of an act he had been ordered
to do.
MR. JUSTICE

LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants, Samuel Gompers, John Mitchell and
Frank Morrison, were found guilty of contempt of court
in making certain publications prohibited by an injunction from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
They were sentenced to imprisonment for twelve, nine
and six months respectively, and this proceeding is prosecuted to reverse that judgment.
The order alleged to have been violated was granted in
the equity suit of the "Bucks Stove & Range Company v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

The American Federation of Labor and others," in which
the court issued an injunction restraining all the defendants from boycotting the complainant, or from publishing
or otherwise making any statement that the Bucks Stove
& Range Company was, or had been, on the "Unfair."
or "We don't patronize" lists. Some months later the
complainant filed a petition in the cause, alleging that the
three defendants above-named, parties to the original
cause, in contempt of court and in violation of its order,
had disobeyed the injunction by publishing statements
which either directly or indirectly called attention to the
fact that the Bucks Stove & Range Company was on the
"Unfair" list, and that they had thereby continued the
boycott which had been enjoined.
The defendants filed separate answers under oath, and,
each denied: (1) That they had been in contempt or disregard of the court's orders: (2) That the statements complained of constituted any violation of the order; and, on
the argument, (3) contended that if the publication should
be construed to amount to a violation of the injunction
they could not be punished therefor, because the court
must not only possess jurisdiction of the parties and the
subject-matter, but must have authority to render the
particular judgment. Insisting, therefore, that the court
could not abridge the liberty of speech or freedom of the
press, the defendants claim that the injunction as a whole
was a nullity, and that no contempt proceeding could be
maintained for any disobedience of any of its provisions,
general or special.
If this last proposition were sound it would be unnecessary to go further into an examination of the case or to
determine whether the defendants had in fact disobeyed
the prohibitions contained in the injunction. Ex parte
Rowland, 104 U. S. 612. But we will not enter upon a
discussion of the constitutional question raised, for the
general provisions of the injunction did not, in terms,

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

437

Opinion of the Court.

restrain any form of publication. The defendants' attack
on this part of the injunction raises no question as to an
abridgment of free speech, but involves the power of a
court of equity to enjoin the defendants from continuing
a boycott which, by words and signals, printed or spoken,
caused or threatened irreparable damage.
Courts differ as to what constitutes a boycott that may
be enjoined. All hold that there must be a conspiracy
causing irreparable damage to the business or property
of the complainant. Some hold that a boycott against the
complainant, by a combination of persons not immediately connected with him in business, can be restrained.
Others hold that the secondary boycott can be enjoined,
where the conspiracy extends not only to injuring the
complainant, but secondarily coerces or attempts to coerce
his customers to refrain from dealing with him by threats
that unless they do they themselves will be boycotted.
Others hold that no boycott can be enjoined unless there
are acts of physical violence, or intimidation caused by
threats of physical violence.
But whatever the requirement of the particular jurisdiction, as to the conditions on which the injunction
against a boycott may issue; when these facts exist, the
strong current of authority is that the publication and
use of letters, circulars and printed matter may constitute
a means whereby a boycott is unlawfully continued, and
their use for such purpose may amount to a violation of
the order of injunction. Reynolds v. Davis, 198 Massachusetts, 300; Sherry v. Perkins, 147 Massachusetts, 212;
Codman v. Crocker, 203 Massachusetts, 150; Brown v.
Jacobs, 115 Georgia, 452, 431; Gray v. Council, 91 Minnesota, 171; Lohse Co. v. Fuelle, 215 Missouri, 421, 472;
Thomas v. Railroad Co., 62 Fed. Rep. 803, 821; Continental Co. v. Board of Underwriters, 67 Fed. Rep. 310;
Beck v. Teamsters' Union, 118 Michigan, 527; Pratt Food
Co. v. Bird, 148 Michigan, 632; Barr v. Essex, 53 N. J.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Eq. 102. See also Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 216 U. S. 156; Bitterman v. L. & N. R. R., 207 U. S.
206; Board of Trade v. Christie, 198 U. S. 236; Scully v.
Bird, 209 U. S. 489.
While the bill in this case alleged that complainant's
interstate business was restrained, no relief was asked
under the provisions of the Sherman anti-trust act. But
if the contention be sound that no court under any circumstances can enjoin a boycott if spoken words or
printed matter were used as one of the instrumentalities
by which it was made effective, then it could not do so,
even if interstate commerce was restrained by means of
a blacklist, boycott or printed device to accomplish its
purpose. And this, too, notwithstanding ยง 4 (act of
July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209) of that act provides,
that where such commerce is unlawfully restrained it shall
be the duty of the Attorney General to institute proceedings in equity to prevent and enjoin violations of the
statute.
In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, the 'statute was held
to apply to any unlawful combination resulting in restraint
of interstate commerce. In that case the damages sued
for were occasioned by acts which, among other things,
did include the circulation of advertisements. But the
principle announced by the court was general. It covered
any illegal means by which interstate commerce is restrained, whether by unlawful combinations of capital,
or unlawful combinations of labor; and we think also
whether the restraint be occasioned by unlawful contracts, trusts, pooling arrangements, blacklists, boycotts,
coercion, threats, intimidation, and whether these be
made effective, in whole or in part, by acts, words or
printed matter.
The court's protective and restraining powers extend to
every device whereby property is irreparably damaged
or commerce is illegally restrained. To hold that the

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE, CO.
221 U. S.

430

Opinion of the Court.

restraint of trade under the Sherman anti-trust act, or
on general principles of law, could be enjoined, but that
the means through which the restraint was accomplished
could not be enjoined would be to render the law impotent.
Society itself is an organization and does not object to
organizations for social, religious, business and all legal
purposes. The law, therefore, recognizes the right of
workingmen to unite and to invite others to join their
ranks, thereby making available the strength, influence
and power that come from such association. By virtue
of this right, powerful labor unions have been organized.
But the very fact that it is lawful to form these bodies,
with multitudes of members, means that they have thereby
acquired a vast power, in the presence of which the individual may be helpless. This power, when unlawfully
used against one, cannot be met, except by his purchasing
peace at the cost of submitting to terms which involve the
sacrifice of rights protected by the Constitution; or by
standing on such rights and appealing to the preventive
powers of a court of equity. When such appeal is made
it is the duty of government to protect the one against the
many as well as the many against the one.
In the case of an unlawful conspiracy, the agreement
to act in concert when the signal is published, gives the
words "Unfair," "We don't patronize," or similar expressions, a force not inhering in the words themselves,
and therefore exceeding any possible right of speech which
a single individual might have. Under such circumstances
they become what have been called "verbal acts," and as
much subject to injunction as the use of any other force
whereby property is unlawfully damaged. When the facts
in such cases warrant it, a court having jurisdiction of the
parties and subject-matter has power to grant an injunction.
Passing then to the consideration of the question as to
whether the defendants disobeyed the injunction and were

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

therefore guilty of contempt, we are met with the objection that for want of a bill of exceptions we must treat the
decree as conclusive as to the fact of disobedience, and can
only examine the petition and the finding to determine
whether one charges and the other finds acts which constitute a contempt of court. This view was adopted by
the majority of the Court of Appeals, which treated this
as a criminal proceeding, refused to examine the testimony and affirmed the judgment in analogy to the rule
that on a general verdict of guilty upon an indictment
containing several counts, some of which were bad, the
conviction would not be reversed if there was one good
count warranting the judgment.
That rule originated in cases where the finding of guilt
was by the jury while the sentence was by the judge. In
such cases the presumption is that the judge ignored the
finding of the jury on the bad counts and sentenced only
on those which were sufficient to sustain the conviction.
But there is no room for such presumption here. The
trial judge made no general finding that the defendants
were guilty. But in one decree he adjudged that each
defendant was respectively guilty of the nine independent
acts set out in separate paragraphs of the petition. Having found that each was guilty of these separate acts he
consolidated the sentence without indicating how much
of the punishment was imposed for the disobedience in any
particular instance. We cannot suppose that he found
the defendants guilty of an act charged unless he considered that it amounted to a violation of the injunction.
Nor can we suppose that having found them guilty of these
nine specific acts he did not impose some punishment for
each. Instead, therefore, of affirming the judgment if
there is one good count, it should be reversed if it should
appear that the defendants have been sentenced on any
count which, in law or in fact, did not constitute a disobedience of the injunction.

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

441

Opinion of the Court.

But in making such investigation it is again insisted
that this is a proceeding at law for criminal contempt,
where the findings of fact by the trial judge must be treated
as conclusive, and that our investigation must be limited
solely to the question whether, as a matter of law, the acts
of alleged disobedience set out in the finding constitute
contempt of court.
This contention, on the part of the Bucks Stove &
Range Company, prevents a consideration of the case on
its merits, and makes it necessary to enter into a discussion of questions more or less technical, as to whether
this was a proceeding in equity or at law. Where results
so controlling depend upon proper classification, it becomes necessary carefully to consider whether this was a
case at law for criminal contempt where the evidence could
not be examined for want of a bill of exceptions; or a case
in equity for civil contempt, where the whole record may
be examined on appeal and a proper decree entered.
Contempts are neither wholly civil nor altogether
criminal. And "it may not always be easy to classify a
particular act as belonging to either one of these two
classes. It may partake of the characteristics of both."
Bessette v. Conkey, 194 U. S. 329. But in either event,
and whether the proceedings be civil or criminal, there
must be an allegation that in contempt of court the defendant has disobeyed the order, and a prayer that he be
attached and punished therefor. It is not the fact of
punishment but rather its character and purpose that
often serve to distinguish between the two classes of cases.
If it is for civil contempt the punishment is remedial, and
for the benefit of the complainant. But if it is for criminal
contempt the sentence is punitive, to vindicate the authority of the court,7 It is true that punishment by imprisonment may be remedial, as well as punitive, and many
civil contempt proceedings have resulted not only in the
imposition of a fine, payable to the complainant, but also

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

in committing the defendant to prison. But imprisonment for civil contempt is ordered where the defendant has
refused to do an affirmative act required by the provisions of an order which, either in form or substance, was
mandatory in its character. Imprisonment in such cases
is not inflicted as a punishment, but is intended to be
remedial by coercing the defendant to do what he had
refused to do. The decree in such cases is that the defendant stand committed unless and until he performs
the affirmative act required by the court's order.
For example: If a defendant should refuse to pay alimony, or to surrender property ordered to be turned over
to a receiver, or to make a conveyance required by a decree for specific performance, he could be committed until
he complied with the order. Unless these were special
elements of contumacy, the refusal to pay or to comply
with the order is treated as being rather in resistance to
the opposite party than in contempt of the court. The
order for imprisonment in this class of cases, therefore, is
not to vindicate the authority of the law, but is remedial
and is intended to coerce the defendant to do the thing
required by the order for the benefit of the complainant.
If imprisoned, as aptly said in In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. Rep.
451, "he carries the keys of his prison in his own pocket."
He can end the sentence and discharge himself at any
moment by doing what he had previously refused to
do.
On the other hand, if the defendant does that which he
has been commanded not to do, the disobedience is a thing
accomplished. Imprisonment cannot undo or remedy
what has been done nor afford any compensation for the
pecuniary injury caused by the disobedience. If the
sentence is limited to imprisonment for a definite period,
the defendant is furnished no key, and he cannot shorten
the term by promising not to repeat the offense. Such
imprisonment operates, not as a remedy coercive in its

GOMPERS v. 3tUCXS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

443

Opinion of the Court.

nature, but solely as punishment for the completed act of
disobedience.
I It is true that either form of imprisonment has also an
incidental effect. For if the case is civil and the punishment is purely remedial, there is also a vindication of the
court's authority. On the other hand, if the proceeding
is for criminal contempt and the imprisonment is solely
punitive, to vindicate the authority of the law, the complainant may also derive some incidental benefit from the
fact that such punishment tends to prevent a repetition
of the disobedience.,, But such indirect consequences will
not change imprisonment which is merely coercive and
remedial, into that which is solely punitive in character,
or vice versa.
The fact that the purpose of the punishment could be
examined with a view to determining whether it was civil
or criminal, is recognized in Doyle v. London Guarantee
Co., 204 U. S. 599, 605, 607, where it was said that "While
it is true that the fine imposed is not made payable to the
opposite party, compliance with the order relieves from
payment, and in that event there is no final judgment of
either fine or imprisonment. . . . The proceeding is
against a party, the compliance with the order avoids the
punishment and there is nothing in the nature of a criminal suit or judgment imposed for public purposes upon a
defendant in a criminal proceeding." Bessette v. Conkey,
194 U. S. 328; In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. Rep. 448; Howard v.
Durand,36 Georgia, 359; Phillipsv. Welch, 11 Nevada, 187.
The distinction between refusing to do an act commanded,-remedied by imprisonment until the party
performs the required act; and doing an act forbidden,punished by imprisonment for a definite term; is sound
in principle, and generally, if not universally, affords a test
by which to determine the character of the punishment.
In this case the alleged contempt did not consist in the
defendant's refusing to do any affirmative act required,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

but rather in doing that which had been prohibited. The
only possible remedial relief for such disobedience would
have been to impose a fine for the use of complainant,
measured in some degree by the pecuniary injury caused
by the act of disobedience. Rapalje on Contempt,
ยงยง 131-134; Wells v. Oregon Co., 19 Fed. Rep. 20; In re
North Bloomfield Co., 27 Fed. Rep. 795; Sabin v. Fogarty,
70 Fed. Rep. 483.
But when the court found that the defendants had done
what the injunction prohibited, and thereupon sentenced
them to jail for fixed terms of six, nine and twelve months,
no relief whatever was granted to the complainant, and
the Bucks Stove & Range Company took nothing by that
decree.
If then, as the Court of Appeals correctly held, the
sentence was wholly punitive, it could have been properly
imposed only in a proceeding instituted and tried as for
criminal contempt. The question as to the character of
such proceedings has generally been raised, in the appellate court, to determine whether the case could be reviewed by writ of error or on appeal. Bessette v. Conkey,
194 U. S. 324. But it may involve much more than mere
matters of practice. For, notwithstanding the many elements of similarity in procedure and in punishment, there
are some differences between the two classes of proceedings which involve substantial rights and constitutional
privileges. Without deciding what may be the rule in
civil contempt, it is certain that in proceedings for criminal contempt the defendant is presumed to be innocent,
he must be proved to be guilty beyond a reasonable doubt,
and cannot be compelled to testify against himself. Boyd
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; United States v. Jose, 63
Fed. Rep. 951; State v. Davis, 50 W. Va. 100; King V.
Ohio Ry., 7 Biss. 529; Sabin v. Fogarty, 70 Fed. Rep. 482,
483; Drakeford v. Adams, 98 Georgia, 724.
There is another important difference. Proceedings for

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

445

Opinion of the Court.

civil contempt are between the original parties and are
instituted and tried as a part of the main cause. But on
the other hand, proceedings at law for criminal contempt
are between the public and the defendant, and are not a
part of the original cause. The Court of Appeals recognizing this difference held that this was not a part of the
equity cause of the Bucks Stove & Range Company v.
The American Federation of Labor et al., and said that:
"The order finding the defendants guilty of contempt was
not an interlocutory order in the injunction proceedings.
It was in a separate action, one personal to the defendants,
with the defendants on one side and the court vindicating
its authority on the other."
In this view we cannot concur. We find nothing in the
record indicating that this was a proceeding with the court,
or, more properly, the Government, on one side and the
defendants on the other. On the contrary, the contempt
proceedings were instituted, entitled, tried, and up to the
moment of sentence treated as a part of the original cause
in equity. The Bucks Stove & Range Company was not
only the nominal, but the actual party on the one side,
with the defendants on the other. The Bucks Stove Company acted throughout as complainant in charge of the
litigation. As such and through its counsel, acting in its
name, it made consents, waivers and stipulations only
proper on the theory that it was proceeding in its own
right in an equity cause, and not as a representative of the
United States, prosecuting a case of criminal contempt.
It appears here also as the sole party in opposition to the
defendants; and its counsel, in its name, have filed briefs
and made arguments in this court in favoring affirmance
of the judgment of the court below.
But, as the Court of Appeals distinctly held that this
was not a part of the equity cause it will be proper to set
out in some detail the facts on this subject as they appear
in the record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

In the first place the petition was not entitled "United
States v. Samuel Gompers, et al." or "In re Samuel
Gompers, et al.," as would have been proper, and according to some decisions necessary, if the proceedings had
been at law for criminal contempt. This is not a mere
matter of form, for manifestly every citizen, however unlearned in the law, by a mere inspection of the papers in
contempt proceedings ought to be able to see whether it
was instituted for private litigation or for public prosecution, whether it sought to benefit the complainant or
vindicate the court's authority. He should not be left in
doubt as to whether relief or punishment was the object
in view. He is not only entitled to be informed of the
nature of the charge against him, but to know that it is a
charge and not a suit. United States v. Cruikshank, 92
U. S. 542, 559.
Inasmuch, therefore, as proceedings for civil contempt
are a part of the original cause, the weight of authority is
to the effect that they should be entitled therein. But the
practice has hitherto been so unsettled in this respect that
we do not now treat it as controlling, but only as a fact to
be considered along with others as was done in Worden v.
Searls, 121 U. S. 25, in determining a similar question .
Thus considering it we find that the petition instituting
the contempt proceeding was entitled in the main cause
"Bucks Stove & Range Company, plaintiff, v. The American Federation of Labor, et al., defendants, No. 27,305,
Equity," and that the answers of the defendants, every
report by the examiner in chancery, every deposition,
motion and stipulation, every order-including the final
decree and the amended decree, were all uniformly entitled in the equity cause. Not only the pleadings in the
original cause but all the testimony, oral and written, was,
by reference in the petition, made a part of the contempt
proceedings.,/ The trial judge quoted largely from this
oral testimony thus introduced in bulk, and the severity

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

447

Opinion of the Court.

and character of the sentence indicate that he was largely
influenced by this evidence which disclosed the great
damage done to the complainant's business by the boycott before the injunction issued.
It is argued the defendants' answers concluded with a
statement that as questions of criminal and quasi-criminal
intent were involved, a jury was better qualified to pass on
the issues than a judge, and in the event he should be of
opinion that the charges had not been sworn away, they
moved that issues of fact should be framed and submitted
to a jury. Such a motion was not inconsistent with the
theory that this was a proceeding for civil contempt in
equity, but was in strict accord with the practice under
which questions of fact may be referred by the chancellor
to a jury for determination.
In proceedings for civil contempt the complainant, if
successful, is entitled to costs. Rapalje on Contempt,
ยง 132. And evidently on the theory that this was a civil
proceeding and to be governed by the rules applicable to
an equity cause, the Bucks Stove & Range Company
moved the court to amend the decree so as to award to it
"its costs." After argument by solicitors for both parties, the motion was granted, and the court adjudged that
the complainant do recover against the defendants its
costs in said contempt proceeding. This ruling was no
doubt correct as this was a civil case, but could not have
been granted in a proceeding for criminal contempt,
where costs are not usually imposed in addition to the
imprisonment. Where they are awarded they go to the
Government, for the use of its officers, as held by Justice Miller, on circuit. Durant v. Washington County, 4
Woolw. 297.
In another most important particular the parties clearly
indicated that they regarded this as a civil proceeding.
The complainant made each of the defendants a witness
for the company, and, as such, each was required to tes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

tify against himself-a thing that most likely would not
have been done, or suffered, if either party had regarded
this as a proceeding at law for criminal contempt-because the provision of the Constitution that "no person
shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against himself" is applicable, not only to crimes, but
also to quasi-criminal and penal proceedings. Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616.
Both on account of the distinct ruling to the contrary
by the Court of Appeals, and the importance of the results flowing from a proper classification, we have with
some detail discussed the facts appearing in the record,
showing that both parties treated this as a proceeding
which was a part of the original equity cause. In case of
doubt this might, of itself, justify a determination of the
question in accordance with the mutual understanding of
the parties, and the procedure adopted by them.; But
there is another and controlling fact, found in the brief
but sufficient prayer with which the petition concludes.
We have already shown that in both classes of cases there
must be allegation and proof that the defendant was guilty
of contempt, and a prayer that he be punished. The
classification then depends upon the question as to whether
the punishment is punitive, in vindication of the court's
authority, or whether it is remedial by way of a coercive
imprisonment, or a compensatory fine payable to the complainant. Bearing these distinctions in mind, the prayer
of the petition is significant and determinative. After
setting out in detail the acts of alleged disobedience, the
petition closes with the following prayers: (1) "that the
defendants show cause why they should not be adjudged
in contempt of court and be punished for the same," and
(2) "that petitioner may have such other and further relief as the nature of its case may require."
"Its case,"-not the Government's case. "That petitioner may have relief "-not that the court's authority

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

449

Opinion of the Court.

may be vindicated. The Bucks Stove & Range Company
was not asserting the rights of the public, but seeking
"such other and further relief as the nature of its case may
require." If it had asked that the defendants be forced to
pay a fine to the Government, or be punished by confinement in jail, there could have been no doubt that punishment pure and simple was sought.
On the other hand, if it had prayed that the court impose a fine payable to the Bucks Stove & Range Company, the language would have left no doubt that remedial
punishment was sought. It is not different in principle,
if, instead of praying specifically for a fine payable to itself,
it asks generally for "such relief as the nature of its case
may require." In either event such a prayer was appropriate to a civil proceeding, and under it the court
could have granted that form of relief' to which the petitioner was entitled./ But as the act of disobedience consisted not in refusing to do what had been ordered, but
in doing what had been prohibited by the injunction, there
could be no coercive imprisonment, and therefore the only
relief, if any, which "the nature of petitioners case" admitted, was the imposition of a fine payable to the Buck's
Stove & Range Company.
There was therefore a departure--a variance between
the procedure adopted and the punishment imposed,
when, in answer to a prayer for remedial relief, in the
equity cause, the court imposed a punitive sentence appropriate only to a proceeding at law for criminal contempt. The result was as fundamentally erroneous as if
in an action of "A. vs. B. for assault and battery," the
judgment entered had been that the defendant be confined in prison for twelve months.
If then this sentence for criminal contempt was erroneously entered in a proceeding which was a part of the
equity cause, it would be necessary to set aside the order
of imprisonment, examine the testimony and thereupon
VOL. ccxxi-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

make such decree as was proper, according to the practice
in equity causes on appeal. And, if upon the examination
of the record it should appear that the defendants were in
fact and in law guilty of the contempt charged, there
could be no more important duty than to render such a
decree as would serve to vindicate the jurisdiction and
-authority of courts to enforce orders and to punish acts
of disobedience. For while it is sparingly to be used, yet
the power of courts to punish for contempts is a necessary
and integral part of the independence of the judiciary,
and is absolutely essential to the performance of the
duties imposed on them by law. Without it they are
mere boards of arbitration whose judgments and decrees
would be only advisory.
If a party can make himself a judge of the validity of
orders which have been issued, and by his own act of
disobedience set them aside, then are the courts impotent,
and what the Constitution now fittingly calls the "judicial
power of the United States" would be a mere mockery.
This power "has been uniformly held to be necessary
to the protection of the court from insults and oppressions
while in the ordinary exercise of its duties, and to enable
it to enforce its judgments and orders necessary to the
due administration of law and the protection of the rights
of suitors." Bessette v. Conkey, 194 U. S. 324, 333.
There has been general recognition of the fact that the
courts are clothed with this power and must be authorized
to exercise it without referring the issues of fact or law to
another tribunal or to a jury in the same tribunal. For if
there was no such authority in the first instance there
would be no power to enforce its orders if they were disregarded in such independent investigation. Without
authority to act promptly and independently the courts
could not administer public justice or enforce the rights
of private litigants. Bessette v. Conkey, 194 U. S. 337.
Congress in recognition of the necessity of the case has

GOMPERS v. BUCKS STOVE & RANGE CO.
221 U. S.

451

Opinion of the Court.

also declared (Rev. Stat., ยง 725) that the courts of the
United States "shall have power to punish by fine or imprisonment contempts of their authority . . .
including "disobedience
.
.
by any party to any
lawful order . . . of the said courts." But the very
.

amplitude of the power is a warning to use it with discretion, and a command never to exert it where it is not necessary or proper. For that reason we can proceed no
further in this case because it is both unnecessary and
improper to make any decree in this contempt proceeding.
For on the hearing of the appeal and cross appeal in the
original cause in which the injunction was issued, it appeared from the statement of counsel in open court that
there had been a complete settlement of all matters involved in the case of Bucks Stove & Range Company v.
The American Federationof Labor et al. This court therefore declined to further consider the case, which had become moot, and those two appeals were dismissed. 219
U. S. 581. When the main case was settled, every proceeding which was dependent on it, or a part of it, was also
necessarily settled-of course without prejudice to the
power and right of the court to punish for contempt by
proper proceedings. Worden v. Searls, 121 U. S. 27. If
this had been a separate and independent proceeding at
law for criminal contempt, to vindicate the authority of
the court, with the public on one side and the defendants
on the other, it could not, in any way, have been affected
by any settlement which the parties to the equity cause
made in their private litigation.
But, as we have shown, this was a proceeding in equity
for civil contempt where the only remedial relief possible
was a fine payable to the complainant. The company
prayed "for such relief as the nature of its case may require," and when the main cause was terminated by a
settlement of all differences between the parties, the complainant did not require and was not entitled to any

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

compensation or relief of any other character. The present proceeding necessarily ended with the settlement of
the main cause of which it is a part. Bessette v. Conkey,
194 U. S. 328, 333; Worden v. Searls, 121 U. S. 27; State
v. Nathans, 49 S. Car. 207. The criminal sentences imposed in the civil case, therefore, should be set aside.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case remanded with directions to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
and remand the case to that court with direction that the
contempt proceedings instituted by the Bucks Stove &
Range Company be dismissed, but without prejudice to
the power and right of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia to punish by a proper proceeding, contempt,
if any, committed against it.
Reversed.

MONTELLO SALT COMPANY v. STATE OF UTAH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.

No. 136.

Argued April 21, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The words "and including" following a description do not necessarily
mean "in addition to," but may refer to a part of the thing described.
The words "110,000 acres of land

.

.

.

and including all the

saline lands in the State" as used in ยง 8 of the Utah Enabling Act
are not to be construed as a grant of such salines in addition to the
110,000 acres, but simply as conferring on the State the right, which
it would not otherwise have, of including saline lands within its
selections for the 110,000 acres.
This construction is in harmony with the uniform policy of Congress
in connection with grants to the States of saline lands.
34 Utah, 458, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of ยง 8 of the

