BEAN v. MORRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

BEAN v. MORRIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 122.

Argued April 11, 12, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Where streams flow through more than one State, it will be presumed,
in the absence of legislation on the subject, that each allows the same
rights to be acquired from outside the State as could be acquired
from within.
The doctrine of appropriation has always prevailed in that region of
the United States which includes Wyoming and Montana; it was
recognized by the United States before, and by those States since,
they were admitted into the Union and the presumption is that the
system has continued.
In this case an appropriation validly made under the laws of Wyoming
is sustained as against riparian owners in Montana.
159 Fed. Rep. 651, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. T. J. Walsh, with whom Mr. George W. Pierson
and Mr. Cornelius B. Nolan were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William M. Ellison, with whom Mr. Alexander M.
McCoy was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the respondent, Morris, to
prevent the petitioners from so diverting the waters of
Sage Creek in Montana as to interfere with an alleged
prior right of Morris, by appropriation, to two hundred
and fifty inches of such waters in Wyoming. Afterwards
the other respondent, Howell, was allowed to intervene

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

and make a similar claim. Sage Creek is a small creek,
not navigable, that joins the Stinking Water in Wyoming,
the latter stream flowing into the Big Horn, which then
flows back northerly into Montana again, and unites with
the Yellowstone. The Circuit Court made a decree that
Morris was entitled to 100 inches miner's measurement,
of date April, 1887, and that, subject to Morris, Howell
was entitled to one hundred and ten inches, of date
August 1, 1890, both parties being prior in time and right
to the petitioners. 146 Fed. Rep. 423. On appeal the
findings of fact below were adopted and the decree of the
Circuit Court affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
159 Fed. Rep. 651; 86 C. C. A. 519.
It was admitted at the argument that but for the fact
that the prior appropriation was in one State, Wyoming,
and the interference in another, Montana, the decree
would be right, so far as the main and important question
is concerned. It is true that some minor points were
suggested, such as laches, abandonment, the statute of
limitations, &c., but the findings of two courts have been
against the petitioners upon all of these, and we see no
reason for giving them further consideration. So we pass
at once to the question of private water rights as between
users in different States.
We know no reason to doubt, and we assume, that,
subject to such rights as the lower State might be decided
by this court to have, and to vested private rights, if any,
protected by the Constitution, the State of Montana has
full legislative power over Sage Creek while it flows within
that State. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 93-95.
Therefore, subject to the same qualifications, we assume
that the concurrence of the laws of Montana with those
of Wyoming is necessary to create easements, or such
private rights and obligations as are in dispute, across
their 'common boundary line. Missouri v. Illinois, 200
U. S. 496, 521. Rickey Land & Cattle Co. v. Miller & Lux,

BEAN v. MORRIS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S. 258, 260. But with regard to such rights as
came into question in the older States, we believe that it
always was assumed, in the absence of legislation to the
contrary, that the States were willing to ignore boundaries,
and allowed the same rights to be acquired from outside
the State that could be acquired from within. Mannville
Co. v. Worcester, 138 Massachusetts, 89. Thayer v. Brooks,
17 Ohio, 489. Slack v. Walcott, 3 Mason, 508, 516. Stillman v. White Rock Manuf. Co., 3 Woodb. & M. 538.
Rundle v. Delaware & Raritan Canal Co. 1 Wall. Jr. 275,
14 How. 80. Foot v. Edwards, 3 Blatchf. 310. See Wooster
v. Great Falls Manuf. Co., 39 Maine, 246, 253. Armendiaz
v. Stillman, 54 Texas, 623; State v. Lord, 16 N. H. 357.
Howard v. Ingersoll, 17 Alabama, 780, 793. There is even
stronger reason for the same assumption here. Montana
cannot be presumed to be intent on suicide, and there are
as many if not more cases in which it would lose as there
are in which it would gain, if it invoked a trial of strength
with its neighbors. In this very instance, as has been
said, the Big Horn, after it has received the waters of Sage
Creek, flows back into that State. But this is the least
consideration. The doctrine of appropriation has prevailed in these regions probably from the first moment
that they knew of any law, and has continued since they
became territory of the United States. It was recognized
by the statutes of the United States, while Montana and
Wyoming were such territory, Rev. Stat., §§ 2339, 2340,
p. 429, Act of March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, and is
recognized by both States now. Before the state lines
were drawn of course the principle prevailed between the
lands that were destined to be thus artificially divided.
Indeed, Morris had made his appropriation before either
State was admitted to the Union. The only reasonable
presumption is that the States upon their incorporation
continued the system that had prevailed theretofore, and
made no changes other than those necessarily implied or

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

expressed. See Willey v. Decker, 11 Wyoming, 496; Smith
v. Denniff, 24 Montana, 20.
It follows from what we have said that it is unnecessary
to consider what limits there may be to the powers of an
upper State, if it should seek to do all that it could. The
grounds upon which such limits would stand are referred
to in Rickey Land & Cattle Co. v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S.
258, 261. So it is unnecessary to consider whether Morris
is not protected~by the Constitution; for it seems superfluous to fall back upon the citadel until some attack
drives him to that retreat. Other matters adverted to in
argument, so far as not disposed of by what we have said,
have been dealt with sufficiently in two courts. It is
enough here to say that we are satisfied with their discussion and confine our own to the only matter that
warranted a certiorari or suggested questions that might
be grave.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 433.

Argued April 13, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The term "misbranded" and the phrase defining what amounts to
misbranding in § 8 of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906,
34 Stat. 768, c. 3915, are aimed at false statements as to identity of
the article, possibly including strength, quality and purity, dealt
with in § 7 of the act, and not at statements as to curative effect;
and so held that a statement on the labels of bottles of medicine
that the contents are effective as a cure for cancer, even if misleading, is not covered by the statute.
177 Fed. Rep. 313, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

