OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON AGRICULTURAL
LEGE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

221 U. S.

COL-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 70. Submitted December 7, 1910; ordered for reargument January 30,
1911; resubmitted March 15, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.
With the exception named in the constitution every State has absolute immunity from suit; and the Eleventh Amendment applies not
only where the State is actually named as a party but where the suit
is really against it although nominally against one of its officers.
Immunity from suit is a high attribute of soveriegnty and a prerogative of the State itself which cannot be availed of by public
agents when sued for their own torts.
Neither a State nor an individual can confer upon an agent authority
to commit a tort so as to excuse the perpetrator; in such a case the
law of agency has no application and the individual is liable to suit
and injunction.
While the State as a sovereign is not subject to suit, cannot be enjoined, and the State's officers cannot be restrained from enforcing
the State's laws or held liable for consequences of obedience thereto,
a void law is neither a law or command but a nullity conferring no
authority and affording no protection or immunity from suit.
Neither public corporations nor political subdivisions are clothed with
the immunity from suit which belongs to the State alone; and while
they may be relieved from responsibility to a wider degree than individuals would be they must make the defense and cannot rely on
immunity.
In this case held that an agricultural college corporation was not such
an agent of the State as to be immune under the Eleventh Amendment from suit for damages caused by erection of a dyke and consequent overflow of plaintiff's property; but also held that as the
dyke was on property belonging to the State, the State would be a
necessary party to the suit in order to decree removal, and in the
absence of consent to be sued the court had no jurisdiction to decree removal.
Although parties erecting a dyke on property belonging to the State

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON COLLEGE.
221 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

may not, wider the Eleventh Amendment, be immune from suit,
the State is a necessary party to a suit to remove the dyke and it
is beyond the jurisdiction of the court to make a decree to that
effect.
Where a suit is for damages caused by erection of a dyke and for removal of the dyke the prayer for removal can be stricken out without depriving the court of jurisdiction to hear and determine the
prayer for damages.
77 So. Car. 12, reversed.

IN his complaint the plaintiff alleged that he owned a
valuable body of fertile bottom lands, on the west side of
the Seneca River, on which he had raised large crops from
the time of purchasing the farm in 1880 until 1895, when
the defendant, by its trustees, erected and maintained a
high embankment on the eastern side of the river. This
dyke was to protect the lands of the college from overflow,
but its construction so narrowed the channel of the river
that it caused the rapid current of the stream in time of
high water to flow across the lands of plaintiff, whereby
the natural bank had been destroyed, the rich soil had
been washed away, and his property practically ruined for
agricultural purposes, and "during the period aforesaid
said injury has been and still is continuous from day to day
and year to year." He prayed for judgment for $8,000;
that the defendant be required to abate and remove the
dyke and restore the condition prevailing prior to its
construction and for general relief.
The defendant denied all the allegations of the complaint and alleged that the College had no title to the
land, or any other property in connection with the establishment and maintenance of the institution; that the
construction of the dyke was authorized by the State and
had been built by the College, as a public agent, on land
the title and possession of which was in the State. It
therefore prayed that the complaint be dismissed.
By stipulation the case was heard solely on the question
of jurisdiction. Evidence was introduced showing that

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

by his will, probated April 20, 1888, Thomas G. Clemson
left personal property and the "Fort Hill" place, consisting of 814 acres, providing that whenever the State of
South Carolina should accept the property for the purpose
of founding an agricultural college, his executor should
convey it to the State, to be held so long as it in good
faith devoted the property to the purposes of the donation
-such College to be governed by a board of trustees,
which should never be increased to more than thirteen.
Seven trustees named by the testator, and their successors, were to have the right to fill vacancies in their number, but the legislature might elect six other trustees.
On November 27, 1889, the State accepted the Clemson
bequest, subject to the terms set forth in the will and
enacted that upon the transfer of the property to the
State by the executor a college should be established in
connection with the devise, to be styled the Clemson
Agricultural College of South Carolina, to be situated at
Fort Hill, on the plantation so devised, in which should be
taught all branches of study relating to agriculture, the
College to be under the management of a board of thirteen
trustees, composed of the seven nominated by the will
and their successors and six members elected by the
legislature.
Sec. 4 of the charter provided:
"That the said Board of Trustees is hereby declared to
be a body politic and corporate, under the name and
style of the Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina. They shall have a corporate seal, which they may
change at their discretion; and in their corporate name
they may contract for, purchase and hold property, for
the purpose of this act, and may take any property or
money conveyed by deed, devise or bequest to said college, and may hold the same for its use and benefit; Provided that the conditions of such gift or conveyance shall
in no case be inconsistent with the purposes of this act,

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON COLLEGE.
221 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and shall incur no obligation on the part of the State.
They shall securely invest all funds and keep all property
which may come into their possession, and may sell any
of the personal property not subject to trust, and reinvest
the same in such way as they may deem best for the interest of said college. They may sue and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, in their corporate name, and may do all
things necessary to carry out the provisions of this act,
and may make by-laws for this purpose if they deem it
necessary."
By the act of January 4, 1894, it was declared that
fifty convicts might be employed by the Trustees of Clemson
College in dyking Seneca River, adjoining the college farm,
and such other work as the Trtustees deem useful, for twelve
months.
In April, 1894, a resolution was passed by the Board
of Trustees concerning the work of "building the dykes
necessary to protect the bottom lands of Clemson College." It does not appear when this work began or was
finished, but various extracts from the minutes of the
trustees, from April, 1894, to July, 1905, were introduced
in evidence from which it appeared that the dyke was
constructed according to plans and specifications approved
by the board, under the direction of engineers selected by
the board, and that payments were made by it on account
of work thereon. The embankment was either wholly
or partially washed away, and, in 1903, a resolution was
adopted by the board "to have a survey made of the
dyke for the purpose of submitting estimates of the work
necessary to be done to afford protection to the bottom
lands on the college property-the cost of the estimate
to be based on the recent flood."
Evidence was introduced as to the property owned by
the College and the sources of its income, from which it
appeared that a tract of land, partially paid for by the
State, had been conveyed to the College in fee simple, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

other land had been conveyed for college purposes. The
State appropriated more than $100,000 per annum, which,
with the interest on the securities passing under the residuary clause of Dr. Clemson's will, constituted the main
source of income, though the College did receive about
$6,500 per annum from tuition, rent, sale of dairy products
and the proceeds derived from the electric plant and textile department.
There is copied in the record the act of 1894 to incorporate Clemson College for the purpose of police regulation
over the territory within five miles of the college building.
The trial court found that the current expenses were
paid out of interest on the donation and from the annual
appropriations by the State; that the College had no property which could be sold under execution; that the title
to the land on which the dyke was erected was in the State.
Referring also to the Act of 1894, conferring municipal
powers on Clemson College, the court held that the defendant was a public agent, which could not be sued
without the consent of the State; that such consent was
not given by the provision of the charter that the trustees
"might sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded in their
corporate capacity," inasmuch as that related to contracts
made for College purposes and did not warrant suits
against a public agent for a tort. Holding that the State
was an indispensable party, and had not given its consent
to be sued, the court dismissed the complaint.
On the appeal the plaintiff in his assignments of error
contended that the title to the land was in the State only
as trustee; that the college was not a public corporation,
but a private educational institution, without governmental powers; that it had not been established or endowed by the State and was not governed by the State or
solely by trustees appointed by the State (4 Wheat. 634);
that in addition to the equitable ownership of the Fort

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON COLLEGE.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Hill place, it owned certain lands in fee simple, which were
subject to levy and sale and that the corporation was
liable for its own torts.
The twenty-third assignment of error was as follows:
"Because the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides: 'Nor shall any State
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law.' The allegations of the complaint
show that plaintiff has been deprived of his property for
all practical purposes as agricultural lands as effectually
as if there had been a physical taking thereof; that plaintiff has thus been deprived of his property by the defendant corporation, acting by and through its board of trustees, and this constitutional guarantee has been violated
by such action, whether taken pursuant to an act of the
legislature or otherwise, and his honor erred in not so
holding."
The Supreme Court of the State adopted the opinion of
the trial judge, and on the ground that the State was a
necessary party and had not consented to be sued, dismissed the bill of complaint. 77 S. Car. 12; 57 S. E. Rep.
551. Thereupon the plaintiff sued out a writ of error to
this court:
Mr. Joseph A. McCullough and Mr. R. T. Jaynes for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. P. Carey for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff sued the Clemson Agricultural College of
South Carolina, for damages to his farm, resulting from
the College having built a dyke which forced the waters
of the Seneca River across his land, whereby the soil had
VOL. ccxxi-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

been washed away and the land ruined for agricultural
purposes. There was no demurrer, but the defendant
filed what was treated as a plea to the jurisdiction in
which it averred that it owned no property, and had constructed the dyke as a public agent only, by authority of
the State, on land belonging to the State. By stipulation
the hearing was confined solely to the question of jurisdiction, and after considering the evidence the complaint
was dismissed.
That ruling and the assignments of error thereon raise
the question as to whether a public corporation can avail
itself of the State's immunity from suit, in a proceeding
against it for so managing the land of the State as to damage or take private property without due process of law.
With the exception named in the Constitution, every
State has absolute immunity from suit. Without its
consent it cannot be sued in any court, by any person, for
any cause of action whatever. And, looking through form
to substance, the Eleventh Amendment has been held to
apply, not only where the State is actually named as a
party defendant on the record, but where the proceeding,
though nominally against an officer, is really against the
State, or is one to which it is an indispensable party. No
suit, therefore, can be maintained against a public officer
which seeks to compel him to exercise the State's power
of taxation; or to pay out its money in his possession on
the State's obligations; or to execute a contract, or to do
any affirmative act which affects the State's political or
property rights. Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R.
R., 109 U. S. 446; North Carolinav. Temple, 134 U. S. 22;
Louisiana v. Steele, 134 U. S. 230; Louisiana v. Jumel,
107 U. S. 711; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1;
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S.
1; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148; Hagood v. Southern,
117 U. S. 52, 70.
But immunity from suit is a high attribute of sover-

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON COLLEGE.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eignty-a prerogative of the State itself-which eannot
be availed of by public agents when sued for their own
torts. The Eleventh Amendment was not intended to
afford them freedom from liability in any case where,
under color of their office, they have injured one of the
State's citizens. To grant them such immunity would
be to create a privileged class free from liability for wrongs
inflicted or injuries threatened. Public agents must be
liable to the law, unless they are to be put above the law.
For how "can the principles of individual liberty and right
be maintained if, when violated, the judicial tribunals
are forbidden to visit penalties upon individual defendants . . . whenever they interpose the shield of the
State. . . . The whole frame and scheme of the political institutions of this country, state and Federal, protest" against extending to any agent the sovereign's exemption from legal process. Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114
U. S. 270, 291.
The many claims of immunity from suit have therefore
been uniformly denied, where the action was brought for
injuries done or threatened by public officers. If they
were indeed agents, acting for the State, they-though not
exempt from suit-could successfully defend by exhibiting the valid power of attorney or lawful authority under
which they acted. Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick
R. R., 109 U. S. 446, 452. But if it appeared that they
proceeded under an unconstitutional statute their justification failed and their claim of immunity disappeared on
the production of the void statute. Besides, neither a
State nor an individual can confer upon an agent authority
to commit a tort so as to excuse the perpetrator. In such
cases the law of agency has no application-the wrongdoer is treated as a principal and individually liable for
the damages inflicted and subject to injunction against
the commission of acts causing irreparable injury.
Consequently there have been recoveries in ejectment

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 .U. S.

where the public agent in possession defended under a void
title of the Government. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.
196; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204. A suit against a
bank was sustained even though the State held part of
the stock, Bank of U. S. v. Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9
Wheat. 904. A tax collector was enjoined, where, under
an unconstitutional law, he was about to sell the property
of the taxpayer, Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270.
An attorney general was restrained from suing to recover
penalties imposed by an unconstitutional statute, Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123. Commissions have been enjoined from enforcing confiscatory rates, Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466; Prouttv. Starr, 188 U. S. 537. A state land commissioner was enjoined from proceeding, under an unconstitutional act, to cause irreparable damage to defendant's
property rights, Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1.
Commissions have been restrained from enforcing a statute
which illegally burdened interstate commerce, McNeill v.
Southern Ry., 202 U. S. 543; Railway Commission v. Illinois
CentralR. R., 203 U. S. 335.
Other cases might be cited which deny public boards,
agents and officers. immunity from suit. But the principle underlying the decisions is the same. All recognize
that the State, as a sovereign, is not subject to suit; that
the State cannot be enjoined; and that the State's officers,
when sued, cannot be restrained from enforcing the State's
laws or be held liable for "the consequences flowing from
obedience to the State's command.
But a void act is neither a law nor a command. It is
a nullity. It confers no authority. It affords no protection. Whoever seeks to enforce unconstitutional statutes,
or to justify under them, or to obtain immunity through
them, fails in his defense and in his claim of exemption
from suit.
It is said, however, that, in the cases referred to, the of-

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON COLLEGE.
221 V.. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ficers were held liable to suit because in the transaction
complained of, the statute being unconstitutional, they
could not be treated as agents of the State. And it is argued that these authorities have no application to suits
against those public corporations which exist, and can act,
in no other capacity than as governmental agencies, or
political subdivisions of the State itself. But neither public
corporations nor political subdivisions are clothed with
that immunity from suit which belongs to the State alone
by virtue of its sovereignty. In County of Lincoln v.
Luning, 133 U. S. 529, 530, the court said that: "While a
county is territorially a part of the State, yet politically it
is also a corporation, created by and with such powers as
are given to it by the State. In this respect it is a part of
the State only in that remote sense in which any city,
town, or other municipal corporation may be said to be a
part." The court there held that the Eleventh Amendment was limited to those cases in which the State is the
real party, or party on the record, but that counties were
corporations which might be sued. Dunn v. University of
Oregon, 9 Oregon, 357, 362; Herr v. Kentucky Lunatic
Asylum, 97 Kentucky, 458, 463; S. C., 28 L. R. A. 394.
Corporate agents or individual officers of the State
stand in no better position than officers of the General
Government, and as to them it has often been held that:
"The exemption of the United States from judicial process does not protect their officers and agents, civil or
military, in time of peace, from being personally liable to
an action of tort by a private person, whose rights of
property they have wrongfully invaded or injured, even
by authority of the United States." Belknap v. Schild,
161 U. S. 10, 18.
Undoubtedly counties, cities, townships and similar
bodies politic often have a defense which relieves them
from responsibility where a private corporation would be
liable. But they must at least make that defense. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221. U. S.

cannot rely on freedom from accountability as could a
State.
In this case there is no question of corporate existence
and no claim that building the dyke was ultra vires. Plaintiff was denied a hearing, not on the ground that his complaint did not set out a cause of action, but solely for the
reason that even if the College did destroy his farm, the
court had no jurisdiction over a public agent.
If the State had in so many words granted the College
authority to take or damage the plaintiff's property for
its corporate advantage without compensation, the Constitution would have substituted liability for the attempted
exemption. But the State of South Carolina passed no
such act and attempted to grant no such immunity from
suit as is claimed by the College. On the contrary, the
statute created an entity, a corporation, a juristic person,
whose right to hold and use property was coupled with
the provision that it might sue and be sued, plead and be
impleaded, in its corporate name.
Reference is made, however, to Kansas ex rel. Little v.
University of Kansas, and the note to 29 L. R. A. 378,
where state colleges, prison boards, lunatic asylums and
other public institutions have been held to be agents of
the State not liable to suit unless expressly made so by
statute.
But an examination of the cases cited, in any respect
similar to this, will show that they involve questions of
liability in a suit, rather than immunity from suit. Most
of them were actions for torts committed, not by the public corporation itself, but by officers of the law. These
public corporations were held free from liability in the
suit, on the same ground that municipalities are held not
to be responsible for the negligence of policemen, jailers,
prison guards, firemen, and other agents performing governmental duties. Workman v. Mayor of N. Y., 179 U. S.
556. That general rule is of force in South Carolina, as

HOPKINS v. CLEMSON COLLEGE.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appears from Gibbs v. Beaufort, 20 S. Car. 213, 218, cited in
the opinion of the court below, where it was said that "a
municipal corporation, instituted for the purpose of assisting a State in the conduct of local self government, is
not liable to be sued in an action of tort for nonfeasance
or misfeasance of its officers in regard to their public duties, unless expressly made so by statute." But the plaintiff is not seeking here to hold the College liable for the
nonfeasance or misfeasance either of its own officers or
officers of the public. This is a suit against the College
itself for its own corporate act in building a dyke, whereby
the channel had been narrowed, the swift current had
been diverted from the usual course across the plaintiff's
farm, and, as it is alleged, destroying the banks, washing
away the soil and for all practical purposes as effectually
depriving him of his property as if there had been a
physical taking. Compare Lewis on Eminent Domain,
2d ed., ยง 67; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166;
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; United States v.
Welch, 217 U. S. 333; Chicago &c. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226; Farnham on Waters, ยง 191; Conniff v. San Francisco,
67 California, 45, 50.
Again, and still treating the question as though involved in the plea to the jurisdiction, this is not an action
against the College for a tort committed in the prosecution of any governmental function. The fee was in the
State, but the corporation, as equitable owner, was in
possession, use and enjoyment of the property. For protecting the bottom land the College, for its own corporate
purposes and advantage, constructed the dyke. In so
doing it was not acting in any governmental capacity.
The embankment was in law similar to one which might
have been built for private purposes by the plaintiff on
the other side of the river. If he had there constructed a
dyke to protect his farm, and in so doing had taken or
damaged the land of the College, he could have been sued

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

and held liable. In the same way, and on similar principles of justice and legal liability, the College is responsible to him if, for its own benefit and for protecting land
which it held and used, it built a dyke which resulted in
taking or damaging the plaintiff's farm. 2 Dillon M.
Corp. (4th ed.), ยง 966, p. 1180.
As a part of its plea to the jurisdiction, the College also
claimed that "it never had any interest or title in the
land described in the complaint, or in any other property
connected with the establishment and maintenance of
Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina, all of it
being the property of the State of South Carolina." And
it is argued that the court could take no jurisdiction of a
case against a public corporation which, at most, could
only result in a judgment unenforceable by levy and sale
under execution.
As a matter of fact, the record indicates that besides
the State's annual appropriation and the interest on
securities held under the residuary clause of Dr. Clemson's will, the College has other sources of income. It
appears to own some land in fee simple. The charter
authorizes it to receive bequests. So that if the Fort Hill
place is not subject to levy and sale, it does not follow
that the institution may not now or hereafter own property out of which a judgment in plaintiff's favor could
be satisfied. Besides, we have no right to proceed on the
theory that if, at the end of the litigation, plaintiff establishes his right to damages, the judgment would not
be paid. These suggestions, though made in a plea to the
jurisdiction, afford no reason why the College should be
granted immunity from suit, when it is claimed that, in
.violation of the Constitution, it has taken private property
for its corporate purposes without compensation.
The plaintiff prayed not only for damages but that the
embankment should be removed. The title to the land
and everything annexed to the soil is in the State, subject

FABER v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

to the conditions named in the will. The State, therefore, may be a necessary party to any proceeding which
seeks to affect the land itself, or to remove any structure
thereon which has become a part of the land. If so, and
unless it consents to be sued, the court cannot decree the
removal of the embankment which forms a part of the
State's property. Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick
R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446. But the prayer for that part of
the relief can be' stricken out without depriving the court
of jurisdiction to hear and determine the question whether
Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina is liable
to the plaintiff for its own corporate act in building for
its own proprietary and corporate purposes a dyke which
it is alleged damaged or took the plaintiff's farm. Columbia Waterpower Company v. Electric Co., 43 S. Car. 154,
(1), 167, 169. And, if the facts hereafter warrant it, the
College may be enjoined against further acts looking to
the maintenance or reconstruction of the dyke. The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

FABER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 134.

Submitted April 20, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Quaere and purposely not decided whether the reduction in tariff rates
provided by ยง 2 of the treaty with Cuba of 1903 is limited to rates
of duty in general tariff acts and does not apply to special rates
under special agreements with other countries. Whitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190.
The treaty with Cuba of 1903 was signed and proclaimed after the

