OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY
v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 222.

Argued April 17, 18, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 145, c. 2939, regulating the hours
of labor of railway employds engaged in interstate commerce and
requiring carriers to make reports in regard thereto, is not unconstitutional as beyond the power of Congress because it applies to
railroads and employ6s engaged in intrastate business. Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, distinguished.
By virtue of its power to regulate interstate and foreign commerce
Congress may enact laws for the safeguarding of persons and property in interstate transportation and may restrict the hours of labor
of employ6s connected with such transportation.
The length of time employed has a direct relation to efficiency of employ6s, and the imposition of reasonable restrictions in regard thereto
is not an unconstitutional interference with the liberty of contract.
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549.
The power of Congress to make regulations in regard to agencies for
interstate commerce is not defeated by the fact that the agencies
regulated are also connected with intrastate commerce.
An exception in a statute of cases of emergency does not render a
statute void for uncertainty where Congress has appropriately
described the exceptional cases intended to be covered.
Under § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to require carriers to make reports
regarding the hours of labor of such employ6s as are subject to the
act of March 4, 1907, and the requirement of such reports does not
constitute an unreasonable search or seizure within the meaning of
the Fourth Amendment.
A corporation cannot plead a privilege against self-incrimination
under the Fifth Amendment; nor can an officer of a corporation
plead that the immunity guaranteed by that amendment relieves
him personally from making records from the books and papers of
the corporation. Wilson v. United States, ante, p. 361.

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. INT. COM. COMM.
221 U. S.

613

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order made
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the construction of the Employ6's Act (hours of service) of
March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1415, c. 2939, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John G.
Johnson and Mr. Hugh L. Bond; Jr., were on the brief,
for appellant.
The Solicitor General for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity to annul an order made by the
Interstate Commerce Commission on March 3, 1908, and
for injunction. The order required the carriers within
the provisions of the act of Congress of March 4, 1907,
chapter 2939, 34 Stat. 1415, to make monthly reports,
under oath, showing the instances where employ~s subject
to that act had been on duty for a longer period than that
allowed. The statute, entitled "An act to promote the
safety of employ6s and travelers upon railroads by limiting the hours of service of employs thereon," is set forth
in the margin.1

I Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the provisions of this Act
shall apply to any common carrier or carriers, their officers, agents,
and employ~s, engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by railroad in the District of Columbia or any Territory of the
United States, or from one State or Territory of the United States or
the District of Columbia to any other State or Territory of the United
States or the District of Columbia, or from any place in the United
States to an adjacent foreign country, or from any place in the United
States through a foreign country to any other place in the United States.
The term "railroad" as used in this Act shall include all bridges and
ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad, and also all
the road in use by any common carrier operating a railroad, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

By stipulation there were introduced into the record
additional instructions issued by the Commission under
date of August 15, 1908. These prescribed new forms,
and also a separate form of oath for use in case there had
been no excessive service; and it was further directed that
reports of hours of service of the employ6s described
should be made by the secretary or similar officer of the
carrier.
It was agreed that a number of like suits brought by
other carriers should abide the final disposition of this
cause and that meanwhile the reports should not be required.
The bill alleged that the purpose of the Commission in
owned or operated under a contract, agreement, or lease; and the term
"employ s" as used in this Act shall be held to mean persons actually
engaged in or connected with the movement of any train.
SEC. 2. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier, its officers
or agents, subject to this Act to require or permit any employd subject
to this Act to be or remain on duty for a longer period than sixteen
consecutive hours, and whenever any such employ6 of such common
carrier shall have been continuously on duty for sixteen hours he shall
be relieved and not required or permitted again to go on duty until he
has had at least ten consecutive hours off duty; and no such employ6
who has been on duty sixteen hours in the aggregate in any twentyfour-hour period shall be required or permitted to continue or again
go on duty without having had at least eight consecutive hours off
duty: Provided, That no operator, train dispatcher, or other employ6
who by the use of the telegraph or telephone dispatches, reports,
transmits, receives, or delivers orders pertaining to or affecting train
movements shall be required or permitted to be or remain on duty for
a longer period than nine hours in any twenty-four-hour period in all
towers, offices, places, and stations continuously operated night and
day, nor for a longer period than thirteen hours in all towers, offices,
places, and stations operated only during the daytime, except in case
of emergency, when the employ6s named in this proviso may be permitted to be and remain on duty for four additional hours in a twentyfour-hour period on not exceeding three days in any week: Provided
further, The Interstate Commerce Commission may after full hearing
in a particular case and for good cause shown extend the period within

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. INT. COM. COMM.
221 U. S.

615

Opinion of the Court.

making the order was to secure from carriers evidence of
infractions of the law in order that suits might be brought
to recover penalties; that, even if this were not the purpose, the result of the requirement would be the same,
because of the provision that the Commission should
lodge with the proper district attorneys information of
the violations coming to its knowledge; and that this
compulsory disclosure, both as to the corporation itself
and as to the officers concerned in such violations, was
repugnant to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments of the
Constitution of the United States. It was also alleged
which a common carrier shall comply with the provisions of this proviso as to such case.
SEC. 3. That any such common carrier, or any officer or agent
thereof, requiring or permitting any employ6 to go, be, or remain on
duty in violation of the second section hereof, shall be liable to a penalty of not to exceed five hundred dollars for each and every violation,
to be recovered in a suit or suits to be brought by the United States
district attorney in the district court of the United States having jurisdiction in the locality where such violation shall have been committed;
and it shall be the duty of such district attorney to bring such suits
upon satisfactory information being lodged with him; but no such suit
shall be brought after the expiration of one year from the date of such
violation; and it shall also be the duty of the Interstate Commerce
Commission to lodge with the proper district attorneys information of
any such violations as may come to its knowledge. In all prosecutions
under this Act the common carrier shall be deemed to have had knowledge of all acts of all its officers and agents: Provided, That the provisions of this Act shall not apply in any case of casualty or unavoidable
accident or the act of God; nor where the delay was the result of a cause
not known to the carrier or its officer or agent in charge of such employs at the time said employ6 left a terminal, and which could not
have been foreseen: Provided further, That the provisions of this Act
shall not apply to the crews of wrecking or relief trains.
SEC. 4. It shall be the duty of the Interstate Commerce Commission to execute and enforce the provisions of this Act, and all powers
granted to the Interstate Commerce Commission are hereby extended
to it in the execution of this Act.
SEC. 5. That this Act shall take effect and be in force one year after
its passage.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

that the Commission was without authority to make the
order, either under the provisions of the act or otherwise.
A demurrer for want of equity was sustained, and the
complainant appeals.
First. Although the question was not specifically
raised by the bill, it is now contended that the statute is
unconstitutional in its entirety and therefore no action
of the Commission can be based upon it. It is said that
it goes beyond the power which Congress may exercise in
the regulation of interstate commerce; that while addressed
to common carriers engaged in interstate transportation
by railroad to any extent whatever, its prohibitions and
penalties are not limited to interstate commerce, but apply to intrastate railroads and to employ6s engaged in
local business.
The prohibitions of the act are found in § 2. This provides that it shall be "unlawful for any common carrier,
its officers or agents, subject to this Act to require or
permit any employ6 subject to this Act to be or remain
on duty" for a longer period than that prescribed. The
carriers and employ~s subject to the act are defined in
§ 1 as follows:
"That the provisions of this Act shall apply to any
common carrier or carriers, their officers, agents, and
employ6s, engaged in the transportation of passengers or
property by railroad in the District of Columbia or any
Territory of the United States, or from one State or
Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia
to any other State or Territory of the United States or
the District of Columbia, or from any place in the United
States to an adjacent foreign country, or from any place
in the United States through a foreign country to any
other place in the United States. The term 'railroad' as
used in this Act shall include all bridges and ferries used
or operated in connection with any railroad, and also all
the road in use by any common carrier operating a rail-

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. INT. COM. COMM.
221 U. S.

617

Opinion of the Court.

road, whether owned or operated under a contract, agreement, or lease; and the term 'employds' as used in this
Act shall be held to mean persons actually engaged in or
connected with the movement of any train."
No difficulty arises in the construction of this language.
The first sentence states the application to carriers and
employ6s who are "engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by railroad" in the District of Columbia or the Territories, or in interstate or foreign commerce. The definition in the second sentence, of what
the terms "railroad" and "employ6s" shall include,
qualify these words as previously used, but do not remove the limitation as to the nature of the transportation
in which the employds must be engaged in order to come
within the provisions of the statute. If the definition, in
the last part of the sentence, of the words used in the first
part be read in connection with the latter the meaning of
the whole becomes obvious. The section, in effect, thus
provides: "This act shall apply to any common carrier
or carriers, their officers, agents, and employ6s (meaning
by 'employds' persons actually engaged in or connected
with the movement of any train), engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by railroad (meaning
by 'railroad' to include all bridges and ferries used or
operated in connection with any railroad) in the District
of Columbia or any Territory . . .
State . . . to any other State," etc.

or from one
In short, the

employ6s to which the act refers, embracing the persons
described in the last sentence of the section, are those
engaged in the transportation of passengers or property
by railroad in the district, territorial, interstate or foreign
commerce defined; and the railroad, including bridges
and ferries, is the railroad by means of which the defined
commerce is conducted.
The statute, therefore, in its scope, is materially different from the act of June 11, 1906, chapter 3073, 34

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Stat. 232, which was before this court in the Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463. There, while the carriers
described were those engaged in the commerce subject
to the regulating power of Congress, it appeared that if a
carrier was so engaged the act governed its relation to
every employ6, although the employment of the latter
might have nothing whatever to do with interstate commerce. In the present statute, the limiting words govern
the employ6s as well as the carriers.
But the argument, undoubtedly, involves 'the consideration that the interstate and intrastate operations of
interstate carriers are so interwoven that it is utterly
impracticable for them to divide their employ~s in such
manner that the duties of those who are engaged in connection with interstate commerce shall be confined to
that commerce exclusively. And thus, many employ6s
who have to do with the movement of trains in interstate
transportation are, by virtue of practical necessity, also
employed in intrastrate transportation.
This consideration, however, lends no support to the
contention that the statute is invalid. For there cannot
be denied to Congress the effective exercise of its constitutional authority. By virtue of its power to regulate
interstate and foreign commerce, Congress may enact
laws for the safeguarding -of the persons and property
that are transported in that commerce and of those who
are employed in transporting them. Johnson v. Southern
Pacific Company, 196 U. S. 1; Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 177, 178; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Railway Company v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway Company v. United States, decided May 15, 1911, 220
U. S. 559. The fundamental question here is whether
a restriction upon the hours of labor of employ~s who are
connected with the movement of trains in interstate
transportation is comprehended within this sphere of
authorized legislation. This question admits of but one

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. INT. COM. COMM.
221 U. S.

619

Opinion of the Court.

answer. The length of hours of service has direct relation
to the efficiency of the human agencies upon which protection to life and property necessarily depends. This
has been repeatedly emphasized in official reports of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and is a matter so
plain as to require no elaboration. In its power suitably
to provide for the safety of employ6s and travelers, Congress was not limited to the enactment of laws relating to
mechanical appliances, but it was also competent to consider, and to endeavor to reduce, the dangers incident to
the strain of excessive hours of duty on the part of engineers, conductors, train dispatchers, telegraphers, and
other persons embraced within the class defined by the
act. And in imposing restrictions having reasonable relation to this end there is no interference with liberty of
contract as guaranteed by the Constitution. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company v. McGuire, 219
U. S. 549.
If then it be assumed, as it must be, that in the furtherance of its purpose Congress can limit the hours of labor
of employ~s engaged in interstate transportation, it follows
that this power cannot be defeated either by prolonging
the period of service through other requirements of the
carriers or by the commingling of duties relating to interstate and intrastate operations.
Second. It is also urged that the statute is void for
uncertainty. This objection is based on the wording of
the first proviso in § 2 of the act, which is as follows:
"Provided, That no operator, train dispatcher, .
shall be required or permitted to be or remain on duty for
a longer period than nine hours in any twenty-four hour
period in all towers, offices, places, and stations continuously operated night and day, nor for a longer period
than thirteen hours in all towers, offices, places, and
stations operated only during the day time, except in
case of emergency, when the employ6s named in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

proviso may be permitted to be and remain on duty for
four additional hours in a twenty-four hour period on not
exceeding three days in any week."
It is said that the words "except in case of emergency,"
make the application of the act so uncertain as to destroy
its validity. But this argument in substance denies to
the legislature the power to use a generic description, and
if pressed to its logical conclusion would practically nullify
the legislative authority by making it essential that legislation should define, without the use of generic terms,
all the specific instances to be brought within it. In a
legal sense there is no uncertainty. Congress, by an appropriate description of an exceptional class, has established a standard with respect to which cases that arise
must be adjudged.
Nor does the contention gather strength from the
broad scope of the proviso in § 3, for if the latter, in
limiting the effect of the entire act, could be said to include
everything that may be embraced within the term "emergency" as used in § 2, this would be merely a duplication
which would not invalidate the act.
Third. Finding that the objections to the validity of
the statute are not well taken, we are brought to the
question whether the Interstate Commerce Commission
has authority to require the reports called for by its
order.
Section 4 of the act provides:
"SEc. 4. It shall be the duty of the Interstate Commerce Commission to execute and enforce the provisions
of this Act, and all powers granted to the Interstate
Commerce Commission are hereby extended to it in the
execution of this Act."
The Commission then may call to its aid in the enforcement of the act "all powers granted" to it. And, although
there might have been doubt as to the adequacy of the
authority of the Commission, under the law as it formerly

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. INT. COM. COMM.
221 U S.

621

Opinion of the Court.

stood, to require these reports, there can be none now in
view of the amendment of § 20 of the act to regulate
commerce by the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat.
556. As so amended, this section contains the following
provision:
"The commission shall also have authority by general
or special orders to require said carriers, or any of them,
to file monthly reports of earnings and expenses, and to
file periodical or special, or both periodical and special,
reports concerning any matters about which the commission is authorized or required by this or any other
law to inquire or keep itself informed or which it is required to enforce; and such periodical or special reports
shall be under oath whenever the commission so requires."
This clearly embraces the power which the Commission
here asserts, and it is certainly now entitled to promulgate
an order requiring reports to be made. It follows that as,
under the stipulation of record here, the requirement of
the Commission is to operate wholly in the future and it
has been suspended awaiting the final determination of
this cause, the question of the authority of the Commission at the time the order was made has become a moot
one. Were there no other question before us the appeal
would accordingly be dismissed, and to justify a reversal
of the judgment and the sustaining of the complainant's
bill'other grounds must appear.
Nor can it be said, so far as the scope of the requirement of the order is concerned, that it goes beyond the
authority which has been conferred upon the Commission.
The order relates to the employ6s who are "subject to
said act." The bill alleges that, in the original forms
prescribed, the carrier was required to show the employds
who were "either on duty for a period of time in excess of
that contemplated by the act or who had not been off
duty after any period of service for the length of time prescribed by the act, and in the case of every such employ6

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

the carrier was required to state the cause of and the facts,
if any, explanatory of the excess service thus rendered by
the employ6." By the amended instructions set forth in
the stipulation, it appears that "in case no employ6 has
been employed in excess of the time named in said act,
and in case no employ6 has gone on duty with less than
the statutory period off duty," a separate form of oath to
that effect will be accepted in lieu of the forms which are
to be used in detailing excess service. And, as already
noted, the reports are to be made by the secretary or
similar officer.
To enable the Commission properly to perform its
duty to enforce the law, it is necessary that it should have
full information as to the hours of service exacted of the
employ6s who are subject to the provisions of the statute,
and the requirements to which we have referred are appropriate for that purpose and are comprehended within the
power of the Commission.
Fourth. There is the final objection that to compel the
disclosure by these reports of violations of the law is
contrary to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments of the
Constitution of the United States.
The order of the Commission is suitably specific and
reasonable, and there is not the faintest semblance of an
unreasonable search and seizure. The Fourth Amendment has no application.
Nor can the corporation plead a privilege against selfcrimination under the Fifth Amendment. Hale v. Henkel,
201 U. S. 74, 75; Hammond Packing Company v. Arkansas,
212 U. S. 348, 349; Wilson v. United States, decided
May 15, 1911, ante, p. 361. With respect to its officers,
it would be sufficient to say that the privilege guaranteed
to them by this amendment is a personal one which cannot be asserted on their behalf by the corporation. But
the transactions to which the required reports relate are
corporate transactions subject to the regulating power

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

of Congress. And, with regard to the keeping of suitable
records of corporate administration, and the making of
reports of corporate action, where these are ordered by the
Commission under the authority of Congress, the officers
of the corporation, by virtue of the assumption of their
duties as such, are bound by the corporate obligation and
cannot claim a personal privilege in hostility to the requirement. Wilson v. United States, supra.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

JOVER Y COSTAS v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT
OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
INSULAR GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS v. JOVER Y COSTAS.
APPEALS FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
Nos. 112, 113.

Argued April 7, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Article 46 of the constitution of Spain as existing in 1859, providing
that in order to alienate, cede or exchange any part of Spanish
territory, the King required the authority of a special law, related
to transference of national sovereignty and not to disposal of public land as property.
The laws of the Partida which affirm that the sea and its shore are
among the things that are common to all men are not to be so literally construed, as held by the Spanish courts prior to the cession of
the Philippine Islands, as prohibiting a grant of tide lands to one
desiring to reclaim and improve them.
The Governor General of the Philippine Islands under Spanish rule
possessed all the powers of the King except where otherwise provided, and a grant of lands made by him was valid unless in violation of law specially prohibiting him from making it.
Where the local authorities in the Philippine Islands, with full knowl-

