-660

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

ments-on imports-from countries which are foreign
to the United States. Both in the light of our own legislation and in view of the generally accepted interpretation
of the word "imports," the eighth article of the treaty cannot be construed to have been intended to give to Cuba
an advantage over shipments of merchandise coming into
the United States from a part of its own territory, where
the collections were in part made as a means for raising
revenue for the support of the government of the Philippine Islands. Cuba was given a preferential of twenty
per cent over tariff rates on imports from countries which
are foreign to the United States.
We make no ruling as to the duty to be charged on
alcohol, because in the brief of the Government it is said
that without conceding plaintiff's contention to be sound,
and for reasons unnecessary to state, it consents to a reversal of so much of the judgment as relates to alcohol.
It will be so ordered. The judgment of the Circuit Court
as to the rate of duty on the cigars is
Affirmed.

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION FOR SAVINGS v. MALONE, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 151.

Argued April 26, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The State has power to legislate in regard to the preservation and
disposition of abandoned property and to establish presumptions
of abandonment after lapse of reasonable period. Cunnius v.
Reading, 198 U. S. 454.

A statute directing that savings banks turn over to the proper state
officers money in accounts inactive for thirty years and where the

PROVIDENT SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. MALONE. 661
221 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

depositor cannot be found, with provisions for the payment over to
the depositor or his heirs on establishment of right, does not deprive savings banks of their property without due process of law
and is not a denial of equal protection of the law because it applies
only to savings banks, the classification not being unreasonable;
and so held as to the statute of Massachusetts to that effect.
The question of whether a statute allows a depositor or his heirs a
lower rate of interest on a deposit turned over to the State as abandoned than allowed by the bank amounts to a deprivation of property without due process of law within the Fourteenth Amendment
cannot be raised by the bank as against the State.
There is a special reason for protecting depositors of savings banks
and there is a difference between them and deposits in other banks
that affords a reasonable basis for classification in legislation.
Whether the State can require payment of accounts in savings banks
without production of the pass-book and the rights and relations
of parties arising out of the charter and contract of deposit are to be
determined by local law and do not present Federal questions giving this court jurisdiction under ยง 709, Rev. Stat.

IN 1907 the General Court of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts passed an act providing that deposits in
savings banks which had remained inactive and unclaimed for thirty years, and where the claimant was unknown or the depositor could not be found, should be
paid to the treasurer and receiver general.
Under this statute, which is copied in the margin,1 the
I SEc. 56. The probate court shall, upon the application of the
attorney-general, and after public notice, order and decree that all
amounts of money heretofore or hereafter deposited with any savings
bank or trust company to the credit of depositors who have not made
a deposit on said account or withdrawn any part thereof or the interest,
or on whose passbooks the interest has not been added, which shall
have remained unclaimed for more than thirty years after the date of
such last deposit, withdrawal of any part of principal or interest, or
adding of interest on the passbook, and for which no claimant is known
or the depositor of it cannot be found, shall, with the increase and proceeds thereof, be paid to the treasurer and receiver general, to be held
and used by him according to law, subject to be repaid to the person
having and establishing a lawful right thereto, with interest at the rate

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

221 U. S.

attorney general on May 5, 1908, filed in the Probate
Court of Suffolk County a petition, setting out the names
and last known addresses of 226 persons who had deposit
accounts ranging from $1 to $4,284 in the "Provident
Institution for Savings in the Town of Boston." He alleged that for more than thirty years no part of the principal or interest had been withdrawn, no interest had
been added upon any of the passbooks and no additional
deposits had been made on any of the accounts; that no
claimant for any of said deposits was known, and that the
depositors could not be found. He thereupon prayed that
the court would order the said sums of money, with the
increases thereof, to be paid over to the treasurer and receiver general of the Commonwealth. A copy of the petition was served on the bank, and a citation, addressed to
the depositors, was published once in each week for three
successive weeks in two newspapers in Boston, requiring
them each to show cause on July 16, 1908, why the prayer
of the petition should not be granted.
The Savings Bank alone answered. It admitted the
allegations of the petition. It averred, however, that
when each deposit was made, an agreement was signed
by which the by-laws of the bank made in pursuance of
the charter granted December 11, 1816, was assented to
by the depositor. These by-laws provided that regular
semi-annual dividends of four per cent should be declared
on all deposits of $5 and over, and should be added to the
principal; that no dividends should be paid on sums
above $1,600; that no money could be withdrawn without
the production of the passbook, and that by a vote of the
of three per cent per annum from the time when it was paid to said
treasurer to the time when it is paid over by him to such person.
SEC. 57. Any person claiming a right to money deposited with the
treasurer and receiver general under the provisions of either of the two
preceding sections . . . may establish the same by a petition to
the superior court. . .

PROVIDENT SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. MALONE. 663
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trustees they might dissolve the institution at any time
and divide the whole property among the dispositors in
proportion to their respective interests therein.
The bank contended that the act requiring deposits to
be paid over to the receiver general deprived persons of
their property without due process of law and also impaired the obligation of contracts. After hearing, the
Probate Court directed the bank to pay over and transfer
to the treasurer and receiver general of the Commonwealth the amounts deposited by the persons named in
the petition. On appeal that order was affirmed by the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. 201 Massachusetts, 23; S. C., 86 N. E. Rep. 912.
Mr. John C. Gray, with whom Mr. William Ropes
Trask and Mr. Roland Gray were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Dana Malone, with whom Mr. Fred. T. Field was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Massachusetts statute as to abandoned funds in
savings banks only applies where the owner cannot be
found. In the nature of the case, therefore, no depositor
could except to the judgment of the Probate Court which
directed the money to be turned over to the treasurer;
and, it is claimed that as the Bank does not represent the
depositors, it cannot be heard to raise the objection that
their property has been taken without due process of law.
Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160. This may be true,
except in so far as its rights are involved in those of the
depositor. Savings banks are maintained in the expectation that the deposits may, for years, remain uncalled

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

for, to the mutual advantage of bank and customer. So
that if the statute had provided that the money should be
paid over to the receiver-general if the owner, after a short
absence, could not be found, or if the account remained
inactive for a brief period, a very different question would
be presented from that arising under an act which deals
with absence and non-action so long continued as to suggest that the law of escheats or of lost property might be
enforced. This, however, is not a statute of escheats,
since it does not proceed on the theory that the depositor
is dead, leaving no heirs. It does not purport to dispose
of lost property, but deals with a deposit the owner of
which, though known, cannot be found. The act is like
those which provide for the appointment of custodians for
the real and personal property of an absentee.
In this case though the money is on deposit with a
bank, which has faithfully kept its contract, yet the
statute proceeds on the general principle that corporations
may become involved, or may be dissolved; or that, after
long lapses of time, changes may occur which would require someone to look after the rights of the depositor.
The statute deals with accounts of an absent owner, who
has so long failed to exercise any act of ownership asto
raise the presumption that he has abandoned his property.
And if abandoned, it should be preserved until he or his
representative appear to claim it; or failing that, until it
should be escheated to the State. The right and power
so to legislate is undoubted. Cunniusv. Reading, 198 U. S.
458.
The statute here is reasonable in its terms and is so
framed as to work injustice to no one. It only applies to
cases where no deposit has been made, no interest added
on passbook, no check drawn against the account, for
thirty years, and where no claimant is known and the
depositor cannot be found. Before the money can be
turned over to the receiver general proceedings must be

PROVIDENT SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. MALONE. 665
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

instituted in the Probate Court, and, under the decision
of the Supreme Court of the State, personal notice must
be given to the bank and citation and notice, usual in the
Probate Court, published, so as to give the depositor, if
living, and his heirs, if dead, opportunity to appear and
be heard. Even then the property is not escheated, but
deposited with the treasurer to hold as trustee for the
owner or his legal representatives, to whom it is payable
when they establish their right.
It is true that the rate of interest paid by the State is
not the same as that paid by the bank-as to sums under
$1,600 it is less, and as to those over $1,600 it is more. But
this is a matter with which the plaintiff in error is not
concerned and can arise only between the State and the
claimant when he asserts a right to property long neglected
and apparently abandoned.
But the bank insists that there has been no abandonment; that the money is in safe hands where it was originally left, under by-laws which contemplated that the
deposit might remain in the bank without interest on
sums over $1,600 until the corporation was dissolved. It
contends that to deprive it of the benefit of such deposits
is to take property without due process of law.
But while there was a possibility that the money might
so remain the bank had no right to require that it should
be so left. Neither the charter nor the by-laws create
anything in the nature of a tontine, under which, on dissolution of the corporation, the then depositors would
receive the money of those absent and unknown. On
dissolution the shares of a depositor, who could not be
found, would be paid over to his legal representative, who
might be an administrator in case his death was established, or a guardian, in case of mental incapacity, or a
trustee in bankruptcy in case of insolvency, or a representative appointed under statutes applicable to abandoned
property. But it is not necessary to wait for the dissolu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

tion of the bank. If the facts warrant it a legal representative can be appointed at any time, with all the
rights incident to such appointment, including that of
withdrawing the funds and holding them for the true
owner when he shall establish his claim.
There is nothing unequal or discriminatory in making
the act applicable only to abandoned deposits in a savings bank. The classification is reasonable. Deposits in
savings banks are made in expectation that they may
remain much longer uncalled for than is usual in deposits
in other banks. This fact makes savings deposits all the
more likely to be forgotten and abandoned. And as the
depositors are often wage-earners, moving from place to
place, there is special reason for intervening to protect
their interest in this class of property in banks as to which
the State's supervisory power is constantly exercised.
The other questions as to payment without the production of the passbook, the rights and relations of the
parties arising out of the charter and contract of deposit
present no Federal question. The statute does not violate
the Constitution of the United States. The judgment is
Affirmed.

