OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

own name as proprietor, and his circulars show that he
is his father's successor. About 1890 they began to make
the pills in New York as well as in England, but, as has
been seen, not every phrase in the advertisements was
nicely readjusted to the change. That is all there is in
the whole subject of complaint. There is not the slightest
ground for charging the plaintiff with an attempt to defraud the public by these statements, or any reason why
the judgment below should not be affirmed, unless it be
in a motion of the plaintiff to dismiss. This was met by the
fact that the bill seemingly relied upon the registration of
the words Beecham's Pills as a trade-mark under the act
of Congress as one ground for the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. Warner v. Searle & Hereth Co., 191 U. S. 195, 205,
206; Standard Paint Co. v. Trinidad Asphalt Manuf. Co.,
220 U. S. 446.
Decree affirmed.

MATTER OF HARRIS, BANKRUPT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 165.

Argued April 28, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

The right under the Fifth Amendment not to be compelled to be a
witness against oneself is not a right to appropriate property that
may tell one's story.
A bankrupt is not deprived of his constitutional right not to testify
against himself by an order requiring him to surrender his books to
the duly authorized receiver. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S.
547, distinguished.
Under § 2 of the act of 1898, where the bankruptcy court can enforce
title against the bankrupt in favor of the trustee, it can enforce possession ad interim in favor of the receiver; and so held as to books of
the bankrupt.

MATTER OF HARRIS.
221 U. S.

Argument for the Bankrupt.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis J. Vorhaus, with whom Mr. Moses H. Grossman was on the brief, for the bankrupt:
Inasmuch as the books of account contain evidence
which would incriminate the bankrupt, their delivery cannot be compelled, for to require such delivery would violate the bankrupt's constitutional privilege against incriminating himself. Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.
The compulsory production of a man's private books
and papers to be used in evidence against him is compelling him to be a witness against himself within the meaning of that Amendment. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616; Matter of Kanter, 9 Am. Bank. Rep. 104; Re Hess,
14 Am. Bank. Rep. 559; Wigmore on Evidence, § 2264.
The bankrupt had been threatened with criminal prosecution for having obtained merchandise on credit by
means of a false written statement, and it appears that the
falsity of the statement referred to would be established by
entries in his books of account. Even if no criminal prosecution is pending against him, that fact is no answer to
his right to claim this constitutional privilege. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Re Hess, 14 Am. Bank.
Rep. 559.
The Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, does not supplant
the constitutional privilege.
There is no provision in the act giving the bankrupt
immunity from the use of his books of account against
him in case he delivers them to his receiver or trustee.
The only provision for immunity to the bankrupt is § 7a,
subd. 9, which does not meet this situation. But even if
it does, it is inadequate, and cannot supplant the privilege.
Under the constitutional provision, a statutory enactment, to be valid, must afford absolute immunity against
future prosecution for the offense to which the question
relates. Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra; Re Feldstein,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Receiver.

221 U. S.

4 Am. Bank. Rep. 321; Matter of Kanter, 9 Am. Bank. Rep.
104, and cases cited; In re Hess, supra; Taylor v. Forbes,
143 N. Y. 219.
The books of account contain entries which tend to
incriminate. It appears that the bankrupt's claim of privilege is well founded and is made in good faith. 1 Burr's
Trial, 244, cited in Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra; Taylor
v. Forbes, 143 N. Y. 231; Matter of Kanter, 9 Am. Bank.
Rep. 104.
The order herein compels the bankrupt to incriminate
himself, in violation of his constitutional privilege. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547.
Although the order prohibits the use of the books themselves in any criminal case against the bankrupt, it permits the receiver to inspect them and take extracts therefrom. The production of such secondary evidence ought
to be compelled by subpoena. Such evidence, in whatever manner obtained, might be competent and admissible
as against the bankrupt. Adams v. New York, 192 U. S.
585; Kerrch v. United States, 171 Fed. Rep. 366; Zotti v.
Flynn, 135 App. Div. 276, 284.
If these consequences may follow as a result of this
order, the bankrupt is thereby deprived of his constitutional privilege.
The provision of the order forbidding the use of the
books in any criminal proceeding against the bankrupt
does not afford him absolute immunity against future
prosecution for any offense to which said books relate.
The endeavor to aid the receiver in the administration
of the bankrupt's estate furnishes no justification for
the slightest encroachment upon the bankrupt's privilege.
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.
Mr. Abram I. Elkus, with whom Mr. Carlisle J. Gleason
was on the brief, for the receiver:
The bankrupt's contention involves an impairment

MATTER OF HARRIS.
221 U. S.

Argument for Receiver.

both of efficiency in the administration of the Bankruptcy
Act and of the court's power to take possession of the
bankrupt estate. In re Harris, 164 Fed. Rep. 292, 293.
The more of fraud there has been on the part of the
bankrupt the more strongly entrenched he will be against
being obliged to turn over his books, and the more impossible will it become for the court to effect an equitable
distribution of his assets among his creditors. If the court
cannot take the property of the estate it is administering
into its control it loses to that extent its jurisdiction and
power over that estate.
The Fifth Amendment does not prevent a court from
compelling a bankrupt to yield his books for purposes of
civil administration of his estate. See Brown v. Walker,
161 U. S. 591, 596, as to exceptions of the application of
the principle, viz.: Where the privilege is waived; where
the accused person takes the stand in his own behalf;
where the prosecution is barred by the statute of limitations; where the witness has been pardoned; where the
answer of the witness will only tend to degrade or disgrace
him; and where the danger is not real and appreciable but
rather imaginary and unsubstantial. Counselmanv. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, is readily distinguishable by reason
of the difference in the nature of the proceeding, and the
different object sought thereby. The English law furnishes
a limitation of the principle of the Amendment which is a
potent consideration here. Brown v. Walker, supra, p. 600;
and see Matter of John Heath, Court of Review, in Bankruptcy, 1833, 2 Deac. & Chitty, 214.
Under the English rule, particularly as laid down in
Ex parte Joves, Buck, 337, the English rule has been applied in various courts of the United States. Re Bromley,
3 Nat. Bank. Reg. Rep. 686; Re Sapiro, 92 Fed. Rep. 340;
Re Hart Bros., 136 Fed. Rep., 986; In re Hess, 136 Fed.
Rep. 988.
The result reached in these cases is that the books must

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

be produced and if the plea of privilege appears to be well
founded in fact the court will enable the receiver to obtain the necessary information from the books and at the
same time make an order for the protection of the bankrupt from the discovery of incriminating evidence.
A trustee of a bankrupt estate under § 70 of the Bankrupt Act is vested by operation of law as of the date of the
adjudication with the title of the bankrupt to all documents relating to his property. Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216
U. S. 102.
Title does not vest in a receiver in bankruptcy but a
receiver has a right to possession, the property being
within the control of the court. Remington on Bankruptcy, §§ 1121, 1128.
The bankrupt's contention that the court cannot take
his books because they contain incriminating entries is
a direct attack upon the jurisdiction of the court. It
impairs that jurisdiction and leaves the court without
power through its receiver to take possession of the complete property of his estate.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case the District Court made an order that the
bankrupt should deposit his books of account in the office
of the receiver, there to remain in the custody of bankrupt;
the latter to afford the receiver free opportunity to inspect
the same, but the receiver to use and to permit them to be
used only for the purpose of the civil administration of the
estate and not for any criminal proceeding. It was ordered
further that in case of subpoena or other process to the
receiver for their production, he should notify the bankrupt, to the end that the bankrupt might have an opportunity to raise the question of his constitutional privilege.
The bankrupt petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals to
revise the order. It appears that he made to a commer-

MATTER OF HARRIS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cial agency a written statement of his assets and liabilities
January 4, 1908, but he declined to testify concerning it,
as it might tend to criminate him, several creditors having
threatened him with prosecution for having obtained merchandise from them by that means. He also made oath
that the books contained evidence that might tend to incriminate him; which was confirmed by an affidavit of his
attorney. The receiver desired the books in order to
ascertain what disposition was made of the assets alleged
in the statement to the agency. On the other side the
bankrupt was willing to allow an inspection if he could
save his right that the books should not be used against
him in a criminal trial; but he excepted to the order on the
ground that no statute protected him from the knowledge
gained from the books being used to find and get evidence
that might be used against him in a criminal prosecution.
He relied upon the Fifth Amendment and Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547. The Circuit Court of Appeals
certifies the question whether the order was a proper
exercise of the authority of the Bankruptcy Court.
If the order to the bankrupt, standing alone, infringed
.his constitutional rights, it might be true that the provisions intended to save them would be inadequate and that
nothing short of statutory immunity would suffice. But
no constitutional rights are touched. The question is not
of testimony but of surrender-not of compelling the
bankrupt to be a witness against himself in a criminal case,
present or future, but of compelling him to yield possession
of property that he no longer is entitled to keep. If
a
trustee had been appointed, the title to the books would
have vested in him by the express terms of § 70, and the
bankrupt could not have withheld possession of what he
no longer owned, on the ground that otherwise he might
be punished. That is one of the misfortunes of bankruptcy
if it follows crime. The right not to be compelled to be a
witness against oneself is not a right to appropriate prop-

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

erty that may tell one's story. As the bankruptcy court
could have enforced title in favor of the trustee, it could
enforce possession ad interim in favor of the receiver.
§ 2. In the properly careful provision to protect him from
use of the books in aid of prosecution the bankrupt got all
that he could ask. The question certified is answered
Yes.

STRASSHEIM, SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY, v.
DAILY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 638.

Argued April 3, 4, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

In a habeas corpus proceeding in extradition it is sufficient if the count
in the indictment plainly shows that the defendant is charged with
a crime. Pierce v. Creecy, 210 U. S. 387.
Where a guaranty goes not to newness but to fitness of articles furnished, it is a material fraud to furnish old articles even if they cab
meet the test of the guaranty; and the fact that the purchaser may
rely on the guaranty does not exclude the possibility that the purchase price was obtained by false representations as to the newness of
the articles.
A State may punish one committing crimes done outside its jurisdiction for the purpose of producing detrimental effects within it when
it gets the criminal within its power.
Commission of the crimes alleged in this indictment-bribery of a
public officer and obtaining public money under false pretenseswarrants punishment by the State aggrieved even if the offender did
not come into the State until after the fraud was complete.
An overt act becomes retrospectively guilty when the contemplated
result ensues.
One who is never within the State before the commission of a crime producing its results within its jurisdiction is not a fugitive from justice
within the rendition provisions of the Constitution, Hyatt v. Cork-

