JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

of Congress. And, with regard to the keeping of suitable
records of corporate administration, and the making of
reports of corporate action, where these are ordered by the
Commission under the authority of Congress, the officers
of the corporation, by virtue of the assumption of their
duties as such, are bound by the corporate obligation and
cannot claim a personal privilege in hostility to the requirement. Wilson v. United States, supra.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

JOVER Y COSTAS v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT
OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
INSULAR GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS v. JOVER Y COSTAS.
APPEALS FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
Nos. 112, 113.

Argued April 7, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Article 46 of the constitution of Spain as existing in 1859, providing
that in order to alienate, cede or exchange any part of Spanish
territory, the King required the authority of a special law, related
to transference of national sovereignty and not to disposal of public land as property.
The laws of the Partida which affirm that the sea and its shore are
among the things that are common to all men are not to be so literally construed, as held by the Spanish courts prior to the cession of
the Philippine Islands, as prohibiting a grant of tide lands to one
desiring to reclaim and improve them.
The Governor General of the Philippine Islands under Spanish rule
possessed all the powers of the King except where otherwise provided, and a grant of lands made by him was valid unless in violation of law specially prohibiting him from making it.
Where the local authorities in the Philippine Islands, with full knowl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

edge of the circumstances under which a grant was made, imposed
taxes on the property for many, in this case thirty-nine, years, it is
persuasive proof that the grant was valid and that the Governor
General did not exceed his authority in making it.
A grant of tide lands, although made upon condition of reclamation,
is not defeated by failure to reclaim if the granting words import
a present and immediate transfer of ownership; and so held as to a
grant of such lands in the Philippine Islands where the grantee was
"granted possession and ownership," and there was no express
condition either precedent or subsequent that the land be reclaimed
within any definite period.
Where a practical interpretation has been given to a grant of land by
the public officials authorized to interpret it, full effect should be
given thereto.
The appropriate method to review judgments of the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands in cases from the Court of Land Registration is by writ of error and not by appeal.
10 Phil. Rep. 522, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a grant of lands

in the Philippine Islands, made prior to the cession to the
United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. W. A. Kincaid,
Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. J. H. Blount and Mr. Evans
Browne were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for the Philippine
Islands (Insular Government).
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a petition to the Court of Land Registration
of the Philippine Islands for the registration of the title
to a tract of land in the City of Manila, claimed to have
been granted to Don Jose Camps, February 12, 1859, by
a decree of the Governor General of those Islands, reading as follows:

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Acting upon the petition in which Don Jose Camps
on November 17, 1858, solicited a grant for the land
which he fills at his expense on the lowlands situated
along the northern wharf (Murall6n del Norte) and on
the north side thereof, on the right side of the mouth of
the Pasig River, with an extension of 200 brazas in length
and 100 brazas in width, beginning at a distance of 25
varas (Spanish yards) west of the bridge built on said
wharf for the connection of the waters of the river and
of the bay from the Beach of Binondo, as appears on the
plan hereto attached, to which land, after it has been
filled in he intends to move his artistic establishment
called 'Camps 6 Hijos,' and a manufactory of hemp rope;
in view of the report made on the 26th of the said month
of November by the Alcalde Mayor 1. of Manila, who,
after consultation with the director of public- works of
the province, is of the opinion that the waste land asked
for should be granted to Camps, said land being at present covered by the sea, and being far from the houses
situated on the Binondo beach, it is very suitable for
purposes of maritime commerce and it is convenient for
the purpose of public adornment, that the foundry, ironworking and scientific instrument establishment of Camps
6 Hijos be located on that place provided that the said
Camps shall agree not to erect such buildings with brick
and stone or strong materials, for the reason that the
same is outside of the military lines; in view of the report
made on December 17, 1858, by the Commanding General
of Marine, in agreement with the captain of the port
regarding the convenience of such concession for the
merchant marine and public adornment, but with the
precise condition that Camps shall leave a distance of
1612 varas between the outside edge of the wharf and the
intended building, which width is the one fixed for
wharves; in view also of the report of the sub-inspector of
engineers, with the approval of the commander of the
VOL. ccxx--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

post, proposing that the concession asked for shall not be
granted for a building of strong materials, on account of
the forts of the place, and that the building to be erected
shall consist of only one story, and shall be removed at
the expense of its owner, at the discretion of the superior
authority of the Islands, when the public interests so
require, taking into consideration the circumstances and
official and industrial merits of the said Don Jose Camps,
and the offer of protection stated in the decree dated
November 4, 1858, when refusing the sale, asked for
by him, of an irregular piece of land adjoining the new
Cuartel del Carenero, and in conformity with the abovementioned reports of the commanding general of marine,
the sub-inspector of engineers and the civil chief of the
Province of Manila, I hereby decree: Don Jose Camps,
comisario de guerra honorario, oficial mayor jubilado of the
office of the secretary of his superior government, and
director of the iron-working and nautical instrument establishment of Camps 6 Hijos, is granted the possession
and ownership of a parcel of land 200 brazas in length
and 100 brazas in width, covered at present by the waters
of the sea, near the Binondo beach, which land is situated
alongside the Murall6n del Norte, and requested authority
to fill in the same at his expense, is also hereby granted,
subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
"First. The land to be filled in shall form a quadrangle
200 brazas long and 100 brazas wide; beginning on the
longer side, nearest to the Pasig River, at a point 25 varas
from the bridge connecting the waters of the river and
of the bay, and running parallel with the wharf toward
the lighthouse.
"Second. The buildings to be erected by Camps on this
new land so granted shall be located along the said longer
side parallel to the breakwater, separated from the edge
of the exterior wharf for its whole length, a distance of
16Y2 varas, which is the width required for wharves.

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Third. The said buildings shall consist of only one
story, no materials of the kind prohibited in the military
zone shall be employed therein, and shall be roofed with
zinc, tarred paper, nipa or other similar materials.
"Fourth. The said buildings shall be removed at the
expense of Don Jose Camps or his successors whenever,
at the discretion of the superior authority of the Islands,
the military service so requires.
"Let the interested party be notified and a certified
copy be issued to him.
(Signed)
NORZAGARAY."
Opposition to the registration was made by the Insular
Government and the City of Manila upon the ground that
the grant was unauthorized because the land was a part
of the shore of the sea. The Court of Land Registration
pronounced the grant valid, sustained the petitioner's
asserted ownership of all existing title under it; construed
it as made upon condition that the land be reclaimed
from the sea, found that the condition had been fulfilled
as to part of the land only, and entered a judgment allowing registration of that part and refusing registration of
the remainder. Appeals to the Supreme Court of the
Philippines resulted in an affirmance of the judgment by
an opinion saying:
"Although we are unable to agree upon the grounds
upon which our conclusion is based, we are of the opinion that the judgment of the Court of Land Registration
should be affirmed, without costs to either party." 10
Phil. Rep. 522.
One member of the court (Johnson, J.) dissented because he was of opinion that the grant was not made upon
condition that the land be reclaimed, and another member
(Tracy, J.) dissented because he was of opinion that the
grant, being of land covered by tidal waters, was one which
only the King of Spain could make. Each of the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

has appealed to this court and has also sued out a writ of
error.
In addition to the authenticity of the grant and the petitioner's ownership of all existing title under it, neither of
which was questioned, the facts disclosed by the record are
these: At the date of the grant the land was marshy waste
land, which was covered by the sea at high tide and was
uncovered at low tide. Soon after the grant was made
the grantee marked its boundaries and began filling in the
land. In the course of twenty years, about one-third of
the tract was reclaimed and was then improved by erecting warehouses and other buildings thereon. At irregular
intervals further work was done toward filling in the remainder, but the area fully reclaimed was not materially
enlarged. The grantee and those claiming under him were
in the exclusive occupancy and use of the land reclaimed
from the time the work was done and at all times asserted
title to the entire tract, and intended to complete its reclamation. What was done by them in filling in and improving the land was done openly and at large expense,
and neither their work nor their occupancy was at any time
disturbed, although both were at all times well known to
those in authority at Manila. Nor was the validity or extent of the grant in any wise called in question while the
Philippines remained under the dominion of Spain, or until
four years thereafter, which was forty-four years after the
date of the grant. On the contrary, taxes were imposed
upon the land as private property, and at the commencement of the proceeding for registration the land and the
improvements were assessed to the petitioner at a valuation of $255,578.00.
It is the contention of the Insular Government and the
City of Manila that the grant was unauthorized and void,
first, because the King of Spain was without power to make
it, and so could not devolve that power upon the Governor
General, and second, because, even if the King possessed

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that power, he had not devolved it upon the Governor
General.
The first branch of the contention is rested, primarily,
upon Article 46 of the then constitution of Spain, which
declared that "to alienate, cede or exchange any part of
Spanish territory" the King required "the authority of a
special law," and, secondarily, upon laws 3 and 4, title 28,
Partida 3, which affirm that the sea and its shore are among
the things which belong in common to all men. Of the
article in the Spanish constitution it is enough to say that
it obviously did not relate to the disposal of public land as
property, but only to the transference of national sovereignty; and of the laws cited from Partida 3 it is enough to
say that the same meaning and influence must be attributed to them now that were attributed to them by the Supreme Judicial Tribunal of Spain in its decision of May 1,
1863 (Book 8, p. 288), wherein, in sustaining a royal order
of January 15, 1853, making a grant of tide ]and to one who
desired to reclaim and improve it, it was said:
"While it is true that Partida 3, title 28, laws 3 and 4,
in determining what things are the common right of men
and how they may use them, enumerates as such, among
other things, the sea and its shore, this is not to be taken in
an absolutely literal manner, since a number of limitations to the general proposition have been recognized for
the common benefit of the community as being conducive
to the general welfare of the State, which latter may grant
shore land for improvement where the same has not already lawfully come under private ownership."
As then the King possessed the power to make the grant,
we come to the second branch of the contention, namely,
that he had not devolved that power upon the Governor
General. Many royal orders bearing upon the subject
have been called to our attention. The one of first importance is embodied in law 11, title 15, book 2, Laws of the
Indies, and reads as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

"In the city of Manila, Island of Luzon, capital of the
Philippines, another audiencia and royal chancellory is established, with a president, who shall be the Governor and
Captain General; four associate judges (oidores), who shall
also be criminal judges (alcaldes el crimen); one fiscal; one
high constable; one vice grand chancellor (teniente de
gran chanciller), and the other necessary ministers and officials; and the said audiencia shall have as its district the
lands of the said island of Luzon, already discovered and
which may be discovered. And we order that the governor
and captain general of the said Islands and provinces, and
president of the royal audiencia of the same, hold exclusively the superior government of the whole district of said
audienciain peace and in war, and make in our royal name
these sentences and grant those favors, which, in conformity
with the laws oj this 'Recopilacion' and of these Kingdoms oj
Castile, and with the instructionsand powers receivedfrom us,
he may and ought to make, and in all those administrative
cases and matters of importance,the said president-governor
shall try the same together with the oidores of said audiencia in order that they may give him their opinion in
consultation, and after hearing the same, he shall provide
for what is best for the service of God and our own interests
and the peace and tranquility of the said province and community."
Without doubt it was intended by this order to invest
the Governor General with large powers and a wide range
of discretion, fully commensurate with the situation in
which they were to be exercised. The language used was
general and comprehensive. Possibly, according to Spanish standards, its meaning was much the same as if it had
been said directly that the Governor General of the Philippines was empowered thereby to do in that distant province whatever the King could do, if he were present, save.
where it was otherwise specially provided. The other orders bearing upon the subject are not inconsistent with

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that view of it. But whatever the original meaning of the
order may have been, the one suggested was adopted and
adhered to by the successive governors general, and their
action in that regard was acquiesced in, and therefore ratified, by the King. Thus, in the course of approved usage,
the order came to be, in effect, the same as the one relating
to the viceroys of Peru and New Spain, which is embodied
in law 2, title 3, book 3, Laws of the Indies, and declares,
"they shall do what they may think and consider to be
suitable, and provide for everything we might do, and provide for, of whatever quality and condition it may be, in
the provinces under their charge, as if the same were governed by ourselves, in all cases where no special prohibition exists."
Recognition of this is found in Coronado's Legislacion
Ultramarina, vol. 2, pp. 175, 176, where, after stating that
the powers of the governors general of the Philippines and
other provinces beyond the seas include the powers named
"under the titles of viceroys and presidents in the Laws of
the Indies," the author proceeds:
"This consolidation of such vastly important powers,
although it has some inconveniences, has been deemed necessary in order to surround with prestige and sustain a superior authority, at so great a distance from the sovereign,
in the capitals of those large provinces, sufficiently to provide speedily and easily all requirements for their preservation and tranquility, for which the captains-general are
responsible, and to provide also a good policy and administration, the security of the persons and property of the
inhabitants, the publication and due execution of the laws
and orders emanating from the high government, and, generally, every wise and prudent measure demanded by the
public order, the tranquility and greater prosperity of the
countries intrusted to them."
See also San Pedro's Legislacion Ultramarina, vol. 1,
p. 65.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

And so it is that historical reviews of the Philippines,
while under Spanish dominion, uniformly speak of the governors general as possessing almost absolute authority, as
is illustrated by the following:
In the history by Juan Jose Delgado, chapter 17, pp. 212
et seq., which was written in 1754, it is said:
"In no kingdom or province of the Spanish crown do
the viceroys or governors enjoy greater privileges, superiority and grandeur than in Filipinas. That is advisable
because of the long distance from the court, and their proximity to so many kingdoms and nations, some of them civilized but others barbaric. . . . The governors of these
islands are almost absolute. . . . They exercise supreme authority by reason of their charge, for receiving and
sending embassies to the neighboring kings and tyrants, for
sending them gifts and presents in the name of their king,
and for accepting those which those kings and tyrants send
them. They can make and preserve peace, declare and
make war, and take vengeance on all who insult us, without awaiting any resolution from court for it. . . . Besides the above, the governors of these islands have absolute authority privately to provide and attend to all that
pertains to the royal estate."
In Montero y Vidal's work, p. 162, published in 1866,
this appears:
"A. governor and captain-general exercises the supreme
authority in Filipinas. In his charge is the direction of all
civil and military matters, and even the direction of ecclesiastical matters, in so far as they touch the royal patronage. . . . The authority, then, of the governor-general,
is complete."
And in the Philippine census of 1903, vol. 1, p. 364, Trinidad H. Pardo de Tavera of the Philippine Commission
states that "the powers given to a governor of the Philippine Islands was practically unlimited."
Considering then that the Governor General, within the

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

territory committed to his charge, possessed all the powers
of his master, the King, save where it was otherwise specially provided, the question whether the grant was within
or in excess of the authority of the Governor General is to
be determined, not by inquiring whether there was a law
or order specially confiding to him the disposal of tide land,
but by inquiring whether there was a law or order specially
prohibiting such a disposal; that is to say, the existence of
power, being usual, will be presumed, and the absence of
it, being exceptional, must be shown. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 728; United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet.
436, 451.
The laws and orders brought to our attention do not contain anything which, rightly considered, amounted to a
prohibition of this grant. Laws 3 and 4, title 28, Partida 3, which affirm that the sea and its shore are among
the things which are common to all men, are the nearest in
point, but they, as interpreted by the Supreme Judicial
Tribunal of Spain, were not to be taken literally and did
not forbid the granting of tide land for purposes of reclamation and improvement.
What has been said sufficiently shows that the grant was
made upon adequate authority, but there are other considerations which enforce this conclusion. The Spanish
authorities at Manila, although familiar with what was
done and claimed under the grant, and although in a position to know and enforce the law applicable to it, did not
call it in question at any time during the thirty-nine years
of Spanish dominion after it was made, but, on the contrary, treated it as valid by imposing taxes upon the land
as private property. This is persuasive proof that in making the grant the Governor General did not exceed his authority. Besides, it must be presumed, there being no
showing to the contrary, that he reported the grant to his
superiors at Madrid, as was required by the royal order of
January 4, 1856 (San Pedro's Legislacion Ultramarina,

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

vol. 1, p. 75), and therefore the fact that the grant went
unchallenged, as it did, dispels all doubt of his authority.
Next to be considered is the contention, advanced by
the Insular Government and the city of Manila, that the
grant was made upon condition that the land be reclaimed
from the sea and that "all title thereunder is defeated,"
because part of the land has not as yet been reclaimed.
The granting words, "is granted the possession and ownership," are plain and import a present and immediate
transfer of the ownership of all the land. There are no
words of exception, nor any which purport to postpone
the transfer until a later time. And while it clearly is
contemplated that the land is to be reclaimed, there is no
language which fixes a time for beginning or completing
that work. Nor is the contemplated reclamation treated
as the sole inducement to the grant, for it recites that it is
made in consideration, inter alia, of" the official and industrial merits of the said Don Jose Camps and the offer of
protection stated" in a prior decree. Thus, upon a survey of the grant, it is manifest that there was no express
condition, either precedent or subsequent, that the land
be reclaimed within any period of time. Of course, it was
for the Governor General to judge of the restrictions to be
imposed. He could have designated a time within which
the reclamation should be effected, and could have made
compliance with that requirement a condition, either precedent or subsequent. Or, if to him it seemed wise, he
could have left the grantee free to effect the reclamation
at such time as to the latter, might seem practicable and
advantageous, considering the cost of the undertaking,
the means at hand for completing it, and the benefits to
be derived from it. But the Governor General did not
expressly adopt either of these alternatives. On the contrary, his will and purpose in that regard were expressed
with such uncertainty that they could be determined only
by resorting to interpretation. But that uncertainty was

JOVER v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effectually eliminated before the termination of Spanish
dominion in the Philippines. During the many intervening years the parties concerned, that is to say, the representatives of Spain and those claiming under the grant,
pursued a course of action, heretofore described, which
admits of no other conclusion than they concurred in
treating the grant as embodying the latter of the two alternatives suggested. In that way a practical interpretation was given to the grant by those who were authorized
to interpret it, and full effect must be given to that interpretation now.
It follows that the contention last stated must be rejected and that the petitioner's contention that registration should have been allowed of the entire tract, including the part not as yet reclaimed, must be sustained.
The parties, being in doubt whether they should invoke
our appellate jurisdiction in cases such as this by writ of
error or by appeal, resorted to both methods. Since then
it has been settled that the appropriate method is by writ
of error. Carifto v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449,
456; Tiglao v. Insular Government, 215 U. S. 410, 414.
The appeals are dismissed and the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippinesis reversed and the cause
is remanded to that court with a direction to reverse the
judgment of the Court of Land Registration and remand
that cause to the court with a direction to allow registration of the entire tract as prayed in the petition.

