BRISCOE v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

BRISCOE v. RUDOLPH ET AL., COMMISSIONERS
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 141.

Argued April 25, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Sections 997 and 1012, Rev. Stat., and Rule 35 of this court, require
assignments of error and apply to appeals from courts of the District
of Columbia. Realty Co. v. Rudolph, 217 U. S. 547. An assignment
in the brief is not sufficient.
This court, under Rule 21, can and in this case, as the appeal was taken
before the decision in Realty Co. v. Rudolph, will, notice a plain
error of fact even if unassigned.
Whether a special assessment for benefits of a street opening is excessive
is a question of fact. English v. Arizona, 214 U. S. 359.
Congress, under its wide legislative power over the District of Columbia, may create a special assessment district and charge a part or
all of the cost of a public improvement upon the property therein according to the benefits received.
Where, as in this case, the court is possessed of statutory jurisdiction
and all the essential facts appear to have existed, the judgment is
no more subject to collateral impeachment than one entered in exercise of general jurisdiction.
Although the court could have, on motion of the dissatisfied owner,
set the assessment in a special proceeding aside, and ordered a new
trial, if the owner failed to take the proceedings provided by the
statute, and the court had jurisdiction of the parties and subjectmatter, the judgment cannot be attacked collaterally in a suit to enjoin sale under the judgment of assessment.
The act of February 10, 1899, 30 Stat. 834, c. 150, extending Rhode
Island avenue and authorizing assessments for benefits on property
within the assessment district created by the act, is not unconstitutional as depriving owners within the district of their property without due process of law either because not providing sufficient notice or as arbitrarily assessing one-half the damages upon property
within the designated district.
32 App. D. C. 167, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a street opening assessment in the District of Columbia, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Samuel Maddox, with whom Mr. H. PrescottGatley,
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. E. H. Thomas for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill filed by a lot-owner whose property was
subjected to a special assessment for benefits resulting
from the extension of Rhode Island Avenue in the City of
Washington. The object of the bill is to vacate the assessment and enjoin the sale about to be made by the Commissioners of the District.
The case was heard upon the bill, answer and an agreed
statement of facts, and was dismissed without prejudice,
to proceed in the case in which the assessment had been
made for cancellation, if so advised.
The proceeding under which the special assessment in

question was instituted in March, 1899, was in pursuance
of authority conferred by an act of Congress of February 10, 1899, entitled "An act to extend Rhode Island
Avenue." 30 Stat. 834, c. 150. That act provided that
one-half of the amount awarded as damages should be

assessed against the lands within an area described, as
benefits, considering the benefits received by each lot
within the area. Such assessments were declared a lien
on the lots severally assessed and were to be collected as
special improvement taxes in five equal instalments, with
interest at four per cent until paid. The lot owners were
not formally notified, but notice was given by publication
to all property owners as required by the statute. Following the act, a jury of seven was appointed, who viewed the
property and assessed damages and benefits; the lot owned

B1RISCOE v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by this appellant being assessed for benefits in the sum
of one thousand dollars. A rule was then made requiring
all persons whose lots had been so assessed to appear and
show cause why the verdict of the jury of seven should not
be confirmed. The appellant appeared and filed a number of objections, which may be shortly stated as follows:
a. That the act of Congress is unconstitutional, as not
providing for notice, and as an arbitrary assessment of onehalf of the damage upon lots in a designated area.
b. That the assessment against the appellant was excessive, unjust, and an unequal apportionment of benefits.
c. Want of notice and opportunity to appear and be
heard by the court or the said jury of seven and want of
notice as to any of the proceedings until cited to show
cause why the verdict of the jury should not be confirmed.
These objections were overruled and the verdict and
assessment confirmed.
This final judgment was on
June 27, 1900. Like objections by other lot-owners assessed for benefits were filed and overruled at the same
time.
From this action of the Supreme Court of the District
an appeal was prayed but never prosecuted. More than
two years thereafter the Commissioners advertised the lot
and proceeded to sell the same to enforce payment of the
whole amount of the assessment. Thereupon this bill was
filed.
There is no assignment of errors as required by §§ 997
and 1011, Rev. Stat., and by Rule 35 of this court.
These statutes and the rule apply to appeals from the
courts of the District of Columbia, as we pointed out in
the case of Columbia Heights Realty Co. v. Rudolph, 217
U. S. 547. An assignment in the brief of appellant seems
to have been regarded by many members of the District
bar as sufficient. That erroneous practice has been followed here, and three errors have been assigned, though in

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

substance there are but two. One is that the act of February 10, 1899, for the extension of Rhode Island avenue,
is unconstitutional. The other is, that the judgment confirming the assessment made by a jury of seven over the
objection of the appellant is void, and conferred no authority to enforce by sale the assessment so made.
This appeal was taken prior to the warning contained
in the Columbia Heights Realty Company Case. For this
reason, we shall avail ourselves of the provision in the
21st rule of this court, by which we reserve the right to
"notice a plain error," not because we assume the errors
assigned in the brief to be "plain," but that questions of
such gravity may not be passed without notice, in view of
the practice heretofore prevailing in the courts of the
District of Columbia.
The objection to the constitutionality of the act of February 10, 1899, 30 Stat. 834, c. 150, as stated in appellant's brief, is, "that it authorizes an assessment of appellant's property to meet the cost of public improvements, in
substantial excess of the special benefits conferred by the
improvements, and to the extent of such excess confiscates appellant's property to public use without compensation."
If by this it is meant to say that the act upon its face
authorizes an assessment for benefits in excess of actual
benefits conferred, the objection is not tenable. There is
nothing upon the face of the act to indicate that one-half
of the damage awarded to those owners whose property is
taken for the extension of the street is an amount in substantial excess of the special benefits realized by owners of
property in the special improvement district created by
the act. If, on the other hand, it is meant that, as matter
of fact, the assessment against owners assumed to be
benefited is so excessive as compared to actual benefits as
to amount to a taking of such excess for public purpose
without compensation, then there is no evidence in the

BRISCOE v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

record bearing upon the subject. The question of the
excessiveness of a special assessment for benefits resulting
from a public street improvement is one of fact. English v.
Arizona, 214 U. S. 359.
That Congress under its wide legislative power over the
District of Columbia, may create a special improvement
district and charge a part or all of the cost upon the property in that improvement district, can hardly be doubted.
It would be but an exercise of the power of taxation for a
public purpose in an area carved out for the purpose. In
Webster v. Fargo, 181 U. S. 394, it was held that a State
might create such special taxing districts and charge the
whole or part of the cost of a local improvement upon the
property in the district, either according to valuation,
superficial area or frontage. That it is within the power
of Congress to create such a special improvement district
and charge the cost of an improvement therein according
to the benefits received by property within such district,
has been more than once affirmed. Bauman v. Ross, 167
U. S. 548; Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371; Martin v.
Districtof Columbia, 205 U. S. 135; Columbia HeightsRealty
Co. v. Rudolph, 217 U. S. 547.
When, as under the act for the extension of Rhode Island avenue, only one-half of the cost is to be charged upon
lot-owners within the improvement district, and that upon
each lot-owner in proportion to the benefit his property has
received, the question of whether one such owner has
been assessed beyond his proportion is one of fact, and
does not touch the validity of the improvement act. This
appellant was an owner within the special improvement
district. That he was benefited to the extent of one
thousand dollars has been determined by the confirmed
verdict of the jury which was charged with the duty of
proportionately distributing that part of the damages
which Congress required to be paid by owners within the
improvement district.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

The other matter to be noticed is the contention that
the sale to enforce the lien of the assessment is under an
absolutely void judgment of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia. The claim is that when the appellant appeared under a citation to show cause why the verdict of the jury of seven should not be confirmed, and filed
objections to the verdict, that it was the duty of the court
to have ordered a jury of twelve for a reexamination of
the matter. The section under which this contention is
made prescribes the method to be pursued for the assessment of damages to land-owners when land is taken or
damaged for public roads. If an owner object to the laying out or extension of the road or street and the damages
are not agreed upon, a jury of seven is to be empanelled,
who are to go upon the premises and assess the damages,
and this assessment is to be reduced to writing and signed
by the jury, attested by the marshal, returned into court
and "recorded."
Section 263 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, provides that "if the authorities or any
owner of the land are dissatisfied with the verdict," etc.,
the marshal shall be ordered to summon a second jury of
twelve, who are to give the parties notice and meet on the
premises "and proceed as before directed in regard to the
first jury."
The exceptions filed by the appellant, and others included in same verdict, have elsewhere been stated. These
were overruled and the assessment confirmed as made,
and certified for collection. An appeal was prayed and
granted, but not prosecuted, because of a stipulation that
it should "abide by the decision of the Supreme Court of
the United States in the pending case of Wight v. Davidson," since decided and reported in 181 U. S. 371. That
decision was adverse upon every question common to the
two cases. After the decision and after the time had
elapsed for any error proceeding the Conmmissioners of the

BRISCOE v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

District proceeded to advertise a sale of the lots so specially assessed for the collection of the amount. Thereupon this bill was filed and the sale has ever since stood
enjoined.
Wight v. Davidson did not present one question which is
presented here, namely, that it was the duty of the nisi
prius court, upon the presentation of the objection which
challenged the assessment upon this owner's property by
the first jury as excessive, to have at once directed the
calling of a second jury, under § 263, Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia. It is not necessary to
consider the effect of the stipulation to abide by the result
of the appeal in that case, as foreclosing the question
stated, inasmuch as we are clearly of opinion that the
failure of the Supreme Court of the District to order a
second jury was at most an error which can only be
available in appropriate error proceedings. It is, however,
in this connection just to say that the record in the case
fails to show that the court was asked for such second
jury. The duty, if it existed without such motion, arose
from the fact that the exceptions challenging the amount
of the assessments, constituted a statement that the owner,
within the meaning of § 263, "was dissatisfied with the
verdict thus rendered," and therefore entitled without
more to another jury. But the court was possessed of
jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject-matter.
If the owner assessed did not in some way take steps to set
aside the first verdict, its confirmation would necessarily
be final. If he was denied a second jury, when entitled to
it, the court would fall into error; but the order confirming
the assessment would not be void. There is no possible
ground for upholding the present collateral attack if the
order was voidable only.
The court was in the exercise of a special statutory jurisdiction, but'all the facts necessary to the exercise of that
jurisdiction appear to have existed, and such a judgment

OCTO3ER TERM, 1010.
Counsel for Parties.

221 U. S.

is no more subject to collateral impeachment than if the
court had been exercising its general jurisdiction. Secombe
v. Railroad Co., 23 Wall. 108; Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. S.
230, 234; United States, for use, etc. v. Morse, 218. U. S. 493.
We find no error in the decree dismissing the bill for
which we should reverse, and the decree is therefore
Affirmed.

LEWIS v. LUCKETT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 142.

Submitted April 25, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Under § 130 of the Code of the District of Columbia as amended by
the act of June 30, 1902, 32 Stat. 526, c. 1329, there is no failure of
jurisdiction because publication for unknown heirs has not been
made, unless the record shows the actual or probable existence of
persons who were heirs at law or next of kin whose names were unknown; nor will proceedings duly had be vacated at the instance of
one who was cited, and whose objections to probate have been overruled, and who does not show that there are any unknown heirs or
next of kin or that there is any occasion to make such publication.
32 App. D. C. 188, affirmed.

facts, which involve questions of practice in connection with the probate of wills in the District of Columbia, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. John C. Gittings and Mr. J. M. Chamberlin, with
whom Mr. Robert E. Mattingly was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey and Mr. James A. Toomey, for
defendants in error.

