OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

expressed. See Willey v. Decker, 11 Wyoming, 496; Smith
v. Denniff, 24 Montana, 20.
It follows from what we have said that it is unnecessary
to consider what limits there may be to the powers of an
upper State, if it should seek to do all that it could. The
grounds upon which such limits would stand are referred
to in Rickey Land & Cattle Co. v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S.
258, 261. So it is unnecessary to consider whether Morris
is not protected~by the Constitution; for it seems superfluous to fall back upon the citadel until some attack
drives him to that retreat. Other matters adverted to in
argument, so far as not disposed of by what we have said,
have been dealt with sufficiently in two courts. It is
enough here to say that we are satisfied with their discussion and confine our own to the only matter that
warranted a certiorari or suggested questions that might
be grave.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 433.

Argued April 13, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The term "misbranded" and the phrase defining what amounts to
misbranding in § 8 of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906,
34 Stat. 768, c. 3915, are aimed at false statements as to identity of
the article, possibly including strength, quality and purity, dealt
with in § 7 of the act, and not at statements as to curative effect;
and so held that a statement on the labels of bottles of medicine
that the contents are effective as a cure for cancer, even if misleading, is not covered by the statute.
177 Fed. Rep. 313, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, Mr. George P. McCabe and Mr.
Loring C. Christie, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States:
The acts charged in the indictment fall within the letter of the statute, and the matters charged are not to be
carved out of the statute as being not within its purposes.
They are both injurious to health and frauds on the public.
Even if the public health had been the sole concern of
the statute the matters charged in the indictment would
have fallen within its intendment.
Cheats and frauds were, however, among the principal
mischiefs denounced by the act. See committee reports,
congrossional debates, and the other acts in pari materia.
Reference is made to debates in order to show what the
evil was which the legislature intended to remedy. Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 459; Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S. 465; American Net. &c. Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 473; Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486,
495, 496; Blake v. National Banks, 23 Wall. 307, 319; and
see 59 Cong., 1st sess., H. Rept. No. 2118, to accompany
S. 88; 58 Cong., 2d sess., Sen. Rept. No. 1209, to accompany H. R. 6295; Sen. Bill, 198, 58th Cong., 2d sess.; 57
Cong., 1st sess., S. Rept. No. 972, to accompany S. 3342.
Other statutes in pari materia indicate the same policy
to deal not only with health but with frauds. See Act
of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 632; Rev. Stat., § 2934; Act of
March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 87.
The legislative history of the enactment affirmatively
shows that this very evil was considered and discussed and
intended to be covered.
As soon as it was proposed to extend the definition of
the word "drug" so as to include patent medicines, opposition arose on this very ground, that misrepresentations of curative properties would be covered. The discussion affirmatively showed that this was intended, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

opposition failed. House bill No. 6295, § 5, 58th Cong.,
2d sess., p. 34; bill No. 3342, 57th Cong., 1st sess; Sen.
Rep. No. 972, 58th Cong., 2d sess., Sen. Rep. No. 1209,
pp. 4-68; 58th Cong., 2d sess.; Id. pp. 97-100.
The amendment to the bill changing the definition of
misbranding so as to cover not merely "any statement regarding the ingredients or substances contained in the
article," but statements regarding the article itself, was
made as a result of doubt whether this sort of thing would
otherwise be covered. A substitute bill which was urged
as preferable because it excluded misstatements of curative properties was rejected.
The practice of patent-medicine concerns to make extravagant "cure-all claims" was one of the princip j evils
denounced in the public agitation contemporaneous with
the progress of the bill. The facts of this agitation being
part of the history of the times can be examined as indicating the nature of the evils attacked. United States v.
Pac. R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 72, 79; Church of the Holy Trinity
v. United States, supra, p. 464; Smith v. Townsend, 148
U. S. 490; Aldridge v. Williams, 3 How. 1, 24; United States
v. FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290; McKee v. United States, 164
U. S. 287, 292; Mobile R. R. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486,
502; Preston v. Browden, 1 Wheat. 115, 121; Ex parte
Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 114; Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S.
419; Pac. Coast S. S. Co. v. United States, 33 Ct. Cl.
36, 56.
From the first enforcement of the act the officers charged
by it with the duty to put it in operation have construed
and applied it to include fraudulent labels of the character
here involved, and this construction was uniformly acquiesced in except that the present defendant has contested it. United States v. Moore, 95 U. S. 760, 763; Heath
v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 573, 582; Hastings Co. v. Whitney,
132 U. S. 357, 366; Five Per Cent Cases, 110 U. S. 471;
Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; Brown v. United States,

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

113 U. S. 568; Union Insurance Co. v. Hoge, 21 How. 35;
Smyth v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374.
See also Notices of Judgment, published by the Department of Agriculture, Nos. 16, 25, 29, 54; see also United
States v. Munyon's Remedy Co., U. S. Dist. Ct., E. D.
Pennsylvania, Dec. 14, 1910.
The similar provisions of various state statutes have
been construed by the administrative officers as covering
false statements as to curative properties.
Practically the general definition of misbranding would
have no application to the second class of drugs unless
it applies to the sort of thing here involved.
The cure-all evil is the one great misbranding evil of
the patent-medicine trade. In using the unlimited language which it did use Congress cannot have intended not
to exclude this evil, thereby practically leaving the misbranding provisions without application to this great
branch of the subject of the act.
Nor are these affirmative indications of the intent of
Congress to be overruled on the theory advanced in the
argument below that such statements of curative properties of patent medicines are matters of scientific opinion
and that Congress has no power to control them.
As the bill passed the Senate it contained the word
"knowingly." Cong. Rec., vol. 40, pt. 1, p. 897. But that
word was eliminated by the House amendment (H. R.
Rep. 2118, 59th Cong., 1st sess.), and without the word
the bill became a law.
Our jurisprudence does not place matters beyond legal
control merely because their correct solution may depend
upon opinion. See Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470;
Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1378, 32 Stat. L. 728, and see also
annual appropriation acts for the Department of Agriculture, June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 674; Mar. 4, 1907, 34 Stat.
1260; May 23, 1908, 35 Stat. 254; Mar. 4, 1909, 35 Stat.
1043; May 26, 1910, 36 Stat. 419; August 30, 1890 (ch.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

839, 26 Stat. 414); Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189;
acts of August 3, 1888, c. 376, 22 Stat. 214; March 3, 1891,
c. 551, 26 Stat. 1084; and see State v. Board of Examiners,
32 Minnesota, 324; People v. McCoy, 125 Illinois, 289;
Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114.
The law of malpractice holds a physician to that degree
of skill and learning which is possessed by the average
member of his profession. Pike v. Housinger, 155 N. Y.
201; Logan v. Field, 75 Mo. App. 594; Jackson v. Burnham,
20 Colorado, 532; Patten v. Wiggin, 51 Maine, 594; Nelson v. Harrington,72 Wisconsin, 591.
The laws for the determination of insanity and the
segregation of the insane, and in general all health and
quarantine laws, stand entirely upon matters of scientific
opinion. Edgington v. Fitzmaurice,29 L. R. Ch. Div. 459.
Even in this class of cases matters which may theoretically be matters of opinion or state of mind are not exempt
from the notice of the law. Durlandv. United States, 161
U. S. 306; Butler v. Watkins, 13 Wall. 456; Mo. Drug Co. v.
Wyman, 129 Fed. Rep. 623; Rogers v. Va. Car. Chem. Co.,
149 Fed. Rep. 1, 78 C. C. A. 615; Ten Mile Coal & Coke
Co. v. Burt, 170 Fed. Rep. 332; Kohler Mfg. Co. v. Beeshore,
59 Fed. Rep. 572; Fenwick v. Grimes, 8 Fed. Cases, 4734, 5
Cranch C. C. 603; Hedin v. Minn. Medical Institute, 62
Minnesota, 146; Olston v. Oreg. Water Power Co. (Ore.),
96 Pac. Rep. 1095; Walters v. Rock (N. Dak.), 115 N. W.
Rep. 511; McDonald v. Smith, 139 Michigan, 211; Nowlin
v. Snow, 40 Michigan, 699; Totten v. Burhans, 91 Michigan, 495; Stoney Creek Woolen Co. v. Smalley, 111 Michigan, 321; Johnson v. Monell (N. Y.), 2 Keyes, 655; Stewart
v. Emerson, 52 N. H. 301; Bugham v. Bank, 159 Pa. 94;
Ayres v. French, 41 Connecticut, 142; Down v. Tucker,
41 Connecticut, 197; Laing v. McKee, 13 Michigan, 124;
Sweet v. Kimball, 166 Massachusetts, 333; Adams v.
Gillig, 139 App. Div. (N. Y.) 494; Smith v. Smith (Ala.),
45 So. Rep. 168; Brady v. Elliott, 146 N. Car. 578; Carr v.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Craig (Iowa), 116 N. W. Rep. 720; City Deposit Bank v.
Green (Iowa), 115 N. W. Rep. 893; Wolfe v. Burke, 56
N. Y. 115, 122; Edgington v. Fitzmaurice, 29 L. R. Ch.
Div. 459, supra. Am. School of Healing v. McAnnulty, 187
U. S. 94, distinguished.
From the point of view necessary to be taken by a legislature, these statements of cure-all properties of patent
medicines are not in any real scientific sense matters of
opinion. They are charlatanic and their falseness is generally demonstrable without real dispute. See the code
of the American Medical Association, 1883, Art. 1, § 3.
The constitutional power of Congress to prohibit use
of the instruments of interstate commerce to the injury
of the public is no longer open to question. Reid v.
Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 146; The Lottery Case, 188 U. S.
321; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 492-493; Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189, 199, 200; St. L. & I. M.
Ry. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 287.
And see the following cases upholding the constitutionality of this act. United States v. Seventy-four Cases of
Grape Juice, 181 Fed. Rep. 629; Shawnee Milling Co. v.
Temple, 179 Fed. Rep. 517.
This power does not exist in the States because delegated to the Federal authority. Bowman v. Railway Co.,
125 U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108. See Re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545.
The statute is remedial, and should not be narrowly construed. In this respect it is like the Interstate Commerce
Act-a remedial statute with penal incidental features.
N. H. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 391;
Taylor v. United States, 3 How. 191.
Mr. James H. Harkless, with whom Mr. Charles S. Crysler and Mr. Clifford Histed were on the brief, for defendant
inerror:
The purpose of the statute is to secure pure food and
drugs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

221 U. S.

As related to drugs the term "misbranded" used in
§ 8 is confined to representations concerning the identity
of the drug, its physical constituents, or chemical ingredients. It does not refer to claims for curative properties of such drugs.
A claim that certain beneficial results will follow the
use of a prescribed drug or medicine obviously is not a
statement of an existing fact, but is a forecast concerning
a future event and is in the nature of things an expression
of an opinion.
The court will take judicial notice that there are many
different schools of medicine whose methods of treatment,
and whose opinions concerning the curative properties of
drugs and medicines, radically differ-some refusing to
ascribe any medicinal virtue to any drug under any circumstances. No method has yet been devised by finite
man to harmonize these warring factions, and indeed, it
cannot be said that the truth lies entirely with any one
of them. Congress cannot under the circumstances be
deemed to have intended by this legislation to invade a
field so speculative and conjectural-certainly not in the
absence of apt language clearly and irresistibly evincing
such a purpose.
The drug is the subject-matter of the commerce. The
brand or label which it bears is but an incident to the commodity itself and forms a part of the commerce in the
article only in so far as it deals with the identity of the
commodity contained in the package. But a statement
which gives no information concerning the commodity itself, its physical constituents, or its chemical ingredients is
not so related to the commodity as to form a part of the
commerce in the article and is not, therefore, a part and
parcel of the commerce within the regulating power contemplated by this statute.
This is a criminal statute creating and denouncing a
new offense. All matters of doubtful interpretation are

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be resolved in favor of the defendant and he should
not be subjected to its pains and penalties except upon
clear and undoubted warrant from the plain and inevitable
language of the statute.
The construction sought by the Government that this
statute extends to claims concerning the curative properties of medicines or drugs would render the statute void
as being beyond the power of Congress to enact.
By not giving to the statute an extreme and strained
construction, grave and doubtful constitutional questions
are avoided, and at the same time it is susceptible to such
reasonable interpretation as to make it a vital and effective
instrument in curing the manifest evils which prompted its
enactment. Under such circumstances, therefore, there
is no occasion for resorting to such doubtful and forced interpretation.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment for delivering for shipment from

Missouri to Washington, D. C., packages and bottles of
medicine bearing labels that stated or implied that the
contents were effective in curing cancer, the defendant well

knowing that such representations were false. On motion
of the defendant the District Judge quashed the indictment (177 Fed. Rep. 313), and the United States brought
this writ of error under the Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246.
The question is whether the articles were misbranded

within the meaning of § 2 of the Food and Drugs Act of
June 30, 1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, making the delivery
of misbranded drugs for shipment to any other State or
Territory or the District of Columbia a punishable offense.
By §6 the term drug includes any substance or mixture
intended to be used for the cure, mitigation or prevention of disease. By §8, c. 3915, 34 Stat., p. 770, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

term misbranded "shall apply to all drugs, or articles of
food, . . . the package or label of which shall bear
any statement, design, or device regarding such article,
or the ingredients or substances contained therein which
shall be false or misleading in any particular, and to any
food or drug product which is falsely branded as to the
State, Territory, or country in which it is manufactured or
produced. . . . An article shall also be deemed to be
misbranded: In case of drugs: First. If it be an imitation
of or offered for sale under the name of another article.
Second. [In case of a substitution of contents,] or if the
package fail to bear a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of any alcohol, morphine, opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis
indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilide, or any derivative or
preparation of any such substances contained therein."
. It is a postulate, as the case comes before us, that
in a
certain sense the statement on the label was false, or, at
least, misleading. What we have to decide is whether
such misleading statements are aimed at and hit by the
words of the act. It seems to us that the words used convey to an ear trained to the usages of English speech a
different aim; and although the meaning of a sentence is
to be felt rather than to be proved, generally and here the
impresson may be strengthened by argument, as we shall
try to show.
We lay on one side as quite unfounded the argument
that the words 'statement which shall be misleading in
any particular' as used in the statute do not apply to
drugs at all-that the statements referred to are those
'regarding such article,' and that 'article' means article
of food, mentioned by the side of drugs at the beginning
of the section. It is enough to say that the beginning of
the sentence makes such a reading impossible, and that
article expressly includes drugs a few lines further on in
what we have quoted, not to speak of the reason of the

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thing. But we are of opinion that the phrase is aimed not
at all possible false statements, but only at such as determine the identity of the article, possibly including its
strength, quality and purity, dealt with in § 7. In support
of our interpretation the first thing to be noticed is the
second branch of the sentence: 'Or the ingredients or
substances contained therein.' One may say with some
confidence that in idiomatic English this half, at least, is
confined to identity, and means a false statement as to
what the ingredients are. Logically it might mean more,
but idiomatically it does not. But if the false statement
referred to is a misstatement of identity as applied to a
part of its objects, idiom and logic unite in giving it the
same limit when applied to the other branch, the article,
whether simple or one that the ingredients compose.
Again, it is to be noticed that the cases of misbranding,
specifically mentioned and following the general words
that we have construed, are all cases analogous to the
statement of identity and not at all to inflated or false
commendation of wares. The first is a false statement as
to the country where the article is manufactured or produced; a matter quite unnecessary to specify if the preceding words had a universal scope, yet added as not being
within them. The next case is that of imitation and taking
the name of another article, of which the same may be
said, and so of the next, a substitution of contents. The
last is breach of an affirmative requirement to disclose the
proportion of alcohol and certain other noxious ingredients
in the package-again a matter of plain past history concerning the nature and amount of the poisons employed,
not an estimate or prophecy concerning their effect. In
further confirmation, it should be noticed that although
the indictment alleges a wilful fraud, the shipment is
punished by the statute if the article is misbranded, and
that the article may be misbranded without any conscious
fraud at all. It was natural enough to throw this risk on
VOL. ccxxi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

shippers with regard to the identity of*their wares, but a
very different and unlikely step to make them answerable
for mistaken praise. It should be noticed still further that
by § 4 the determination whether an article is misbranded
is left to the Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of
Agriculture, which is most natural if the question concerns ingredients and kind, but hardly so as to medical
effects.
To avoid misunderstanding we should add that, for the
purposes of this case, at least, we assume that a label
might be of such a nature as to import a statement concerning identity, within the statute, although in form
only a commendation of the supposed drug. It may be
that a label in such form would exclude certain substances
so plainly to all common understanding as to amount to
an implied statement of what the contents of the package
were not; and it may be that such a negation might fall
within the prohibitions of the act. It may be, we express
no opinion upon that matter, that if the present indictment had alleged that the contents of the bottles were
water, the label so distinctly implied that they were other
than water, as to be a false statement of fact concerning
their nature and kind. But such a statement as to contents, undescribed and unknown, is shown to be false only
in its commendatory and prophetic aspect, and as such
is not within the act.
In view of what we have said by way of simple interpretation we think it unnecessary to go into considerations
of wider scope. We shall say nothing as to the limits of
constitutional power, and but a word as to what Congress
was likely to attempt. It was much more likely to regulate
commerce in food and drugs with reference to plain matter of fact, so that food and drugs should be what they professed to be, when the kind was stated, than to distort
the uses of its constitutional power to establishing criteria
in regions where opinions are far apart. See School of

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94. As we
have said above, the reference of the question of misbranding to the Bureau of Chemistry for determination confirms
what would have been our expectation and what is our
understanding of the words immediately in point.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES,

with whom MR.

LAN and MR. JUSTICE DAY

JUSTICE HAR-

concurred, dissenting:

I am unable to concur in the judgment in this case, for
the following reasons:
The defendant was charged with delivering for shipment in interstate commerce certain packages and bottles
of drugs alleged to have been misbranded in violation of
the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906, chapter 3915,
34 Stat. 768.
The articles were labeled respectively "Cancerine tablets," "Antiseptic tablets," "Blood purifier," "Special
No. 4," "Cancerine No. 17," and "Cancerine No. 1,"the whole constituting what was termed in substance
"Dr. Johnson's Mild Combination Treatment for Cancer." There were several counts in the indictment with
respect to the different articles. The labels contained the
words "Guaranteed under the Pure Food and Drugs Act,
June 30, 1906;" and some of the further statements were
as follows:
"Blood Purifier. This is an effective tonic and alterative. It enters the circulation at once, utterly destroying
and removing impurities from the blood and entire system.
Acts on the bowels, kidneys, and skin, eliminating poisons
from the system, and when taken in connection with the
Mild Combination Treatment gives splendid results in the
treatment of cancer and other malignant diseases. I always advise that the Blood Purifier be continued some
little time after the cancer has been killed and removed
and the sore healed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

221 U. S.

"Special No. 4. . . . It has a strong stimulative
and absorptive power; will remove swelling, arrest development, restore circulation, and remove pain. Is indicated in all cases of malignancy where there is a tendency
of the disease to spread, and where there is considerable
hardness surrounding the sore. Applied thoroughly to a
lump or to an enlarged gland will cause it to soften, become smaller, and be absorbed.
"Cancerine

No. 1.

.

.

Tendency is to convert

the sore from an unhealthy to a healthy condition and
promote healing. Also that it destroys and removes dead
and unhealthy tissue."
In each case the indictment alleged that the article was
"wholly worthless," as the defendant well knew.
In quashing the indictment the District Court construed the statute. The substance of the decision is found
in the following words of the opinion: "Having regard to
the intendment of the whole act, which is to protect the
public health against adulterated, poisonous, and deleterious food, drugs, etc., the labeling or branding of the
bottle or container, as to the quantity or composition of
'the ingredients or substances contained therein which
shall be false or misleading,' by no possible construction
can be extended to an inquiry as to whether or not the
prescription be efficacious or worthless to effect the remedy
claimed for it." And the question on this writ of error is
whether or not this construction is correct. United States
v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
What then is the true meaning of the statute?
Section 8 provides:
"SEc. 8. That the term 'misbranded,' as used herein,
shall apply to all drugs, or articles of food, or articles
which enter into the composition of food, the package or
label of which shall bear any statement, design, or device
regarding such article, or the ingredients or substances
contained therein which shall be false or misleading in any

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

particular, and to any food or drug product which is falsely
branded as to the State, Territory, or country in which it
is manufactured or produced."
The words "such article" in this section, as is shown by
the immediate context, refer to "drugs" as well as to
"food."
"Drugs" are thus defined in § 6:
"SEc. 6. That the term 'drug,' as used in this Act,
shall include all medicines and preparations recognized
in the United States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary for internal or external use, and any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used for the cure, mitigation,
or prevention of disease of either man or other animals."
Articles, then, intended to be used for curative purposes, such as those described in the indictment, are
within the statute, though they are not recognized in the
United States Pharmacopceia or the National Formulary.
And the offense of misbranding is committed if the package or label of such an article bears any statement regarding it "which shall be false or misleading in any particular."
But it is said that these words refer only to false statements which fix the identity of the article. According to
the construction placed upon the statute by the court below in quashing the indictment, if one puts upon the
market, in interstate commerce, tablets of inert matter or
a liquid wholly worthless for any curative purpose as he
well knows, with the label "Cancer Cure " or "Remedy
for Epilepsy," he is not guilty of an offense, for in the
sense attributed by that construction to the words of the
statute he has not made a statement regarding the article
which is false or misleading in any particular.
I fail to find a sufficient warrant for this limitation, and
on the contrary, it seems to me to be opposed to the intent
of Congress and to deprive the act of a very salutary
effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

221 U. S.

It is strongly stated that the clause in § 8,-"or the
ingredients or substances contained therein,"-has reference to identity and that this controls the interpretation
of the entire provision. This, in my judgment, is to ascribe
an altogether undue weight to the wording of the clause
and to overlook the context. The clause, it will be observed, is disjunctive. If Congress had intended to restrict the offense to misstatements as to identity, it could
easily have said so. But it did not say so. To a draftsman with such a purpose the language used would not
naturally occur. Indeed, as will presently be shown,
Congress refused, with the question up, so to limit the
statute.
Let us look at the context. In the very next sentence,
the section provides (referring to drugs) that an article
shall "also" be deemed to be misbranded if it be "an
imitation of or offered for sale under the name of another
article," or in case of substitution of contents or of failure
to disclose the quantity or proportion of certain specified
ingredients, if present, such as alcohol, morphine, opium,
cocaine, etc.
It is a matter of common knowledge that the "substances" or "mixtures of substances" which are embraced in the act, although not recognized by the United
States Pharmacopceia or National Formulary, are sold
under trade names without any disclosure of constituents, save to the extent necessary to meet the specific
requirements of the statute. Are the provisions of the
section to which we have referred, introduced by the
word "also," and the one relating to the place of manufacture, the only provisions as to descriptive statements
which are intended to apply to these medicinal preparations? Was it supposed that with respect to this large
class of compositions, nothing being said as to ingredients
except as specifically required, there could be, within the
meaning of the act, no false or misleading statement in

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

503

JJ., dissenting.

any particular? If false and misleading statements regarding such articles were put upon their labels, was it not
the intent of Congress to reach them? And was it not for
this very purpose that the general language of § 8 was
used?
The legislative history of the section would seem to
negative the contention that Congress intended to limit
the provision to statements as to identity. The provision
in question as to misbranding, as it stood in the original
bill in the Senate (then § 9) was as follows:
"If the package containing it, or its label, shall bear
any statement regarding the ingredients or the substances
contained therein, which statement shall be false or misleading in any particular."
The question arose upon this language whether or not
it should be taken as limited strictly to statements with
respect to identity. It was insisted that the words had
a broader range and the effort was made to procure an
amendment which should be so specific as to afford no
basis for the conclusion that any thing but false statements
as to identity or constituents was intended. An amendment was then adopted in the Senate making the provision read:
"any statement as to the constituent ingredients, or the
substances contained therein, which statement shall be
false or misleading in any particular."
With this amendment the bill was passed by the Senate
and went to the House. There the provision was changed
by striking out the word "constituent" and inserting the
word "regarding," so that it should read:
"any statement regarding the ingredients or substances
contained in such article, which statement shall be false
or misleading in any particular."
Finally, it appears, that in conference the bill was
amended by inserting the words "design, or device," and
also the words "such article, or;" and thus the section be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HUGHES, HAILAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

221 U. S.

came a part of the law in its present form-containing
the words:
"any statement, design, .or device regarding such article,
or the ingredients or substances contained therein which
shall be false or misleading in any particular."
It is difficult to suppose that, with the question distinctly raised, Congress would have rejected the provision
of the Senate bill and broadened the language in the manner stated if it had been intended to confine the prohibition to false statements as to identity. Reading the act
with the sole purpose of giving effect to the intent of Congress, I cannot escape the conclusion that it was designed
to cover false and misleading statements of fact on the
packages or labels of articles intended for curative purposes, although the statements relate to curative properties.
It is, of course, true, that when Congress used the words
"false or misleading statement" it referred to a well
defined category in the law and must be taken to have
intended statements of fact and not mere expressions of
opinion.
The argument is that the curative properties of articles
purveyed as medicinal preparations are matters of opinion,
and the contrariety of views among medical practitioners,
and the conflict between the schools of medicine, are impressively described. But, granting the wide domain of
opinion, and allowing the broadest range to the conflict
of medical views, there still remains a field in which statements as to curative properties are downright falsehoods
and in no sense expressions of judgment. This field I believe this statute covers.
The construction which the District Court has placed
upon this statute is that it cannot be extended to any case
where the substance labeled as a cure, with a description
of curative properties, is "wholly worthless" and is
known by the defendant to be such. That is the charge
of the indictment.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

The question then is whether, if an article is shipped in
interstate commerce, bearing on its label a representation
that it is a cure for a given disease, when on a showing of
the facts there would be a unanimous agreement that it
was absolutely worthless and an out and out cheat, the
act of Congress can be said to apply to it. To my mind
the answer appears clear. One or two hypothetical illustrations have been given above. Others may readily be
suggested. The records of actual prosecutions, to which
I am about to refer, shows the operation the statute has
had and I know of no reason why this should be denied to
it in the future.
Our attention has been called to the construction which
was immediately placed upon the enactment by the officers charged with its enforcement in the Department of
Justice and the Department of Agriculture. It is true that
the statute is a recent one, and, of course, the question is
one for judicial decision. But it is not amiss to note that
the natural meaning of the words used in the statute, reflected in the refusal of Congress to adopt a narrower provision, was the meaning promptly attributed to it in the
proceedings that were taken to enforce the law. And this
appears to have been acquiesced in by the defendants in
many prosecutions in which the defendants pleaded guilty.
We have been referred to the records of the Department
of Agriculture showing nearly thirty cases in which either
goods had been seized and no defense made, or pleas of
guilty had been entered. Among these are found such
cases as the following:
"No. 29. Hancock's Liquid Sulphur, falsely represented, among other things, to be 'Nature's Greatest
Germicide. . . . The Great Cure for . . . Diptheria.' Investigation begun November 22, 1907. Plea
of guilty."
"No. 180. Gowan's Pneumonia Cure, falsely represented, among other things, that it 'Supplies an easily

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

221 U. S.

absorbed food for the lungs that quickly effects a permanent cure.' Investigation begun November 22, 1907.
Criminal information. Plea of guilty."
"No. 181. 'Eyelin,' falsely represented, among other
things, that it 'Repairs and Rejuvenates the Eye and
Sight.' Investigation begun February 13, 1908. Plea of
guilty."
"No. 261. 'Sure Thing Tonic,' falsely represented,
among other things, to be 'Sure Thing Tonic.
Restores Nerve Energy. Renews Vital Force.' Investigation begun June 3, 1909. Pleaded guilty."
"No. 424. 'Tuckahoe Lithia Water,' falsely represented, among other things, to be 'a sure solvent for calculi, either of the kidneys or liver, especially indicated in
all diseases due to uric diathesis, such as gout, rheumatism,
gravel stone, incipient diabetes, Bright's Disease, inflamed bladder, eczema, stomach, nervous, and malarial
disorders.' Investigation begun July 9, 1908. Plea of
guilty."
"No. 427. 'Cancerine,' falsely represented, among other
things, to be 'A remarkably curative extract which if
faithfully adhered to will entirely eradicate cancerous poison from the system. . . . A specific cure for cancer
in all its forms.' Investigation begun about April 12,
1909. Criminal information. Plea of guilty."
I find nothing in the language of the statute which requires the conclusion that these persons who have confessed their guilt in making false and misleading statements on their labels should be privileged to conduct their
interstate traffic in their so-called medicines, admittedly
worthless, because Congress did not intend to reach them.
Nor does it seem to me that any serious question arises
in this case as to the power of Congress. I take it to be
conceded that misbranding may cover statements as to
strength, quality and purity. But so long as the statement is not as to matter of opinion, but consists of a false

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
221 U. S.

HUGHES, HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

representation of fact-in labeling the article as a cure
when it is nothing of the sort from any point of view, but
wholly worthless-there would appear to be no basis for a
constitutional distinction. It is none the less descriptiveand falsely descriptive-of the article. Why should not
worthless stuff, purveyed under false labels as cures, be
made contraband of interstate commerce,-as well as lottery tickets? Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 331.
I entirely agree that in any case brought under the act
for misbranding,-by a false or misleading statement as
to curative properties of an article,-it would be the duty
of the court to direct an acquittal when it appeared that
the statement concerned a matter of opinion. Conviction
would stand only where it had been shown that, apart
from any question of opinion, the so-called remedy was
absolutely worthless and hence the label demonstrably
false; but in such case it seems to me to be fully authorized
by the statute.
Accordingly, I reach the conclusion that the court below erred in the construction that it gave the statute, and
hence in quashing the indictment, and that the judgment
should be reversed.

I am authorized to say that MR.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

JUSTICE HARLAN

concur in this dissent.

and

