COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

COYLE v. SMITH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF
THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 941.

Argued April 15, 16, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The power to locate its own seat of government, to change the same,
and to appropriate its public money therefor, are essentially state
powers beyond the control of Congress.
The power given to Congress by Art. IV, § 3, of the Constitution is to
adinit new States to this Union, and relates only to such States as
are equal to each other in power and dignity and competency to
exert the residuum of sovereignty not delegated to the Federal
Government.
The constitutional duty of Congress of guaranteeing to each State a
republican form of government does not import a power to impose
upon a new State, as a condition to its admission to the Union,
restrictions which render it unequal to the other States, such as
limitations upon its power to locate or change its seat of government.
No prior decision of this court sanctions the claim that Congress in
admitting a new State can impose conditions in the enabling act,
the acceptance whereof will deprive the State when admitted of any
attribute of power essential to its equality with the other States.
Congress may embrace in an enabling act conditions relating to matters wholly within its sphere of powers, such as regulations of interstate commerce, intercourse with Indian tribes and disposition of
public lands, but not conditions relating wholly to matters under
state control such as the location and change of the seat of government of the State.
The Constitution not only looks to an indestructible union of indestructible States, Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725, but to a union
of equal States as well.
The legislature of Oklahoma has power to locate its own seat of government, to change the same and to appropriate money therefor, notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Enabling Act
of June 16, 1906, 34 Stat. 267, c. 3335, and the ordinance irrevocable
of the convention of the people of Oklahoma accepting the same.
113 Pac. Rep. 944, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
legislative act of Oklahoma, providing for the removal of
the capital of the State from Guthrie to Oklahoma City,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Dale, Mr. C. G. Hornor and Mr. John H.
Burford, with whom Mr. A. G. C. Bierer, Mr. Frank B.
Burford and Mr. Benj. F. Hegler were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
The people of Oklahoma, under the enabling act, secured a republican form of government. State v. Harris
(S. C.), 2 Bailey, 598. There is considerable diversity
between the enabling acts of the States. As to Arkansas,
there are provisions which are not in any respect similar
to those of Oklahoma. So also as to Alabama, Louisiana,
Missouri and other States.
In California, the people prepared and presented a
constitution and Congress admitted the State upon such
constitution, with express provisions limiting the powers
of the people under their constitution; so as to Mississippi
and Michigan. In the Utah enabling act there is a provision against plural marriage which does not appear in
many of the enabling acts. See special provisions also in
the Nebraska act. Brittle v. The People, 2 Nebraska, 198;
and see collection of enabling acts in Thorpe's American
Charters and Constitutions, vols. 1 to 7 inclusive.
As to what is meant by the term "equality," see Spooner
v. McConnell, 1 McClain, 337, holding that if the meaning be that the people of the new State, exercising the
sovereign powers which belong to the people of any other
State, shall be admitted into the Union, subject to such
provisions in their fundamental law as they shall have sanctioned, within the restrictions of the Federal Constitution,
then the States are equal in rank-equal in their powers
of sovereignty. They only differ, under such conditions
in those restrictions, which, in the exercise of their own

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

powers, they may have voluntarily imposed upon themselves. See also Hogg v. Zanesville Canal Co., 5 Ohio, 416.
At the time Congress passed the law Oklahoma was a
Territory and Congress had the unquestioned right to deal
with the matter involved. Church v. United States, 136
U. S. 1; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343.
Congress has not repealed the law. It is not claimed
that a repeal was intended; so, if repealed, it must be by
implication, and repeals by implication are not favored.
For other cases, involving compacts between States
and the United States, and which sustain appellant's contention, see Bennett v. Boggs, Fed. Cas. No. 1,319; Vaughan
v. Williams, 3 McClain, 530, Fed. Cas. No. 16,903;
Minnesota v. Bachelder, 1 Wall. 109, 114; Virginia v.
West Virginia, 11 Wall. 39; White v. Hart, 13 Wall. 646;
Marsh v. Burroughs, 1 Woods, 463; Romine v. State of
Washington, 34 Pac. Rep. 924; Brittle v. The People, 2
Nebraska, 198, Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; Hawkins v.
Barney's Lessee, 5 Pet. 456; Albee v. May, Fed. Cas.
No. 134; Hancock v. Walsh, 3 Woods, 351; Gray v. Davis,
1 Woods, 430; United States v. Partello, 48 Fed. Rep. 670;
The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737; Beecher v. Wetherby, 95
U. S. 517, 522; People v. Roberts, 18 How. 173; Boyd v.
Thayer, 143 U. S. 135.
The cases cited and quoted by the court in the majority
opinion below do not sustain the decision.
In the formation of the Federal Union, each of the
original colonies, upon entering the Union, surrendered
some of its sovereign powers, and deprived itself of the
power to exercise others.
Each State which has come into the Union since the
formation of the Government of the United States has,
either at the request or upon requirement of Congress,
temporarily or permanently deprived itself of the power
to exercise some of the attributes of sovereignty. And by
so doing the State has not been admitted upon an unequal
VOL. ccxxi-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

footing with other States. Equality among the States,
or as termed by the courts, an equal footing with the
original States, means the possession of sovereignty, the
power to exercise the functions of a republican form of
government, not necessarily in the same manner or to the
same extent. Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506; Vattel's
Law of Nations, 3, 193, 196, 229; Baker's Int. Law, 24,
27, 43, 94.
The compact of the enabling act was entered into by
the high contracting parties for good and sufficient reasons of state, which is all the consideration that is needed
to support a public treaty, compact or convention. Of
course in the present case there was a "consideration"
in the ordinary sense. Wheaton, Int. Law, 377; Maxey's
Int. Law, 26, 27; 1 Moore's Dig. Int. Law, 19; Grotius,
B. 1, c. 3, §§ 16, 18; Matheny v. Golden, 5 Oh. St. 368.
Many of the Territories have yielded portions of sovereignty in order to become States (the brief refers to
numerous instances).
The contemporary and departmental interpretation and
stare decisis sustain plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of Oklahoma, Mr.
B. F. Burwell and Mr. J. W. Bailey, with whom Mr. C. B.
Stuart and Mr. W. A. Ledbetter were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma to review the judgment of that court upholding a
legislative act of the State providing for the removal of its
capital from Guthrie to Oklahoma City, and making an
appropriation from the funds of the State for the purpose
of carrying out the act by the erection of the necessary
state buildings. (Act of Oklahoma, December 29, 1910)
not yet published.

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The opinion of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma may
be found in 113 Pac. Rep. 944.
By an act passed December 7, 1910, the State gave to
its Supreme Court "original jurisdiction" to entertain
any proceeding brought in that court by resident taxpayers of the State to have determined "the legality of
the removal or location or attempt to remove or locate the
state capital" and certain other state institutions. This
act was passed in advance of the removal act here involved, and for the express purpose of providing a speedy
method for the determination of constitutional objections
which might be urged against the proposed relocation of
the seat of the state government. The Removal Act followed, and this proceeding was at once started in the
Supreme Court of the State by the plaintiffs in error, who
claimed not only to be citizens and taxpayers of the State,
but also owners of large property interests in Guthrie,
which would be adversely affected by the removal of the
seat of government as proposed by the act in question.
The validity of the law locating the capital at Oklahoma
City was attacked for many reasons which involved only
the interpretation and application of the constitution of
the State. These were all decided adversely to the petitioners. We shall pass them by as matters of state law, not
subject to the reviewing power of this court under a writ
of error to a state court.
The question reviewable under this writ of error, if any
there be, arises under the claim set up by the petitioners,
and decided against them, that the Oklahoma act of December 29, 1910, providing for the immediate location of
the capital of the State at Oklahoma City was void as
repugnant to the Enabling Act of Congress of June 16,
1906, under which the State was admitted to the
Union. 34 Stat. 267, c. 3335. The act referred to is entitled "An act to enable the people of Oklahoma and
the Indian Territory to form a constitution and state

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

'221 U. S.

government and be admitted into the Union on an equal
footing with the original States," etc. The same act provides for the admission of Arizona and New Mexico. The
first twenty-two sections relate only to Oklahoma. The
second section is lengthy and deals with the organization
of a constitutional convention and concludes in these
words: "The capital of said State shall temporarily be at
the city of Guthrie, and shall not be changed therefrom
previous to Anno Domini Nineteen Hundred and Thirteen,
but said capital shall after said year be located by the
electors of said State at an election to be provided for by
the legislature; provided, however, that the legislature of
said State, except as shall be necessary for the convenient
transaction of the public business of said State at said
capital, shall not appropriate any public moneys of the
State for the erection of buildings for capital purposes
during said period."
. Other sections of the act require that the constitution of
the proposed new State shall include many specific provisions concerning the framework of the government, and
some which impose limitations upon the State as regards
the Indians therein, and their reservations, in respect of
traffic in liquor among the Indians or upon their reservations. The twenty-second and last section applicable to
Oklahoma reads thus: "That the constitutional convention provided for herein shall, by ordinance irrevocable,
accept the terms and conditions of this act."
The constitution as framed contains nothing as to the
location of the State capital; but the convention which
framed it adopted a separate ordinance in these words:
"SEc. 497. Enabling Act accepted by Ordinance Irrevocable. Be it ordained by the Constitutional Convention for the proposed State of Oklahoma, that said Constitutional Convention do, by this ordinance irrevocable,
accept the terms and conditions of an Act of Congress of
the United States, entitled. 'An Act to Enable the People

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Oklahoma and the Indian Territory to form a Constitution and State Government and be admitted into the
Union on an equal footing with the original States; and
to Enable the People of New Mexico and Arizona to form
a Constitution and State Government and be admitted
into the Union on an equal footing with the original
States,' approved June the sixteenth, Anno Domini,
Nineteen Hundred and Six."
This was submitted along with the constitution as a
separate matter and was ratified as was the constitution
proper.
The efficacy of this ordinance as a law of the State conflicting with the removal act of 1910 was, of course, a
state question. The only question for review by us is
whether the provision of the enabling act was a valid
limitation upon the power of the State after its admission,
which overrides any subsequent state legislation repugnant thereto.
The power to locate its own seat of government and to
determine when and how it shall be changed from one
place to another, and to appropriate its own public funds
for that purpose, are essentially and peculiarly state
powers. That one of the original thirteen States could
now be shorn of such powers by an act of Congress would
not be for a moment entertained. The question then
comes to this: Can a State be placed upon a plane of
inequality with its sister States in the Union if the Congress chooses to impose conditions which so operate, at
the time of its admission? The argument is, that while
Congress may not deprive a State of any power which it
possesses, it may, as a condition to the admission of a new
State, constitutionally restrict its authority, to the extent
at least, of suspending its powers for a definite time in
respect to the location of its seat of government. This
contention is predicated upon the constitutional power
of admitting new States to this Union, and the constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

tional duty of guaranteeing to "every State in this Union
a republican form of government." The position of counsel for the appellants is substantially this: That the power
of Congress to admit new States and to determine whether
or not its fundamental law is republican in form, are
political powers, and as such, uncontrollable by the
courts. That Congress may in the exercise of such power
impose terms and conditions upon the admission of the
proposed new State, which, if accepted, will be obligatory,
although they operate to deprive the State of powers
which it would otherwise possess, and, therefore, not admitted upon "an equal footing with the original States."
The power of Congress in respect to the admission of
new States is found in the third section of the fourth Article of the Constitution. That provision is that, "new
States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union."
The only expressed restriction upon this power is that no
new State shall be formed within the jurisdiction of any
other State, nor by the junction of two or more States,
or parts of States, without the consent of such States, as
well as of the Congress.
But what is this power? It is not to admit political
organizations which are less or greater, or different in
dignity or power, from those political entities which constitute the Union. It is, as strongly put by counsel, a
''power to admit States."
The definition of "a State" is found in the powers possessed by the original States which adopted the Constitution, a definition emphasized by the terms employed in all
subsequent acts of Congress admitting new States into
the Union. The first two States admitted into the Union
were the States of Vermont and Kentucky, one as of
March 4, 1791, and the other as of June 1, 1792. No
terms or conditions were exacted from either. Each act
declares that the State is admitted "as a new and entire member of the United States of America." 1 Stat.

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

189, 191. Emphatic and significant as is the phrase admitted as "an entire member," even stronger was the
declaration upon the admission in 1796 of Tennessee, as
the third new State, it being declared to be "one of the
United States of America," "on an equal footing with the
original States in all respects whatsoever," phraseology
which has ever since been substantially followed in admission acts, concluding with the Oklahoma act, which
declares that Oklahoma shall be admitted "on an equal
footing with the original States."
The power is to admit "new States into this Union."
"This Union" was and is a union of States, equal in
power, dignity and authority, each competent to exert
that residuum of sovereignty not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution itself. To maintain otherwise
would be to say that the Union, through the power of
Congress to admit new States, might come to be a union
of States unequal in power, as including States whose
powers were restricted only by the Constitution, with
others whose powers had been further restricted by an act
of Congress accepted as a condition of admission. Thus it
would result, first, that the powers of Congress would not
be defined by the Constitution alone, but in respect to
new States, enlarged or restricted by the conditions imposed upon new States by its own legislation admitting
them into the Union; and, second, that such new States
might not exercise all of the powers which had not been
delegated by the Constitution, but only such as had not
been further bargained away as conditions of admission.
The argument that Congress derives from the duty of
"guaranteeing to each State in this Union a republican
form of government," power to impose restrictions upon
a new State which deprives it of equality with other members of the Union, has no merit. It may imply the duty
of such new State to provide itself with such state government, and impose upon Congress the duty of seeing that

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

such form is not changed to one anti-republican,-Minor
v. Happersett, 21 Wall, 162, 174, 175,-but it obviously
does not confer power to admit a new State which shall
be any less a State than those which compose the Union.
We come now to the question as to whether there is
anything in the decisions of this court which sanctions the
claim that Congress may by the imposition of conditions
in an enabling act deprive a new State of any of those
attributes essential to its equality in dignity and power
with other States. In considering the decisions of this
court bearing upon the question, we must distinguish,
first, between provisions which are fulfilled by the admission of the State; second, between compacts or affirmative legislation intended to operate in futuro, which are
within the scope of the conceded powers of Congress over
the subject; and third, compacts or affirmative legislation
which operates to restrict the powers of such new States
in respect of matters which would otherwise be exclusively
within the sphere of state power.
As to requirements in such enabling acts as relate only
to the contents of the constitution for the proposed new
State, little need to be said. The constitutional provision
concerning the admission of new States is not a mandate,
but a power to be exercised with discretion. From this
alone it would follow that Congress may require, under
penalty of denying admission, that the organic laws of a
new State at the time of admission shall be such as to
meet its approval. A constitution thus supervised by
Congress would, after all, be a constitution of a State, and
as such subject to alteration and amendment by the State
after admission. Its force would be that of a state constitution, and not that of an act of Congress.
The case of Permoli v. First Municipality, 3 How. 589,
609, is in point. By the act of February 20, 1811, the
people of the Territory of Orleans were empowered to
form a constitution and state government. The third

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

section of that act prescribed, among other things, that
it should "contain the fundamental principles of civil and
religious liberty." The act of 1812 admitting the State
provided, "that all the conditions and terms contained in
said third section should be considered, deemed and taken
as fundamental conditions and terms, upon which the said
State is incorporated into the Union." It was claimed
that a certain municipal ordinance was in violation of
religious liberty, and therefore void, as repugnant to the
act under which the State had been admitted to the Union.
Dealing with those terms of the enabling and admitting
acts in respect to the contents of the constitution to be
adopted by the people of the Territory seeking admission
as a State, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Catron,
said:
"All Congress intended, was to declare in advance to
the people of the territory, the fundamental principles
their constitution should contain; this was every way
proper under the circumstances; the instrument having
been duly formed, and presented, it was for the national
legislature to judge whether it contained the proper principles, and to accept it if it did; or reject it if it did not.
Having accepted the constitution and admitted the state
Con an equal footing with the original States in all respects
whatever,' in express terms, by the act of 1812, Congress
was concluded from assuming that the instructions contained in the act of 1811 had not been complied with.
No fundamental principles could be added by way of
amendment, as this would have been making part of the
state constitution; if Congress could make it in part, it
might, in the form of amendment, make it entire. The
conditions and terms referred to in the act of 1812, could
only relate to the stipulations contained in the second
proviso of the act of 1811, involving rights of property
and navigation; and in our opinion were not otherwise
intended."

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

The reference by Justice Catron to the terms and conditions in act of 1812, is to a provision in the act of February 20, 1811 (2 Stat. 641, 642), quite common in enabling
acts, by which the new State disclaimed title to the public
lands, and stipulated that such lands should remain subject to the sole disposition of the United States, and for
their exemption from taxation, and that its navigable
waters should forever remain open and free, etc. Such
stipulations, as we shall see, being within the sphere of
congressional power, can derive no force from the consent of the State. Like stipulations, as well as others in
respect to the control by the United States of large Indian
reservations and Indian population of the new State, are
found in the Oklahoma enabling act. Whatever force
such provisions have after the admission of the State may
be attributed to the power of Congress over the subjects,
derived from other provisions of the Constitution, rather
than from any consent by or compact with the State.
So far as this court has found occasion to advert to the
effect of enabling acts as affirmative legislation affecting
the power of new States after admission, there is to be
found no sanction for the contention that any State may
be deprived of any of the power constitutionally possessed
by other States, as States, by reason of the terms in which
the acts admitting them to the Union have been framed.
The case of Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, is
a most instructing and controlling case. It involved the
title to the submerged lands between the shores of navigable waters within the State of Alabama. The plaintiff
claimed under a patent from the United States, and the
defendant under a grant from the State. The plaintiff
relied upon two propositions which are relevant to the
question here. One was that in the act under which
Alabama was admitted to the Union there was a stipulation that the people of Alabama forever disclaimed all
right or title to the waste or unappropriated lands lying

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the State, and that they should remain at the sole
disposal of the United States, and a second, that all of the
navigable waters within the State should forever remain
public highways and free to the citizens of that State and
of the United States, without any tax, duty or impost
imposed by the State. These provisions were relied upon
as a "compact" by which the United States became possessed of all such submerged lands between the shores of
navigable rivers within the State.
The points decided were:
First, following Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 410, that
prior to the adoption of the Constitution, the people of
each of the original States "held the absolute right to all
of their navigable waters and the soil under them for their
common use, subject only to the rights since surrendered
by the Constitution."
Second. That Alabama had succeeded to all the sovereignty and jurisdiction of all the territory within her
limits, to the same extent that Georgia possessed it before
she ceded that territory to the United States.
Third. That to Alabama belong the navigable waters,
and soils under them.
The court held that the stipulation in the act under
which Alabama was admitted to the Union, that the people of the proposed State "forever disclaim all rights and
title to the waste or unappropriated lands lying within the
said territory, and that the same shall be and remain at the
sole and entire disposition of the United States," cannot
operate as a contract between the parties, but is binding
as law. As to this the court said:
"Full power is given to Congress 'to make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the territory or other
property of the United States.' This authorized the passage of all laws necessary to secure the rights of the
United States to the public lands, and to provide for their
sale, and to protect them from taxation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

"And all constitutional laws are binding on the people,
in the new states and the old ones, whether they consent
to be bound by them or not. Every constitutional act of
Congress is passed by the will of the people of the United
States, expressed through their representatives, on the
subject-matter of the enactment; and when so passed it
becomes the supreme law of the land, and operates by its
own force on the subject-matter, in whatever State or
Territory it may happen to be. The proposition, therefore, that such a law cannot operate upon the subjectmatter of its enactment, without the express consent of
the people of the new State, where it may happen to be,
contains its own refutation, and requires no farther exanination. The propositions submitted to the people of
the Alabama Territory, for their acceptance or rejection,
by the act of Congress authorizing them to form a constitution and state government for themselves, so far as
they related to the public lands within that Territory
amounted to nothing more nor less than rules and regulations respecting the sales and disposition of public lands.
The supposed compact relied on by the counsel for the
plaintiffs, conferred no authority, therefore, on Congress
to pass the act granting to the plaintiffs the land in controversy."
Fourth. As to the stipulation in the same admission act
that all navigable waters within the State should forever
remain open and free, the court, after deciding that to the
original StAtes belonged the absolute right to the navigable waters within the States and the soil under them for
the public use, "subject only to the rights since surrendered by the Constitution," said:
"Alabama is, therefore, entitled to the sovereignty and
jurisdiction over all the territory within her limits, subject to the common law, to the same extent that Georgia
possessed it before she ceded it to the United States. To
maintain any other doctrine, is to deny that Alabama has

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been admitted into the union on an equal footing with the
original States, the constitution, laws, and compact, to the
contrary notwithstanding."
The plain deduction from this case is that when a new
State is admitted into the Union, it is so admitted with all
of the powers of sovereignty and jurisdiction which pertain to the original States, and that such powers may not
be constitutionally diminished, impaired or shorn away
by any conditions, compacts or stipulations embraced in
the act under which the new State came into the Union,
which would not be valid and effectual if the subject of
congressional legislation after admission.
This deduction finds support in Permoli v. First Municipality, 3 How. 589, from which we have heretofore
used an excerpt; and in Strader v. Graham, 10 How. 82;
Withers v. Buckley et al., 20 How. 84, 93; Escanaba Co. v.
Chicago, 107 U. S.678, 688; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,
117 U. S.151, 160; Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S.543; Sands v.
River Co., 123 U. S.288, 296; Ward v. Race Horse, 163
U. S.504; Bolln v. Nebraska, 176 U. S.83, 87.
That the power of Congress to regulate commerce
among the States involves the control of the navigable
waters of the United States over which such commerce is
conducted is undeniable; but it is equally well settled that
the control of the State over its internal commerce involves the right to control and regulate navigable streams
within the State until Congress acts on the subject, This
has been the uniform holding of this court since Willson v.
Black Bird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S.
678, 683.
Many of the cases cited above presented the question as
to whether state regulation of its own navigable waters,
valid as an exercise of its power as a State until Congress
should regulate the subject, was invalid because that
"plenary power" had been cut down, not by a regulation

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

of the general subject by Congress, but as a result of a
supposed compact, condition or restriction accepted by
the State as a condition upon which it was admitted into
the Union.
It may well happen that Congress should embrace in
an enactment introducing a new State into the Union
legislation intended as a regulation of commerce among
the States, or with Indian tribes situated within the limits
of such new State, or regulations touching the sole care
and disposition of the public lands or reservations therein,
which might be upheld as legislation within the sphere
of the plain power of Congress. But in every such case
such legislation would derive its force not from any agreement or compact with the proposed new State, nor by
reason of its acceptance of such enactment as a term of
admission, but solely because the power of Congress extended to the subject, and, therefore, would not operate
to restrict the State's legislative power in respect of any
matter which was not plainly within the regulating power
of Congress. Williamette Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1,
9. Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, supra.
No such question is presented here. The legislation in
the Oklahoma enabling act relating to the location of the
capital of the State, if construed as forbidding a removal
by the State after its admission as a State, is referable to
no power granted to Congress over the subject, and if it is
to be upheld at all, it must be implied from the power to
admit new States. If power to impose such a restriction
upon the general and undelegated power of a State be conceded as implied from the power to admit a new State,
where is the line to be drawn against restrictions imposed
upon new States. The insistence finds no support in the
decisions of this court. In Withers v. Buckley, 20 How.
84, 92, 93, where it was contended that certain legislation
of the State of Mississippi interfering with the free navigation of one of the navigable streams of the State, con-

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

flicted with one of the stipulations in the act under which
the State had been admitted to the Union, Congress not
having otherwise legislated upon the subject, it was
said:
"In considering this act of Congress of March 1st, 1817,
it is unnecessary to institute any examination or criticism
as to its legitimate meaning, or operation, or binding authority, farther than to affirm that it could have no effect
to restrict the new State in any of its necessary attributes
as an independent sovereign government, nor to inhibit
or diminish its perfect equality with the other members
of the Confederacy with which it was to be associated.
These conclusions follow from the very nature and objects
of the Confederacy, from the language of the Constitution
adopted by the States, and from the rule of interpretation
pronounced by this court in the case of Pollard'sLessee v.
Hagan, 3 How. p. 223."
In Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, cited above, it was contended that the control of the State of Illinois over its
internal waters had been restricted by the ordinance of
1787, and by the reference to that ordinance in the act of
Congress admitting the State. Concerning this insistence,
this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said:
"Whatever the limitation upon her powers as a government whilst in a territorial condition, whether from the
ordinance of 1787 or the legislation of Congress, it ceased
to have any operative force, except as voluntarily adopted
by her, after she became a State of the Union. On her
admission she at once became entitled to and possessed of
all the rights of dominion and sovereignty which belonged
to the original States. She was admitted, and could be
admitted, only on the same footing with them. The language of the resolution admitting her is 'on an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatever.' 3
Stat. 536. Equality of constitutional right and power is
the condition of all the States of the Union, old and new.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Illinois, therefore, as was well observed by counsel, could
afterwards exercise the same power over rivers within her
limits that Delaware exercised over Black Bird Creek,
and Pennsylvania over the Schuylkill River. Pollard's
Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Permoli v. First Municipality, id. 589; Strader v. Graham, 10 id. 82."
In Ward v. Race Horse, supra, the necessary equality of
the new State with the original States is asserted and
maintained against the claim that the police power of the
State of Wyoming over its wild game had been restricted
by an Indian treaty made prior to the admission of the
State of Wyoning.
In Bolin v. Nebraska, 176 U. S. 83, 89, it appeared that
the act under which Nebraska had been admitted had,
among other things, required the convention organized to
form a constitution for the proposed State to adopt for the
people of that State the Constitution of the United States.
This was done. It was claimed as a result that the power
of the State to authorize the prosecution of a felony by
information had been restricted, because the United States
could, under one of the amendments to the Constitution,
prosecute only by indictment. In respect to this claim the
court said:
"But conceding all that can be claimed in this connection, and that the State of Nebraska did enter the Union
under the condition of the Enabling Act, and that it
adopted the Constitution of the United States as its fundamental law, all that was meant by these words was that
the State acknowledged, as every other State has done, the
supremacy of the Federal Constitution. The first section
of the act of 1867, admitting the State into the Union, declared: 'that it is hereby admitted into the Union upon an
equal footing with the original States in all respects whatsoever.' It is impossible to suppose that, by such indefinite language as was used in the Enabling Act, Congress intended to differentiate Nebraska from her sister

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, even if it had the power to do so, and attempt to
impose more onerous conditions upon her than upon
them, or that in cases arising in Nebraska a different construction should be given to her constitution from that
given to the constitutions of other States. But this court
has held in many cases that, whatever be the limitations
upon the power of a territorial government, they cease to
have any operative force, except as voluntarily adopted
after such territory has become a State of the Union.
Upon the admission of a State it becomes entitled to and
possesses all the rights of dominion and sovereignty which
belonged to the original States, and, in the language of the
act of 1867 admitting the State of Nebraksa, it stands
'upon an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatsoever.' "
We are unable to find in any of the decisions of this court
cited by counsel for the appellants anything which contravenes the view we have expressed. Green v. Biddle,
8 Wheat. 1, involved the question as to whether a compact between two States, assented to by Congress, by
which private land titles in Kentucky, derived from Virginia before the separation of Kentucky from Virginia,
"should remain valid and secure under the laws of the
proposed State of Kentucky, and should be determined
by the laws now existing in this (Virginia) State." By
subsequent legislation of the State of Kentucky these titles
were adversely affected. This court held that this legislation impaired the obligation of a valid contract within
that clause of the Constitution forbidding such impairment. Neither does Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall.
39, have any bearing here. The question there was one of
compact between the two States, assented to by Congress,
concerning the boundary between them. Both the cases
last referred to concerned compacts between States, authorized by the Constitution when assented to by Congress. They were therefore compacts and agreements
VOL. ccxxi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

sanctioned by the Constitution, while the one here sought
to be enforced is one having no sanction in that instrument.
Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, involved the validity
of the grant of every sixteenth section in each township for
school purposes. The grant was made by the act providing for the organization of a state government for the Territory of Wisconsin, and purported to be upon condition
that the proposed State should never interfere with the
primary disposal of the public lands of the United States,
nor subject them to taxation. The grant was held to operate as a grant taking effect so soon as the necessary surveys were made. The conditions assented to by the State
were obviously such as obtained no force from the assent
of the State, since they might have been exacted as an exertion of the proper power of Congress to make rules and
regulations as to the disposition of the public lands.
Minnesota v. Bachelder, 1 Wall. 109, is another case which
involved nothing more than an exertion by Congress of its
power to regulate the disposition of the public lands.
The case of the Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737, involved
the power of the State of Kansas to tax lands held by the
individual Indians in that State under patents from the
United States. The act providing for the admission of
Kansas into the Union provided that nothing contained
in the constitution of the State should be construed to
"impair the rights of persons or property pertaining to
the Indians of said territory, so long as such rights shall
remain unextinguished by treaty with such Indians." It
was held that so long as the tribal organization of such Indians was recognized as still existing, such lands were not
subject to taxation by the State. The result might be
well upheld either as an exertion of the power of Congress
over Indian tribes, with whom the United States had
treaty relations, or as a contract by which the State had
agreed to forego taxation of Indian lands, a contract quite

COYLE v. OKLAHOMA.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the power of a State to make, whether made with
the United States for the benefit of its Indian wards, or
with a private corporation for the supposed advantages resulting. Certainly the case has no bearing upon a compact by which the general legislative power of the State
is to be impaired with reference to a matter pertaining
purely to the internal policy of the State. See Stearns v.
Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223.
No good can result from a consideration of the other
cases cited by plaintiffs in error. None of them bear any
more closely upon the question here involved than those
referred to. If anything was needed to complete the argument against the assertion that Oklahoma has not been
admitted to the Union upon an equality of power, dignity
and sovereignty with Massachusetts or Virginia, it is afforded by the express provision of the act of admission, by
which it is declared that when the people of the proposed
new State have complied with the terms of the act that it
shall be the duty of the President to issue his proclamation,
and that "thereupon the proposed State of Oklahoma
shall be deemed admitted by Congress into the Union
under and by virtue of this act, on an equal footing with
the original States." The proclamation has been issued
and the Senators and Representatives from the State admitted to their seats in the Congress.
Has Oklahoma been admitted upon an equal footing
with the original States? If she has, she by virtue of
her jurisdictional sovereignty as such a State may determine for her own people the proper location of the
local seat of government. She is not equal in power
to them if she cannot.
In Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725, Chief Justice Chase
said in strong and memorable language that, "the Constitution, in all of its provisions looks to an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible States."
In Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 76, he said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

"The people of the United States constitute one nation,
under one government, and this government, within the
scope of the powers with which it is invested, is supreme.
On the other hand, the people of each State compose a
State, having its own government, and endowed with all
the functions essential to separate and independent existence. The States disunited might continue to exist.
Without the States in union there could be no such political body as the United States."
To this we may add that the constitutional equality of
the States is essential to the harmonious operation of the
scheme upon which the Republic was organized. When
that equality disappears we may remain a free people, but
the Union will not be the Union of the Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dis-

sent.

BAGLIN, SUPERIOR GENERAL OF THE ORDER
OF CARTHUSIAN MONKS, v. CUSENIER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND ON CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 99.

Argued March 14, 15, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

While names which are merely geographical cannot be exclusively appropriated as trade-marks, a geographical name which for a long
period has referred exclusively to a product made at the place and
not to the place itself may properly be used as a trade-mark; and
so held that the word "Chartreuse" as used by the Carthusian Monks
in connection with the liqueur manufactured by them at Grande
Chartreuse, France, before their removal to Spain, was a validly registered trade-mark in this country.

