OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

compensation or relief of any other character. The present proceeding necessarily ended with the settlement of
the main cause of which it is a part. Bessette v. Conkey,
194 U. S. 328, 333; Worden v. Searls, 121 U. S. 27; State
v. Nathans, 49 S. Car. 207. The criminal sentences imposed in the civil case, therefore, should be set aside.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case remanded with directions to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
and remand the case to that court with direction that the
contempt proceedings instituted by the Bucks Stove &
Range Company be dismissed, but without prejudice to
the power and right of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia to punish by a proper proceeding, contempt,
if any, committed against it.
Reversed.

MONTELLO SALT COMPANY v. STATE OF UTAH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.

No. 136.

Argued April 21, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The words "and including" following a description do not necessarily
mean "in addition to," but may refer to a part of the thing described.
The words "110,000 acres of land

.

.

.

and including all the

saline lands in the State" as used in § 8 of the Utah Enabling Act
are not to be construed as a grant of such salines in addition to the
110,000 acres, but simply as conferring on the State the right, which
it would not otherwise have, of including saline lands within its
selections for the 110,000 acres.
This construction is in harmony with the uniform policy of Congress
in connection with grants to the States of saline lands.
34 Utah, 458, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of § 8 of the

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Utah Enabling Act and the effect to be given to the words
"and including all saline lands in the State" in connection with the grant of public lands for the University of
Utah, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. T. Corn and Mr. Jesse R. Barton, with whom
Mr. James N. Kimball was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The State did not take title to the saline lands in question by virtue of the Utah Enabling Act of July 16, 1894,
without any act upon its part by way of selecting the same.
As unoccupied saline lands they were subject to location by defendant's grantors under the act of January 31,
1901, 31 Stat. 145.
The grant in § 8 of the Enabling Act did not by the
words "and including" carry all saline lamds in said
State, besides the 110,000 acres originally granted.
Had that been the intention of Congress it was only
necessary after the grant of the 110,000 acres to add the
words, "and all saline lands in said State now known or
hereafter to be discovered." To so construe the statute
would be in direct violation of established rules of construction. Suth. Stat. Const., § 387; Leavenworth R. R.
Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733, 740; Dubuque and Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66.
All grants of this description are strictly construed
against the grantee; nothing passes but what is conveyed
in clear and explicit language. Barden v. Nor. Pac. R. R.
Co., 154 U. S. 288. To strike out the word "including"
would be to extend the grant by implication and construe the act most strongly against the grantor.
The construction of the Enabling Act insisted on by
defendant in error would be to create an endowment for
the university many times greater than Congress ever
conferred upon any other state university and also out of
line with the legislation of Congress in regard to saline

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

land. See statutes on the subject of saline lands. 1 Stat.
466; Ohio Enabling Act of April 30, 1802; 2 Stat. 175.
As to Ohio see also 4 Stat. 79; in Missouri, 3 Stat. 547;
in Michigan, 5 Stat. 60; in Iowa, 5 Stat. 790; in Arkansas,
1836, 5 Stat. 58; 4 Stat. 505; 4 Stat. 304; in Illinois, 4 Stat.
305, 496. See also special act as to Michigan, Illinois
and Arkansas, 9 Stat. 181, 182. Congress has carefully
guarded the saline lands in the Indian Territory. 2 Stat.
280. See as to Alabama, 3 Stat. 491; and as to Mississippi,
2 Stat. 5, 48.
Saline lands or salt springs have never been granted to
any State by blanket provisions. In 30 Stat. 484, all
saline lands in its territory were granted to New Mexico,
but the language employed was entirely different, the
wording being, "together with all saline lands."
In general grants, unless otherwise clearly stated, neither
mineral nor saline nor salt springs are granted. Morton v.
Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660; United States v. N. P. Ry. Co.,
170 Fed. Rep. 498; 176 Fed. Rep. 706; Garrard v. Silver
Peak Mines, 82 Fed. Rep. 578; Mullan v. United States,
118 U. S. 271; Mining Co. v. Mining Co., 102 U. S. 167;
Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761; L. L. & G. R. R. Co. v.
United States, 92 U. S. 733.
The word "and" does not add to the word "including."
It is a principle of construction that "and" and "or" are
considered of less importance in construing statutes and
their direct meaning is more readily departed from than
other words; and, if necessary to give effect to the intention
of the parties to an instrument, will be excluded or disregarded altogether. Railroad Co. v. Bartlett, 11 N. E.
Rep. (Ill.) 867; Witherspoon v. Jarrigan,76 S. W. Rep.
(Texas), 445, 447; People v. Lyte, 40 N. Y. Supp. 153, 161;
Boyle v. McMurphy, 55 Illinois, 236; Simpson v. Morris,
3 Yeates, 104.
In the connection in which it is used in the act it should
be excluded or disregarded as meaningless.

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Omitting the word "and," as was done in all the reports and debates in Congress, the grant is "one hundred
and ten thousand acres of land, including all saline lands
in said State" and means that the saline lands granted are
a part of and to be included in the one hundred and ten
thousand acres. If the salines were to be in addition to
the 110,000 acres it would make the precise acreage of the
total grant uncertain, as the number of acres of salines is
unknown. The grant was treated as consisting of a definite number of acres. See Vol. 26, Cong. Rec., p. 209.
Where the language is ambiguous, the applicable rule
of construction compels a construction favorable to the
grantor.
The ordinary signification of the term, as defined by
the dictionaries, both Webster and the Standard, is "to
confine within; to hold; to contain; to shut up; embrace,
and involve." For its definition, the Supreme Court of
Utah relies on In re Goetz, 75 N. Y. Supp. 750; Hiller v.
United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 63; and United States v.
Pierce, 147 Fed. Rep. 199. For cases defining "including" see "Words and Phrases "; In re Goetz, 75 N. Y. Supp.
750; United States v. Pierce, 147 Fed. Rep. 199; S. C.,.140
Fed. Rep. 962; Hiller v. United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 73.
"Include" or the participial form thereof, is defined
"to comprise within"; "to hold"; "to contain"; "to shut
up"; and synonyins are "contain"; "enclose"; "comprise"; "comprehend"; "embrace"; and "involve."
And see for definition applicable to this case, Neher v.
McCook Co., 11 S. Dak. 422; Brainard v. Darling, 132
Massachusetts, 218; Henry's Ex. v. Henry's Ex., 81 Kentucky, 342.
Under the language in the Enabling Act, Congress only
meant to grant the State of Utah, for university purposes,
one hundred and ten thousand acres of land, any part or
the whole whereof could be saline lands.
To hold otherwise would render every title granted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

221 U. S.

a homesteader or other claimant under the United States
laws, of lands in this State, uncertain and of little value;
for, under the broad claim made by the State, if a homesteader, after he secured his patent from the United States,
should discover a bed of salt under his land, the State
could eject.him therefrom. Barden v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co.,
supra; Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S. 312; Deffenback v. Hawk,
115 U. S. 392; Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660, and
cases therein cited; Steele v. St. Louis Smelting & Refining
Co., 106 U. S. 360; Davis v. Wiebold, 139 U. S. 507.
Mr. William D. Riter, with whom Mr. Albert R. Barnes,
Attorney General of the State of Utah, Mr. Waldemar
Van Cott and Mr. Edward M. Allison, Jr., were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
In the Utah Enabling Act Congress used the word
(1) in its true and proper sense, as defined by the lexicographers; or (2) in the sense of "also."
The word "include" is derived from the Latin verb
includo, which means to shut up, to enclose. "Include"
has two meanings, one of which is the same as that of
See Webster. Congress used the
the 'word "embrace."
word "including" in the sense thus defined by the dictionaries. For similar use in some appropriation acts
passed by the Fifty-eighth Congress, see 33 Stat. 834,
836, 838, 840, 876, 1092, 1114, 1173, 1174, 1187, 1188.
For other illustrations, see 18 Stat. 274.
In none of these sentences is "including" used in strict
accordance with its dictionary meaning, but in the sense
of "also." Similar expressions are constantly heard; see
United States v. Pierce, 147 Fed. Rep. 199; Hiller v.
United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 73; In re Goetz's Will, 75
N. Y. Supp. 750.
If it was the intention of Congress to include the saline
lands in the 110,000 acres, then the phrase "and including all saline lands in said State" is awkwardly and un-

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

grammatically placed. The lawmaker is presumed to
know the rules of grammar. United States v. Goldenberg,
168 U. S. 95, 103.
It is a significant fact that Congress used the word
"all" in the phrase "and including all saline lands." Of
still greater significance is the use of the conjunction
"and" in the phrase "and including all saline lands."
No ambiguity can ever arise from the use of "and." That
word is always employed to express the relation of addition.
Upon the admission of other States to the Union, Congress made large grants of saline lands or salt springs.
As to Minnesota, see 11 Stat. 166; as to Kansas, 12 Stat.
126. A similar grant was made to Colorado, 18 Stat. 474;
to Iowa, 5 Stat. 789; to Wisconsin, 9 Stat. 56.
The failure to fix any limit in Utah's Enabling Act is
proof that Congress intended to give to this State all
saline lands within its boundaries. See 1 Lindley on
Mines, §§ 513-515.
Effect must be given, if possible, to every word iR a
statute. Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112, 115;
Allen v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80, 84; Montclair v. Ramsdell,
107 U. S. 147, 152; United States v. Fisher, 109 U. S. 143,
145; Murphy v. Utter, 186 U. S. 95, 111.
Congress intended to give all saline lands then known
or to be thereafter discovered. See Barden v. Northern
Pacific R. R. Co., 154 U. S. 288.
The rule of construction invoked by the plaintiff in
error, that a public grant is construed strictly against the
grantee, can come into play only where there is a real and
substantial doubt as to what Congress intends. Where
the meaning of Congress is fairly and reasonably apparent,
the grant cannot be defeated by invoking the rule that a
legislative grant is construed strictly against the grantee.
United States v. D. & R. G. R. Co., 150 U. S. 1, 14; Richmond &c. R. Co. v. Louisa R. Co., 13 How. 71, 86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

In the construction of an enabling act the land grants
therein made are not to receive at the hands of this court
the strict construction which is followed with respect to
legislative grants to railroad companies or to States to aid
in the construction of railroads.
In none of the following cases involving the construction of land grants as contained in the enabling acts of
several of the States, did this court invoke the strict rule
of construction. Ham v. Missouri, 18 How. 126; Cooper
v. Roberts, 18 How. 173;. Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wall.
660; Heydenfeldt v. Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634; Beecher v.
Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517; Mining Co. v. Mining Co., 102
U. S. 167; Mullan v. United States, 118 U. S. 271; Missouri
&c. R. Co. v. Roberts, 152 U. S. 114; Hitchcock v. Minnesota, 185 U. S. 373; Johnson v. Washington, 190 U. S. 179;
Mining Co. v. Mining Co., supra.
The Enabling Act being a compact between the United
States and the State of Utah, it should receive the same
construction as an ordinary contract. Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S.129, 137. Where a State is the grantee a
more liberal rule of construction prevails. Indiana v.
Milk, 11 Fed. Rep. 389.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in the case is whether § 8 of the Enabling
Act of the State of Utah granted to the State all of the
saline lands within the State or only enabled them to be
selected as part of other lands granted and not specifically
located.
Section 8 reads as follows (act of July 16, 1894, c. 138,
28 Stat. 107, 109):
"That lands to the extent of two townships in quantity,
authorized by the third section of the act of February
twenty-one, eighteen hundred and fifty-five, to be re-

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

served for the establishment of the University of Utah,
are hereby granted to the State of Utah for university
purposes, to be held and used in accordance with the provisions of this section; and any portion of said lands that
may not have been selected by said Territory may be
selected by said State. That in addition to the above, one
hundred and ten thousand acres of land, to be selected and
located as provided in the foregoing section of this act, and
including all the saline lands in said State, are hereby
granted to said State, for the use of said university, and
two hundred thousand acres for the use of an agricultural
college therein. That the proceeds of the sale of said lands,
or any portion thereof, shall constitute permanent funds,
to be safely held and invested by said State, and the income thereof to be used exclusively for the purposes of
such university and agricultural college, respectively."
We have italicized the clause upon which the answer
to the question turns. The special stress of it comes on
the words" and including" and whether they carry a grant
of all the saline lands or permit merely the selection of such
lands as part of the 110,000 acres.
Construing the statute as granting all of the saline lands
the State brought suit against the Montello Salt Company,
herein called the Salt Company, in the District Court of
the Third Judicial District, alleging that the Salt Company was in possession of certain of the lands, specifically
describing them, claiming title under certain placer mining
locations, and was threatening to take up and remove
valuable deposits of salt therefrom. It was prayed that
the Salt Company be adjudged to have no right, title, or
interest in the lands and that the State be decreed their
owner. An injunction pending the trial was also prayed,
and general relief.
A preliminary injunction was issued. The answer of
the Salt Company admitted that the lands were saline
and alleged that it was the equitable owner of them by

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

virtue of conveyance from the original owners, about
1500 in number, all of whom were qualified to enter
mineral claims under the land laws of the United States,
including saline lands, and that such persons in groups of
8 entered upon 160 acres of the lands, discovered salt
thereon, and did all that was necessary for the location of
the same, including the filing of a notice of location, to be
recorded in the office of the recorder within and for Tooele
County, where the lands were situated. And it is alleged*
that thereafter, for the purpose of more economically developing the property, the locaters conveyed by quitclaim
deeds their interest to the company and became stockholders of it.
It alleged that on July 16, 1894, date of the passage of
the Enabling Act, the lands were not known to be saline,
but were so covered with soil and other earthy substances
that their true character was concealed, and were not discovered to be saline until November, 1906; "whereas, it is
alleged, in truth and fact that under such substances and
soil the said lands are covered by a deposit of salt varying
from four to eight feet deep;" that prior to the discovery
of their character the State had selected and received
grants from the United States for the full amount of the
110,000 acres selected and located as provided in §§ 7 and 8
of the Enabling Act, and the grant by the United States
for the University satisfied. It is further alleged that at
the time of the passage of the Enabling Act only
acres had been classified by the Surveyor General of the
United States within and for the then Territory of Utah,
as saline lands, and that said amount was in the contemplation of Congress when it passed the act, and that the
same was duly approved.
The lands, it is alleged, were subject to location under
the placer laws of the United States.
A demurrer by the State to the answer was sustained,
and, the Salt Company refusing to proceed further, judg-

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment was entered for the State in accordance with the
prayer of the complainant and the injunction was made
perpetual. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State.
Three interpretations of the act are presented. The
State insists that all of the saline lands were granted,
known and unknown. The Salt Company presents two
views, either of which, it is contended, determines in its
favor. (1) If there is a grant of saline lands in addition to
the grant of 110,000 acres, it is only of lands known to be
saline at the date of the act. (2) There is no grant of
saline lands except as they may be selected as part of the
grant of the 110,000 acres.
The State puts its reliance on the word "including,"
and urges that Congress used the word-(1) "in its true
and proper sense, as defined by lexicographers; (2) in the
sense of 'also.' "
In support of the first ground, the following definitions
are given from Webster: "1. To confine within; to hold;
to contain; to shut up, as, the shell of a nut includes the
kernel; a pearl is included in the shell. 2. To comprehend,
as a genus the species, the whole a part, an argument or
reason the inference; to contain; to embrace; to relate to;
to pertain to; as Great Britain includes England, Scotland
and Wales."
And then the argument is that Congress grants, first,
two townships in a county (this was an affirmation of a
prior grant to the Territory) and in addition 110,000
acres of land, to be selected and located in legal subdivisions (§ 7 referred to in § 8 for the manner of selection)
within the State in such manner as the legislature may
provide, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior
(§ 6 referred to in § 7 for the manner of selection). It is
hence argued that the 110,000 acres was a grant of an
undesignated portion of the public domain, and provision
for its selection was necessary and was made, but no pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

vision was made for the selection and location of saline
lands because all were granted "irrespective of their area
or 'locality.' " They are determined by their character,
it is said, and "when the grant is of all and not of a part,
selection and location become superfluous terms." It is
further urged that if Congress intended to make the saline
lands subject only to be selected as part of the 110,000
acres, the phrase "including all saline lands" is awkwardly
and ungrammatically placed, but properly and grammatically placed if an independent grant is intended, and
that Congress is supposed to know the rules of grammar,
citing United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95, 103.
The argument is further developed by pointing out that
the word "all" is comprehensive and excludes the idea of
a limitation of quantity or the selection of a part. If such
limitation or selection had been intended, it is said, the
word "any" would have been used, not "all," and it
cannot be supposed that Congress again used a word inappropriate to its purpose.
"Of still greater significance," it is urged, "is the use
of the conjunction 'and' in the phrase 'and including all
saline lands,' " and that from its frequent use and ready
understanding no ambiguity can ever arise from its employment, it being "always employed to express the relation of addition."
The State further urges that the word "including" may
be taken as signifying "also," and illustrations are given,
some from the statutes, some from decisions, Federal and
state.
In United States v. Pierce, 147 Fed. Rep. 199, a provision
in a tariff act was considered which provided as follows:
"Wood: Logs and round manufactured timber, including
pulp woods. ...
" The court (United States Circuit
Court of Appeals, Second Circuit) said: "We think the
word 'including' was used as the equivalent of 'also,' a
sense in which it is frequently employed in tariff acts."

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Hiller v. United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 73, was referred to.
The latter case was also concerned with a tariff act. The
provision passed upon was "embroideries, and all trimmings, including braids," etc. The construction given to
the provision by the importer was that it covered "all
trimmings, including braids" used for that purpose. The
Government, on the other hand, contended that it meant
"all trimmings, among which are included braids," etc.,
and that the word "including" was not used by way of
specification but by way of addition. The court said:
"It would be somewhat difficult to infer the legislative intention from the language of the paragraph without reference to the history of this part of the cotton schedule,
because in the tariff acts the word 'including' is sometimes used merely to specify particularly that which belongs to the genus, and is sometimes used to add to the
general class a species which does not naturally belong
to it." The court resorted for explanation to the cotton
schedule and decided in favor of the Government's contention, one member of the court dissenting.
In re Goetz's Will, 75 N. Y. Supp. 750, a testator bequeathed to his wife all of his "personal property, including furniture, plate and household effects." The court
held the bequest was of all the personal property, saying
" 'including' is not a word of limitation, rather is it a word
of enlargement, and in ordinary signification implies that
something else has been given beyond the general language which precedes it." The State in the case at bar
concedes that the definition is too broad and says that
what the court probably meant was that as commonly used
the word had such meaning.
The State reinforces its interpretation of the words of
§ 8 by other considerations. It is urged that if Congress
intended the saline lands to be a part of another grant it is
the first instance of the kind. Fourteen States are enumerated to which all of the salt springs within them re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

spectively were granted. In twelve of the States there was
a limitation of the number of springs. To Illinois the
grant was of "all springs within such State; to New Mexico
the grant was of 65,000 acres of non-mineral lands,
"together with all the saline lands in said Territory."
To eighteen States ,no saline lands or salt springs were
given.
The Enabling Act of Utah, it is suggested, was the guide
to the grant to New Mexico. The latter, it is said, is more
explicit, but indicates the same purpose to convey to each
all of the saline lands within their respective borders.
The Salt Company opposes the contentions of the State
and invokes against the meaning attributed to § 8 the rule
of strict construction of grants by the Government. The
purpose of the grant is, it is urged, to constitute a fund by
the sale of the lands the income from which is to be used
exclusively for a university and agricultural college, and
that the result of the grant as construed by the State
would be to endow them as no other educational institution is endowed. And so construed, it is said, even by the
decision in this case, the grant of 110,000 acres will be increased 40,000 acres, and as the demurrer concedes the
deposit of salt is from four to eight feet thick, there will
be the further increase of two or three million tons of salt,
worth in the aggregate an almost fabulous sum. Future discoveries, it is suggested, will increase the grant still more.
Such consequences of the State's contention at once
challenges its soundness, and we recall that counsel for
the State asserted at the oral argument that its title attached to all lands having salt deposits, no matter what
thickness of arable soil lay above the deposits, and as it is
insisted that no selection of saline lands is necessary, embarrassment in the administration of the land laws and
serious conflicts of title may arise. However, let us consider the words of § 8. The determining word is, of course,
the word "including." It may have the sense of addition,

MONTELLO SALT CO. v. UTAH.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as we have seen, and of "also;" but, we have also seen,
''may merely specify particularly that which belongs to the
genus." Hiller v. United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 73, 74.
It is the participle of the word "include," which means,
according to the definition of the Century Dictionary,
(1) "to confine within something; hold as in an inclosure;
to inclose; to contain." (2) "To comprise as a part, or as
something incident or pertinent; comprehend; take in; as
the greater includes the less; the Roman Empire included
many nations." "Including" being a participle is in the
nature of an adjective and is a modifier. What, then, does
it modify as used in § 8? Necessarily, we think the preceding substantive phrase "one hundred and ten thousand
acres of land," and we have the meaning of the section to
be that the saline lands are to be contained in or comprise
a part of the 110,000 acres of land. We see no particular
awkwardness in the expression of the purpose, and it well
may be contended that it needs not for its support the rule
of strict construction. And such purpose is in harmony
with grants of saline lands to other States. It is also sustained by the reports of the committees of the House and
Senate.
In the case of Barnardv. Darling, 132 Massachusetts,
218, it was held that a legacy of $100, "including money
trusteed at a certain bank," could not be construed as
meaning that the sum of $100 was in addition to the sum
in bank.
In Henry's Executor v. Henry's Executor, 81 Kentucky,
342, a bequest of $14,000, "including certain notes," was
held to mean that the notes formed a part of the $14,000
and were not in addition thereto.
In Neher v. McCook County, 11 S. Dak. 422, it was
held that a certain section of the laws of the State which
provided that the sheriff's fees should be $16 for summoning a jury, "including mileage," did not entitle him to
mileage in addition to the $16.
VOL. ccxxi-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

We have seen that the State urges that the word "and"
is always employed to express the relation of addition, and
it is said, with words of emphasis, that Congress cannot
be supposed to have been ignorant of its meaning. The
Supreme Court of the State also gave special significance
to the use of "and," as adding something to that which
preceded. The court also considered that the word "including" was used as a word of enlargement, the learned
court being of opinion that such was its ordinary sense.
With this we cannot concur. It is its exceptional sense, as
the dictionaries and cases indicate. We may concede to
"and" the additive power attributed to it. It gives in
connection with "including" a quality to the grant of
110,000 acres which it would not have had-the quality
of selection from the saline lands of the State. And that
such quality would not exist unless expressly conferred
we do not understand is controverted. Indeed, it cannot
be controverted. Under the applicable statutes and uniform policy of the Government saline lands would not
have been subject to selection in satisfaction of the
110,000 acre grant in the absence of a special provision
authorizing their selection. Rev. Stat., § 2318; Act of
January 12, 1877, 19 Stat. 221, c. 18; Morton v. Nebraska,
21 Wall. 660; Cole v. Markley, 2 L. D. 847; Salt Bluff
Placer, 7 L. D. 549; Southwestern Mining Co., 14 L D.
597; Jeremy v. Thompson, 20 L. D. 299; A. H. Geissler,
27 L. D. 515.
Something, is attempted to be made of the fact as
militating against the selection of saline lands as part of
the grant of 110,000 acres that no time limit was fixed, as
in grants of such lands in other States. The fact has some
force, and giving it and the other contentions of the State
proper weight, they cannot prevail against the considerations to which we have adverted.
It is finally contended that if the saline lands are included in the 110,000 acres the State has the right to select

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

all of them, and that until it declares its intention no
rights can be acquired by others under the mining laws.
We are not called upon to discuss the contention. It is
alleged in the answer that the State has selected and received grants from the United States for the full amount
of 110,000 acres, "selected and located as provided in §§ 7

and 8 of the Enabling Act." As the State demurred to the
answer, the truth of the allegation must be considered as
admitted.
Judgment reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissents.

FIFTH AVENUE COACH COMPANY v. CITY OF
NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 159.

Argued April 27, 28, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The courts of a State are competent to construe the laws of the State
and to determine what powers a corporation derives thereunder, and
the use to which such corporation may employ its necessary property; and so held as to uses to which stages may be put by a transportation company.
Whatever the general rights as to corporate property may be, a State,
in granting a charter, may define and limit the use of property necessary to the exercise of the granted powers.
The rights of one to do that which if done by all would work public
harm and injury are not greater because others refrain from exercising such rights.
Classification based on reasonable distinctions is not an unconstitutional denial of equal protection of the laws; and so held that an

