OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

the evidence. But a shorter and sufficient answer is to
repeat that the case is not to be tried on habeas corpus,
and that when, as here, it appears that the prisoner was
in the State in the neighborhood of the time alleged it is
enough.
Judgment reversed, prisoner remanded.

MARCHIE

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT
COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 60. Argued November 30, December 1, 2, 1910; restored to docket
for reargument January 23, 1911; reargued March 1, 2, 1911.-Decided
May 15, 1911.
The obvious purpose of § 8 of the act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat.
312, was to continue supervision over the right of full-blood Indians
to dispose of lands by will, and to require conveyances of interests
,of full-blood Indians in inherited lands to be approved by a competent court.
W]hen several acts of Congress are passed touching the same subjectmatter, subsequent legislation may be considered to assist in interpi-etation of the prior legislation.
In pa~sing the enabling act for the admission of Oklahoma of June 16,
1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, Congress preserved the authority of the
Go vernment of the United States over the Indians, their lands and
property, which it had prior to the passage of that act.
The 'act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, providing for the final
disposition of the affairs of the Five Civilized Tribes in Indian Territory, while it permitted lands to be conveyed by full-blood Indians,
was nevertheless intended to prevent imprudent sales by this class
of Indians and made such conveyances valid only when affirmed by
the Secretary of the Interior.
Quore whether the constitutionality of an act of Congress limiting a
right of conveyance by a class of Indians can be questioned by the

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

grantee of an Indian of that class on the ground that it deprives the
Indian of his property without due process of law.
From the earliest period Congress has dealt with Indians as dependent
people and legislated concerning their property with a view to their
protection as such.
Congress has full power to legislate concerning tribal property of Indians, and the conferring of citizenship on individual Indians does
not prevent Congress from continuing to deal with tribal lands.
It is for Congress, in pursuance of long established policy of this Government, and not for the courts, to determine for itself when, in the
interest of the Indian, government guardianship over him shall
cease.
The privileges and immunities of Federal citizenship do not prevent
such proper governmental restraint upon the conduct or property of
citizens as may be necessary for the general good.
When the act of April 26, 1906, was passed, Congress had not by the
supplemental Creek agreement of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat.
500, or by any other act, released its control over the alienation of
lands of full-blood Creek Indians, and it was within its power to
continue to restrict such alienation, notwithstanding the bestowal of
citizenship upon the Indians, by requiring the approval of the Secretary of the Interior to conveyances made by them.
As above construed, the act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, is
not unconstitutional as depriving full-blood Indians upon whom
citizenship has been bestowed of their property without due process
of law because it places further restrictions upon their right of alienation of lands.
21 Oklahoma, 630, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of the provision of the act of April 26, 1906,
c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, requiring certain conveyances of
full-blood Indians to be approved by the Secretary of the

Interior, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. L. Sturdevant, with whom Mr. M. L. Mott and
Mr. W.
error:

A.

Brigham were on the brief, for plaintiff in

In determining the meaning and application of a statute, the courts will consider the mischief to be prohibited

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

or the benefits to be conferred, the nature of the subjectmatter, the class and condition of the persons to be affected, the necessities and circumstances of its enactment,
the system of laws of which it is a part, its necessary relation to, and effect upon, that system, its consistency with
other provisions of the same and also prior and subsequent
acts, the general policy of legislation upon the same subject and the consequences to result from the construction
adopted.
When the purpose and scope of a statute are thus ascertained its language becomes subservient thereto to the
extent that what is within the intention of the lawmaker
is within the statute whether within its terms or not, and
that what is not within such intention is not within the
statute although included within its terms.
From the inception of the legislation providing for
allotment of these lands to the last act upon the subject
no affirmative expression by Congress can be found removing restrictions or governmental control from inherited lands of full-blood Indians.
The authority of the Government, so often asserted
and so long exercised over a subject so peculiarly within
the province and necessity of that authority, will not be
abandoned by such an omission when, upon all positive
declaration, the intention has been otherwise.
Sections 19 and 22 of the act of April 26, 1906, when
read in connection with § 23 of that act and §§ 8 and 9 of
the act of May 27, 1908, show an unmistakable intention on
the part of Congress to protect and, in furtherance of that
end, to extend the period of restrictions upon the inherited lands of full-blood Indians. Section 7, act of March 1,
1901, 31 Stat. 861; §§ 6, 16, act of June 30, 1902, 32 Stat.
500; §§ 19, 22, 23, 28, 29, act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat.
137; §§ 8, 9, act of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312; Endlich
on the Interp. Stat., §§ 43, 45, 103, 258, 265, 295, 320, 322;
Lewis's Sutherland on Stat. Const., 2d ed., §§ 443, 447,

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Argument'for Plaintiff in Error.

448, 585, 586, 590, 592; Black on Interpretation, § 113;
Alexander v. Mayor, 5 Cranch, 7; United States v. Freeman,
3 How. 556; Brewer v. Blougher, 14 Pet. 178; Brown v.
Douchesne, 19 How. 183; Lamp Chimney Co. v. Brass &
Copper Co., 91 U. S. 656; Kohlsaat v. Murphy, 96 U. S. 153;
McKee v. United States, 164 U. S. 287; Interstate Drainage
Co. v. Comes, 158 Fed. Rep. 273; Goodrum v. Buffalo, 162
Fed. Rep. 817; Keeney v. McVoy, 206 Missouri, 42; Hill v.
American Surety Co., 200 U. S. 203; Johnson v. Southern
Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1; United States v. Moore, 161 Fed.
Rep. 518, 519; United States v. Hanson, 167 Fed. Rep.
893; 26 Op. Atty. Gen. 352.
On the definition and construction of provisos, see
Black on Int., § 110; Georgia Bkg. Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S.
174; Chesapeake Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 239; United
States v. Whitridge, 197 U. S. 135; United States v. Scruggs
&c. B., 156 Fed. Rep. 940.
The General Government has power to deal with, control and protect the property of the Indians, where not
expressly abandoned. Arising originally out of the necessities of the situation, it now has the support of immemorial legislative and executive usage, and of judicial sanction.
This power must, in the nature of things, continue until
its further exercise is deemed unnecessary by those in
whom it rests. United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 439;
Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 249; Lone Wolf v.
Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174
U. S. 484; United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515; Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S.
420.
When the agreements were entered into between the
Government and the Creek tribe of Indians providing
for the allotment of their lands, and laws were enacted to
carry them into effect, the authority of the Government
over these lands, exercised prior thereto, was not wholly
VOL. CCXXI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

abandoned or intended by either party to the agreements
so to be abandoned. But, on the contrary, further restrictions were imposed upon the alienation of the allotments
for a given period.
By reason of this reservation of authority, the jurisdiction or power of Congress was continued and maintained over the subject; and this power, limited though
it may be, can be exercised whenever in the judgment
of Congress its exercise is necessary to protect the gubject, that is, the property of the Indian, and to maintain,
likewise, the policy of the Government. The restriction
is an agency through which a governmental power may be
exercised.
The breaking up of tribal interests in the lands and
their allotment in severalty ushered in a new policy in
dealing with the Indian. This new policy sought to
localize and individualize the Indian. And the Government undertook to protect him in an individual property
right as it had previously done in a tribal property right.
Congress, having retained authority over the subject
by agreement and, acting within the life of the agreement
and while the tribal government still exists, may conclude
that a longer period of care and supervision is necessary
to its policy and in the best interests of both the Goverment and the Indian and, thereupon, extend the period
of restrictions by appropriate legislation. This, of course,
comes within the rightful exercise of power reserved over
the subject and the act in controversy and all its provisions are, therefore, valid.
This relation of the Government and the Indian is not
affected by his citizenship, or by any other rights which he
may possess, or by the police power of the State over
him, or by any rights which the State of Oklahoma has
in the premises; but, on the contrary, it is entirely compatible with all these. Smith v. Stevens, 10 Wall. 321;
Wiggan v. Connolly, 163 U. S. 60; In re Heff, 197 U. S. 488;

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Goodrum v. Buffalo, 162 Fed. Rep. 817; United States v.
Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; United States v. Hall, 171 Fed.
Rep. 218; Rainbow v. Young, 161 Fed. Rep. 836; National
Bank of Commerce v. Anderson, 147 Fed. Rep. 87; United
States v. Thurston County, 143 Fed. Rep. 287; Lone Wolf
v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553; McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S.
458; Conley v. Ballinger, 216 U. S. 84; §§ 1, 3 (cl. 3), 22,
Enabling Act; 34 Stat. 267; §497, Constitution Oklahoma.
Powers, rights and interests of sovereignty are never
relinquished by lapse or implication. Once established
and asserted, they are presumed to exist and to continue
to exist until abandoned by express terms. This principle applies, alike, to prerogatives of the executive, powers
of the legislature and the jurisdiction of courts. All acts
derogatory thereof are strictly construed and every doubt
resolved in favor of their perpetuity. United States v.
Herron, 20 Wall. 251; National Bank v. Anderson, 147
Fed. Rep. 90; Hamilton v. Reynolds, 88 Indiana, 193;
State v. Polacheck, 101 Wisconsin, 430; Pooler v. United
States, 127 Fed. Rep. 519; United States v. Knight, 14
Pet. 301; Wheeling & B. Bridge Co. v. Wheeling Bridge
Co., 138 U. S. 287; United States v. Shaw, 39 Fed. Rep. 39;
Mosle v. Bidwell, 130 Fed. Rep. 335.
Mr. George S. Ramsey and Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom
Mr. C. L. Thomas, Mr. L. J. Roach, Mr. Chris. M. Bradley and Mr. R. C. Allen were on the brief, for defendants
inerror:
The act of Congress, approved April 26, 1906, did not
in the Creek Nation operate to extend beyond August 8,
1907, restrictions against alienation by full-blood Indians
of lands inherited by them.
The restrictions against the alienation by the allottee
are personal to the allottee and do not run with the land.
The restrictions against the alienation by the heirs are
personal to the heirs and do not pass with the land to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

221 U. S.

vendee of the heirs. Oliver v. Forbes, 17 Kansas, 128;
Clark v. Lord, 20 Kansas, 393,.396; McMahon v. Welch,
11 Kansas, 290.
The restrictions against alienation imposed by § 7 of the
Original Agreement, and § 16 of the Supplemental Agreement were personal to the allottee and his heirs. Libby v.
Clark, 118 U. S. 250; United States v. Payne Lumber Co.,
206 U. S. 467.
The only restrictions on heirs expired five years from
the date of the approval of the Supplemental Agreement,
which was on August 8, 1907. The last sentence in § 22
does not extend the restrictions against alienation by
heirs who are full-bloods, but simply left such full-bloods
under the restrictions already existing, which expired five
years from the date of the ratification of the Supplemental Agreement. This last sentence is a proviso or exception. A proviso is a clause added to a statute, or to a
section or part thereof, which introduces a condition or
limitation upon the operation of the enactment, or makes
special provision for cases excepted from the general
provisions of the law, or qualifies or restrains its generality,
or excludes some possible ground of misinterpretation of
its extent. Black on Interpretation of Laws, 270, 273; 2
Sutherland on Stat. Const., § 352; United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 165.
A proviso should be construed strictly and takes no case
out of the enacting clause which does not clearly fall within
its terms. Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S. 78, 85; United States
v. Alston, Newhall & Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 529; Carter v.
Hobbs, 92 Fed. Rep. 599; Wall v. Cox, 101 Fed. Rep.
409; In re Matthews, 109 Fed. Rep. 614; Boston Safe Deposit Co. v. Hudson, 68 Fed. Rep. 760; United States v.
Schilerholz, 137 Fed. Rep. 618; Gould v. New York Life
Ins. Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 929; Murray v. Beal, 97 Fed. Rep.
569; Paxton Lumber Co. v. Farmers' Lumber Co., 50 Am.
St. Rep. 596.

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

A proviso should be strictly construed and must be construed with reference to the subject-matter of the section
of which it forms a part, unless there is a manifest legislative intention that it should limit the operation of other
sections of the act. United States v. 132 Packages of
Spirituous Liquors, 65 Fed. Rep. 983; ChattanoogaR. & C.
R. Co. v. Evans, 66 Fed. Rep. 814; In re Matthews, 109
Fed. Rep. 614; McRae v. Holcomb, 46 Arkansas, 306;
Bragg v. Clark, 50 Alabama, 363.
The act of Congress approved April 26, 1906, in so far
as it undertook to place additional restrictions on the
alienation of allotted lands to which the allottee held a
patent is unconstitutional and void.
On August 8 and 13, 1907, Marchie Tiger had full power
to convey, without supervision or restriction of any kind
whatever, the lands inherited by him from his deceased
ancestors, and his warranty deeds of those dates to the
defendants in error were valid conveyances of his inherited lands, because Marchie Tiger and Marchie Tiger's
ancestors were citizens of the United States. Act of
March 3, 1901, 24 Stat. 390; Ross v. Ellis, 56 Fed. Rep.
855; United States v. Hall, 171 Fed. Rep. 214; United
States v. Boss, 160 Fed. Rep. 132; Dick v. United States,
208 U. S. 352; Rep. Senate Select Committee, Vol. 1, p. v.
(1906) ; In re Heff, 197 U. S. 488; Ex parte Savage, 158 Fed.
Rep. 205; United States v. Saunders, 96 Fed. Rep. 268;
United States v. Kopp, 110 Fed. Rep. 160; Ex parte Viles,
139 Fed. Rep. 68; United States v. Dooby, 151 Fed. Rep.
697; United States v. Augur, 153 Fed. Rep. 671; United
States v. Allen et al., 171 Fed. Rep. 907.
Marchie Tiger's ancestors owned these lands in fee
simple absolute, subject only to the condition or limitation, contained in the grant, that the lands should not
be alienated by them or their heirs before the expiration
of five years from August 8, 1902. Taylor v. Brown, 147
U. S. 640; Report of Senate Select Committee, Vol. 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

p. v (1906); Act.of March 1, 1901, 31 Stat. 861, § 7; Act of
June 30, 1902, 32 Stat. 500, §§ 6, 16.
It is not within the power of Congress to create a condition or limitation, or extend a condition or limitation
affecting these lands, after conveyance to the allottees and
the acceptance of the conveyance by the allottees, in fee
simple, subject only to the definite condition or limitation
expressed in the grant. Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1;
In re Heff, 197 U. S. 488; Report of Select Senate Committee, Vol. 1, p. v (1906).
All other cases adjudicated by this court, bearing upon
titles to Indian lands and rights therein, are to be distinguished from the case at bar, for the reason that the
status of full citizenship and full ownership of property
does not occur in any case heretofore presented. United
States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 433; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553;
Choctaw Nation v. United States, 119 U. S. 1; Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Taylor v. Brown, 147
U. S. 640; Ex parte Savage, 158 Fed. Rep. 205; Wiggan v.
Connolly, 163 U. S. 56.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis for the United States, by leave of
the court:
The United States asks to be heard for the reason that
the interests of all Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes,
whose welfare the Government is bound to guard, are here
involved.
The questions involved in the present case are, Did
the act of April 26, 1906, forbid the alienation of inherited
lands by full-blood Creek Indians without the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior, subsequent to August 8,
1907? and, If the act did forbid such alienation was it
constitutional?
The act of April 26, 1906, constitutes a comprehensive
and uniform system regulating the alienation of lands by

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

full-blood Indians of all the Five Tribes and completely
supersedes the previous distinctions between Indians of
the same degree of blood but members of different tribes.
The statutes in pari materia show that § 22 of the act
of April 26, 1906, is intended to forbid conveyances by
Indian heirs who are full-bloods except with the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior.
The history of legislation respecting Indian lands; the
special agreements with various tribes and the uniform
policy of the Government, make a strong presumption
against the claim that Congress intended to permit the
alienation of lands by full-blood Indians free from all
restraint.
Defendants in error rely on the fact that the Creek
Indians were, by an act of March 3, 1901, made citizens
of the United States, and that after that date Congress
had no power to restrict the alienation of their lands.
The plenary power of the United States over the Indian
and his land rests upon considerations that are not affected by the grant of citizenship. Const., Art. I, § 8;
Art. IV, § 3, provides that Congress shall have power to
dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory. There is a moral obligation on the
part of a superior and civilized nation to protect a dependent and uncivilized race over whose former domain it
has assumed control.
Unallotted tribal Indian lands are always within the
control of Congress. Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187
U. S. 294; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553; Stephens
v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Conley v. Ballinger, 216
U. S. 84.
Even lands allotted to Indians in severalty may be continued under the direct supervision of Congress. United
States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432.
Congress may continue, or impose anew, restrictions
upon the' alienation of allotted Indian lands, even after

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

the limitations reserved in the original grant have expired. Stevens v. Smith, 10 Wall. 334; Jones v. Meehan,
175 U. S. 1.
There is nothing in the grant of citizenship which shows
any purpose on the part of Congress to surrender its
power to legislate for the Creek Indians and to supervise
the disposition of their lands.
The Heff Case, 197 U. S. 488, does not sustain defendants in error. In the present case the citizenship granted
is Federal only and the Indians are not made subject to
local laws with respect to their lands.
The Celestine Case, 215 U. S. 278; Sutton Case, 215 U. S.
291; United States v. Rickert, 198 U. S. 432, hold that the
grant of citizenship does not deprive Congress of its full
power to legislate with respect both to the Indian and his
lands unless they have been expressly subjected by Congress to state control; that the intention of Congress to
withdraw Federal control over the Indian and his lands
must be clearly expressed, and the courts will not assume
it. This is explicitly stated in the Heff Case; that there is a
difference between political rights and property rights
in so far as either may be affected by the grant of citizenship and property rights may be controlled by Congress
even though political rights are granted.
In the case at bar there can be no conflict between
national and state authority for the further reason that
the act of April 26, 1906, was passed, and the attempted
conveyance in violation of its terms took place before
Oklahoma became a State. And see act of June 16, 1906,
34 Stat. c. 3335.
The United States has the right to continue its guardianship over Indians who have been made citizens of the
United States. Wiggan v. Connolly, 163 U. S. 56; United
States v. Allen, 179 Fed. Rep. 13; United States v. Flournoy
&c. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 891; Hitchcock v. Bigboy, 22 App.
D. C. 275; Ross v. Eells, 56 Fed. Rep. 855.

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

297

Argument for the United States.

Without regard to citizenship Congress had full power
to impose restrictions upon the alienation of land by fullblood Indians, as a class of incompetents. Rice v. Parkman, 16 Massachusetts, 326; Mormon Church v. United
States, 136 U. S. 1; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Muller
v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412.
Minors and lunatics may be citizens and yet their
property rights may be restricted. That full-blood Indians of the Five Tribes are, as a class, incompetent, must
be assumed not only from the legislation of Congress with
respect to them but from the findings of the Court of
Claims where, in the case of Brown and Gritts v. United
States, 44 C. Cl. 283, it was expressly found that fullblood Cherokees whose right to alienate their lands was
forbidden by legislation contemporaneous with that involved in the case at bar, were, as a class, unable to speak
the English language and incompetent to guard their
interests from designing persons who were constantly attempting to induce them to part with their property at
grossly inadequate compensation.
There are now pending many suits brought by the
United States to cancel conveyances made in violation of
the act of April 26, 1906, and more than 25,000 transactions of this character await the determination of the
present case, and of several other cases involving substantially the same questions, which have already reached
this court. Both the Government of the United States
and the national councils of the several tribes desire to
protect these full-blood Indians from their own incompetence. They assume this to be an obligation not alone
to the Indian himself, but one arising out of grave consideration of the public welfare, for if the Indians are
despoiled of their lands or part with them for an inadequate compensation the hope that they may develop into
self-supporting and independent members of the communities in which they live will be destroyed, and they

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

will become vagrants and wanderers, dependent upon the
bounty of the United States or of the States in which they
reside and threatening to the good order of society.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe and Mr. Evans Browne, as amici curiae,
by leave of the court filed suggestions in support of the
contentions of defendants in error.
MR.. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the validity of conveyances made by
Marchie Tiger, plaintiff in error, a full-blood Indian of
the Creek tribe, to the defendants in error, the Western
Investment Company, and Ellis H. Hammett, R. C. Allan
and J. C. Pinson, copartners under the name of Coweta
Realty Company.
The lands in controversy were located in the Indian
Territory, were allotted under certain acts of Congress, to
which we shall have occasion to refer later, and were inherited by Marchie Tiger during the year 1903 from his
deceased brother and sisters, Sam, Martha, Lydia and
Louisa Tiger, also members of the Creek nation, and allottees of the lands which passed by inheritance to Marchie
Tiger.
According to the law of descent and distribution, which
had been put in force in the Indian Territory, Marchie
Tiger was the sole heir at law of his deceased brother and
sisters. 32 Stat. 500, June 30, 1902, c. 1323; Mansfield's
Dig. Arkansas Stat., ch. 49, § 2522.
On August 8, 1907, Marchie Tiger sold and conveyed
by warranty deed to the defendant in error, the Western
Investment Company, certain of the said lands for the sum
of $2,000.00, which was paid by the company. On July 1,
1907, Marchie Tiger sold and conveyed by warranty deed
certain other of said lands to the Coweta Realty Company,
and likewise sold and conveyed the same, in the same manner on July 26, 1907, on August 8, 1907, and on August 13,

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

299

Opinion of the Court.

1907, to the Coweta Realty Company, the consideration
agreed to be paid by the company was $3,000.00, of which
$558.00 was paid. The plaintiff in error offered to return
the amounts paid by the respective purchasers, and made
tender thereof which was refused, and this suit is brought
to have the deeds in question cancelled, and the claim set
aside as a cloud upon plaintiff's title.
Each and all of these conveyances were made without
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. The Supreme Court of Oklahoma held the conveyances valid
and denied relief to the plaintiff in error. 21 Oklahoma,
630.
Two questions arise in the case. First: Could a fullblood Creek Indian, on and after the eighth day of August,
1907, convey the lands inherited by him from his relatives,
who were full-blood Creek Indians, which lands had been
allotted to them, so as to give a good title to the purchaser-although the conveyance was made without the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior. Second: If the
legislation of Congress in question undertook to make
such conveyances valid only when approved by the Secretary of the Interior, is it constitutional?
An answer to these questions requires a consideration
of certain treaties and legislation concerning title to these
lands. In 1833, the United States made a treaty with the
Creek nation of Indians, in consideration of which they
were to move to a new country west of the Mississippi,
and to surrender all the lands held by them east of the
Mississippi, and the United States agreed to convey to
them a tract of land comprising what is now a part of the
State of Oklahoma.
On August 11 1852, in pursuance of this treaty the
United States issued a patent for the tract of country
mentioned, in which it was recited that the grantor, "in
consideration of the premises and in conformity with the
above recited provisions of the treaty aforesaid, has given

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

and granted, and by these presents does give and grant
unto the Muskogee (Creek) Tribe of Indians the tract of
country above mentioned, to have and to hold the same
unto the said tribe of Indians so long as they shall exist
as a nation and continue to occupy the country hereby
assigned to them."
Upon this tract of land the Creeks became a settled
people, and established a government. In 1893 the United
States in pursuance of a policy which looked to the final
dissolution of the tribal Government, took steps toward
the distribution and allotment of the lands among the
members of the tribe. On March 3, 1893, Congress passed
an act (27 Stat. 645, chap. 209) which provides:
"SEc. 15. The consent of the United States is hereby
given to the allotment of lands in severalty not exceeding
one hundred and sixty acres to any one individual within
the limits of the country occupied by the Cherokees,
Creeks, Choctaws, Chickasaws and Seminoles; .
and upon the allotment of the lands held by said tribes
the reversionary interest of the United States therein
shall be relinquished and shall cease."
Section 16 of the act provides for the appointment of
commissioners to enter upon negotiations with the Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek and Seminole Nations
looking to the extinguishment of the tribal title to lands in
the territory held by the nations or tribes, whether by cession of the same, or some part thereof, to the United States,
or by allotment and division thereof in severalty among
the Indians of such nations or tribes, or by such other
method as may be agreed upon by such nations or tribes
with the United States with a view to such adjustment on
the basis of justice and equity, as might, with the consent
of such nations or tribes, so far as might be necessary, be
requisite and suitable to enable the ultimate creation of
a State or States of the Union, which shall embrace the
lands within the Indian Territory.

TIGER v WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

After negotiations and legislation looking to the enrollment of the tribes entitled to citizenship, an act of
Congress known as the Original Creek Agreement was
passed. (Act of March 1, 1901, c., 676, 31 Stat. 861.)
Section 7 of that act contains certain restrictions upon
the title of individual Indians after the same had been
conveyed to them by the Creek Nation, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior. Section 7 of the act of
March 1, 1901, was amended by the act of June 30, 1902,
32 Stat. 500, c. 1323, known as the Supplemental Creek
Agreement.
Section 16 of the act superseded § 7 of the first Creek
agreement, and, as it contains the restriction on alienation of allotted lands, important to be considered, so
much of that section as contains such restrictions is here
quoted:
"SEC. 16. Lands allotted to citizens shall not in any manner whatever or at any time be encumbered, taken, or
sold to secure or satisfy any debt or obligation, nor be
alienated by the allottee or his heirs before the expiration
of five years from the date of the approval of this supplemental agreement, except with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. Each citizen shall select from his
allotment forty acres of land, or a quarter of a quarter
section, as a homestead, which shall be and remain nontaxable, inalienable, and free from any incumbrance whatever for twenty-one years from the date of the deed
therefor, and a separate deed shall be issued to each allottee for his homestead, in which this condition shall appear."
This agreement was ratified by the action of the Creek
National Council, and approved by the President of the
United States August 8, 1902.
It is thus apparent that the five-year limitation created
by § 16 of the act of 1902, upon the alienation of lands by
the Creek Indians had expired when the conveyances in
controversy were made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Within that five years, and about fifteen months before
the expiration thereof, Congress passed the act of April 26,
1906 (34 Stat. 137, c. 1876), entitled an act to provide
for the final disposition of the affairs of the Five Civilized
Tribes in the Indian Territory, and for other purposes.
Sections 19, 20, 22 and 23 of the act are important to be
considered, and are given in full in the margin.'
1 "SEC. 19. That no full-blood Indian of the Choctaw, Chickasaw,
Cherokee, Creek or Seminole tribes shall have power to alienate, sell,
dispose of, or encumber in any manner any of the lands allotted to him
for a period of twenty-five years from and after the passage and approval of this act, unless such restriction shall, prior to the expiration
of said period, be removed by act of Congress; and for all purposes the
quantum of Indian blood possessed by any member of said tribes
shall be determined by the rolls of citizens of said tribes approved by
the Secretary of the Interior: Provided, however, that such full-blood
Indians of any of said tribes may lease any lands other than homesteads
for more than one year under such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior; and in case of the inability
of any full-blood owner of a homestead, on account of infirmity or
age, to work or farm his homestead, the Secretary of the Interior, upon
proof of such inability, may authorize the leasing of such homestead
under such rules and regulations: Provided, further, that conveyances
heretofore made by members of any of the Five Civilized Tribes subsequent to the selection of allotment and subsequent to removal of
restriction, where patents thereafter issue, shall not be deemed or held
invalid solely because said conveyances were made prior to issuance and
recording or delivery of patent or deed, but this shall not be held or
construed as affecting the validity or invalidity of any such conveyance,
except as hereinabove provided; and every deed executed before or
for the making of which a contract or agreement was entered into before the removal of restrictions, be and the same is hereby declared
void: Provided further, That all lands upon which restrictions are removed shall be subject to taxation, and the other lands shall be exempt
from taxation as long as the title remains in the original allottee.
"SEc. 20. That after the approval of this act all leases and rental
contracts, except leases and rental contracts for not exceeding one year
for agricultural purpoEes for lands other than homesteads of full-blood
allottees of the Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee, Creek and Seminole
tribes shall be in writing, and subject to approval by the Secretary of

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 28 of the act provides for the continuance of the
tribal governments of the Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee,
Creek and Seminole tribes or nations, but places certain
restrictions upon their right of legislation, making the
same subject to the approval of the President of the United
States.
Section 29 of the act provides that all acts, and parts
of acts, inconsistent with the provisions of the act be
repealed.
As § 22 of the act is the one upon which the rights of
the parties most distinctly turn, we here insert it:
the Interior and shall be absolutely void and of no effect without such
approval: Provided, That allotments of minors and incompetents may
be rented or leased under order of the proper court: Provided further,
that all leases entered into for a period of more than one year shall be
recorded in conformity to the law applicable to recording instruments
now in force in said Indian Territory.
"SEc. 22. That the adults heirs of any deceased Indian of either of
the Five Civilized Tribes whose selection has been made, or to whom a
deed or patent has been issued for his or her share of the land of the
tribe to which he or she belongs or belonged, may sell and convey the
lands inherited from such decedent; and if there be both adult and
minor heirs of such decedent then such minors may join in a sale of
such lands by a guardian duly appointed by the proper United States
Court for the Indian Territory; and in case of the organization of a
State or Territory, then by a proper court of the county in which said
minor or minors may reside, or in which said real estate is situated,
upon an order of such court made upon petition filed by guardian. All
conveyances made under this provision by heirs who are full-blood
Indians are to be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.
"SEc. 23. Every person of lawful age and sound mind may by last
will and testament devise and bequeath all of his estate, real and personal, and all interest therein; Provided, That no will of a full-blood
Indian devising real estate shall be valid, if such last will and testament
disinherits the parent, wife, spouse or children of such full-blood Indian, unless acknowledged before and approved by a judge of the
United States Court for the Indian Territory or a United States Commissioner." 34 Stat. L. 137.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

"SEC. 22. That the adult heirs f any deceased Indian
of either of the Five Civilized Tribes whose selection has
been made, or to whom a deed or patent has been issued
for his or her share of the land of the tribe to which he or
she belongs or belonged, may sell and convey the lands
inherited from such decedent; and if there be both adult
and minor heirs of such decedent, then such minors may
join in a sale of such lands by a guardian duly appointed
by the proper United States court for the Indian Territory. And in case of the organization of a State or Territory, then by a proper court of the county in which said
minor or minors may reside or in which said real estate
is situated, upon an order of such court made upon petition filed by guardian. All conveyances made under this
provision by heirs who are full-blood Indians are to be
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe."
It is the contention of the defendants in error that this
section, when read in connection with § 16 of the act of
1902, above quoted, has the effect to require conveyances
made by full-blood Indian heirs during the period from the
passage of the act, of which § 22 is a part, until the expiration of the five years period named in § 16, to be approved
by the Secretary of the Interior, but does not interfere
with the capacity of such full-blood Indian heirs to convey
the inherited lands after the expiration of the five years.
This was the view entertained by the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma in deciding this case.
In support of that view, it is insisted that the last sentence of § 22 must be read as a proviso, limiting and qualifying that which has gone before in the same section; that
without this proviso the first part of the section would
enable adult heirs of full blood to convey their inherited
lands notwithstanding the five years limitation provided
in § 16 had not expired, and that the real purpose of this
section was to place such full-blood Indian heirs under

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the protection of the Secretary of the Interior, so far as
his approval was required, until the expiration of the fiveyear period named in § 16.
On the other hand, it is contended that the act of April
26, 1906, in the sections referred to, has undertaken to
make new provision for the protection of full-blood Indians
of the Five Civilized Tribes, and to place them, as to the
alienation, disposition, and encumbrance of their lands,
under restrictions such as shall operate to protect them,
and to require the Secretary of the Interior to approve
such conveyances, in order that such Indians shall part
with their lands only upon fair remuneration, and when
their interests have been duly safe-guarded by competent
authority.
Previous legislation upon this subject differed as to the
several nations.
As to the Seminoles, at the time of the passage of the
act of April 26, 1906, the law forbade alienation prior to
the date of the patent. The patent was to be made by
the principal chief of the tribe when the tribal government
ceased to exist. July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 567, ch. 542.
The legislation concerning the Creeks we have already
recited. Alienation was forbidden until expiration of the
five-year period, to-wit: until August 8, 1907.
One section (14) of the Cherokee act provides there
shall be no alienation within five years from the ratification
of the act: another section (15) provides that Cherokee
allotments, except homesteads, shall be alienable in five
years after the issue of the patent. July 1, 1902, 32 Stat.
716, ch. 1375.
The Choctaw and Chickasaw act provided (§ 16) that:
"All lands allotted to the members of said tribes, except
such land as is set aside to each for a homestead as herein
provided, shall be alienable after issue of patent as follows:
One-fourth of the acreage in one year, one-fourth acreage
in three years, and the balance in five years-in each case
VOL. ccxxi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

from the date of the patent; provided, that such lands shall
not be alienable by the allottee or his heirs at any time
before the expiration of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
tribal governments for less than its appraised value."
Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 641, 643, ch. 1362.
In this case we are concerned with the construction of
the act of April 26, 1906, so far as it involves the Creeks,
and other statutes are mentioned with a view to aid in
the construction of that act. It is the contention of the
plaintiff in error that the act of April 26, 1906, repealed
all former legislation upon the subject, and intended to
provide, as to full-blood Indians of the tribes, new and
important protection in the disposition of their landed
interests, and that, as the act provides that previous inconsistent legislation shall be repealed, so far as the same subjects are covered in the new act it was intended to give
additional protection to full-blood Indians and to prevent
them from being deprived without adequate consideration
of their lands and holdings; and that the real purpose of
§ 22, in so far as the adult heirs of the deceased Indians of
the Five Civilized Tribes are concerned, is to subject conveyances of such lands, when made by full-blood Indians,
to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
We think a consideration of this act and of subsequent
legislation in pari materia therewith demonstrates the
purpose of Congress to require such conveyances by fullblood Indians to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
The sections of the act of April 26, 1906, under consideration show a comprehensive system of protection as to
such Indians. Under § 19 they are not permitted to alienate, sell, dispose of, or encumber allotted lands within
twenty-five years unless Congress otherwise provides. The
leasing of their lands, other than homesteads, for more than
one year may be made under rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior. And in case of

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the inability of a full-blood Indian, already owning a
homestead, to work or farm the same, the Secretary may
authorize the leasing of such homestead.
Under § 20 leases and rental contracts of full-blood
Indians, with certain exceptions, are required to be in
writing, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior. Under § 23 authority is given "to all persons
of lawful age and sound mind to devise and bequeath all
his estate, real and personal, and all interest therein;"
but no will of a full-blood Indian, devising real estate
and disinheriting parent, wife, spouse, or children of a
full-blood Indian, is valid until acknowledged before
and approved by a judge of a United States court in the
Territory or by the United States Commissioner.
Coming now to § 22, the first part of that section gives
the adult heirs of any deceased Indian of either of the
Five Civilized Tribes power to sell and convey the inherited lands named, with certain provisions as to joining
minor heirs by guardians in such sales. This part of the
statute would enable full-blood Indians, as well as others,
to convey such lands as adult heirs of any deceased Indian,
etc., but the last sentence of the section requires the conveyance made under this provision, that is, conveyances
made by adult heirs of the character named in the first
part of the section, when full-blood Indians, to be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. This
construction is in harmony with the other provisions of
the act, and gives due effect to all the parts of § 22. True,
it has the effect to extend the requirement of the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior as to full-blood Indians
beyond the terms prescribed in § 16 of the act of 1902,
and this, we think, was the purpose of Congress, which is
emphasized in § 29 of the act wherein all previous inconsistent acts, and parts of acts, are repealed.
As to the argument that the last sentence of § 22 is to be
construed as a proviso intended to limit the generality of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

the previous part of the section, and not to affect prior
legislation upon the subject, it may be observed: the sentence does not take the ordinary character of a proviso,
and is not introduced as such, and, even if regarded as a
proviso, it is well-known that independent legislation is
frequently enacted by Congress under the guise of a proviso. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S.
25, 36, and previous cases in this court therein cited.
Had Congress intended not to interfere with full-blood
Indian heirs in their right to make conveyances after the
expiration of the five years named in § 16 of the act of 1902,
it would have been easy to have said so, and some reference
would probably have been made to the prior legislation.
No reference is made to the prior legislation, but it is
broadly enacted that all conveyances of the character
named in § 22 made by heirs of full-blood Indians shall
be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
The construction contended for by the defendant in
error places Congress in the attitude of requiring such
conveyances to be made with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior for the time between the passage of
the act of 1906 and the expiration of the period named in
the act of 1902, with unrestricted power thereafter to
make such conveyances without such approval. Such construction is inconsistent with subsequent legislation of
Congress upon the same subject, and which proceeds
upon the theory that, in the understanding of Congress
at least, restrictions still existed so far as the inherited
lands of full-blood Indians were concerned.
Section 8 of the Act of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312, c.
199, provides:
"SEc. 8. That section 23 of an act entitled 'An act to
provide for the final disposition of the affairs of the Five
Civilized Tribes in the Indian Territory, and for other
purposes,' approved April 26th, 1906, is hereby amended

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by adding, at the end of said section the words, 'or a judge
of a county court of the State of Oklahoma."'
Section 9 of that act provides:
"SEC. 9. That the death of any allottee of the Five
Civilized Tribes shall operate to remove all restrictions
upon the alienation of said allottee's land: Provided,
that no conveyance of any interest of any full-blood Indian heir in such land shall be valid unless approved by the
court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of
said deceased allottee;" etc., etc. (35 Stat. 312.)
The obvious purpose of these provisions is to continue
supervision over the right of full-blood Indians to dispose
of lands by will, and to require conveyances of interests
of full-blood Indians in inherited lands to be approved
by a competent court.
When several acts of Congress are passed touching the
same subject-matter, subsequent legislation may be considered to assist in the interpretation of prior legislation
upon the same subject. Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682;
United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556.
We cannot believe that it was the intention of Congress,
in view of the legislation which we have quoted, to leave
untouched the five-year restriction of the act of 1902, so
far as the inherited lands of full-blood Indians are concerned, or to permit the same to be conveyed without
restriction from the expiration of that five-year period
until the enactment of the legislation of May, 1908.
In passing the enabling act for the admission of the
State of Oklahoma, where these lands are, Congress was
careful to preserve the authority of the Government of the
United States over the Indians, their lands and property,
which it had prior to the passage of the act. June 16,
1906, 34 Stat. 267, c. 3335.
We agree with the construction contended for by the
plaintiff in error, and insisted upon by the Government,
which has been allowed to be heard in this case, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

act of April, 1906, while it permitted inherited lands to
be conveyed by full-blood Indians, nevertheless intended
to prevent improvident sales by this class of Indians,
and made such conveyance valid only when approved by
the Secretary of the Interior.
The further question arises in this case-In view of the
construction we have given the legislation of Congress, is
it constitutional? It is insisted that it is not, because the
Indian is a citizen of the United States and entitled to the
protection of the Constitution, and that to add to the restrictions of the act of 1902 those contained in subsequent
acts is violative of his constitutional rights and deprives
him of his property without due process of law. It is to
be noted in approaching this discussion that this objection is not made by the Indian himself; he is here seeking
to avoid his conveyance. It is not made by the Creek Nation or Tribe, for it is stated without contradiction that
the act of 1906 has been ratified by the council of that
nation.
The unconstitutionality of the act is asserted by the
purchasers from an Indian, who are the defendants in
error here, and proceeds upon the assumption, that the
Indian, at the time of the conveyance, August 8, 1907,
had full legal title to the premises, which could not be
impaired by legislation of Congress subsequent to the act
of June 30, 1902.
Assuming that the defendants in error are in a position
to assert such constitutional rights, is there anything in
the fact that citizenship has been conferred upon the
Indians, or in the changed legislation of Congress upon
the subject, which marks a deprivation of such rights?
We must remember in considering this subject that the
Congress of the United States has undertaken from the
earliest history of the Government to deal with the Indians as dependent people and to legislate concerning their
property with a view to their protection as such. Chero-

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

kee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Peters 1, 17; Elk v. Wilkins, 112
U. S. 94, 99; Stephens v. Choctaw Nation, 174 U. S. 445,
484. We quote two of the many recognitions of this
power in this court:
"The power of the General Government over these
remnants of a race once powerful, now weak and diminished in numbers, is necessary to their protection, as well
as to the safety of those among whom they dwell. It
must exist in that Government because it never has existed
anywhere else, because the theatre of its exercise is within
the geographical limits of the United States, because it
has never been denied, and because it alone can enforce
its laws on all tribes." United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S.
375, 384.
"Plenary authority over the tribal relations of the Indians has been exercised by Congress from the beginning,
and the power has always been deemed a political one,
not subject to be controlled by the judicial department of
the Government." Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S.
553, 565.
Citizenship, it is contended, was conferred upon the
Creek Indians by the act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 447,
amending the act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 390, c.
119, by adding to the Indians given citizenship under that
act "every Indian in the Indian Territory." So amended,
the act would read as to such Indian: "He is hereby declared to be a citizen of the United States and entitled to all
the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizen."
Is there anything incompatible with such citizenship in
the continued control of Congress over the lands of the
Indian? Does the fact of citizenship necessarily end the
duty or power of Congress to act in the Indian's behalf?
Certain aspects of the question have already been settled by the decisions of this court. That Congress has full
power to legislate concerning the tribal property of the
Indians has been frequently affirmed. Cherokee Nation v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 308; United States v. Rickert,
188 U. S. 432; McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458.
Nor has citizenship prevented the Congress of the
United States from continuing to deal with the tribal lands
of the Indians.
In Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 307,
Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court, said:
"There is no question involved in this case as to the
taking of property; the authority which it is proposed to
exercise by virtue of the act of 1898, has relation merely
to the control and development of the tribal property,
which still remains subject to the administrative control
of the Government, even though the members of the tribe
have been invested with the status of citizenship under
recent legislation."
In United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.432, Mr. Justice
Harlan, speaking for the court, said:
"These Indians are yet wards of the Nation, in a condition of pupilage or dependency, and have not been discharged from that condition. They occupy these lands
with the consent and authority of the United States; and
the holding of them by the United States under the act
of 1887, and the agreement of 1889, ratified by the act of
1891, is part of the national policy by which the Indians
are to be maintained as well as prepared for assuming the
habits of civilized life and ultimately the privileges of
citizenship."
To the same effect have been the decisions of Circuit
Courts of Appeals dealing with this subject. In the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit this apposite
language was used by Judge Thayer in speaking for the
court:
"We know of no reason, nor has any been suggested,
why it was not competent for Congress to declare that
these Indians should be deemed citizens of the United
States, and entitled to the rights, privileges and immunities

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
22i U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of citizens, while it retained, for the time being, the title
to certain lands, in trust for their benefit, and withheld
from them for a certain period the power to sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of their interest in such lands. It is
competent for a private donor, by deed or other conveyance, to create an estate of that character; that is to say,
it is competent for a private person to make a conveyance
of real property, and to withhold from the donee, for a
season, the power to sell or otherwise dispose of it. And
we can conceive no sufficient reason why the United States,
in the exercise of its sovereign power, should be denied
the right to impose similar limitations, especially when
it is dealing with a dependent race like the Indians, who
have always been regarded as the wards of the Government. Citizenship does not carry with it the right on the
part of the citizen to dispose of land which he may own
in any way that he sees fit without reference to the character of the title by which it is held. The right to sell
property is not derived from, and is not dependent upon,
citizenship; neither does it detract in the slightest degree
from the dignity or value of citizenship that a person is
not possessed of an estate, or, if possessed of an estate, that
he is deprived for the time being, of the right to alienate
it." Beck v. Flournoy Live Stock Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 30, 35.
To the same effect is Rainbow v. Young, 161 Fed. Rep.
835, in which the opinion was by Circuit Judge, now Mr.
Justice Van Devanter. In that case, after referring to
the fact that while the members of the Winnebago tribe
had received allotments in severalty and had become
citizens of the United States and of the State of Nebraska,
their tribal relation had not terminated, and they were
still unable to alienate, mortgage or lease their allotments
without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior,
Judge Van Devanter said: "In short, they are regarded
as being in some respects still in a state of dependency
and tutelage, which entitles them to the care and protec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

tion of the national Government; and when they shall be
let out of that state is for Congress alone to determine."
The Rainbow Case was cited with approval by Mr. Justice
Brewer in delivering the opinion in United States v.
Sutton, 215 U. S. 291, 296.
Much reliance is placed upon Matter of Heff, 197 U. S.
488. In that case it was held that a conviction could not
be had under the Federal statute for selling liquor to an
Indian, the sale not being on a reservation, and the Indian
having been made a citizen and subject to the civil and
criminal laws of the State. In that case the opinion was
by Mr. Justice Brewer, who also delivered the opinion in
the case of United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278.
In the Celestine Case it was held that although an Indian
had been given citizenship of the United States, and of the
State in which an Indian reservation was located, the
United States might still retain jurisdiction over him for
offenses committed within the limits of the reservation.
In the opinion the subject was fully reviewed by Mr.
Justice Brewer. In the course of it he quoted with approval from the opinion of Mr. Justice McKenna, sitting
as a Circuit Judge, in Eells v. Ross, 12 C. C. A. 205, holding that the act of 1887, conferring citizenship upon the
Indians, did not emancipate them from control or abolish
the reservation. Mr. Justice Brewer also quoted from the
Heff Case, commenting upon the change of policy in the
Government which looked to the establishment of the
Indians in individual homes, free from National guardianship, charged with the rights and obligations of citizens
of the United States, and held that it was for Congress
to determine when and how the relatioh of guardianship
theretofore existing should be determined; and after quoting from the Heff Case, said (215 U. S. 290):
"Notwithstanding the gift of citizenship, both the
defendant and the murdered woman remained Indians
by race, and the crime was committed by one Indian

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the person of another, and within the limits of a reservation. Bearing in mind the rule that the legislation of
Congress is to be construed in the interest of the Indian,
it may fairly be held that the statute does not contemplate
a surrender of jurisdiction over an offense committed by
one Indian upon the person of another Indian within the
limits of the reservation; at any rate, it cannot be said to
be clear that Congress intended by the mere grant of citizenship to renounce entirely its jurisdiction over the individual members of this dependent race."
In United States v. Sutton, supra, following United
States v. Celestine, it was held that jurisdiction continued
over the Indians as to offenses committed within the limits of an Indian reservation, and that Congress might prohibit the introduction of liquor into the Indian country.
In Matter of Heff, supra, this court said (p. 509): "But
the fact that property is held subject to a condition against
alienation does not affect the civil or political status of the
holder of the title."
Taking these decisions together, it may be taken as
the settled doctrine of this court that Congress, in pursuance of the long-established policy of the Government,
has a right to determine for itself when the guardianship
which has been maintained over the Indian shall cease.
It is for that -body, and not the courts, to determine when
the true interests of the Indian require his release from
such condition of tutelage.
The privileges and immunities of Federal citizenship
have never been held to prevent governmental authority
from placing such restraints upon the conduct or property
of citizens as is necessary for the general good. Incompetent persons, though citizens, may not have the full right
to control their persons and property. The privileges and
immunities of citizenship were said, in the SlaughterHouse Cases, (16 Wall. 36, 76), to comprehend:
"Protection by the Government with the right to ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

quire and possess property of every kind, and to pursue
and obtain happiness and safety, subject, nevertheless,
to such restraints as the Government may prescribe for
the general good of the whole."
Conceding that Marchie Tiger by the act conferring
citizenship obtained a status which gave him certain
civil and political rights, inhering in the privileges and
immunities of such citizenship unnecessary to here discuss, he was still a ward of the Nation so far as the alienation of these lands was concerned, and a member of the
existing Creek Nation. The inherited lands, though otherwise held in fee, were inalienable without the consent of
the Secretary of the Interior, until August, 1907, by virtue of the act of Congress. In this state of affairs Congress, with plenary power over the subject, by a new act
permitted alienation of such lands at any time subject
only to the condition that the Secretary of the Interior
should approve the conveyance.
Upon the matters involved our conclusions are that
Congress has had at all times, and now has, the right to
pass legislation in the interest of the Indians as a dependent people; that there is nothing in citizenship incompatible with this guardianship over the Indian's lands inherited
from allottees as shown in this case; that in the present case when the act of 1906 was passed, the Congress
had not released its control over the alienation of lands of
full-blood Indians of the Creek Nation; that it was within
the power of Congress to continue to restrict alienation
by requiring, as to full-blood Indians, the consent of the
Secretary of the Interior to a proposed alienation of lands
such as are involved in this case; that it rests with Congress to determine when its guardianship shall cease, and
while it still continues it has the right to vary its restrictions upon alienation of Indian lands in the promotion
of what it deems the best interest of the Indian.
As we have construed the statute involved, while it per-

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

mits the conveyance of inherited lands of the character of
those in issue, it requires such conveyance to be made
with the approval of the head of the Interior Department.
For the reasons we have stated, we find nothing unconsitutional in the act making this requirement.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 89.

Argued March 16, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

The power of the United States to make rules and regulations respecting tribal lands, the title to which it has not parted with, although
allotted, is ample. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., ante, p. 286.
The mere fact that citizenship has been conferred on allottee Indians does not necessarily end the right or duty of the United
States to pass laws in their interest as a dependent people; and so
held that the prohibitions of the act of January 30, 1897, c. 109,
29 Stat. 506, against introduction of liquor into Indian country, are
within the power of Congress.
When, under the act of August 7, 1882, c. 434, 22 Stat. 341, an allotment in severalty has been made to a tribal Indian out of lands in a
tribal reservation in the State of Nebraska, and a trust patent
therefor has been issued to the aliottee, and when the provisions of
§ 7 of that act and of § 7 of the act of February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24
Stat. 388, have been effective as to such allottee, the fact that the
United States holds the lands so allotted in trust for the allottee,
or, in case of his decease, for his heirs, as provided in § 6 of the said
act of 1882, enables, authorizes and permits the United States to
regulate and prohibit the introduction of intoxicating liquors upon

