MERILLAT v. HENSEY.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

Other assignments of error are made, an examination
of which satisfies us that no violation of the Constitution
or statutes of the United States in the proceedings had in
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands warrants a
disturbance of the judgment of that court.

Affirmed.
Dissenting, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.

MERILLAT v. HENSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 107.

Argued March 17, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Both courts below having found that no actual fraud was intended in
this case, this court considered only the question of constructive
fraud.
Where, as in the District of Columbia, the assignment of a chose in
action does not have to be recorded and there is no way in which
constructive notice can be given, the assignment, if valid upon its
face, is ineffective only in case of actual bad faith established by the
facts.
Knowledge of one's own insolvency, except in cases provided by statute, does not render it illegal or criminal to prefer one creditor above
another. Huntley v. Kingman, 152 U. S. 527.
The fact that the amount alleged to be due on an unliquidated chose
in action is greater than the amount of the debt in payment of which
it is assigned is not necessarily evidence of fraud against other
creditors; and where the amount actually recovered is less than the
amount of the debt this court will not disturb the finding of both
courts below that there was no fraud.
Reservation to the assignor of surplus of a chose in action given in payment of a debt does not of itself constitute fraud in law. To be fraud
in law the reservation must be of some pecuniary benefit to the as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

signor at the expense of creditors and a prime purpose of the conveyance. Section 1120, Code of the District of Columbia.
The assignment of a mere chose in action, not subject to legal process
and of uncertain value, given to secure an honest debt, will not be
set aside by this court as fraudulent in law because the surplus, if
any (there actually being a deficit), was reserved to the assignors
by a separate instrument, for the recording of which there was no
provision, after two courts have held that the assignment was not
made with intent to hinder and defraud creditors and as matter of
law had no such result.
34 App. D. C. 398, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Chas. H. Merillat and Mr. Mason N. Richardson for
appellants:
While the Federal rule and those of many States permit
a debtor honestly to prefer a special creditor, aside from
the effect of recent statutory enactments, the Federal rule
is equally well settled that a secret reservation of a benefit
to a known failing debtor is fraudulent per se and vitiates
the preference. Lukins v. Aird, 6 Wall. 79; Means v.
Dowd, 128 U. S. 282; Dent v. Ferguson, 132 U. S. 67;
Huntley v. Kingman, 152 U. S. 527; Crawford v. Neal,
144 U. S. 585; Bamberger v. Schoolfield, 160 U. S. 150;
In re Robertshaw Mfg. Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 556.
It is the secrecy of the trust which constitutes its illegality. Greenleve v. Blum, 59 Texas, 126; Rice v. Cunningham, 116 Massachusetts, 469; Campbell v. Davis, 85
Alabama, 56; Dean v. Skinner, 42 Iowa, 418; Connelly v.
Walker, 45 Pa. St. 454; Neubert v. Maesman, 37 Florida,
97; Moore v. Wood, 100 Illinois, 451; Beidler v. Crane, 135
Illinois, 98; Jones v. Gott, 10 Indiana, 242; Clark v. French,
23 Maine, 228; Sidensparkerv. Doe, 52 Maine, 481, 490;
Malcolm v. Hodges, 8 Maryland, 418; Whedbee v. Stewart,
40 Maryland, 420; Franklin v. Claflin, 49 Maryland, 24;
Smith v. Conkwright, 28 Minnesota, 23; Molaska Co. v.
Steele, 36 Mo. App. 496; Wooten v. Clark, 23 Mississippi,

MERILLAT v. RENSEY.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

77; Walpole Platen Co. v. Law, 10 U. S. App. 704; Coolidge
v. Melvin, 42 N. H. 510; Winkley v. Hill, 9 N. H. 31; Scott
v. Hartman, 26 N. J. Eq. 89, 92; Moode v. Williamson, 44
N. J. Eq. 496, 505; Newell v. Wagner, 1 N. Dak. 69; Mendenhall v. Elwert, 36 Oregon, 375; Bentz v. Rockey, 69 Pa.
St. 71, 77; Edwards v. Dickson, 66 Texas, 614; Humphries
v, Freeman, 22 Texas, 45; Young v. Heermans, 66 N. Y.
382.
The text books are to the same effect. See Bump.
on
Fraud. Cony., § 201; Wait, Fraud. Conv., §272; Ency.
Law, 2d ed., Vol. 14, p. 248; Cyc., Vol. 20, pp. 463, 464;
Story, Eq., Jur., Vol. 1, §§ 361, 362; Kerr on Fraud and
Mistake, §§ 206, 207.
The proviso of § 1120 of the District Code that in suits
to set aside conveyances or assignments as made with the
intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors "the question
of fraudulent intent shall be deemed a question of fact and
not of law" does not alter the Federal rule when applied to
the instant case. The proviso does not abolish the cardinal rule that parties shall be deemed to intend the natural and probable consequences of their acts. Crawford v.
Neal, 144 U. S. 585.
In Maryland, from whose laws most of the Code of the
District of Columbia is taken, there is a statute similar
to section 1120. In Franklin v. Claflin, 49 Maryland,
24, the court held: "Nothing can be more truly inconsistent with a contract of sale of chattels purporting to
be absolute than the existence of a right or interest in or
a secret reservation to be evidence of collusion"; and see
Farrow v. Hayes, 51 Maryland, 505; Main v. Lynch, 54
Maryland, 671, 672, 673; Whedbee v. Stewart, 40 Maryland, 414.
New York State has a statute identical with the last
proviso of § 1120 and, construing it, the highest courts of
that State have held that every party must be deemed to
have intended the natural and inevitable consequences of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

221 U. S.

his acts, and where his acts are voluntary and necessarily
operate to defraud others, he must be deemed to have
intended the fraud. Coleman v. Burr, 93 N. Y. 17; Edgell
v. Hart, 9 N. Y. 13; Thompson v. Crane, 73 Fed. Rep. 327,
329.
Minnesota's code provides that fraudulent intent shall
be deemed a question of fact, and not of law (see Vase v.
Stickney, 19 Minnesota, 370), but see Hathaway v. Brown,
18 Minnesota, 414; see also Moore v. Wood, 100 Illinois,
455; Palmourv. Johnson, 84 Georgia, 99.
Even if the secret trust made the assignment only presumptively fraudulent and the court below was correct
in holding the transaction susceptible of explanation, its
conclusion was error, for the explanation must be one
of fact and a bare denial of intent to defraud does not
overcome the presumption of fraud. The denial is not
even competent evidence as to the intent.
Secret trusts have been denounced, and while a creditor
may seek to have his own claim preferred, he must do no
more than by fair methods to obtain payment of his own
claim; as if he goes further and secure a benefit to the failing debtor this will taint the whole transaction. Crawford
v. Kirksey, 55 Alabama, 282; Seaman v. Nolan, 68 Alabama, 466; Story v. Agnew, 2 Ill. App. 358; Sidensparkerv.
Doe, 52 Maine, 481, 490.
These cases apply to choses in actions as well as other
species of property. Code of D. C., § 1120; Insurance Co.
v. Sears, 109 Massachusetts, 383; Green v. Tantum, 19 N.
J. Eq. 105; Hitt v. Ormsbee, 14 Illinois, 236; Savings Bank
v. McLean, 84 Michigan, 628; Bump on Fraud. Conv.,
239, 240.
Mr. Arthur A. Birney and Mr. Henry F. Woodard for
appellee:
There was no purpose in Meitens and Agnew to cheat,
defraud or hinder Hensey's other creditors.

MERILLAT v. HENSEY.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

With these facts found the decree below should be affirmed and the bill dismissed, and the complainants
should not be heard upon the claim of constructive fraud,
or fraud in law. False charges of the moral turpitude involved in fraud in fact are discouraged in equity, and a
complainant having failed to establish such charge will
not be permitted to shift his ground and obtain relief on
the claim of constructive fraud. Eyre v. Potter, 15 How.
41, 56; Dashiell- v. Grosvenor, 27 L. R. A. 67; Tillinghast
v. Champlin, 4 R. I. 173; Fisher v. Boody, 1 Curt. C. C.
206.
Section 1120, Code of Dist. of Col., has abolished constructive fraud, and made it necessary that fraud in fact,
or dishonesty, shall be found in order to vacate a transfer.
There are similar provisions in the laws of California,
New York, Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin, and other
States, and wherever construed, the courts have denied
the right of the judge to rule a conveyance fraudulent,
unless upon its face the instrument was inconsistent with
an honest purpose. The question of fraud is for the jury,
not for the court. McFadden v. Mitchell, 54 California,
628; Babcock v. Eckler, 24 N. Y. 623; Howe Machine Co. v.
Claybourn, 6 Fed. Rep. 438; Hooser v. Hunt, 65 Wisconsin,
71. And it would seem that if any effect is to be given the
proviso of section 1120, it must be held to reject the contention that a transaction perfectly honest, may, by construction of law only, be found dishonest.
The reservation of a surplus to Hensey after the payment of expenses and the debt due Mertens and Agnew
was not even constructively fraudulent. Huntley v.
Kingman, 152 U. S. 527; Etheridge v. Sperry, 139 U. S.
267, 271; Leitch v. Hollister, 4 N. Y. 211; and see Curtis v.
Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 127, 146, 204; Durham v. Whitehead, 21
N. Y. 131; Camp v. Thompson, 25 Minnesota, 175; Didier
v. Patterson, 93 Virginia, 534.
There is on the face of the papers no fraudulent provoL. ccxxi-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

221 U. S.

vision, and if this be conceded, the plaintiffs must claim to
have proved fraud dehors the writings, or the wicked purpose and intention-the moral turpitude, which their bill
alleges; and this is disproved.
The fact that the assignment was filed while the agreement as to application of the proceeds was not filed, is
not only not conclusive evidence of fraud, but, alone, is
of no probative force. They were under no obligation to
other creditors so to file it. Fechheimer v. Baum, 43 Fed.
Rep. 719, 726; Blanks v. Klein, 53 Fed. Rep. 436; Blennerhassett v. Sherman, 105 U. S. 100. This will not be held
to be fraud if the conveyance is only for security; the deed
will be enforced to the extent of the secured debt. Chickering v. Hatch, 3 Sumner's R. 474; Gaffney's Assignee
v. Signaigo, 1 Dillon, 158; Worten v. Clark, 23 Mississippi,
77. Complainant cites many cases, but they do not
give support to complainant's theories, except so fax as
general expressions may appear to do so; they are simply
inapplicable. They apply only where the court does not
find that an honest debt was intended to be secured, and
can find either motive or purpose in the creditor secured
to cheat or defraud others.
A special assignment of a particular part of a debtor's
property, the possession whereof is surrendered by the
debtor, will be regarded as valid in the absence of convincing proof of fraudulent design. The property passes by
delivery, or the equivalent thereof. A pledge is complete
without any writing.
If it be shown that the conveyance, though absolute
in form, was given in good faith to secure a real debt, it
will be quite immaterial that the right to redeem was not
expressed but rests in parol. The conveyance will be upheld to the extent of the debt proved. Cases supra and
Muchmore v. Budd, 53 N. J. Law, 369; Didier v. Patterson,
93 Virginia, 534; Bump on Fraud. Conv., 4th ed., § 55;
Smith v. Onion, 19 Vermont, 427; Oriental Bank v. Haskins,

MERILLAT v. HENSEY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

3 Met. 332; Howe Machine Co. v. Claybourn, 6 Fed. Rep.
438; 20 Cyc. 474, 475, 476.
If an absolute conveyance be found constructively
fraudulent, it will yet be sustained to the extent of the
debt it was given to secure. Boyd v. Dunlap, 1 Johns. Ch.
478; Lobstein v. Lehn, 120 Illinois, 549; Bates v. McConnell,
31 Fed. Rep. 588; Stamy v. Laning, 58 Iowa, 662; Brock v.
Hudson &c. Bank, 48 N. J. Eq. 615; Short v. Tinsley, 1
Metc. (Ky.) 397; Bartlett v. Cheesbrough, 23 Nebraska,
767; Ball v. Phenicie, 94 Michigan, 355; Waterbury v.
Sturdevant, 18 Wend. 353.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill filed by a creditor of the defendant Hensey
attacking as fraudulent an assignment by him of a certain
cause of action against the defendant, the Mercantile
Trust Company. The bill upon final hearing was dismissed by the trial court, and this judgment was affirmed
in the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia. From
that decree an appeal has been perfected to this court.
The thing assigned was a claim for damage under an
indemnity bond made by the Mercantile Trust Company
upon which an action was at the time pending. The assignment was in these words:
"Washington, D. C., October 21, 1903.
For value received, I hereby sell, assign, transfer and
set over to Frederick Mertens and Park Agnew my cause
of action in the above entitled suit, and all the proceeds
which may be derived from the prosecution thereof and
from any judgment that may be obtained. I further
authorize and empower the said assignees to continue the
prosecution of said cause in my name, to which end I constitute them my lawful attorneys in fact.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, this
twenty-first day of October, 1903.
(Signed) Melville D. Hensey."

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

The assignor took from the assignees an agreement to
return to him any balance after paying the debt due to the
assignees. This defeasance was in these words:
"This agreement, entered into this twenty-first day of
October, 1903, between Frederick Mertens and Park
Agnew, parties of the first part, and Melville D. Hensey,
party of the second part.
"Whereas, the party of the second part has this day executed an assignment of his cause of action against the
Mercantile Trust Company, At Law No. 44,822, in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia:
"Now, therefore, it is agreed and understood between
the parties that from the proceeds of any judgment that
may be recovered against the Mercantile Trust Company
in said suit, or any other suit involving the same issue,
that there shall first be paid costs and, attorneys' fees,
secondly the claim of Mertens and Agnew against Melville
D. Hensey, and any balance then remaining over to the
said Hensey.
"Witness the signatures and seals of the parties, this
twenty-first day of October, 1903.
(Signed) Frederick Mertens,
Park Agnew,
Melville D. Hensey."
The assignment was filed with the clerk of the court, and
the defeasance was delivered to Messrs. Birney and Woodard, the attorneys conducting the action for Hensey.
In June, 1905, there was judgment for Hensey for
$8,468, which was finally affirmed by this court some two
years later. Thereupon, this bill was filed by the appellants, who are judgment creditors, charging that the assignment of October 21, 1903, was made for the purpose
of hindering, delaying and defrauding creditors. Both
the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals concurred
in holding that the appellants had failed to show fraud,
actual or constructive, and that the single purpose of the

MERILLAT v. HENSEY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assignment was to secure the payment of a just indebtedness to the assignees, the defendants Mertens and Agnew.
After paying the attorneys' fees and court costs, the surplus is not enough to pay the debt secured in full.
In view therefore of the concurrence of both courts in
finding that no actual fraud was intended, we shall pass
at once to the question of constructive fraud.
Fraud in law is predicated upon the fact that the assignor took from the assignees the agreement above set
out, and did not file it with the clerk of the court as he did
the assignment itself.
It has been argued that the assignment was misleading
as not indicating the consideration or purpose, and because not accompanied by the defeasance. But the assignment of a chose in action was not required to be
recorded, and there was no way in which constructive
notice might be given. The filing with the clerk was, of
course, not constructive notice; the obvious purpose being
to protect the assignees against the dismissal of the suit by
the assignor, or the payment of the proceeds of the suit to
him. Indeed on the day before the clerk was directed to
"enter the case as to the use of Mertens and Agnew."
That the assignment upon its face is Valid is clear. If
it is ineffective as to the appellants it must be because of
something behind it constituting evidence of bad faith.
Are the inferences to be drawn from that evidence consistent with good faith, or do the facts indubitably establish fraud as matter of law? What are the facts from
which we are to conclude as matter of law that the purpose
was to hinder, delay or defraud? It is said that the assignment was not absolute, but was a transfer to secure a
debt, with a reservation, by an unpublished agreement,
of any balance. The honesty of the debt intended to be
secured was attacked, but that this was a baseless charge
is hardly doubtful, especially after two courts have adjudged the debt just. It is then said that the assignor was

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

at the time insolvent and intended to prefer the assignees,
and that they knew it. This would be effective if bankruptcy had ensued within four months, and the trustee
had sought to set it aside as a preference; but that on one
side, it is neither immoral nor illegal for a failing debtor to
prefer one creditor over another. Huntley v. Kingman Co.,
152 U. S. 527.
But it is said that the value of the claim assigned was
far beyond the amount of the debt secured. Here again
we find both lower courts disagreeing with this contention.
The thing assigned was of uncertain value. It was an
action for damages upon an indemnity bond. The plaintiff made a large claim and doubtless had some of the
enthusiasm usual to plaintiffs seeking damages. One
jury said he should have $18,000. The court said it was
too much, and set the verdict aside. Another jury said
he would be compensated by a little more than $8,000.
The defendant thought this a monstrous sum, and carried
the case first to the Court of Appeals of the District and
then to this court before the judgment stuck. The costs,
attorneys' fees and interest upon the debt due the assignees
more than consumed the whole, and the only question
now is whether the assignees shall get a part of their debt
or none.
But, it is said, that they have agreed to pay back any
surplus, if any there should be after paying their debt,
and that this is a reservation by the assignor of an interest
in the subject assigned, which operates not as a circumstance of fraud, but as that kind of indubitable evidence
which makes fraud in law.
Let us look at it. It did not show fraud in fact or law
that this assignment was not an absolute sale or transfer
of the chose assigned, but a mere security for an honest
debt. If the claim came to nothing, the debt was unpaid.
If, as proved to be the case, enough was realized to pay a
part, the rest is a debt to be paid. But if there should be a

MERILLAT v. HENSEY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

surplus, what then? If nothing had been agreed about the
surplus, is there any doubt that the law would have implied a promise to account to the assignor for that surplus? Is it, then, the law that a promise made to do that
which, without the promise, the law would have compelled the assignee to do, constitutes such evidence of
fraud as to be fraud in law?
There are some cases which seem to hold that if one
makes a general assignment to secure creditors, and inserts a clause reserving to himself any surplus, that he
thereby delays his creditors who might seek that surplus
until the trust should be wound up, and therefore comes
under the condemnation of the statute against conveyances to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, however innocent his purpose, or the existence of a surplus. There
are New York cases which seem to go so far, and perhaps
others. Goodrich v. Downs, 6 Hill (N. Y.) 438; Barney v.
Griffin, 2 N. Y. 365; Curtis v. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 9, 124;
Collomb v. Caldwell, 16 N. Y. 486. But the same court,
in Leitch v. Hollister, 4 N. Y. 211, held that the principle
did not apply to assignments in good faith "of a part of a
debtor's property to creditors themselves for the purpose
of securing particular demands." "The conveyance,"
said the New York court, "whatever may be its form, is
in effect a mortgage of the property transferred. A trust
as to the surplus results from the nature of the security,
and is not the object, or one of the objects, of the assignment. Whether expressed in the instrument or left to
implication, is immaterial. The assignee does not acquire
the legal and equitable interest in the property conveyed,
subject to the trust, but a specific lien upon it. The
residuary interest of the assignor may, according to its
nature, or that of the property, be reached by execution
or by bill in equity. The creditor attaches that interest
as the property of the debtor, and is not obliged to postpone action until the determination of any trust. He is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

therefore, neither delayed, hindered or defrauded in any
legal sense."
That the mere reservation of a balance under an assignment to pay debts, one or many, is enough as matter
of law to make the transaction void, whether the reservation be in or out of the instrument, has not been generally accepted. Muchmore v. Budd, 53 N. J. Law, 369,
where many cases are cited, among them being Rahn v.
McElrath, 6 Watts (Pa.), 151; Floyd & Co. v. Smith, 9
Oh. St. 546; Eli v. Hair et al., 16 B. Monroe, 230; Didier
v. Patterson,93 Virginia, 534. In Huntley v. Kingman Co.,
152 U. S. 527, the New York rule is impliedly disapproved.
The assignment in that case was of a stock of merchandise
to a third person as trustee, to sell and pay a particular
debt and "hold the remainder subject to the order of the
assignor." The instrument was attacked as fraudulent
in law by reason of this reservation, and the trial court
instructed the jury to find for the plaintiff on account of
this reservation. This court reversed the judgment, holding the charge erroneous. Mr. Justice Brown, for the
court, after saying that the agreement to account to the
assignor for any surplus was no more than the law would
have implied, said:
"Whatever may be the rule with regard to general assignments for the benefit of creditors, there can be no
doubt that, in cases of chattel mortgages (and the instrument in question, by whatever name it may be called,
is in reality a chattel mortgage), the reservation of a surplus to the mortgagor is only an expression of what the
law would imply without a reservation, and is no evidence
of a fraudulent intent. This was the ruling of the Court
of Appeals of New York in Leitch v. Hollister, 4 N. Y. 211,
216, where the assignment was to the creditors themselves
for the purpose of securing their demands. 'A trust,' said
the court, 'as to the surplus results from the nature of the
security, and is not the object, or one of the objects, of the

MERILLAT v. RENSEY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assignment. Whether expressed in the instrument or
left to implication, is immaterial. The assignee does not
acquire the entire legal and equitable interest in the
property conveyed, subject to the trust, but a specific
lien upon it. The residuary interest of the assignor may,
according to its nature, or that of the property, le reached
by execution or by bill in equity.' "
The reservation which the law pronounces fraudulent
is of some pecuniary benefit at the expense of creditors,
especially when secretly secured-such benefit to the
assignor being presumed a prime purpose of the conveyance. Lukins v. Aird, 6 Wall. 79. Other cases are considered and reviewed in Huntley v. Kingman, supra.
Section 1120 of the District of Columbia Code provides
that in suits to set aside transfers or assignments as made
with intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, "the
question of fraudulent intent shall be deemed a question
of fact and not of law."
Counsel have argued, as courts have ruled, that no
amount of evidence will assign to an instrument an operation which the law does not assign to it. Thus a mere
deed of gift which actually deprives existing creditors of
property which was subject to their claims, or a transfer
of property grossly disproportioned to a debt secured under
a conveyance apparently absolute, but subject to a secret
agreement that the surplus should be held for the assignor,
could not be saved, for the necessary legal effect would be
to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, and the law could
but assign to such conveyance the intent which must indubitably appear from the facts. Edgell v. Hart, 9 N. Y.
213, 217.
But the assignment here was of a mere chose in action,
not subject to legal process, but to be reached through
equity only. There was no requirement of law that such
an assignment should be recorded and no legal way to
give constructive notice. The debt secured was an honest

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

one, and the security was of uncertain value and character, involving great expense and delay in collection. The
fact that the reservation of any surplus after paying the
debt secured was not disclosed in the assignment itself was
a circumstance of suspicious character, but not as matter

of law irconsistent with an honest intent. Two courts
have held that under all the circumstances the assignment was not made to hinder, delay or defraud creditors,
and as matter of law had no such result.
We are content to affirm this judgment.

Affirmed.

LIVERPOOL & LONDON & GLOBE INSURANCE

COMPANY v. BOARD OF ASSESSORS FOR THE
PARISH OF ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 92.

Argued April 18, 19, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Credits on open account are incorporeal and have no actual situs, but
they constitute property and as such are taxable by the power having jurisdiction.
The maxim of mobilia sequuntur persenam yields to. the fact of actual
control; and jurisdiction to tax intangible credits exists in the sovereignty of the debtor's domicile, such credits being of value to the
creditor because of the power given by such sovereignty to enforce
the debt. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 205. Such taxation does
not deny due process of law.
The jurisdiction of the State of the domicile over the creditor's person
does not exclude the power of another State in which he transacts
his business to tax credits there accruing to him from resident
debtors, and thus, without denying due process of law, to enforce
contribution to support the government under whose protection his
affairs are conducted.

