OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

CAIN v. COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 797. Submittbd January 6, 1914.-Decided January 19, 1914.
Revolutions in the practice and efficacy of the right of removal of
causes from the state to the Federal court will not lightly be presumed; and so held that the modification of the prior law and practice
by the Judicial Code did not take from the Federal Court the power
it has necessarily possessed to pass not only upon the merits of the
case, but also upon the validity of the process on the question of
jurisdiction over the person of the defendant.
Prior to the adoption of the Judicial Code it was settled that:
The right aid the procedure of removal of causes are to be determined by the Federal law, Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518;
neither the legislature nor the judiciary of a State can limit either
the right or its effect. Id.
The Federal court has jurisdiction according to the Constitution
and laws of the United States. Id.
A suit must be actually pending in the state court before it can
be removed; but its removal is not an admission that it was rightfully pending and that defendant can be compelled to answer. Id.
After removal defendant can avail in the Federal court of every
reserved defense, to be pleaded in the same manner as though the
action had been originally commenced in the Federal court. Id.
Exercising the right of removal and filing the petition does not
amount to a general appearance.
These rules have not been altered by the adoption of §§ 29 and 38 of
the Judicial Code.
The word "plead" in § 29 Judicial Code includes a plea to the jurisdiction.
Under the Conformity Act, § 914, Rev. Stat., a special appearance in a
case removed to the Federal court from the state court of Mississippi
does not become a general appearance because of the provisions to
that effect in § 3946, Mississippi Code of 1906.

THE facts, which involve the construction and effect of
§§ 29 and 38 of the Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

CAIN v. COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO.
232 U. S.

125

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Marcellus Green, Mr. Garner W. Green and Mr.
Marcellus Green, Jr., for plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction of this writ of error. Judicial Code, § 238; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman,
215 U. S. 437; Davis v. Cleveland, 217 U. S. 157.
Proceedings for removal are wholly the creature of
statute, and the amendment of the Removal Acts (25
Stat. 433, §§ 108, 109, 110, 1 Desty's Fed. Pro., 9th ed.) by
§§ 29, 38, Judicial Code, made the filing of a petition for
removal a general entry of appearance, and require the
party removing to plead or demur to the declaration,
within thirty days after filing a copy of the record in
the Federal court; and thereby, also, a plea to the jurisdiction of the court for want of proper service of the writ
of summons in the state court was abolished.
The words, "plead, answer or demur to the declaration"
cover both common law, code and equity proceedings, and
mean a plea or demurrer to the declaration, and not one in
abatement to the service of the writ.
A plea in abatement to the jurisdiction for want of service
is a plea to the writ and not one to the declaration. Thornton
v. Fitzhugh, 10 S. & M. (Miss.) 438; United States v. Bell Tel.
Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 17; Chamberlainv. Lake, 36 Maine, 388.
If the defect appears upon the face of the record a
motion to dismiss the suit for want of service of the writ
is a proper remedy. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S.
280; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518.
The evils of delay and expense in the proceedings in
removed causes, under the former Removal Acts, had
grown up, and the amendment by Judicial Code, §§ 29,
38, was to expedite and compel a speedy hearing on the
merits, and to abolish delay in removal proceedings under
the practice theretofore prevailing, whereby a party could
appear, either generally or specially, in his petition to remove (Wabash Ry. Co. v. Brow, supra; Goldey v. Morning

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

News, supra) in answer to the service of the summons, and
apparently be in court and file 'his petition for removal on
the ground of diverse citizenship, and thus defeat a speedy
trial in the state court and then, after much delay, upon removal, defeat a trial in the United States court on the
ground that the special appearance did not give jurisdiction.
The Statutes of Pleading, Practice and Procedure of
Mississippi constitute a part of the jurisprudence of the
United States courts when not in conflict therewith, and
under § 3946, Code Miss. 1906, the filing of the petition
for removal in the state court, even though a special
entry of appearance, constituted a general entry of appearance, and upon removal, under §§ 29, 38 of Judicial
Code, the defendant was compelled to plead to the declaration within thirty days after the filing of the record.
Section 914, Rev. Stats.; Boston & M. R. R. Co. v.
Gokey, 210 U. S. 155, 162; Ia. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Hampton &c. Co., 204 Fed.. Rep. 966.
A special is a general entry of appearance under § 3946,
Code of 1906. 1. C. R. R. Co. v. Swanson, 92 Mississippi,
485, 492. See also York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15.
This Texas statute conflicted with the express provisions of the Federal statutes, especially as to the venue
of the jurisdiction in the Federal court, and the Federal
statutes were held to prevail, but only to the extent of the
conflict. Sou. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Denton, 146 U. 'S. 202;
Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Gonzales, 151 U. S. 496.
The rule followed in Wabash Railway Co. v. Brow, 164
U. S. supra, and Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. supra,
obtained in States other than those in which a statute
like § 3946 of the Code of 1906 prevailed, and are distinguishable because of this fact, as well as because they
arose before the amendment by the Judicial Code.
Mr. Luke E. Wright, Mr. Lovick P. Miles, Mr. Roane
Waring and Mr. Sam. P. Walker for defendant in error:

CAIN v. COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO.
232 U. S.

127

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The construction of the Judicial Code insisted upon
by plaintiff in error would not only be in conflict with
the express language of § 38 of that Code, but would
overrule a long established practice and destroy a great
right which, by repeated decisions of the Supreme Court
of the United States, has become fixed in our people.
Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 439;
Wabash West'n Ry. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271, 278; Goldey v.
Morning News, 156 U. S. 518.
Prior to the Judicial Code, the right to plead to the
jurisdiction of the court, and to have reversal in the
Supreme Court of the United States for error in ruling
upon such plea, was recognized and guarded carefully
by Federal statutes. Sections 1011, Revised Statutes, as
corrected by act of February 18, 1875, c. 80; act of February 25, 1889, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236; act of March 3, 1891,
26 Stat. 826, 827, c. 517; Court of Appeals Act of 1891,
as amended in 1897.
It has been expressly recognized that just such plea to
the jurisdiction as was filed in the instant case, raised a
question of jurisdiction reviewable by the Supreme Court
of the United States. Remington v. Central Pac. R. Co.,
198 U. S. 95; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215
U. S. 440.
The statutes of Mississippi and the decisions of its courts
are not conclusive upon Federal courts in determining
whether the defendant was suable in the State of Mississippi, or whether the parties served were persons upon
whom service of summons could be had, so as to give jurisdiction of the defendant. Nor would any statute of Mississippi give jurisdiction where facts necessary to give a
Federal court jurisdiction did not exist. Mechanical
Appliance Co. v. Castleman, supra. See also Peterson v.
Chicago, R. I. & Pac.Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364; Green v. C., B.
& Q. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 530; Wold v. Colt Co., 114 N. W.
Rep. (Minn.) 243.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action for libel brought in the Circuit Court of Hinds
County, First District, State of Mississippi. Plaintiff
in error, as he was plaintiff in the action we will so refer

to him, alleged himself to be a citizen of the State of
Mississippi, that defendant in error, Commercial Publishing Company, referred to herein as defendant, published a libel against him in its "newspaper called the
Commercial Appeal in the City of Memphis, State of
Tennessee, but that the said Commercial Appeal has a
large circulation throughout the State of Mississippi and
all adjoining States and among foreign cities and also in
foreign countries." $10,000 actual damages were prayed
and $10,000 punitive damages.
Summons was issued and returned served by the sheriff
of the county, as: "Executed personally on the Commercial Publishing Company" by delivering a copy to
E. K. Williams, described as "its agent, at Jackson, Miss.,"
and to A. C. Walthall, described as "its correspondent,
at Jackson, Mississippi."
Defendant filed a petition for 'removal of the action to
the District Court of the United States, which petition
stated the nature of the action, that plaintiff was a resident and citizen of Mississippi, that defendant was a
corporation chartered under and by virtue of the laws
of Tennessee, that the time for answering or pleading to
the declaration had not expired, that defendant had not
appeared'therein and that defendant appeared only specially and for the sole purpose of requesting the removal
of the cause to the District Court of the United States,
and that it did not waive any objections or exceptions
to the jurisdiction. A bond as required by law was duly
given, which was approved, and an order of removal was
duly made. The copy of the record was duly filed in the

CAIN v. COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO.
232 U. S.

129

Opinion of fhe Court.

District Court of the United States. The defendant then
filed in the latter court a plea to the jurisdiction over the
person of defendant, appearing specially for that purpose. The plea alleged that the state court had not acquired jurisdiction of the defendant, because (a) it was
a corporation of the State of Tennessee, and that it had
never taken out a license to do business in Mississippi,
nor, at the time of the service of the summons, did it
have an agent, office or place of business in Hinds-County,
State of Mississippi; (b) the persons upon whom service
was made 'were neither agents nor officers of, nor in any
relation to, defendant for the reason that defendant was
not doing business in the State of Mississippi.
Plaintiff demurred to the plea, stating as grounds (1)
that it was directed to the service of process and not to
the declaration as required under § 29 of the Judicial Code;
(2) no right exists to enter a special appearance in the
Hinds County Circuit Court under the laws of the State
of Mississippi, all appearances being general, even though
process be invalidly served.
The demurrer was overruled and issue joined on the
plea to the jurisdiction, and the court having heard the
evidence decided that neither of the persons upon whom
summons was served was such an agent of defendant that
service upon him would give jurisdiction over the person
of defendant, and thereupon found the issue for defendant.
Before judgment was entered plaintiff called up his
motion for judgment for default because defendant had
not pleaded or demurred to the declaration within thirty
days after the filing of the copy of the record of removal
as required by § 29 of the Judicial Code. The motion was
overruled, the court reciting in its order that it was of
"opinion that defendant was not required to plead or
demur to the declaration unless the process of summons
in the state court was duly served upon an agent of defendVOL.

ccxxxii-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

ant upon whom service of process was authorized to be
made."
Judgment was then entered quashing the service of
process and dismissing the action "without prejudice to
the right of plaintiff to sue upon the causes of action set
up in the declaration."
Plaintiff prayed a writ of error to this court upon the
question of jurisdiction. It was allowed in open court,
the court reciting that it was allowed on the question of
jurisdiction only, the court having dismissed the action
'on the sole question that the court had no jurisdiction
of the action."
The question in the case is the simple one of what is the
effect of §§ 29 and 38 of the Judicial Code. Section 29
provides for the filing of a petition for the removal of a
suit from a state court to the District Court of the United
States at any time before the defendant is required by
the laws of the State to answer or plead, and the filing
therewith of a bond for "entering in such District Court,
within thirty days from the date of filing said petition, a
certified copy of the record in such suit." It provides
that, this being done, the state court shall accept the
petition and bond and "proceed no further in such suit."
It provides further that notice of the petition and bond
shall be given to the adverse party and that "the said
copy being entered within said thirty days as aforesaid in
said District Court of the United States, the parties so
removing the said cause shall within thirty days thereafter plead, answer or demur to the declaration or complaint in said cause, and the cause shall then proceed in
the same manner as if it had been originally commenced
in the said District Court."
Section 38 provides that the District Court in suits so
removed shall "proceed therein as if the suit had been
originally commenced in said District Court, and the
same proceedings had been taken in such suit in said

CAIN v. COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO.
232 U. S.

131

Opinion of the Court.

District Court as shall have been had therein in said
state court prior to its removal."
The argument is that these sections abolish the practice
declared in Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518, and
Wabash Railway Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271. In the former
case the following propositions were laid down: (1) The
right and procedure of removal of actions from a state
court are to be determined by the Federal law. (2) The
legislature or the judiciary of a State can neither defeat
the right nor limit its effect. (3) The act of Congress by
which the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of
proceeding in actions at law in the courts of the United
States are required to conform as near as may be to those
existing in the state courts applies only to cases of which
the court has jurisdiction according to the Constitution
and laws of the United States. (4) A suit must be actually
pending in a state court before it can be removed, but
its removal to the court of the United States does not
admit that it was rightfully pending in the state court,
or that the defendant could have been compelled to
answer therein; but enables the defendant to avail himself
in the United States court of any and every defense duly
and seasonably reserved and pleaded to the action (p. 524)
"'in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced in said circuit court."' The words quoted, it
will be observed, are repeated in § 29, "District Court"
being substituted for "Circuit Court."
In Wabash Railway Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S.271, 279, it is
said, "By the exercise of the right of removal, the petitioner refuses to permit the state court to deal with the
case in any way, because he prefers another forum to
which the law gives him the right to resort. This may be
said to challenge the jurisdiction of the state court, in
the sense of declining to submit to it, and not necessarily
otherwise.
"We are of opinion that the filing of a petition for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

removal does not amount to a general appearance, but
to a special appearance only."
Subsequent cases have applied this ruling. Mechanical
Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 437, and cases cited

therein.
It is contended, however, as we have seen, that §§ 29 and
38 of the Judicial Code have instituted a new and more
expeditious practice. This is deduced from that part of
§ 29 which provides that the party desiring to remove a
case shall make and file with his petition a bond for
entering in the District Court within thirty days from
the date of filing his petition a certified copy of the record,
written notice thereof to be given the adverse party, and
the copy of the record being so entered, "the parties so
removing the said cause shall, within thirty days thereafter,
plead, answer or demur to the declaration or complaint in
said cause. .
"

The purpose of these provisions, which are an amendment to the prior law, it is contended, is to expedite trials
and preclude a defendant from preventing a speedy trial
in the state court by removal proceedings and "then
consume the time and expense and exercise of jurisdiction
of the Federal court by invoking, by motion, the court's
jurisdiction to dismiss the cause, and thus compel plaintiff
to go upon a fool's errand." To prevent this consequence,
it is further insisted, the record was required to be filed
within thirty days from the date of filing the petition for
removal, which, necessarily, it is said, would be in vacation, and that therefore the requirement that within
thirty days after it is filed the defendant "shall plead,
answer or demur to the declaration or complaint in said
cause"y necessarily means "a plea or demurrer to the
declaration and cannot mean a plea in abatement to the
service of the Writ."
It may be conceded that the purpose of the amendment was to secure expedition in the disposition of the

CAIN i. COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO.
232 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

case, but a revolution in the practice and efficacy of the
right of removal is not lightly to be inferred. And a
revolution it would be. It would take from the Federal
courts the power they have possessed under the cases
cited, a power not only to pass upon the merits of the
case but upon the validity of the service of process, that
is, upon the question of jurisdiction over the person of
the defendant. How essential this power is to the right
of removal is obvious. Without it a State could prescribe
any process or notice or a plaintiff, as in the pending case,
serve process on a person having no relation with a defendant and compel him to submit to it-and to a jurisdiction
not of his residence, or give up his right to take the case
to what in contemplation of law may be a more impartial
tribunal for the determination of the action instituted
against him and which it is the purpose of the removal
proceedings to secure to him, and, it must be assumed,
completely, not by surrender of any of his rights but in
protection and security of all of them.
The weakness of plaintiff's contention is demonstrated
not only when we consider all of the language of § 29, but
the language of § 38, which provides that in all suits removed the District Court shall proceed therein as if the
suit had been originally commenced in the District Court,
"and the same proceedings had been taken in such suit
in said District Court as shall have been had therein in
said state court prior to its removal." In other words,
the cause is transferred to the District Court as it stands
in the state court and the defendant is enabled to avail
himself in the latter court of any defenses and, within the
time designated, plead to the action "in the same manner
as if it had been originally commenced in said District
Court." And these words, we have seen, were explicitly
given such effect in the cited cases.
It is clear, therefore, that plaintiff gives too restrictive a
meaning to the word "plead" in § 29. It must be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

strued to include a plea to the jurisdiction, and, so construing it, all of the provisions for removal of causes become accordant and their purposes fulfilled-the right of a
speedy disposition of the suit to the plaintiff and the
right of the defendant to have all questions determined
by the Federal tribunal.
Plaintiff further contends that under the Mississippi
Code the filing of the petition for removal constitutes a
general entry of appearance, that therefore, if § 29 does
not compel the removing party to plead to the declaration
within thirty days, "then, under § 914, Rev. Stat.; U. S.
Comp. Stat. of 1901,.p. 684, the 'practice, pleadings, forms,
and modes of proceeding' in the state court, adopted in
the Federal court, would make the plea to the jurisdiction
here in the District Court a general entry of appearance
and would require a plea to the merits at the next term
of the District Court under the Code of the State," because "a special is a general entry of appearance under
§ 3946, Code of 1906."
The contention is untenable. Goldey v. Morning News,
and Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, supra.
Judgment affirmed.

BACON ET AL., PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
OF THE STATE OF VERMONT, v. RUTLAND
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
No. 760.

Argued January 9, 1914.-Decided January 19, 1914.

Although the state statute may permit an appeal from an order of the
state railroad commission to the Supreme Court of the State, if

legislative powers have not been conferred upon that court, a rail-

