WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN

No. 461.

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Argued December 2, 3, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Under the Fourth Amendment Federal courts and officers are under
such limitations and restraints in the exercise of their power and
authority as to forever secure the people, their persons, houses,
papers and effects against all unreasonable searches and seizures

under the guise of law.
The protection of the Fourth Amendment reaches all alike, whether
accused of crime or not; and the duty of giving it force and effect is
obligatory on all entrusted with the enforcement of Federal laws.
The tendency of those executing Federal criminal laws to obtain convictions by means of unlawful seizures and enforced confessions in
violation of Federal rights is not to be sanctioned by the courts which
are charged with the support of constitutional rights.
The Federal courts cannot, as against a seasonable application for their
return, in a criminal prosecution, retain for the purposes of evidence

against the accused his letters and correspondence seized in his house
during his absence and without his authority by a United States
marshal holding no warrant for his arrest or for the search of his

premises.
While the efforts of courts and their officials to bring the guilty to
punishment are praiseworthy, they are not-to be aided by sacrificing
the great fundamental rights secured by the Constitution.
While an incidental seizure of incriminating papers, made in the execution of a legal warrant, and their use as evidence, may be justified,
and a collateral issue will not be raised to ascertain the source of
competent evidence, Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, -that rule
does not justify the retention of letters seized in violation of the
protection given by the Fourth Amendment where an application in
the cause for their return has been made by the accused before trial.
The court has power to deal with papers and documents in the possession of the District Attorney and other officers of the court and to
direct their return to the accused if wrongfully seized.
Where letters and papers of the accused were taken from his premises
by an official of the United States, acting under color of office but

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

without any search warrant and in violation of the constitutional
rights of accused under the Fourth Amendment, and a seasonable
application for return of the letters and papers has been refused and
they are used in evidence over his objections, prejudicial error is
committed and the judgment should be reversed.
The Fourth Amendment is not directed to individual misconduct of
state officers. Its limitations reach the Federal Government and
its agencies. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the Fourth
Amendment of a verdict and sentence and the extent to
which the private papers of the accused taken without
search warrant can be used as evidence against him, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell for plaintiff in error:
The decision of the District Court denying defendant's
petition to return his property and private papers after it
had taken jurisdiction of the subject-matter set forth in
said petition and found that said private papers had come
into the possession of the Government as a result of its
own unlawful acts in violation of its own Constitution is
reversible error. Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585;
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Hale v. Henkel, 201
U. S. 43; United States v. McHie, 196 Fed. Rep. 586;
United States v. Wilson, 163 Fed. Rep. 338; United States
v. McHie, 194 Fed. Rep. 894; United States v. Mills, 185
Fed. Rep. 318; Wise v. Mills, 220 U. S. 549; Wise v.
Henkel, 220 U. S. 549.
The reception in evidence of the property and papers
seized by officers of the Government after the court had
inquired into and found that same had been so seized was
reversible error. 47 Am. St. Rep. 175; Blackstone's Com.,
Bk. 3, p. 256; Blackstone, Bk. IV; Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616; Broom's Leg. Max. (7th ed.) 227; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Ex parte Jackson, 96
U. S. 727; Gindrat v. People, 138 Illinois, 103; 1 Greenleaf

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

on Evidence, § 245a; Marshall v. Riley, 7 Georgia, 367;
Note 1, Blackstone's Com., Bk. III, p. 256; Rusher v.
State, 94 Georgia, 366; Shields v. State, 104 Alabama, 35;
State v. Flynn, 36 N. H. 64; State v. Underwood, 78 S. E.
1103; Thornton v. State, 117 Wisconsin, 338; Underwood v.
State, 78 S. E. Rep. 1103; United States v. Wong Quong, 94
Fed. Rep. 832; 4 Wigmore on Evidence, §§ 2251-2270.
The common law rules of evidence embodied in the
Constitution have, by being so embodied, been clothed
with the dignity of a fundamental law and the application
of same under the Constitution is not limited by the rules
of the common law. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616;
Black's Int. of Laws; Brain v. United States, 168 U. S.
532, 542; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 596-597; Counselman
v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Emery's Case, 107 Massachusetts, 172; Enbeck v. Carrington, 19 How. St. Tr. 1029;
People v. Kelly, 24 N. Y. 74; Sohm in Inst. of Roman
Law, 2d ed., p. 30; Thayer on Evidence, 263, 276.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Denison for the United States, submitted:
The defendant having been found guilty-on a single
count only-comes here on writ of error, making fifteen
assignments of which the only one requiring notice is in
substance that the retention of this property and its
admission in evidence against him violated his right to be
secure from unreasonable searches and seizures and to
refrain from being a witness against himself, as guaranteed by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
The question is no longer open. Adams v. New York,
192 U. S. 585; Hale V. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Am. Tobacco
Co. v. Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284, 302; Holt v. United
States, 218 U. S. 245, 252; United States v. WilsOn, 163
Fed. Rep. 338; Hardesty v. United States, 164 Fed. Rep.
420.
The Adams Case is sought to be distinguished on the
VOL. ccxxxii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

ground that it involved a state action, whereas this involves a Federal action. The distinction does exist on
the facts, but it is immaterial because the court passed
that phase of the Adams Case and based the decision on
the point that, even if the Amendments were applicable
to state action, Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 92,
they had not been violated.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
An indictment was returned against the plaintiff in
error, defendant below, and herein so designated, in the
District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Missouri containing nine counts. The seventh
count, upon which a conviction was had, charged the use
of the mails for the purpose of transporting certain coupons or tickets representing chances -or shares in a lottery
or gift enterprise, in violation of § 213 of the Criminal
Code. Sentence of fine and imprisonment was imposed.
This writ of error is to review that judgment.
The defendant was arrested by a police officer, so far as
the record shows, without warrant, at the Union Station
in Kansas City, Missouri, where he was employed by an
express company. Other police officers had gone to the
house of the defendant and being told by a neighbor where
the key was kept, found it and entered the house. They
searched the defendant's room and took possession of
various papers and articles found there, which were
afterwards turned over to the United States Marshal.
Later in the same day police officers returned with the
Marshal, wlo thought he might find additional evidence,
and, being admitted by someone in the house, probably a
boarder, in response to. a yap, the Marshal searched the
defendant's room and carried away certain letters and
envelopes found in the drawer of a chiffonier. Neither the
marshal nor the police officers had a search warrant.

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant filed in the cause before the time for
trial the following petition:
"Petition to Return Private Papers, Books and Other
Property.
"Now comes defendant and states that he is a citizen
and resident of Kansas City, Missouri, and that he resides, owns and occupies a home at 1834 Penn Street in
said City;
- "That on the 21st day of December, 1911, while plaintiff was absent at his daily vocation certain officers of the
government whose names are to plaintiff unknown, unlawfully and without warrant or authority so to do, broke
open the door to plaintiff's said home and seized all of
his books, letters, money, papers, notes, evidences of
indebtedness, stock, certificates, insurance policies, deeds,
abstracts, and other muniments of title, bonds, candies,
clothes and other property in said home, and this in violation of Sections 11 and 23 of the Constitution of Missouri
and of the 4th and 5th Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States:
"That the District Attorney, Marshal and Clerk of the
United States Court for the Western District of Missouri
took the above described property so seized into their
possession and have failed and refused to return to defendant portion of same, to-wit:
"One (1) leather grip, value about $7.00; one (1) tin
box valued at $3.00; one (1) Pettis County, Missouri,
bond, value $500.00; three (3) Mining stock certificates
which defendant is unable to more particularly describe
valued at $12,000.00, and certain stock certificates in
addition thereto issued by the San Domingo Mining Loan
and Investment Company, about $75.00 in currency; one
(1) newspaper published about 1790, an heirloom; and
certain other property which plaintiff is now unable to
describe:
"That said property is being unlawfully and improperly

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

held by said District Attorney, Marshal and Clerk in
violation of defendant's rights under the Constitution of
the United States and the State of Missouri:
"That said District Attorney purposes to use said books,
letters, papers, certificates of stock, etc., at the trial of
the above entitled cause and that by reason thereof and
of the facts above set forth defendant's rights under the
amendments aforesaid to the Constitution of Missouri, and
the United States have been and will be violated unless
the Court order the return prayed for:
"Wherefore, defendant prays that said District Attorney, Marshal and Clerk be notified, and that the Court
direct and order said District Attorney, Marshal and Clerk
to return said property to said defendant."
Upon consideration of the petition the court entered
in the cause an order directing the return of such property
as was not pertinent to the charge against the defendant,
but denied the petition as to pertinent matter, reserving
the right to pass upon the pertinency at a later time. In
obedience to the order the District Attorney returned
part of the property taken and retained the remainder,
concluding a list of the latter with the statement that,
"all of which last above described property is to be used
in evidence in the trial of the above entitled cause, and
pertains to the alleged sale of lottery tickets of the company above named."
After the jury had been sworn and before any evidence
had been given, the defendant again urged his petition for
the return of his property, which was denied by the court.
Upon the introduction of such papers during the trial,
the defendant objected on the ground that the papers had
been obtained without a search warrant and by breaking
open his home, in violation of the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
which objection was overruled by the court. Among the
papers retained and put in evidence were a number of

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lottery tickets and statements with reference to the lottery, taken at the first visit of the police to the defendant's room, and a number of letters written to the defendant in respect to the lottery, taken by the Marshal upon
his search of defendant's room.
The defendant assigns error, among other things, in
the court's refusal to grant his petition for the return of
his property and in permitting the papers to be used at
the trial.
It is thus apparent that the question presented involves
the determination of the duty of the court with reference
to the motion made by the defendant for the return of
certain letters, as well as other papers, taken from his
room by the United States Marshal, who, without authority of process, if any such could have been legally issued,
visited the room of the defendant for the declared purpose of obtaining additional testimony to support the
charge against the accused, and having gained admission
to the house took from the drawer of a chiffonier there
found certain letters written to the defendant, tending to
show his guilt. These letters were placed in the control of
the District Attorney and were subsequently produced by
him and offered in evidence against the accused at the
trial. The defendant contends that such appropriation
of his private correspondence was in violation of rights
secured to him by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments
to the Constitution of the United States. We shall deal
with the Fourth Amendment, which provides:
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or
affirmation and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized."
The history of this Amendment is given with particularity in the opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

the court in Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616. As
was there shown, it took its origin in the determination of
the framers of the Amendments to the Federal Constitution to provide for that instrument a Bill of Rights,
securing to the American people, among other things, those
safeguards which had grown up in England to protect
the people from unreasonable searches and seizures, such
as were permitted under the general warrants issued under
authority of the Government by which there had been
invasions of the home and privacy of the citizens and the
seizure of their private papers in support of charges, real
or imaginary, made against them. Such practices had
also received sanction under warrants and seizures under
the so-called writs of assistance, issued in the American
colonies. See 2 Watson on the Constitution, 1414 et seq.
Resistance to these practices had established the principle
which was enacted into the fundamental law in the Fourth
Amendment, that a man's house was his castle and not
to be invaded by any general authority to search and
seize his goods and papers. Judge Cooley, in his Constitutional Limitations, pp. 425, 426, in treating of this
feature of our Constitution, said: "The maxim that
' every man's house is his castle,' is made a part of our constitutional law in the clauses prohibiting unreasonable
searches and seizures, and has always been looked upon
as of high value to the citizen." "Accordingly," says
Lieber in his work on Civil Liberty and Self-Government,
62, in speaking of the English law in this respect, "no
man's house can be forcibly opened, or he or his goods
be carried away after it has thus been forced, except in
cases of felony, and then the sheriff must be furnished
with a warrant, and take great care lest he commit a trespass. This principle is jealously insisted upon." In
Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 733, this court recognized
the principle of protection as applicable to letters and
sealed packages in the mail, and held that consistently

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with this guaranty of the right of the people to be secure
in their papers against unreasonable searches and seizures
such matter could only be opened and examined upon
warrants issued on oath or affirmation particularly describing the thing to be seized, "as is required when papers
are subjected to search in one's own household."
In the Boyd Case, supra, after citing Lord Camden's
judgment in Entick v. Carrington,19 Howell's State Trials,
1029, Mr. Justice Bradley said (630):
"The principles laid down in this opinion affect the
very essence of constitutional liberty and security. They
reach farther than the concrete form of the case then before
the court, with its adventitious circumstances; they apply
to all invasions on the part of the government and its
employ~s of the sanctity of a man's home and the privacies of life. It is not the breaking of his doors, and the
rummaging of his drawers, that constitutes the essence
of the offence; but it is the invasion of his indefeasible
right of personal security, personal liberty and private
property, where that right has never been forfeited by his
conviction of some public offence,-it is the invasion of
this sacred right which underlies and constitutes the essence of Lord Camden's judgment."
In Brain v. United States, 168 U. S. 532, this court in
speaking by the present Chief Justice of Boyd's Case,
dealing with the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, said

(544):
"It was in that case demonstrated that both of these
Amendments contemplated perpetuating, in their full
efficacy, by means of a constitutional provision, principles
of humanity and civil liberty, which had been secured in
the mother country only after years of struggle, so as to
implant them in our institutions in the fullness of their
integrity, free from the possibilities of future legislative
change."
The effect of the Fourth Amendment is to put the courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

of the United States and Federal officials, in the exercise
of their power and authority, under limitations and
restraints as to the exercise of such power and authority,
and to forever secure the people, their persons, houses,
papers and effects against all unreasonable searches and
seizures under the guise of law. This protection reaches
all alike, whether accused of crime or not, and the duty of
giving to it force and effect is obligatory upon all entrusted under our Federal system with the enforcement
of the laws. The tendency of those who execute the
criminal laws of the country to obtain conviction by means
of unlawful seizures and enforced confessions, the latter
often obtained after subjecting accused persons to unwarranted practices destructive of rights secured by the
Federal Constitution, should find no sanction in the judgments of the courts which are charged at all times with the
support of the Constitution and to which people of all
conditions have a right to appeal for the maintenance of
such fundamental rights.
What then is the present case? Before answering that
inquiry specifically, it may be well by a process of exclusion to state what it is not. It is not an assertion of the
right on the part of the Government, always recognized
under English and American law, to search the person of
the accused when legally arrested to discover and seize
the fruits or evidences of crime. This right has been
uniformly maintained in many cases. 1 Bishop on
Criminal Procedure, §211; Wharton, Crim. Plead. and
Practice, 8th ed., § 60; Dillon v. O'Brien and Davis, 16
Cox C. C. 245. Nor is it the case of testimony offered at
a trial where the court is asked to stop and consider the
illegal means by which proofs, otherwise competent, were
obtained--of which we shall have occasion to treat later
in this opinion. Nor is it the case of burglar's tools or
other proofs of guilt found upon his arrest within the
control of the accused.

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The case in the aspect in which we are dealing with it
involves the right of the court in a criminal prosecution to

retain for the purposes of evidence the letters and correspondence of the accused, seized in his house in his absence
and without his authority, by a United States Marshal

holding no warrant for his arrest and none for the search of
his premises. The accused, without awaiting his trial,
made timely application to the court for an order for the.
return of these letters, as well as other property. This
application was denied, the letters retained and put in
evidence, after a further application at the beginning of
the trial, both applications asserting the rights of the
accused under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the
Constitution. If letters and private documents can thus
be seized and held and used in evidence against a citizen
accused of an offense, the protection of the Fourth Amend-"
ment declaring his right to be secure against such searches
and seizures is of no value, and, so far as those thus placed
are concerned, might as well be stricken from the Constitution. The efforts of the courts and their officials to
bring the guilty to punishment, praiseworthy as they are,
are not to be aided by the sacrifice of those great principles established by years of endeavor and suffering which
have resulted in their embodiment in the fundamental
law of the land. The United States Marshal could only
have invaded the house of the accused when armed with a
warrant issued as required by the Constitution, upon
sworn information and describing with reasonable particularity the thing for which the search was to be made.
Instead, he acted without sanction of law, doubtless
prompted by the desire to bring further proof to the aid of
the Government, and under color of his office undertook
to make a seizure of private papers in direct violation of
the constitutional prohibition against such action. Under such circumstances, without sworn information and
particular description, not even an order of court would

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

have justified such procedure, much less was it within the
authority of the United States Marshal to thus invade
the house and privacy of the accused. In Adams v. New
York, 192 U. S. 585, this court said that the Fourth
Amendment was intended to secure the citizen in person
and property against unlawful invasion of the sanctity of
his home by officers of the law acting under legislative or
judicial sanction. This protection is equally extended to
the action of the Government and officers of the law
acting under it. (Boyd Case, supra.) To sanction such
proceedings would be to affirm by judicial decision a
manifest neglect if not an open defiance of the prohibitions
of the Constitution; intended for the protection of the
people against such unauthorized action.
The court before which the application was made in this
case recognized the illegal character of the seizure and
ordered the return of property not in its judgment competent to be offered at the trial, but refused the application of the accused to turn over the letters, which were
afterwards put in evidence on behalf of the Government.
While there is no opinion in the case, the court in this
proceeding doubtless relied upon what is now contended
by the Government to be the correct rule of law under
such circumstances, that the letters having come into the
control of the court, it would not inquire into the manner
in which they were obtained, but if competent would
keep them and permit their use in evidence. Such proposition, the Government asserts, is conclusively established
by certain decisions of this court, the first of which is
Adams v. New York, supra. In that case the plaintiff in
error had been convicted in the. Supreme Court of the
State of New York for having in his possession certain
gambling paraphernalia used in the game known as
policy, in violation of the Penal Code of New York. At
the trial certain papers, which had been seized by police.
officers executing a search warrant for the discovery and

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

seizure of policy slips and which had been found in addition to the policy slips, were offered in evidence over his
objection. The conviction was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of New York (176 N.-Y. 351), and the case was
brought here for alleged violation of the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States. Pretermitting the question whether these amendments applied to the action of the States, this court
proceeded to examine the alleged violations of the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments, and put its decision upon the
ground that the papers found in the execution of the
search warrant, which warrant had a legal purpose in the
attempt to find gambling paraphernalia, were competent
evidence against the accused, and their offer in testimony
did not violate his constitutional privilege against unlawful search or seizure, for it was held that such incriminatory documents thus discovered were not the subject of
an unreasonable search and seizure, and in effect that
the same were incidentally seized in the lawful execution
of a warrant and not in the wrongful invasion of the
home of the citizen and the unwarranted seizure of his
papers and property. It was further held, approving in
that respect the doctrine laid down in 1 Greenleaf, § 254a,
that it was no valid objection to the use of the papers
that they had been thus seized, and that the courts in the
course of a trial would not make an issue to determine
that question, and many state cases were cited supporting
that doctrine.
The same point had been ruled in People v. Adams, 176
N. Y. 351, from which decision the case was brought to
this court, where it was held that if the papers seized in
addition to the policy slips were competent evidence in the
case, as the court held they were, they were admissible
in evidence at the trial, the court saying (p. 358): "The
underlying principle obviously is that the court, when
engaged in trying a criminal cause, will not take notice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

the manner in which witnesses have possessed themselves
of papers, or other articles of personal property, which are
material and properly offered in evidence." This doctrine
thus laid down by the New York Court of Appeals and
approved by this court, that a court will not in trying a
criminal cause permit a collateral issue to be raised as to
the source of competent testimony, has the sanction of so
many state cases that it would be impracticable to cite
or refer to them in detail. Many of them are collected
in the note to State v. Turner, 136 Am. St. Rep. 129, 135
et seq. After citing numerous cases the editor says: "The
underlying principle of all these decisions obviously is,
that the court, when engaged in the trial of a criminal
action, will not take notice of the manner in which a
witness has possessed himself of papers or other chattels,
subjects of evidence, which are material and properly
offered in evidence: People v. Adams, 176 N. Y. 351, 98
Am. St. Rep. 675, 68 N. E. 636, 63 L. R. A. 406. Such
an investigation is not involved necessarily in the litigation in chief, and to pursue it would be to halt in
the orderly progress of a cause, and consider incidentally a question which has happened to cross the path
of such litigation, and which is wholly independent
thereof."
It is therefore evident that the Adams Case affords no
authority for the action of the court in this case, when
applied, to in due season for the return of papers seized
in violation of the Constitutional Amendment. The
decision in that case rests upon incidental seizure made
in the execution of a legal warrant and in the application
of the doctrine that a collateral issue will not be raised to
ascertain the source from which testimony, competent in
a criminal case, comes.
The Government also relies upon Hale v. Henkel, 201
U. S.43, in which the previous cases of Boyd v. United
States, supra, Adams v. New. York, supra, Interstate Corn-

WEEKS v. UNITED STATES.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

merce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, and Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, are
reviewed, and wherein it was held that a subpana duces
tecum requiring a corporation to produce all its contracts
and correspondence with no less than six other companies,
as well as all letters received by the corporation from
thirteen other companies located in different parts of the
United States, was an unreasonable search and seizure
within the Fourth Amendment, and it was there stated
that (201 U. S. p. 76) "an order for the production of
books and papers may constitute an unreasonable search
and seizure within the Fourth Amendment. While a
search ordinarily implies a quest by an officer of the law,
and a seizure contemplates a forcible dispossession of the
owner, still, as was held in the Boyd Case, the substance of
the offense is the compulsory production of private papers,
whether under a search warrant or a subpoena duces tecum,
against which the person, be he individual or corporation,
is entitled to protection." If such a seizure under the
authority of a warrant supposed to be legal, constitutes a
violation of the constitutional protection, a fortiori does
the attempt of an officer of the United States, the United
States Marshal, acting under color of his office, without
even the sanction of a warrant, constitute an invasion of
the rights within the protection afforded by the Fourth
Amendment.
Another case relied upon is American Tobacco Co. v.
Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284, in which it was held that the
seizure by the United States Marshal in a copyright case
of certain pictures under a writ of replevin did not constitute an unreasonable search and seizure. The other
case from this court relied upon is Holt v. United States,
218 U. S. 245, in which it was held that testimony tending
to show that a certain blouse which was in evidence as
incriminating him, had been put upon the prisoner and
fitted him, did not violate his constitutional right. We

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

are at a loss to see the application of these cases to the
one in hand.
The right of the court to deal with papers and documents in the possession of the District Attorney and other
officers of the court and subject to its authority was recognized in Wise v. Henkel, 220 U. S. 556. That papers
wrongfully seized should be turned over to the accused
has been frequently recognized in the early as well as
later decisions of the courts. 1 Bishop on Criminal Procedure, §210; Rex v. Barnett, 3 C. & P..600; Rex v. Kinsey,
7 C. & P. 447; United States v. Mills, 185 Fed. Rep. 318;
United States v. McHie, 194 Fed. Rep. 894, 898.
We therefore reach the conclusion that the letters in
question were taken from the house of the accused by an
official of the United States acting under color of his office
in direct violation of the constitutional rights of the defendant; that having made a seasonable application for
their return, which was heard and passed upon by the
court, there was involved in the order refusing the application a denial of the constitutional rights of the accused,
and that the court should have restored these letters to
the accused. In holding them and permitting their use
upon the trial, we think prejudicial error was committed.
As to the papers and property seized by the policemen,
it does not appear that they acted under any claim of
Federal authority such as would make the Amendment
applicable to such unauthorized seizures. The record
shows that what they did by way of arrest and search
and seizure was done before the finding of the indictment
in the Federal court, under what supposed right or authority does not appear. What remedies the defendant
may have against them we need not inquire, as the Fourth
Amendment is not directed to individual misconduct of
such officials. Its limitations reach the Federal Government and its agencies. Boyd Case, 116 U. S., supra,and see
Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78.

UNITED STATES v. LEXINGTON MILL CO.
232 U. S.

399

Syllabus.

It results that the judgment of the court below must be
reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. LEXINGTON
MILL & ELEVATOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 548. Argued January 5, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
The primary purpose of Congress in enacting the Food and Drugs Act
f 1906 was to prevent injury to the public health by the sale and
transportation in interstate commerce of misbranded and adulterated food.
As against adulteration the statute was intended to protect the. public
health from possible injury by adding to articles of food consumption
poisonous and deleterious substances which might render such
articles injurious to health.
Where such a purpose has been effected by plain and unambiguous
language by an act within the power of Congress, the only duty of
the courts is to give the act effect according to its terms.
The inhibition in subdivision 5 of § 7 of the Food and Drugs Act of
1906 against the addition of any poisonous or other added deleterious
ingredient which may render an article of food injurious to health is
definitely limited to the particular class of adulteration specified, and
in order to condemn the article under subdivision 5 it is incumbent
upon the Government to establish that the added substance may
render the article injurious to health.
In subdivision 5 of § 7 of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 the word
"may" is used in its ordinary and usual signification; and if an
article of food may not by the addition of a small amount of poison,
ous substance by any possibility injure the health of any consumer,
it may not be condemned under this subdivision of the act.
202 Fed. Rep. 615, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of subdivi-

