BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

Land Department was not rested solely upon the fact
that White's formal application was filed a few hours
before that of the trustee for the occupants of the townsite, but rather chiefly upon the priority of the former's
equitable rights. So far as such decision involves questions
of fact it is conclusive upon the courts [citing cases].
And this rule is applied in cases where there is a mixed
question of law and fact, unless the court is able to so
separate the question as to see clearly what and where
the mistake of law is. As said by Mr. Justice Miller in
Marquez v. Frisbie, supra [101 U. S. 473], p. 476: 'This
means, and it is a sound principle, that where there is a
mixed question of law and of fact, and the court cannot
so separate it as to see clearly where the mistake of law is,
the decision of the tribunal to which the law has confided
the matter is conclusive."' And see Moore v. Robbins,
96 U. S.530, 535; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S.420, 426;
Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S.338.
There being no fraud, and no clear mistake of law in
the decision of the Secretary of the Interior, his findings
are conclusive upon the parties in the present controversy.
Judgment affirmed.

BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 109.

Submitted Pecember 1, 1913.-Decided January 12, 1914.

Where the remarks in the opinion are not necessary to the decision,
which was placed mainly on other grounds, and are contrary to an
earlier decision, this court is at least warranted in treating the question as at large.
Although it might be its duty to do so, it would be a strong thing for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

this court to decide that there was nothing to warrant a conclusion,
whether of law or of fact, sanctioned by the highest court of a Territory that has since become a State, upon a matter no longer subject to review here. Pharnix Ry. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578.
An informal business transaction should be construed as adopting
whatever form consistent with the facts as is most fitted to reach
the result seemingly desired. Sexton v. Kessler, 225 U. S. 90.
It is an ancient principle even of the common law that words of covenant may be construed as a grant when they concern a present
right.
In equity, a contract to convey a specific object even before it is acquired will make a contractor a trustee as soon as he gets title
thereto.
An obligation to pay, but definitely limited to payment out of the fund,
creates a lien. There should be but one rule in this respect and that
is the one suggested by plain good sense.
Where parties have a lien on a fund they can follow it, as soon as identified, into the hands of others than the person originally receiving
it. On this point this court follows the territorial court.
In this case held that parties promised for a consideration a definite
portion of a contingent fee if earned had a lien thereon when received
by the promisor that they could follow and enforce.
13 Arizona, 338, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
obtained by the defendants in error against the plaintiff in

error in the courts of the Territory of Arizona, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellants.
Mr. J. L. B. Alexander, Mr. W. M. Seabury, Mr. Aldis

B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. Evans Browne
for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
The proceeding out of which this ease arises was brought

by the appellant Mrs. Barnes, for an account of the prop-

BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty received in settlement of certain mining suits and for
a recovery of one-fourth of the same. The defendants,
Shattuck, Hanninger and Marks, were parties to these
suits and employed as their attorneys the firm of Barnes
and Martin and one O'Connell under an agreement that
the lawyers sh6uld have as their compensation one-fourth
of all that was received by the said defendants. It may
be assumed that Mrs. Barnes represented this claim.
While the present suit was pending another firm, whose
claim now is represented by the appellees, intervened and
claimed one-third of this contingent fee of one-fourth.
At the trial it appeared that the original defendants had
paid to O'Connell the amount due; $18,750. Pending the
suit O'Connell paid over $10,625 of this to Mrs. Barnes,
retaining $6250, and paying Martin, the junior member
of the firm of Barnes and Martin, $1875. The court
entered no decree against the original defendants but did
decree that Mrs. Barnes was liable to the appellees for
$6250, being one-third of the contingent fee. She appealed
to the Supreme Court of the Territory, but it affirmed the
judgment below. Barnes v. Shattuck, 13 Arizona, 338.
The other two appellants in this court are the sureties
on her supersedeas bond.
The main question is whether the facts set forth in the
findings certified justify the conclusion of the courts
below. The whole matter rests on conversations, in one
of which Barnes said to Street and Alexander 'if you will
attend to this case I will give you one third of the fee
which I have coming to me on a contingent fee from
Shattuck, Hanninger and Marks. Mr. O'Connell, who
is associated with me, is entitled to the other third.' In
others also he explained what his firm was to have and
told Street and Alexander that they should get one-third
of that if they would do certain work that he had not time
to attend to. Street and Alexander did the work required,
it 'does not matter whether it was more or less;-there

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

was some attempt to raise a question about the fact, but
we regard it as beyond dispute. The only serious argument is that, whatever they did, their compensation depended' upon a personal promise that gave them no specific
claim against the fund. For this proposition reliance is
placed upon Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441. In that case
Child had an agreement with Trist that Child should take
charge of a claim of Trist before Congress and should
receive twenty-five per cent. of whatever sum Congress
might allow. The suit alleged a lien on the sum allowed
and prayed that Trist might be enjoined from withdrawing
the money from the Treasu-y and might be decreed to
pay the amount due. The bill was dismissed on the ground
that the contract was illegal, but it was added that Child
had no lien because it was forbidden by act of Congress,
and also, it was said, because there was no sufficient
appropriation of the fund, so that the only remedy, if
there had been one, would have been at law. (Wright v.
Ellison, 1 Wall. 16; Christmas v. Russell, 14 Wall. 69.)
This decision, so far as it concerns us here, seems to have
overlooked Wylie v. Coxe, 15 How. 415, which decided
that a contract for a contingent fee out of a fund awarded
constituted a lien upon the fund. The remarks in Trist
v. Child were not necessary to the decision which was
placed mainly on other grounds, so that at least we aie
warranted in treating the question as at large.
It would be a strong thing to decide that there was
nothing to warrant the conclusion, whether of law or fact,
sanctioned by the highest court of a Territory that since
has become a State, upon a matter no longer subject to
review by us. See Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S.
578. But it might be our duty and we pass that consideration by. We start, however, with the principle that an
informal business transaction should be construed as
adopting whatever form consistent with the facts is most
fitted to reach the result seemingly desired. Sexton v.

BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kessler, 225 U. S. 90, 96, 97. Obviously the only thing
intended or desired was to give the appellees a claim to
one-third of the fund received by Barnes if and when he
should receive it. It is true that there was in a sense a res
as to which present words of transfer might have been used.
There was a right vested in Barnes unless discharged to
try to earn a fee contingent upon success. But in a
speculation of this sort the parties naturally turned their
eyes toward the future and aimed at the fruits when they
should be gained. They therefore used words of contract
rather than of conveyance; but the important thing is not
whether they used the present or the future tense but the
scope of the contract. In this case it aimed only at the
fund. Barnes gave no general promise of reward; he did
not even give a promise qualified and measured by success
to pay anything out of his own property, referring to the
fund simply as the means that would enable him to do it.
See National City Bank v. Hotchkiss, 231 U. S. 50, 57.
He promised only that if, when and as soon as he should
receive an. identified fund one-third of it should go to the
appellees. But he promised that. At the latest, the
moment the fund was received the contract attached to it
as if made at that moment. It is an ancient principle even
of the common law that words of covenant may be construed as a grant when they concern a present right.
Sharingtonv. Strotton, Plowden, 298, 308. Hogan v. Barry,
143 Massachusetts, 538. Ladd v. Boston, 151 Massachusetts, 585, 588. And it is one of the familiar rules of
equity that a contract to convey a specific object even
before it is acquired will make the contractor a trustee as
soon as he gets a title to the thing. Mornington v. Keane,
2 DeG. & J. 292, 313. Holroyd v. Marshall, 10 H. L. C.
191, 211.
The obligation of Barnes was as definitely limited to
payment out of the fund as if the limitation had been
stated in words, and therefore creates a lien upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S4.

principle not only of Wylie v. Coxe, supra, but of Ingersoll
v. Coram, 211 U. S. 335, 365-368, which cites it and later
cases. See further to the same point, Burn v. Carvalho,
4 My. & Cr. 690, 702, 703. Rodick v. Gandell, 1 DeG.,
M. & G. 763, 777, 778. Harwood v. La Grange, 137 N. Y.
538, 540. It is suggested that there is an American
doctrine opposed to that which is established in England.
We know of no such opposition. There is or ought to be
but one rule, that suggested by plain good sense.
After making their contracts the parties seem to have
construed them as we have done. Barnes wrote to his
partner, when they had succeeded in the cases concerned,
in terms showing that he regarded their own claim as
specific, 'to have one-fourth of the ground,' the principle
on which this suit was brought; and when a settlement
was to be made he went to Phoenix and notified Street
and Alexander. For the same reason the latter firm filed
no claim against the estate of Barnes, thinking that it
owed them nothing but that they had one-third of the
contingent fee. It is not necessary to consider whether
the lien attached to what we have called the res, before
the fund was received, as a covenant to set apart rents and
profits creates a lien upon the land. Legard v. Hodges, 1
Ves., Jr. 477. It is enough that it attached not later than
that moment.-We have considered the case upon the
merits. The argument upon them for the appellants is
mixed with others as to the sufficiency of the complaint
in intervention. Upon the point of pleading we see no
occasion to go behind the decision below. Phoenix Ry. Co.
v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578.
Another matter argued is that the appellees should not
have been allowed to prove the payment made after the
suit was begun. But the appellees properly were allowed
to intervene in a suit to recover the fund. Rev. Stat.
Arizona, 1901, ยง 1278. London, Paris & American Bank
v. Abrams, 6 Arizona, 87, 90; Louisville, Evansville & St.

BARNES v. ALEXANDER.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Louis R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 138 U. S. 501. Even if their
lien was only inchoate when the suit was begun, which we
do not intimate, they had a right to protect their interest
and of course were not deprived of it by the plaintiff's
reaching the result that they also desired. Having a lien
upon the fund, as soon as it was identified they could
follow it into the hands of the appellant Barnes. On this
point also we shall go into no question of pleading or procedure but shall accept the decision of the territorial
Supreme Court.
The only remaining objection that seems to us to need
a word of answer, is that as Mrs. Barnes only received
$10,625, she should not have been charged with the whole
third, $6,250. As the lien of the appellees attached to the
whole two-thirds of the quarter remaining to Barnes and
Martin after taking out O'Connell's third, we do not see
on what ground she could complain, if the objection is
open. It seems probable that it is only an after thought
of counsel and that the sum retained by Martin was what
would come to him after deducting the share of Street
and Alexander's fee that properly fell upon him as between him and his former partner's estate.
Judgment affirmed.

