OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

and may remand a cause to said board with such mandates
as law or equity shall require; and said board shall enter
judgment, order or decree in accordance with such mandates." Pub. Stats. 1906. Itis apparent on the face of
these sections that they do not attempt to confer legislative powers upon the court. They only provide an alternative and more expeditious way of doing what might be
done by a bill in equity. Whether the alternative is
exclusive or concurrent, whether it opens matters that
would not be open upon a bill or not, if exceptions are
taken (which does not appear in this case), is immaterial;
the remedy in any event is purely judicial: to exonerate
the appellant from an order that exceeds the law. This,
we understand, is the view taken by the Supreme Court
of the State, Bacon v. Boston & Maine R. R., 83 Vermont,
421, 457; Sabre v. Rutland R. R. Co., 86 Vermont, 347, 368,
369, and this being so, by the rule laid down in Prentis v.
Line Co., the railroad company was free to
Atlantic
assert itsCoast
rights in the District Court of the United States.
Decree affirmed.

PATSONE v. COMMONWEALTH
VANIA.

OF PENNSYL-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 38. Argued November 4, 1913.-Decided January 18, 1914.
The act of May 8, 1909, of Pennsylvania, making it unlawful for unnaturalized foreign born residents to kill wild game except in defence of person or property and to that end making the possession of
shot guns and rifles unlawful, is not unconstitutional under the due

process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.

PATSONE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A State may protect its wild game and preserve it for its own citizens.
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519.
A State may classify with reference to the evil to be prevented.
The determination of the class from which an evil is mainly to be
feared and specialized in the legislation is a practical one dependent
upon experience; and this court is slow to declare that the state
legislature is wrong in its facts. Adams v. Milwaukee, 228 U. S. 572.
A State may direct its police regulations against what it deems the
evil as it actually exists without covering the whole field of possible
abuse. Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 227 U. S. 157.
The provisions in Article II of the treaty with Italy, giving citizens of
Italy the right to carry on trade on the same terms as natives of this
country, and provisions in the treaty with Switzerland, applicable to
citizens of Italy under the favored nation clause in Article XXIV of
the treaty with Italy, relate to trade, and are not applicable to personal use of firearms; and a state statute protecting wild game and
prohibiting aliens from owning shot guns and rifles is not incompatible with or violative of such treaty provisions.
Quwere, and not to be decided on this record, whether the statute in this
case can be construed as precluding an alien from possessing a stock
of guns for purposes of trade and whether in that event it would
violate rights under the treaty with Italy of 1871.
Equality of rights assured to citizens of Italy under the treaty of 1871
is that of protection and security for persons and property and
nothing in that treaty purports or attempts to prevent a State from
exercising its power for preservation of wild game for its own citizens.
231 Pa. St. 46, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
wild game statute of Pennsylvania making it unlawful for
any unnaturalized foreign born resident to kill wild birds
or animals and the validity of such statute as applied to
an Italian citizen in view of the treaty with Italy, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marcel Viti for plaintiff in error:
The statute violates the Fourteenth Amendment. It
deprives persons of liberty and property without due
process of law. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

While the legislature may have authority to declare
unlawful property which is innocent in itself, yet such
power must not be exercised in such a way as to infringe
fundamental rights to a greater extent than is absolutely
necessary for the accomplishment of the legal purpose in
view. Neither Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, nor Geer v.
Connecticut, control this case.
The cases of People v. West, 106 N. Y. 293,297; Osborn v.
Charlevoix, 114 Michigan, 655; Luck v. Sears, 29 Oregon,
421; State v. Lewis, 134 Indiana, 250; McConnell v. McKillip, 71 Nebraska, 712, can all be distinguished.
A State may forbid absolutely the possession of game
within its borders because the individual only acquires
therein a qualified right of property; it may also forbid the
possession of articles which are not adapted to any but
an unlawful use and may confiscate articles actually put
to an illegal use or found under circumstances, from
which it must necessarily be inferred that such articles
had been or were about to be used for an illegal purpose.
Under the terms of the present act the mere possession
of property, innocent in itself, and having lawful uses, is
made an offence apart from its being used unlawfully and
its forfeiture is fixed as part of the penalty.
The legislature cannot provide that implements which
are susceptible of beneficial use and which have not been
perverted to an unlawful use, be summarily abated or
declared forfeited after a hearing, as part of a penalty for
the offence of having them in possession.
Shot guns and rifles are articles of property not harmful
in themselves, necessary for legitimate uses, and there is
no manifest necessity to forbid their possession in order
to prevent aliens from hunting game.
The State has not the right to confiscate such property
under such circumstances and without a hearing at which
he can offer a defence.

PATSONE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The possession of property harmless in itself and which
is necessary for lawful purposes cannot be prohibited and
the property itself confiscated merely because it is also
capable of being put to an illegal use.
The equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment are violated by the act. It forbids the
possession of shot guns and rifles by resident aliens alone,
thus depriving them of efficient and essential instruments
for protection of person and property. It provides for
the confiscation of valuable, innocent property when
owned by aliens, notwithstanding that it has never been
put to any illegal use. It singles out a class for discriminating and hostile legislation. Duncan v. Missouri,
152 U. S. 377, 382; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31.
There is a further discrimination against resident aliens
as distinguished from non-resident aliens, as the latter
are apparently allowed to possess shot guns and rifles,
and use them within the State for the purpose of hunting
game for periods of ten days, subject only to the general
game laws of the State. Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S.
530, 537; State v. Montgomery, 94 Maine, 192; Templar
v. Barbers' Board, 131 Michigan, 254.
These inequalities cannot be justified on the ground of
proper classification; see Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
155; Yick Wo. v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369.
The statute contravenes the existing treaty between
the United States and Italy of 1871; see Arts. II, III, 17
Stat. 845; and under the favored nation clause, Art. XX1V
of that treaty, this statute also violates the provisions of the
treaty with Switzerland of 1855, 9 Stat. 597, putting citizens on a footing of reciprocal equality. By this statute
an Italian farmer in Pennsylvania cannot protect his
property from birds and dogs even though wild and subject to be killed by citizens. See In re Marshall, 102 Fed.
Rep. 325.
The wording of the treaty is plain and shows that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

contracting parties intended that their subjects should
at least enjoy in the territory of each other the same
liberty of carrying on trade and protection and security
of their persons and property as natives under like conditions. Maiorano v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 213 U. S.
268; Crowley v. Christianson, 137 U. S. 91.
The terms of the act are not limited to any class or
nationality whatsoever. An alien merchant or manufacturer who may have spent most of his life in Pennsylvania, adding to its wealth as well as his own, not only
may not shoot game, upon his own land, which has been
held a right of property in State v. Mallory, 73 Arkansas,
236, but he is not allowed the possession of a shot gun or
rifle upon such property for the protection thereof or for
use in hunting game in other States where he might lawfully shoot under regulations applying to non-resident
aliens.
No State may prohibit the possession of any lawful
article of trade and commerce to Italian subjects and
at the same time allow its possession by natives without
violating the quoted treaty provisions.
In addition to violating the Italian treaty the act violates the treaty with Switzerland by imposing upon Italian
subjects more burdensome conditions and other conditions
in respect to the possession of property and the exercise
of commerce than are imposed upon natives.
Treaties are the supreme law of the land and all state authority is subordinate thereto, especially when the treaty,
as in this case, is self-executing, Ilaenstein v. Lynham,
100 U. S. 484, and relates to a proper subject of treaty
negotiation. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 24.
See also Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 405, 488.
Mr. John C. Bell, Attorney General of the State of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Willihm M. Hargest, with whom Mr,
W. H. Lemon was on the brief, for defendant in error.

PATSONE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was an unnaturalized foreign born
resident of Pennsylvania and was complained of for owning or having in his possession a shot gun, contrary to an
act of May 8, 1909. Laws, 1909, No. 261, p. 466. This
statute makes it unlawful for any unnaturalized foreign
born resident to kill any wild bird or animal except in
defence of person or property, and 'to that end' makes it
unlawful for such foreign born person to own or be possessed of a shot gun or rifle; with a penalty of twentyfive dollars and a forfeiture of the gun or guns. The plaintiff in error was found guilty and was sentenced to pay
the above mentioned fine. The judgment was affirmed
on successive appeals. 231 Pa. St. 46. He brings the
case to this court on the ground that the statute is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment and also is in contravention of the treaty between the United States and
Italy, to which latter country the plaintiff in error belongs.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment the objection is
two-fold; unjustifiably depriving the alien of property
and discrimination against such aliens as a class. But
the former really depends upon the latter, since it hardly
can be disputed that if the lawful object, the protection
of wild life (Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519), warrants
the discrimination, the means adopted for making it
effective also might be adopted. The possession of rifles
and shot guns is not necessary for other purposes not
within the statute. It is so peculiarly appropriated to
the forbidden use that if such a use may be denied to this
class, the possession of the instruments desired chiefly
for that end also may be. The prohibition does not extend to weapons such as pistols that may be supposed to
be needed occasionally for self-defence. So far, the case
is within the principle of Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

See further Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192.
The discrimination undoubtedly presents a more difficult question. But we start with the general consideration that a State may classify with reference to the evil
to be prevented, and that if the class discriminated against
is or reasonably might be considered to define those from
whom the evil mainly is to be feared, it properly may be
picked out. A lack of abstract symmetry does not matter.
The question is a practical one dependent upon experience. The demand for symmetry ignores the specific
difference that experience is supposed to have shown to
mark the class. It is not enough to invalidate the law
that others may do the same thing and go unpunished,
if, as a matter of fact, it is found that the danger is characteristic of the class named. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 80, 81. The State 'may direct its
law against what it deems the evil as it actually exists
without covering the whole field of possible abuses.'
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 160.
Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 270. L'Hote v.
New Orleans, 177 U. S. 587. See further Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36. The question
therefore narrows itself to whether this court can say
that the Legislature of Pennsylvania was not warranted
in assuming as its premise for the law that resident unnaturalized aliens were the peculiar source of the evil
that it desired to prevent. Barrett v. Indiana, 229 U. S.
26, 29.
Obviously the question so stated is one of local experience on which this court ought -to be very slow to
declare that the state legislature was wrong in its facts.
Adams v. Milwaukee, 228 U. S. 572, 583. If we might
trust popular speech in some States it was right-but it
is enough that this court has no such knowledge of local
conditions as to be able to say that it was manifestly

PATSONE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wrong. See Trageser v. Gray, 73 Maryland, 250. Commonwealth v. Hana, 195 Massachusetts, 262.
The defence under the treaty with Italy of February 26,
1871, 17 Stat. 845, appears to us to present less difficulty.
The provisions relied upon are those in Article 2, giving
to citizens of Italy the right to carry on trade and to do
anything incident to it upon the same terms as the natives
of this country; in Article 3, assuring them security for
persons and property and that they "shall enjoy in this
respect the same rights and privileges as are or shall be
granted to the natives, on their submitting themselves to
the conditions imposed upon the natives" and in Article 24 promising to the Kingdom of Italy the same favors
in respect to commerce and navigation that may be
granted to other nations. We will say a word about each.
The last article is supposed to make applicable a
convention with Switzerland (proclaimed November 9,
1855, 11 Stat. 597) providing against more burdensome
conditions being imposed upon the residence of Swiss
than upon that of citizens. But Article 24 refers only to
commerce and navigation and the case must stand wholly
upon Articles 2 and 3. As to Article 2 it will be time enough
to consider whether the statute can be construed or upheld
as precluding Italians from possessing a stock of guns for
purposes of trade when such a case is presented. The
act was passed for an object with which possession in the
way of trade has nothing to do and well might be interpreted as not extending to it. There remains then only
Article 3. With regard to that it was pointed out below
that the equality of rights that it assures is equality only
in respect of protection and security for persons and property. The prohibition of a particular kind of destruction
and of acquiring property in instruments intended for
that purpose establishes no inequality in either respect.
It is to be remembered that the subject of this whole
discussion is wild game, which the State may preserve for
VOL.

CcxxxII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

its own citizens if it pleases. Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519, 529. We see nothing in the treaty that purports
or attempts to cut off the exercise of their powers over the
matter by the States to the full extent. Compagnie
Francaisede Navigationa Vapeur v. State Board of Health,
186 U. S. 380, 394, 395.

Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. COCKRELL, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 100.

Argued December 5, 1913.-Decided January 19, 1914.

As the right to remove a cause from a state to a Federal court exists
only in enumerated classes of cases, the petition must set forth the
particular facts which bring the case within one of such classes;
general allegations and mere legal conclusions are not sufficient.
The right of a non-resident defendant to remove the case cannot be
defeated by the fraudulent joinder of a resident defendant; but the
defendant seeking removal must allege facts which compel the conclusion that the joinder is fraudulent; merely to apply the term
"fraudulent" to the joinder is not sufficient to require the state court
to surrender its jurisdiction.
Where plaintiff's statement of his case shows a joint cause of action,
as tested by the law of the State, the duty is on the non-resident
defendant seeking removal to state facts showing that the joinder
was a mere fraudulent device to prevent removal.
It is not sufficient for a non-resident railroad corporation, joined as
defendant in a suit for personal injuries with two resident employ6s
in charge of the train'which did the injury, to show in its petition an
absence of good faith on plaintiff's part in bringing the action at all;the petition must show that the joinder itself is fraudulent.

