UNITED STATES v. BENNETT.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND

No. 629.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The rule of interpretation that where there are two possible constructions of a statute, one of which will give rise to grave doubts of its
constitutionality and the other avoids such question, the latter will
be adopted, is based on the existence of both conditions as to more
than one construction and doubt and is not applicable where neither
of those conditions exists.
The limitations of due process of law which prevent States from taxing
property in another State do not apply to the United States, the
admitted taxing power of which is co-extensive with the limits of the
United States and knows no restriction save as expressed in or arising
from the Constitution itself.
The Government of the United States as a nation by its very nature
benefits the citizen and his property wherever found, and no imaginary barrier shuts that Government off from exerting the powers
which inherently belong to it by virtue of its sovereignty.
The tax imposed by § 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909 applies to the use of
a foreign-built yacht owned by a citizen of the United States, although such yacht, for a period of more than one year prior to
September 1, 1909, and to the levy of such tax, was used wholly outside of the limits and territorial jurisdiction of the United States.
The tax imposed by said act operated retrospectively, so as to be payable on September 1, 1909, in respect of the year then ended, and
not only prospectively so as to become first due and payable on
September 1, 1910.
The whole amount of the tax imposed by said act became due and
payable on September 1, 1909, and not only such proportion thereof
as the time during which the act was in force at that date bore to
the whole year.
Congress has the power to levy a tax upon the use by a citizen of the
United States of a yacht which is not actually, and since a time
preceding the passage of the act was not, at any time used within the
territorial jurisdiction of the United States and which has its permanent situs in a foreign country.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Said act of Cqngress, imposing a tax upon the use of foreign-built
yachts alone, provides a valid tax, and a valid classification for purposes of taxation, within the power to lay and collect taxes delegated
to Congress by the Constitution of the United States.
The tax imposed by said act is not in conflict with the requirement of
due process of law contained in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The United States is entitled to recover interest upon the tax imposed
upon the use of foreign-built yachts under § 37 of the Tariff Act of
August 5, 1909.
This court answers the questions certified, in this case, according to the
facts stated in the certificate, and nothing in the replies should be
so construed as to deprive the court below of the power to take such
steps as it may deem necessary to avoid injustice by reason of any
mistake of fact that may be corrected.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of § 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909 imposing a
tax on foreign-built yachts and its application to a yacht
owned by an American citizen but which had not been
within the jurisdiction of the United States during any
part of the period for which the tax was levied, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom Mr.

Karl W. Kirchwey was on the brief, for the United States.'
Mr. William D. Guthrie for the yacht owner in this and
other cases argued simultaneously herewith.'
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
So far as we deem it material to the question we are
called upon to answer, the certificate in this case is as
follows:
See argument, p. 269, ante.
argument, p. 263, ante.

2 See

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The United States, plaintiff below, sued out a writ of
error to this court to review a judgment of the United
States Circuit Court for the Southern District of New
York in the above-entitled cause, entered on July 6, 1911,
dismissing the amended complaint of the United States
in an action brought against the defendant below to recover the tax imposed by § 37 of the tariff act of August 5,
1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 112, for the year ended September 1,
1909, upon the use of the foreign-built yacht 'Lysistrata,'
owned by the defendant."
After reciting the averment as to the assessment of
the tax by the collector amounting to "$13,601 and the
failure of the defendant to pay, his citizenship and ownership of the yacht and the conformity of the assessment to
the statute, the certificate states that there was a prayer
for the recovery of the amount with interest. It then
proceeds to state the answer of the defendant, setting up
the non-registry and non-enrollment of the yacht, that she
enjoyed no protection or privileges of any kind under the
laws of the United States and that the yacht since 1904
"had not been within the jurisdiction of the United States,
but had had a permanent situs within the jurisdiction of
the Republic of France." The certificate then proceeds
to state the facts as to ownership of other yachts in the
United States in the exact words used in the answers in
previous cases which we have this day decided and upon
which the want of due process of law was set up. Then
the certificate declares the United States demurred to this
answer and that this demurrer was overruled and the
United States electing to plead no further, there was
judgment rejecting its claim -and that error was then
prosecuted to the Circuit Court of Appeals by the United
States. The seven questions propounded are the equivalent of the questions in the Goelet Cases, just decided, except there is no question asked concerning the power to
tax under the statute in case of the permanent domicile of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

the owner in a foreign country which was the basis of
the decision in the Goelet Cases because, as is shown by the
certificate there Was no assertion or proof that there was a
permanent foreign domicile of the owner in this case. So
that the first question in this case concerns the liability of a
citizen of the United States having a domicile therein, for
a tax on a yacht owned and used during the taxing period
outside of the United States and is as follows: "I. Does the
tax purporting to be imposed by section 37 of the act
of Congress, approved August 5, 1909, apply to the use of
a foreign-built yacht owned by a citizen of the United
States, when such yacht, for a period of more than one
year prior to September 1, 1909, and to the levy of such
tax, was used wholly outside of the limits and territorial
jurisdiction of the United States?" And if this question
is answered in the affirmative, then the duty will arise of
deciding -whether because of that aspect the act is repugnant to the due process clause of the Constitution, since
in determining the constitutionality of the act in the
previous cases we were not called upon to decide whether
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment operates
to prevent the levy of such a tax.
The statute applies, since, under the construction we
have given it, it clearly establishes three standards as the
basis of the excise duty which it imposes: citizenship and
domicile within the United States, control by ownership
or charter of a foreign-built yacht within the terms of the
statute, and its use by the owner during the taxing period.
But it is said that as in any event the use which the statute
taxes is solely a use within the United States, therefore the
statute does not embrace this case, since the finding
establishes that the yacht whose use is here taxed was
wholly used and located outside of the territorial limits of
the United States. We fail, however, to find in the provisions of the statute any language which would justify our
affixing to the word" use" the restricted sense upon which

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the proposition is based.. On the contrary, the use provided for in the statute is unqualified, is generic and must
be enforced in that sense if the statute is to be given its
plain meaning. It is true that in deciding a previous case
we held that the statute would not be construed without
clear intendment manifested to that effect as including a
tax on a citizen permanently domiciled outside of the
geographical limits of the United States. But that ruling
was based upon the proposition that as a taxing statute
was usually confined to persons within the territorial
jurisdiction of a taxing authority and to do otherwise would
be exceptional, unless such view was compelled by its
terms, the statute here involved ought not to be construed
as -having been adopted to accomplish such unusual and
strange result. The directly opposite, is here applicable,
since it is usual, where the taxing power is called into play
as to an individual domiciled within the territorial limits
of the taxing authority, to cause the manifestation of
taxing power to be coterminous with the taxing authority
of the Government levying the tax. Therefore it follows
that the principle of interpretation previously applied has
no possible application to the construction of the word,
"use," which we are now considering. The difference
between the two rules is that which must exist between
not assuming in the one case that something exceptional
has been done, and taking for granted in the other that a
power expressed embraces that which is usual and incidental to its exertion. The argument that the statute
should not be construed as applying to the use of a yacht
wholly beyond the territorial limits of the United States,
since if so interpreted it would be repugnant to- the
Constitution, rests upon what in effect is a misconception
of the elementary rule of interpretation that where there
are two possible constructions of a statute, one of which
will give rise to grave doubt as to its constitutionality and
the other avoids such question, the latter will be adopted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The foundation of this rule is the possibility of two constructions and the existence of the grave doubt as to
constitutionality. To apply the rule in a case like this,
where neither of such conditions exists would be to cause
an imaginary doubt as to the constitutionality of a statute
to render it necessary to give to the statute a wholly
fictitious and unauthorized meaning, that is to say, the
effect of adopting the contention would be but to declare
that in every case where the construction of a statute was
in issue its misconstruction would become necessary if
only it was asserted that if rightly construed repugnancy
to the Constitution would result. We come then to
consider the contention that when the statute is correctly
interpreted there will arise a conflict between its provisions
and the safeguards of the Constitution not only for the
purpose of demonstrating the unsoundness of the assertion
of constitutional right, but also with the object of making
it clear that even if the statute were susceptible of a different construction by resort to subtlety of reasoning or
refinement of distinction, there is nothing of such gravity
in the asserted constitutional question as to lead us
to resort to such means in order to avoid giving to the
statute the meaning which we have affixed to it resulting
from its unambiguous text.
As not even an intimation is made in the argument that
any limitation on the taxing power of Congress in this
regard can be deduced from the provisions of the Constitution concerning the taxing authority and as the only
limiting provision relied upon is the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment, it follows in this case, as it did in the
Billings Case, that after all the assertion of want of power
must rest upon the assumption that an attempt by the
-United States to tax the property of a citizen residing
within its jurisdiction where such property is beyond the
territorial limits of the United States, is so in conflict with
obvious principles of justice and so inconsistent with

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT.
232 U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

every conception of representative and free government
as to cause the exertion of power to come within the
limitations of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. We might well leave the answer to the contention
when it is thus rightly understood to result from its
mere statement, from the obvious misconceptions as to the
nature and extent of the authority of a sovereign although
it be a representative government, and from a true appreciation of the privileges as well as the duties arising
from citizenship and the past and recent exertions by
Congress of the very taxing authority which is now challenged. (See act of June 30, 1864,13 Stat. 223, 281.) We
do not however leave the contentions to be destroyed by
their own weakness, but come briefly to consider the
authorities which it is insisted maintain their correctness
and to point out the error of the reasoning upon which
their asserted applicability is based. We do not cite or
review the cases relied on because we concede that the
doctrine which it is asserted they decided is elementary
and in fact is the settled rule in this court. The principle
of the cases is thus stated in the argument: "It is a settled
rule of constitutional law that the power to tax depends
upon jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the tax. A long
line of unbroken authority illustrates this firmly established doctrine in its various aspects and although the
cases have all arisen under state tax laws, their reasoning
is applicable to and controlling in the case of a Federal
tax act." But the misapprehension consists not in a
misconception as to what the cases relied on decided, but
in taking for granted that because the doctrine stated has
been applied and enforced in many decisions with respect
to the taxing power of the States, that the same principle
is applicable to and controlling as to the United States in
the exercise of its powers. The confusion results from not
observing that the rule applied in the cases relied upon to
many forms of exertion of state taxing power is based on
VOL. ccxxxii-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

the limitations on state authority to tax resulting from the
distribution of powers ordained by the Constitution. In
other words, the whole argument proceeds upon the mistaken supposition, which is sometimes indulged in, that
the calling into being of the Government under the Constitution, had the effect of destroying obvious powers of
government instead of preserving and distributing such
powers. The application to the States of the rule of due
process relied upon comes from the fact that their spheres
of activity are enforced and protected by the Constitution
and therefore it is impossible for one State to reach out
and tax property in another without violating the Constitution, for where the power of the one ends the authority
of the other begins. But this has no application to the
Government of the United States so far as its admitted
taxing power is concerned. It is coextensive with the
limits of the United States; it knows no restriction except
where one is expressed in or arises from the Constitution
and therefore embraces all the attributes which appertain
to sovereignty in the fullest sense. Indeed the existence
of such a wide power is the essential resultant of the
limitation restricting the States within their allotted
spheres, for if it were not so then government in the
plenary and usual acceptation of that word would have no
existence. Because the limitations of the Constitution are
barriers bordering the States and preventing them from
transcending the limits of their authority and thus destroying the rights of other States and at the same time saving
their rights from destruction by the other States, in other
words of maintaining and preserving the rights of all the
States, affords no ground for constructing an imaginary
constitutional barrier around the exterior confines of the
United States for the purpose of shutting that government
off from the exertion of powers which inherently belong
to it by virtue of its sovereignty. But it is said in the
decided cases relied upon, the principle which was an-

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nounced was that the power to tax was limited by the
capacity of the taxing government to afford that benefit
and protection which is the true basis of, the right to tax
and which causes, therefore, taxation where such capacity
to confer benefit and afford protection does not exist to
be a mere arbitrary and unwarranted burden. But here
again the confusion of thought consists in mistaking the
scope and extent of the sovereign power of the United
States as a nation and its relation to its. citizens and their
relations to it. It presumes that government does not by
its very natur6 benefit the citizen and his property wherever found. Indeed, the argument, while holding on to citizenship, belittles and destroys its advantages and blessings
by denying the possession by government of an essential
power required to make citizenship completely beneficial.
Concluding from what We have just said that the first
question must be answered in the affirmative, it follows
from the considerations just stated and the views which
we have expressed in the previous cases as to the operation
and constitutionality of the act in other respects, that the
remaining questions must be answered as follows: The
second, Yes; the third, Yes, the whole tax; the fourth,
Yes; the fifth, Yes; the sixth, No; the seventh relating to
interest, Yes.1
'The questions propounded were as follows:
I. Does the tax purporting to be imposed by sectioli 37 of the act of
Congress, approved August 5, 1909, apply to the use of a foreign-built
yacht owned by a citizen of the United States, when such yacht, for
a period of more than one year prior to September 1, 1909, and to the
levy of such tax, was used wholly outside of the limits and territorial
jurisdiction of the United States?
II. Did the tax purporting to be imposed by said act of Congress
operate retrospectively, so as to be payable on September 1, 1909, in
respect of the year then ended, or only prospectively, so as to become
first due and payable on September 1, 1910?
III. Did the whole amount of the tax purporting to be imposed by
said act of Congress become due and payable on September 1, 1909,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

As by these answers the right to impose and collect the
tax under the facts stated will be established, in view of
what we shall say in a case between the same parties which
follows this, we think it proper to observe that nothing in
our reply to these questions is to be so construed as to
deprive the court below of the power to take such steps as
it may deem necessary to avoid injustice if it should be
deemed that by some mistake of fact such a result might
occur. The answers to the questions will be certified in
accordance with the directions above given.
And it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. BENNETT (NO. 2).
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 630.

Argued January 6, 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

United States v. Goelet, ante, p. 293, followed to effect that the tax
imposed by § 37 of the Tariff Act of 1909 does not apply to the use
of a foreign-built yacht owned by a citizen of the United States who
or only such proportion- thereof as the time during which the act was
in force at that date bears to the whole year?

IV. Has Congress the power to levy a tax upon the use by a citizen
of the United States of a yacht which is not actually and since the year
1904 was not at any time used withinthe territorial jurisdiction of the
United States and which has its permanent situs in a foreign country?
V. Does said act of Congress, by purporting to impose a tax upon
the use of foreign-built yachts alone, provide a valid tax, or a valid
classification for purposes of taxation, within the power to lay and collect

taxes delegated to Congress by the Constitution of the United States?
VI. Is the tax purporting to be imposed by said act of Congress in
conflict with the requirement of due process of law contained in the
fifth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States?
VII. Is the United States entitled to recover interest upon the tax
imposed upon the use of foreign-built yachts in and by section 37 of
the Tariff Act of August 5, 1909?

