PORTO RICO v. RAMOS.

232 U. S.

Syllabus.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

The ground upon which it is asserted in this case that
the statute of the State of South Dakota, upon which the
judgment of the court below here under review was based,
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, was
considered and held to be well taken in a case decided this
term. (Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, ante, p. 165.)
As that decision is conclusive upon all the issues here
presented and establishes that the statute in question is
inconsistent with the Constitution and void, it results that
for the reasons stated in the case referred to, the judgment
in this case must be reversed and the case remanded to the
court below for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO v, RAMOS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 390. Submitted February 25, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.
Immunity of sovereignty from suit without consent does not permit
the sovereign to reverse the action invoked by it so that it may
come in and go out of court at will without the right of the other
party to resist either step.
While Porto Rico may not in ordinary actions be sued without its consent, a voluntary appearance after due consideration and request to
be made a party by the Attorney General on the ground of interest
in the controversy, amounts to a consent, and thereafter Porto Rico
cannot object to the jurisdiction on account of its immunity as a
sovereign. Porto Rico v. Rosaly, 227 U. S. 270, distinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Where the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico had jurisdiction of an action involving title to real estate brought by a
citizen of Porto Rico against a foreign subject, the jurisdiction is not
ousted because Porto Rico becomes, on the application of the Attorney General, the sole party defendant.
Quwre, whether Porto Rico cannot be made a party defendant without
its consent to an action involving title to real estate claimed to be an
escheat.

THE facts, which involve the immunity of sovereignty
from suit as applied to Porto Rico and the determination
of what constitutes consent to be sued, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Felix Frankfurterfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank Antonsanti and Mr. Frederick 5. Tyler for
defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action in ejectraent for certain described lands in
Porto Rico brought by defendant in error, a citizen of
Porto Rico, against Eduardo Wood, a subject of Great
Britain.
Defendant, in error alleged in his complaint that he
was the owner, possessed and entitled to the possession of
the lands and that Wood, claiming that the property
belonged to the estate of Eliza Kortright, of which he was
the duly appointed administratoT, without right or title
entered upon the lands and ejetted defendant in error
therefrom. Restitution of the lands was prayed and
damages in the sum of $5000.
The complaint was filed November 12, 1909, and
process duly issued thereon. On November 19, 1909, the
defendant, Wood, filed a paper entitled "Motion to make
the People of Porto Rico a party defendant and for an

PORTO RICO v. RAMOS.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extension of time to plead." It was alleged in the motion
that the People of Porto Rico had been declared and
adjudged to be the sole heir of Eliza Kortright by an
order made by the District Court in and for the Judicial
District of San Juan, she having died intestate and without
leaving any legal heirs.
That the People of Porto Rico, by virtue of such declaration of heirship, have an interest in the result of the suit
and ought to be joined as co-defendants.
That the defendant desired an extension of time to file a
demurrer or answer to the complaint, as he might be advised, to the 2nd of December, 1909.
An order was prayed making the People of Porto Rico a
party, for service upon them, and that time for pleading be
extended.
Subsequently defendant filed an answer denying each
and every material allegation of the complaint and prayed
a dismissal of the action.
The case, by consent, was subsequently- set for trial
and a jury empaneled. Thereupon Harvey M. Hutchinson, representing the Attorney General of Porto Rico,
petitioned the court for a continuance of the trial for time
to enable him to ascertain if the People of Porto Rico
should be made a party defendant to the cause. In
pursuance of the petition the court continued the case.
Upon the date to which the cause was continued Hutchinson again, as representing the Attorney General of Porto
Rico, appeared in behalf of the People of Porto Rico and
represented to the court that the People of Porto Rico
were interested parties to the action. The court thereupon
ordered the People of Porto. Rico to be made a party.
The jury was excused, the cause continued and the plaintiff (defendant in error) was "directed to amend his complaint so as to show the People of Porto Rico to be a
party defendant."
An amended complaint was filed December 15, 1910.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

It alleged the plaintiff to be a citizen of Porto Rico and the
defendant "a body politic, created by the Congress of the
United States being a citizen thereof." That plaintiff was
the owner of a "rustic estate," describing it, and in possession thereof, and that one Eliza Kortright, since deceased,
ejected plaintiff therefrom and continued in possession
thereof up to her death. That, therefore, her estate was
placed under judicial administration under the direction of
Eduardo Wood, as judicial administrator, which judicial
administration ceased during the month of November,
1910, and the administrator discharged. That, therefore,
the defendant, The People of Porto Rico, was adjudged
by the District Court of San Juan the only heir to the
estate of Eliza Kortright, as she left no heirs. That The
People of Porto Rico, as such heir continues to possess the
land without right or title thereto, against the will of
plaintiff, and to his damage in the sum of $6000, which
sum was prayed as rents and profits, together with restitution of the land.
Upon motion of the Attorney General of Porto Rico his
name was entered as counsel for The People of Porto Rico
and leave granted to file a demurrer.
The demurrer recited that the Attorney General appeared specially for the sole purpose of challenging the
jurisdiction of the court in the case and demurred to the
amended complaint for the following reasons: (1) Because
the suit was one between, plaintiff, a citizen of Porto
Rico, and The People of Porto Rico as sole defendant, and
that both plaintiff and defendant, being citizens of Porto
Rico within the meaning of the act of Congress conferring
jurisdiction on the court, the court had no jurisdiction.
(2) Because The People of Porto Rico as a recognized
entity, was so far a sovereign as to be exempt from suit at
the instance of private individuals.
The demurrer was overruled and on the eleventh of January, 1911, an answer was filed in which defendant in-

PORTO RICO v. RAMOS.
232 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

sisted and pleaded that it "had such attributes of sovereignty" as exempted it from suit. The rest of the answer
denied the allegations of the complaint and set up judgments obtained in two separate suits brought by Eliza
Kortright against defendant in error in which it was adjudged against him that she was the owner of the lands
sued for by plaintiff in the present action.
The action was tried to a jury which found for plaintiff
(defendant in error) and assessed damages at $6000, in
accordance with which judgment was entered. A new
trial was moved and denied, and this writ of error granted.
But one contention is argued, that is, that the District
Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit against
Porto Rico "without its consent and against its active
opposition." Porto Rico v. Rosaly, 227 U. S. 270, is cited
to sustain the contention. It was said in that case that
the government "established in Porto Rico is of 'such
a nature as to come within the general rule exempting a
government sovereign in its attributes from being sued
without its consent." This case, however, is not within
the rule. In that case Porto Rico was a defendant in the
first instance. In this case it voluntarily petitioned to
be made a party, asserting rights to the property in controversy, and, against the opposition of the plaintiff
(defendant in error), it was made a party defendant. And
this action was not improvident. Its Attorney General
took time to consider. He applied for and obtained a
continuance of the case to determine the best course to
secure the interests of the People of Porto Rico, whether to
assert its rights in the then litigation or attempt to keep
them under the immunity of its sovereignty from attack.
His decision had the support of substantial reasons. The
property came to Porto Rico as an escheat, and came
therefore as it was held by Eliza Kortright and Wood.
If held in wrong by them, it was held in wrong by it, and
the Attorney General may have considered it well worth

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

while to face the controversy rather than remit it to some
other proceeding that the plaintiff might institute, fortified, perhaps, by a decision in his favor. United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508.
But, whatever his reasons, he certainly asked for time, as
we have seen, "to enable him to ascertain if the People of
Porto Rico should be made a party defendant" in the

cause, and, having been granted the time, he appeared
again in the cause and represented to the court that Porto
Rico was an interested party to the action, and the court,
having heard the arguments of opposing counsel, ordered
Porto Rico to be made a party and directed plaintiff to
amend his complaint in execution of the order. Porto
Rico, therefore, through its Attorney General, not only
gave its consent to be a pdrty to the cause but invoked and
obtained the ruling of the court against the resistance of
the plaintiff to make it a party to the cause.
The complaint having been amended as moved and
directed and nearly a year having elapsed, there came a
change of view, but the immunity of sovereignty from
suit without its cohsent cannot be carried so far as to
permit it to reverse the action invoked by it and to come
in and go out of court at its will, the other party having no
right of resistance to either step.
In placing our decision upon the consent of Porto Rico
to be made a party defendant under the circumstances
presented by this case, we do not wish to imply that
Porto Rico could not have been made a party without its
consent, the property being an escheat. As to that we
express no opinion.
There is an assignment of error based on the proposition
that by the amendment of the complaint the plaintiff and
Porto Rico became the sole parties to the action, and they
being citizens of Porto Rico the court lost jurisdiction of it.
The proposition is not urged by plaintiff in error in its
brief, and if the proposition did not raise a question of

CURRIDEN v. MIDDLETON.
232 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

jurisdiction we might pass it without comment. It is,
however, enough to say of it that the original defendant
Wood was properly sued, he then being a subject of Great
Britain and in possession of the land. Porto Rico subsequently becoming a party did not oust the jurisdiction.
Phelps v. Oaks, 117 U. S. 236; Hardenbergh v. Ray, 151
U. S. 112.
Judgment affirmed.

CURRIDEN v. MIDDLETON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 152. Submitted March 4, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.

The proper remedy for damages caused by fraud and deception is an
action at law. Buzard v. Houston, 119 U. S. 347.
Mere complication of facts alone and difficulty of proof are not a basis
for equity jurisdiction. United States v. Bitter Root Development Co.,
200 U. S. 451.
An action in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia commenced on the equity side of the court cannot be transferred to the
law side of that court under Equity Rule 22. That rule has no application.
37 App. D. C. 568, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William E. Chandler, Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey and
Mr. William L. Chambers for appellant:
For authorities as to jurisdiction in equity in cases of
complicated fraud see 1 Story's Eq. Jur., §§ 184 and 437
et seq., 2 Id., § 1265.

