OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

GILA VALLEY, GLOBE & NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. HALL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 68. Submitted November 13, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.
On an appeal from the territorial court this court cannot consider
errors, not fundamental in character, which might have been, but
were not, brought under review in the appellate court below.
Where the local practice of the Territory requires specific assignments
of error and treats all others as waived, and the transcript filed here
does not contain the assignment of errors below, this court confines
itself to errors mentioned in the opinion of the appellate court below.
Whether an accident did or did not occur in a manner theoretically
impossible according to expert opinions of defendant's witnesses, is
properly submitted to the jury if there is evidence to sustain the
plaintiff's contention, and if the court cannot hold as a conclusion
of law that the accident could not possibly have occurred in that
manner.
One employed for only a few days, and whose duties did not include inspection of the equipment or care respecting its condition, held, not
chargeable as matter of law with assumption of risk on the ground of
presumed knowledge of a defect in the condition of the equipment,
there being no direct evidence that he knew of it.
Where the fact is in dispute as to whether a defect in a machine is such
as to render its use dangerous, it cannot be properly held as matter
of law that the risk is obvious even to one who knew of the defect.
An employ6 assumes the risk of dangers normally incident to the occupation in which he voluntarily engages, so far as they are not attributable to the employer's negligence; but the employ6 has a right
to assume that his employer has exercised proper care with respect
to providing safe appliances for the work, and is not to be treated as
assuming the risk arising from a defect that is attributable to the
employer's negligence, until the employ4 becomes aware of such defect, or unless it is so plainly observable that he may be presumed to
have known of it.
In order to charge an employ6 with the assumption of a risk attributable
to a defect due to the employer's negligence it must appear not only
that he knew (or is presumed to have known) of the defect, but that

GILA VALLEY RY. CO. v. HALL.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

he knew it endangered his safety; or else such danger must have been
so obvious that an ordinarily prudent person under the circumstances
would have appreciated it.
Questions of admissibility of evidence are for the determination of the
trial court, whether its admission depends upon matter of law or of
fact, and the finding upon such a question is not subject to reversal
on appeal or error if fairly supported by the evidence; and so held as
to the exclusion of evidence offered by defendant to prove remarks
made by a third person in presence of the plaintiff before the injury
as to defects in the appliance used by him.
The territorial appellate court having held that while in 'case of an
excessive verdict for unliquidated damages tainted with passion or
prejudice a new trial should be granted and the verdict not simply
reduced, the trial judge is in the better position to judge if the verdict is merely excessive and should be allowed to stand if voluntarily
reduced by the plaintiff to a reasonable amount, this court sees no
reason for disturbing that decision, there being no constitutional
obstacle to the practice.
13 Arizona, 270, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment for damages for personal injuries obtained in
the territorial courts, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Eugene S. Ives for plaintiffs in error:
In order to justify the court in sending case to the jury
the evidence must clearly tend to sustain a verdict for
plaintiff. Root v. Fay, 5 Arizona, 19; Randall v. R. R. Co.,
109 U. S. 478; Richardson v. Powers, 11 Arizona, 31.

Where facts proved are equally consistent with the absence of negligence as of its existence, the question should
not be submitted to the jury. McFadden v. Campbell, 34
N. Y. Supp. 136; Baulec v. Railroad Co., 59 N. Y. 356.
If the injury may have resulted from one of two causes
for only one of which the defendant is liable, plaintiff
must show with reasonable certainty that the cause for
which the defendant is liable produced the result. Warner
v. R. R. Co., 178 Missouri, at p. 134; Pierce v. Kile, 80
Fed. Rep. 865; Ellison v. Truesdale, 49 Minnesota, 240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

232 U. S.

A verdict based on conjecture will not be permitted.
Wheelan v. Railway Co., 85 Iowa, 167; B. & 0. R. R. v.
State, 71 Maryland, 599; Cumberland & P. R. Co. v. State,
73 Maryland, 74.
An expert witness in testifying as to the condition of the
velocipede which caused the accident must state specific
facts and not his conclusion that its condition was very
bad. McMahon v. Dubuque, 107 Iowa, 62.
In cross-examination of an expert witness it is proper
to ask the witness if other causes may not have produced
the result. 5 Ency. of Evi. 632; Schlenker v. State, 9
Nebraska, 241.
An answer to a question to which the opposing bounsel
objected, cannot be stricken out upon motion of the party
who propounded it. Hogan v. Shuart, 11 Montana, 498.
Evidence offered by the defendant as to a conversation
which the plaintiff might have heard is admissible, and
it is for the jury to determine whether the plaintiff actually
overheard such conversation. Bush v. McCarty, 127
Georgia, 308; Berry v. House, 1 Tex. Civ. App. 562; Wright
v. Stewart, 130 Fed. Rep. 905; 1 Wigmore on Ev., ยง261.
The court may call and examine a witness who has not
been called by the parties. 8 Ency. P1. & Pr. 72.
The fact that 'evidence is cumulative is no reason for
excluding it. 3 Ency. Ev. 929 and note 39; Barhyte v.
Summers, 68 Michigan, 34; S. Danville v. Jacobs, 42 Ill.
App. 533.
Where the servant had the opportunity to know or in
the exercise of reasonable or ordinary care should have
known the risks to which he is exposed in the course of his
employment, he will be held to have assumed them. 26
Cyc. 1196, n. 99; 26 Cyc. 1204, n. 17; Thomas v. Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co., 109 Missouri, 187; Thompson on Negligence,
1008; H. & T. C. R. Co. v. Fowler, 56 Texas, 45; Larson v.
R. R. Co., 43 Minnesota, 423; Ragon v. Ry. Co., 97 Michigan, 265; Perigo v. Ry. Co., 52 Iowa, 276; Evansville Ry.

GILA VALLEY RY. CO. v. HALL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Henderson, 134 Indiana, 636; Linton Coal Co. v.
Parsons, 15 Ind. App. 69.
Mr. Edward H. Thomas for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a review of a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arizona, rendered prior to Statehood, affirming the judgment of one of the territorial district courts, in an action
brought by Hall against the Railway Company to recover
damages for personal injuries. Hall was in the employ
or the Company as chainman, and on April 23, 1907, was
engaged, with another employ6 named Ryan, in measuring distances for locating mile-posts along the line of its
railway. For purposes of transportation they used a
three-wheeled gasoline car or "velocipede" furnished by
the Company. This car had two wheels on the right-hand
side, over which were the engine, a'seat for the use of the
operator, and a seat in front for another person; the third
wheel-or "pony wheel," as it was called-was a small
wheel on the left-hand side nearly opposite the front wheel
on the right-hand side, and fastened to the machine by a
bar extending across. The wheels, like the ordinary car
wheel, had inside flanges designed to keep the treads of
the wheels upon the tracks. On the day mentioned, Hall
and Ryan were upon this car traveling upon the line of
railway, Ryan operating the machine and Hall sitting
in front. While running at a speed of from eight to twelve
miles an hour the car suddenly left the track, going to the
left, the side on which the "pony wheel" was located.
Hall was thrown in front and run over, sustaining severe
injuries. The ground relied upon to support a recovery
of damages from the employer was that the flange upon
the third wheel was worn and cracked in a manner that
rendered its use dangerous; that the defect was of such a
VOL. CCXXXII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

character that it would have been discovered in the course
of reasonable inspection; and that by reason of this defect
the machine left the track. The company denied negligence on its part, set up contributory negligence, and
averred that Hall knew or had opportunity to know the
condition of the car, and that he assumed the risk of injury
resulting from the alleged defect. Upon the trial the jury
returned a verdict in his favor for $10,000. The Company
moved for a new trial, and, pending this motion, Hall
voluntarily remitted $5,000 from the amount of the verdict. Thereafter the trial court denied the motion, and
entered judgment in Hall's favor for $5,000 and costs.
From this judgment and from the order denying the motion for new trial the Company appealed to the territorial
Supreme Court, which affirmed the judgment, as already
stated. 13 Arizona, 270.
This writ of error is sued out by the Railway Company
and the sureties upon the supersedeasbond that was given
for the purposes of the appeal to the territorial Supreme
Court. A reversal of the judgment is sought because of
alleged trial errors.
At the outset we lay aside certain assignments of error
filed in this court that are designed to raise various questions which do not appear, from anything in the record
before us, to have been presented to the territorial Supreme Court for its consideration. It is inadmissible for
this court to consider errors, not fundamental in their
character, which might have been but were not brought
under review in the appellate court below; for it is that
court's judgment which is alone subject to our review.
The impropriety of allowing a party, conceiving himself
to have suffered from an erroneous ruling of a trial court
in a matter not jurisdictional, nor essential to the foundation of the action, but involving a mere matter of procedure, to invoke the judgment of this court thereon,
without availing himself of the opportunity for a review

GILA VALLEY RY. CO. v. HALL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thereof in the appropriate appellate court of the Territory,
has been repeatedly pointed out. Montana Railway Co.
v. Warren, 137 U. S. 348, 351; San Pedro & Caiion Del
Agua Co. v. United States, 146 U. S. 120, 136; Jordan
Mining Co. v. Socit6 des Mines, 164 U. S. 261, 264.
The local practice required specific assignments of error,
and treated errors not thus assigned as being waived.
Arizona Rev. Stat. 1901, pars. 1523 and 1586; Supreme
Court Rules 3 and 6; 4 Arizona, ix and xi; 35 Pac. Rep.
vi and vii; Daggs v. Phoenix Nat'l Bank, 5 Arizona, 409,
415; County of Santa Cruz v. Barnes, 9 Arizona, 42, 49;
Bail v. Hartman, 9 Arizona, 321, 327. The transcript
filed here does not contain the assignments of error below,
so that there is nothing to show What errors were assigned
or relied upon in the territorial Supreme Court, except
as they receive particular mention in its opinion. Confining our attention to these, the questions presented are
the following:
First, it is contended that the trial court ought to have
instructed the jury to return a verdict in favor of the defendant, and this upon the ground that there was no evidence to sustain a recovery, unless it could be found in the
proof of the defective condition of the flange of the
"pony wheel"; it being at the same time contended to be a
physical impossibility that this defect in the flange could
have caused the accident. The wheel itself was in evidence as an exhibit, and it was testified that the inside of
the flange, where it came next to the rail, was irregularly
worn; or, as a witness put it,-"cut in different places
so that it is very rough, and it would have a tendency
(for a person to look at it) to show hard and soft places
in the wheel." This witness declared that this condition
of the wheel would cause it to "bounce and leave the
track." Another witness testified that there were "three
gouged out places" in the flange, and (in effect) that if one
of these should strike a protruding joint between rails

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

"the sharp edge of the flange would mount that rail and
go off." It is insisted, however, that by the uncontroverted testimony the car, at the time of the accident,
was traveling upon a curve towards the left, and was
therefore necessarily impelled by centrifugal force towards the right, so that the defective flange was drawn
away from the rail and was performing no function. The
theory is that the centrifugal force must have kept the
right-hand wheels constantly bearing upon the inside of
the outer or right-hand rail, and that therefore in the
absence of some extraneous cause, it was impossible for
the car to be thrown toward the left. We are unable to
say as a conclusion of law, that such a car, while running
upon a curve towards the left, at a speed of from eight to
twelve miles an hour, and with interior flanges upon the
right-hand wheels preventing it from leaving the track
on that side, would not be occasionally thrown with a
lurch away from the right-hand rail and against the
opposite rail, even were the car at the time traveling upon
a constant curve. But however this may be, there was
evidence from which the jury might reasonably infer
that at the point where the car left the track it was just
leaving the curve and going upon a tangent. At this point
it might naturally be subjected to a lurch that would throw
its weight with momentum against the left-hand rail and
thus bring into operation the tendency of the "pony
wheel" to mount the rail because of the worn condition of
the inside of the flange. And, as already mentioned, the
car in fact went off the track towards the left. Therefore,
upon this question, the case was properly submitted to
the jury.
The motion for direction of a verdict seems to have been
rested upon the additional ground that the alleged defect
was so obvious that its existence must have been known
to the plaintiff, and that he therefore assumed the risk.
There was no direct evidence that he knew of the defect,

GILA VALLEY RY. CO. v. HALL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and it does not appear to have been a part of his duties
to inspect the machine or the wheel, or to look after their
condition. He had been employed for only three or four
days in work that required him to ride upon the car, and
at the utmost it was a question for the jury whether the
defective condition of the wheel was so patent that he
should be presumed to have known of it. And then, the
question whether the defect was such as to render the
use of the car dangerous was in dispute at the trial; hence,
it could not be properly held that the risk was indisputably
obvious, even to one who knew of the defect. It is quite
clear, therefore, that a verdict could -not properly have
been directed in favor of the defendant upon the ground
that the plaintiff, in using the car, had assumed an obvious
risk.
There was a request for instructions to the effect that
the plaintiff assumed the risk of injury from defects which
he knew, or by the exercise of ordinary care in the discharge of his duties might have known, or which he had
opportunity to know. These instructions the court
refused to give, but charged the jury upon this question
-"The true test is not in the exercise of ordinary care
to discover dangers, by the employ6, but whether the
defect is known or plainly observable by him. An employ6 is not charged by law with the assumption of a risk
arising out of defective appliances provided by his employer, unless his employment was of such a nature as
to bring to his attention and cause him to realize and
comprehend the dangers incident to the use of such appliances." This, we think, was a correct instruction under
the circumstances of the case. An employ6 assumes the
risk of dangers normally incident to the occupation in
which he voluntarily engages, so far as these are not
attributable to the employer's negligence. But the employ6 has a right to assume that his employer has
exercised proper care with respect to providing a safe

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

place of work, and suitable and safe appliances for the
work, and is not to be treated as assuming the risk arising
from a defect that is attributable to the employer's negligence, until the employ6 becomes aware of such defect,
or unless it is so plainly observable that he may be presumed to have known of it. Moreover, in order to charge
an employ4 with the assumption of a risk attributable
to a defect due to the employer's negligence, it must appear not only that he knew (or is presumed to have known)
of the defect, but that he knew it endangered his safety;
or else such danger must have been so obvious that an
ordinarily prudent person under the circumstances would
have appreciated it. Union PacificRailway Co. v. O'Brien,
161 U. S. 451, 457; Texas & Pacific Railway v. Archibald,
170 U. S. 665, 671; Choctaw, Oklahoma &c. R. R. Co. v.
McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 68; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Swearingen, 196 U. S. 51, 62; Burns v. Delaware & Atlantic Telegraph Co., 70 N. J. Law, 745, 752.
The next error alleged is the refusal of the trial court
to permit Ryan, the operator of the car, to testify to a
remark made, concerning the condition of the wheel,
on the day before the accident. Ryan had testified that he
noticed the alleged defect at the time referred to; that he,
and Hall, and one Regna, and somebody else, were present;
that a conversation was had in which Regna made a remark with respect to the crack in the wheel; and that this
remark was made in his natural tone of voice while Hall
was less than twenty yards away and within hearing
distance, and so that he could have heard it if he had
been listening. It was not shown that Hall made any
comment upon the car or the wheel, or made any answer
to Regna's remark, or took any part in the conversation.
Plaintiff's counsel objected to the admission of the conversation on the ground that it had not been established
that Hall heard it, and this objection was sustained.
It is insisted that the conversation was admissible as

GILA VALLEY RY. CO. v. HALL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proving notice to Hall of the condition of the wheel;
and so it was, provided it appeared that he heard it.
Whether he did hear it, was of course a question of fact.
Plaintiff in error contends that this should have been
submitted to the jury, with an instruction that if they
believed Hall heard the conversation they might take
that into consideration in determining whether he knew
the condition to the wheel and the effect of using it in that
condition.
We agree that the testimony was such as to render it a
matter of doubtful inference whether Hall heard the conversation; but we think this question of fact was one to
be determined by the trial cburt, and not by the jury.
Questions of the admissibility of evidence are for the
determination of the court; and this is so whether its admission depend upon matter of law or upon matter of fact.
And the finding of the trial judge upon such a preliminary
question of fact is not subject to be reversed on appeal
or error if it be fairly supported by the evidence, as it is
in the case before us. Bartlett v. Smith, 11 M. & W. 483,
485; Doe, dem. Jenkins v. Davies, 10 Ad. & El., N. S. 314,
323; Spring Co. v. Edgar, 99 U. S. 645, 658; Stillwell Mfg.
Co. v. Phelps, 130 U. S. 520, 527; Inland & Seaboard
Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551, 559; State v. Monich,
74 N. J. Law, 522, 526; State v. Tomassi, 75 N. J. Law,
739, 743; Gorton v. Hadsell, 9 Cush. 508, 511.. And see
Tayloe v. Riggs, 1 Pet. 591, 597.
Finally, it is insisted that there was error in entering
judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $5,000, after the
residue of the Verdict of $10,000 was remitted pending the
motion for new trial. The argument is that the voluntary
remission of so large an amount by the plaintiff was an
admission that the verdict was excessive; that an excessive
verdict may not be cured by-a remitter where the amount
of the damages cannot be measured by any fixed standard
or determined with certainty; that a verdict so excessive

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

is conclusive evidence that it was the product of prejudice
on the part of the jury, and that this vice goes to the entire
verdict, and not merely to the excess. The practice,
however, is-recognized by the Civil Code (Ariz. Rev. Stat.
1901, pars. 1450 and 1451), which permit any party in
whose favor a verdict or judgment has been rendered
to remit any part thereof, after which execution shall
issue for the balance only of such judgment. In Northern
Pacific R,. R. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 646, an action
in a territorial court to recover damages for personal
injuries that necessitated the amputation of a leg, there
was a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $25,000, a motion
for a new trial on various grounds, among others that the
damages were excessive, and the court ordered that a
new trial be granted unless plaintiff remitted $15,000 of
the verdict, and, in case he did so, that the motion should
be denied. He remitted the amount, and judgment was
entered in his favor for the balance, which the Supreme
Court of the Territory affirmed. This court held that the
matter was within the discretion of the court; and this
even without the sanction of a statute. The constitutional question involved was reexamined in Arkansas
Cattle Co. v. Mann, 130 U. S. 69, 73, and the decision in
the Herbert Case was adhered to, it being held that the
practice under criticism did not in any just sense impair
the right of trial by jury.
In Southern Pacific Co. v. Tomlinson, 4 Arizona, 126,
132, and in Southern Pacific Co. v. Fitchett, 9 Arizona,
128, 134, the general practice was sustained by the territorial Supreme Court. In the former case, however, it
was said (4 Arizona, 132) that "if it is apparent to the
trial court that the verdict was the result of passion or
prejudie, a remittitur should not be allowed, but the verdict should be set aside. In passing upon this question
the court should not look alone to the amount of the damages awarded, but to the whole case," In the Fitchett

GILA VALLEY RY. CO. v. HALL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Case, it appearing that the trial court was of the opinion
that more than half of the damages awarded for the appellee's injured feelings were excessive, the Supreme Court
held that evidently the verdict was not the result of cool
and dispassionate consideration, and that the question
of the proper sum to be awarded ought not to have been
determined by the trial court, but should have been
submitted to the determination of another jury. In the
present case (13 Arizona, 276) the majority of the court
declared they were not prepared to adhere to the views
expressed in the FitchettCase: that while there is authority
for the position that in no case of unliquidated damages
should the court permit. a remission where the verdict is
excessive, without the consent of the defendant, the great
weight of authority supports the practice; citing the decisions of this court already referred to; and declaring
that while, if it appears that the verdict is tainted with
prejudice or passion, and does not represent the dispassionate judgment of the jury upon the question of the
right of the plaintiff to recover, a new trial should be
granted, yet the trial court is in a better position to determine this than the appellate court, so that its determination should ordinarily be accepted. We see no ground
for disturbing this decision.

Judgment affirmed.

