OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

mission of a crime against his person upon Indian lands,
such as we have found the allotted lands in question to be,
was punishable under the laws of the United States.
The order sustaining the demurrer is reversed and the
cause is remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

GAUTHIER v. MORRISON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 157.

Argued December 19, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where one specially asserts in the state court a right predicated on the
statutes of the United States to enter upon, and remain in possession
of, public land, and that right is denied, this court has jurisdiction to
review the judgment of the State Court under § 237 Judicial Code.
The surveyor is not invested with authority to determine the character
of land surveyed or left unsurveyed or to classify it as within or
without the operation of particular laws.
Under the Homestead Law of the United States unsurveyed public
lands, if agricultural and unappropriated, are open to settlement by
qualified entrymen, and this applies to land of that description left
unsurveyed by a surveyor by erroneously marking it on the plat as
included within the meander lines of a lake.
One who forces a qualified entryman who has acquired, in compliance
with the Homestead Law, an inceptive homestead right on public
land open to entry although erroneously shown on the plat as a
lake, wrongfully invades the possessory right of the homesteader.
While the Land Department controls the surveying of the public lands
and the courts have no power to revise a survey, the courts can
determine whether the land was left unsurveyed and whether a
right of possession exists under an inceptive claim.
Courts should not interfere with the Land Department in administrative affairs and before patent has issued, but it is not an interference

GAUTHIER v. MORRISON.
232 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

to restrain trespassers upon possessory rights or to restore possession
to lawful claimants wrongfully dispossessed.
As Congress has not prescribed the forum or mode in which such
wrongs may be restrained or redressed, the state courts have jurisdiction thereover and should proceed to appropriately dispose of such
questions and protect those claiming possession under the Federal
statute. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
62 Washington, 572, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the state
court over questions relating to the public lands and the
jurisdiction of this court to review the judgment, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred B. Morrill, with whom Mr. W. C. Jones,
Mr. L. F. Chester and Mr. John J. Skuse were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Reese H. Voorhees for defendant in error:
There is no jurisdiction in the state courts of the subjectmatter of this action.
As this is a possessory action plaintiff in error must
show affirmatively a right to the lands in himself. He
cannot lean on the alleged fact that the defendants in
error have no right or are trespassers. George v. Columbia
Ry. Co., 38 Washington, 483; Helm v. Johnson, 40 Washington, 422; Humphrey v. Stevenson, 33 Washington, 570;
Seymour v. Dufour, 53 Washington, 650.
Plaintiff in error bases this right, which he is compelled
to show, on the alleged fact that he is a settler upon land
of the character which can be acquired under the homestead laws, putting the character of the land squarely in
issue. He contends that the land is vacant, unsurveyed
public land, subject to settlement and residence under the
homestead laws.
Of this question of the character of the land the court
below had no jurisdiction. The complaint recites that
patent has not issued and title is in the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

The exclusive control of public lands is in the Interior
Department and remains exclusively there until patent
has issued therefor and the title has passed from the
Government. There is no jurisdiction in the courts either
to control the public land or the action of the Government
in connection therewith, until patent shall have issued and
the land shall have ceased to be public land.
The question is not what is the effect of the survey and
classification made by the United States, but is-has the
court below now any jurisdiction to consider that or any
other question involving the disposition by the United
States of these lands, or involving the determination of
the right or wrong of the action of the Interior Department in administering them? See, as to duties of surveyors, §§ 453, 2218, 2219, 2395, par. 7, Rev. Stat.; act of
March 3, 1909 (Supp. to Fed. Stats. Ann. 563).
This is not a question for the courts. Craginv. Powell,
128 U. S. 691; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378;
Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240; Russell v. Maxwell
Land Grant Co., 158 U. S. 253; Knight v. United Land
Ass'n, 142 U. S. 161; Kirwan v. Murphy, 189 U. S. 35;
Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S. 480; Brown v. Hitchcock,
173 U. S. 473.
This general principle, of exclusive jurisdiction in the
Interior Department, was applied to the specific case of
the designation of the character of the land, in Michigan
Land Co. v, Rust, 168 U. S. 589.
Courts may not anticipate the action of the Land
Department or take upon themselves the administration
of the land grants of the United States. Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60; Columbia Canal Co. v. Benham, 47
Washington, 249.
The classification of the public lands for the purposes of
disposition under the various acts of Congress is a part of
the duty imposed by law upon the Secretary of the
Interior, and, even after patent has issued, his determina-

GAUTHIER v. MORRISON.
232 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

tion cannot be reversed by a mere intruder without title.
Ehrhardt v. Hogaboom, 115 U. S. 67; Knight v. U. S.
Land Ass'n, 142 U. S. 161.
As the substantial relief is against the United States,
which is not a party, the bill should be dismissed. Case v.
Terrell, 11 Wall. 199.
The cases relied on by plaintiff in error do not apply to
this case. Niles v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S.300; FrenchGlenn Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47; Security
Land Co. v. Burns, 193 U. S.168, were to recover possession of lands which were held by the defendants and lay
below the meander lines that bordered plaintiff's patented
lands. And so also were cases involving riparian rights.
Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S.661; Hardinv. Jordan, 140 U. S.
371; Shivley v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Kneeland v. Korter,
40 Washington, 359.
The meander line is but a convenience run to determine
the acreage for which payment is to be exacted. St. P. &
P. R. R. Co. v. Schurmeier, 7 Wall. 272; Griffith v. Holman,
23 Washington, 347; Washougal &c. Co. v. Dalles &c. Co.,
27 Washington, 487, can be distinguished, as in those cases
the jurisdiction rested on the allegations of patented lands
and no question with regard to the jfirisdiction was raised.
Plaintiff in error was a mere squatter upon the possession of defendants in error. Zimmerman v. McCurdy,
106 N. W. Rep. 125; Wood v. Murray, 52 N. W. Rep. 356;
Matthews v. O'Brien, 88 N. W. Rep. 12, distinguished.
His possession was not justified under § 942, Remington
& Ballinger Code. Colwell v. Smith, 1 Washington, 92;
Ward v. Moore, 1 Washington, 104, and La Chapelle v.
Bubb, 69 Fed. Rep. 481, do not apply.
The plaintiffs had complied with the homestead laws
on land classified as open to settlement. Hebeisen v.
Hatchell, 69 Pac. Rep. 88, holds squarely against plaintiff in error, as does United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S.76.
If jurisdiction is taken by the courts it cannot be made

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

effective. Pugh's Case, 14 L. D. 274. The action of the
Secretary could render utterly .nugatory the judgment of
the courts if they took jurisdictioii of this action.
Plaintiff in error cannot be heard to complain of hardship in being refused a standing in the courts. There is a
proper forum: the Department of the Interior, where
appropriate relief can be given him. He has but to secure
from the exclusive jurisdiction of that department a
reversal of its classification, now standing for thirty-six
years, in order to initiate the rightful possession which
he now lacks.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This case originated in the Superior Court of Spokane
County, Washington, and involves the present right of
possession of a tract of unsurveyed public land, containing
about 75 acres, in that county.
Considerably abridged, the facts stated in*the complaint
are these: In 1877, when the public lands in that vicinity
were surveyed, an area embracing approximately 1,200
acres was by the wrongful act or error of the surveyor omitted from the survey and meandered as a lake, when in truth
it was not such but was agricultural land susceptible of
cultivation. That area still remains unsurveyed and includes the tract in question. On October 30, 1909, this
tract was unappropriated public land, open to settlement
under the homestead law of the United States. On that
day the plaintiff, being in every way qualified so to do,
made actual settlement upon the tract with the purpose
of acquiring the title under that law by a full and bona
fide compliance with its requirements, and, in furtherance
of that purpose, erected upon the tract a habitable frame
dwelling, furnished the same with all necessary household
goods, entered into possession of the tract, and established

GAUTHIER v. MORRISON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

his actual residence thereon. Shortly thereafter, during the
continuance of his possession and residence, the defendants,
with the wrongful purpose of preventing him from complying with the requirements of the homestead law and of subjecting the tract to their own use, unlawfully compelled
him to withdraw therefrom and remain away; and when
the action was commenced, a few months later, they were
wrongfully withholding the tract from him, and were themselves mere trespassers thereon. It also was alleged: "That
in order to comply with the requirements of the homestead laws of the United States, and to acquire title to
the lands settled upon by this plaintiff, as aforesaid, under
said laws, it becomes and is necessary for this plaintiff
to reside upon and cultivate such lands, and to have possession thereof for a period of five years, and unless this
plaintiff can reside upon, cultivate and have possession
of said lands for and during such period of time from and
after his said settlement, this plaintiff cannot comply
with the requirements of the homestead laws of the United
States and sustain and maintain his rights to said lands
and acquire title thereto from the Government of the
United States under the homestead laws of the United
States." The prayer was for a judgment establishing
the plaintiff's right to the possession, declaring the defendants were without any right thereto, and awarding
costs.
The defendants demurred upon the grounds that the
complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and that the court .was without jurisdiction of the subject-matter. The demurrer was sustained,
and, the plaintiff electing to stand upon his complaint,
a judgment of dismissal was entered. An appeal resulted ip an affirmance by the Supreme Court of the State,
which Leld, first, that the land was not subject to settlement under the homestead law, because the surveyer had
designated and meandered it as a lake, and, second, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

only the Land Department could undo and correct the
wrong or error of the surveyor in that regard. 62 Washington, 572. To secure a reversal of the judgment the plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error.
Although challenged by the defendants, our jurisdiction
does not admit of any doubt. The plaintiff asserted a
right to settle upon the land notwithstanding the wrongful
act or error of the surveyor in designating and meandering
it as a lake, and also a right to remain in possession to
the end that he might perform the acts essential to the
acquisition of the title, and he expressly predicated these
rights upon the homestead law of the United States. The
decision was against the rights so claimed, and this brings
the case within § 709 of the Revised Statutes, now § 237
of the Judicial Code.
The state courts seem to have proceeded upon the
theory (a) that the surveyor's action in designating and
meandering the 1,200-acre area as a lake operated-as an
authoritative determination that it was not agricultural
land, but a permanent body of water, and (b) that this
determination, while remaining undisturbed by the Land
Department, took the land without the operation of the
settlement laws, including the homestead law. But in
this there was a misconception of the authority of the
surveyor. He was not invested with power to determine
the character of the land which he surveyed or left unsurveyed, or to classify it as within or without the operation of particular laws. All that he was to do in that regard was to note and report its character, as it appeared
to him, as a means of enlarging the sources of information upon that subject otherwise available. In Barden v.
Northern Pacific Railroad Co., 154 U. S.288, 292, in disposing of a contention that the lands there in question
had been determined and reported by the surveyor as
agricultural and not mineral, and that the determination
and report remained in force, this court said, p. 320: "But

GAUTHIER v. MORRISON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the conclusive answer to such alleged determination and
report is that the matters to which they relate were not
left to the Surveyor General. Neither he nor any of his
subordinates was authorized to determine finally the
character of any lands granted or make any binding report thereon. Information of the character of all lands
surveyed is required of surveying officers, so far as knowledge respecting them is obtained in the course of their
duties, but they are not clothed with authority to especially examine as to these matters outside of their other
duties, or determine them, nor does their report have any
binding force. It is simply an addition made to the general
information obtained from different sources on the subject." So, if the area designated and meandered as a lake
was in truth agricultural land susceptible of cultivation,
as alleged in the complaint and admitted by the demurrer,
it was as much public land after the survey, and as much
within the operation of the settlement laws, as if its true
character had been reported by the surveyor. It merely
was left unsurveyed. See Niles v. Cedar Poinzt Club, 175
U. S. 300, 308; French-Glenn Live Stock Co. v. Springer,
185 U. S.47; Security Land &c. Co. v. Burns, 193 U. S.167,
187; Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S.229, 241.
It will be perceived that we are not speaking of land
which was covered by a permanent body of water at the
time of the survey and thereafter was laid bare by a subsidence of the water, nor yet of comparatively small areas
which sometimes lie within meander lines reasonably
approximating the shores of permanent bodies of water.
See Home v. Smith, 159 U. S. 40; Kean v. Calumet Canal
Co., 190 U. S.452; Hardinv. Shedd, 190 U. S.508. Neither
are we concerned with a collateral attack upon a public
survey, as was the case in Craginv. Powell, 128 U. S.691,
and Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S.240, for the plaintiff is not asking that any of the lines of the survey be
rejected or altered, but only that a possessory right ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

quired by settlement upon public land confessedly left
unsurveyed be protected.
The homestead law in terms subjects unsurveyed public lands, if agricultural and unappropriated, to settlement
by persons having the requisite qualifications and intending to comply with its requirements as a means of acquiring the title, and also plainly confers upon the settler the
right of possession, without which compliance with those
requirements would be impossible. Rev. Stat., §§ 2289
et seq.; Act May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 140, c.' 89, § 3; Rev.
Stat., § 2266; Act March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095, c. 561,
§ 5; United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S. 76, 80; Sturr v.
Beck, 133 U. S. 541, 547; Nelson v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., 188 U. S. 108, 125; Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S. 229,
240; Wadkins v. Producers Oil Co., 227 U. S. 368, 373.
So, it clearly appears from the allegations of the complaint,
as admitted by the demurrer, that the land in question
was open to homestead settlement when the plaintiff
settled thereon; that by his settlement and subsequent
acts he ac4uired an inceptive homestead right which entitled him to the possession; and that the defendants, in
forcing him to withdraw from the land and in then withholding the same from him, wrongfully invaded this possessory right.
The question of the jurisdiction of the court of first
instance, although not difficult of solution, remains to be
noticed. It was not held by the appellate court that the
jurisdiction of the former under the local laws was not
broad enough to enable it to entertain the action and
award appropriate relief, but only that this jurisdiction
could not be exerted consistently with the laws of Congress,
and this upon the theory that the latter invested the Land
Department with exclusive authority to deal with the
subject.
It is true that the authority to make surveys of the
public lands is confided to the Land Department and that

GAUTHIER v. MORRISON.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the courts possess no power to revise or disturb its action
in that regard, but here the court was not asked to make
a survey or to revise or disturb one already made. As
has been indicated, the land in question was not surveyed
but left unsurveyed, and the plaintiff, whose possession
under a lawful homestead settlement had been invaded
and interrupted by mere trespassers, was seeking a return of the possession to the end that he might continue
his rightful efforts to earn the title. In short, it was not a
survey, but the right of possession under an inceptive
homestead claim, that was in question.
Generally speaking, it also is true that, it is not a province of the courts to interfere with the Land Department
in the administration of the public-land laws, and that
they are to be deemed in process of administration until
the proceedings for the acquisition of the title terminate
in the issuing of a patent. But no interference with that
department or usurpation of its functions was here sought
or involved. It has not been invested with authority to
redress or restrain trespasses upon possessory rights or to
restore the possession to lawful claimants when wrongfully
dispossessed. Congress has not prescribed the forum and
mode in which such wrongs may be restrained and Tedressed, as doubtless it could, but has pursued the policy
of permitting them to be dealt with in the local tribunais
according to local modes of procedure. And the exercise
of this jurisdiction has been not only sanctioned by the
appellate courts in many of the public-land States, but
also recognized and approved by this court. Woodsides v.
Rickey, 1 Oregon, 108; Colwell v. Smith, 1 Wash. Ter. 92;
Ward v. Moorey, 1 Wash. Ter. 104,107; Arment v.Hensel, 5
Washington, 152; Fulmelev. Camp, 20 Colorado, 495; Wood
v. Murray, 85 Iowa, 505; Matthews v. O'Brien, 84 Minnesota, 505; Zimmerman v. McCurdy, 15 N. Dak. 79; Whittaker v. Pendola, 78 California, 296; Sproat v. Durland, 2
Oklahoma, 24, 45; Peckham v. Faught, 2 Oklahoma, 173;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Lytle v. Arkansas, 22 How. 193, 205; Marquez v. Frisbie,
101 U. S. 473, 475; Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349; United
States v. Buchanan, ante, p. 72. See also Cosmos Exploration Co. v. Gray Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S. 301, 308, 315;
Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S. 480, 504; Bunker Hill Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 548, 550. It was well said by the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma in Sproat v. Durland,supra:
"To say that no relief can be granted, or that our courts
are powerless to do justice between litigants in this class of
cases, pending the settlement of title in the Land Department, would be the announcement of a doctrine abhorrent
to a sense of common justice. It would encourage the
strong to override the weak; would place a premium upon
greed and the use of force, and in many instances lead to
bloodshed and crime. Such a state of affairs is to be
avoided and the courts should not hesitate to invoke the
powers inherent in them and lend their aid, in every way
possible, in aid of justice by preventing encroachments
upon the possessory rights of settlers, or by equitably
adjusting their differences."
We are accordingly of opinion that the laws of Congress
interposed no obstacle to the jurisdiction of the court of
first instance, and that, instead of dismissing the case, it
should have proceeded to an appropriate disposition of the
asserted right of possession. See R. & B. Ann. Wash.
Codes, § 942; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223
U. S. 1, 55-59.
Judgment reversed.

