OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

obligation is honorary like the one discussed in Conley v.
Ballinger, 216 U. S. 84, and even in honor would not be
broken by a sale and substitution of a fund, as in that
case; a course, we believe, that has not been uncommon
among the States. See further Stuart v. Easton, 170
U. S. 383, 394.
Some reliance was placed upon Trustees for Vincennes
University v. Indiana, 14 Howard, 268, but the decision
of the majority in that case rested upon the grant having
been made to a private corporation of which the rights
could not be impaired by the State.
The result of Cooper v. Roberts and of what we have said
is that the State had authority to subject this land in its
hands to the ordinary incidents of other titles in the State
and that the judgment must be affirmed. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ely, 197 U. S. 1, 8.
Judgment affirmed.

TANEY, TRUSTEE OF MILLER PURE RYE DISTILLING COMPANY, v. PENN NATIONAL BANK
OF READING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 115.

Argued December 9, 10, 1913.-Decided January 26, 1914.

In determining the relative rights of the trustee in bankruptcy and a
secured creditor the legal effect of the transaction securing the loan
depends upon the local law.
The rule that physical retention by the vendor of goods capable of delivery to the vendee is a fraud per se does not apply in Pennsylvania
in a transaction, the inherent nature of which necessarily precludes
delivery, or in which the absence of a physical delivery is excused by

the applicable usages of trade.

TANEY v. PENN BANK.
232 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Under the revenue laws of the United States the Government, although
not strictly a bailee, is in complete control of a distillery warehouse
which is in effect a bonded warehouse of the United States.
A distiller is not debarred from passing title or creating a special interest by way of pledge in whiskey deposited in his distillery warehouse in conformity with the revenue laws of the United States.
This court will not condemn honest transactions growing out of the
recognized necessities of a lawful business; and so held, that the established practice of the distillery business to issue warehouse receipts
for whiskey deposited in the distillery warehouse and pledge such
receipts as security for loans is not one opposed to public policy.
In Pennsylvania, certificates issued by the owner of a distillery on
whiskey in the distillery warehouse represent the property, and the
delivery thereof as security for a loan made in good faith and in
accordance with the usages of the trade amounts to actual delivery
of the property itself.

187 Fed. Rep. 689, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the relative rights of the
trustee in bankruptcy, and the holder as security for loans
of warehouse receipts for whiskey in a distilling warehouse
issued by the distiller, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph Hill Brinton for appellant:
The company retained physical possession and control
of the whiskey and received for its own use the charges for
storage, except in so far as the Government's interest is
conceined in the protection of its taxes.
The whiskey ordinarily could not be subject to the
pledge in the absence of an acual or constructive delivery.
Nothing appeared on the books of the company, and no
other.step was taken or attempted to negative the apparent
ownership of the bankrupt company in whose possession
and under whose control the whiskey was when the trustee
took charge.
Where the pledge is left in the possession of the debtor,
the burden of proof that there was a constructive delivery
is upon the creditor claimant. Barr v. Reitz, 53 Pa. St.
256; Hunter Construction Co. v. Lyons, 233 Pa. St. 561.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

232 U. S.

Pennsylvania has adopted the English rule that if
thee be nothing but the absolute conveyance without
the possession, that in point of law is fraudulent.
Appearances must agree with the real state of things,
and the real state of things must be honest and consistent
with public policy, affording no unnecessary facility for
deception. Clow v. Woods, 5 S. & R. (Pa.) 277.
Where possession has been withheld pursuant to the
terms of the agreement some good reason for the arrangement besides the convenience of the parties should appear,
since public policy requires change of possession.
Where the subject of the sale or pledge is in the possession of a third party as bailee, constructive delivery is
sufficient.
The law of Pennsylvania controls, and the courts of
that State have universally held that a man may not be
his own warehouseman. Bank v. Jagode, 186 Pa. St. 556;
Moors v. Jagode, 195 Pa. 163; Security Warehousing Co.
v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415; In re Millbourne Mills Co., 172
Fed. Rep. 177.
Appellant contends that:
Either actual delivery by payment of tax and release
of the whiskey for that purpose, or constructive delivery
by removal to a general bonded warehouse and delivery
of its warehouse receipt, was practicable, but neither
means was adopted.
No constructive or symbolical delivery could be or was
made by the so-called warehouse receipt given to the
appellee.
The alleged custom of the trade, being contrary to public
policy, cannot be sustained.
Individual interests arising from such a custom must
suffer the consequences when the courts hold that they exist
contrary to public policy. Collins' Appeal, 107 Pa. St. 590.
The convenience of the parties is not of moment.
Jenkins v. Eichelberger,4 Watts (Pa.), 121.

TANEY v. PENN BANK.
232 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The real test is one of public policy and the question is
not what rights as to possession the owner may have
exercised, as between himself and the Government, but
what opportunity he had of creating secret liens to the
prejudice of the innocent and credulous.
A building erected by a distiller on the distillery premises pursuant to the statute has none of the characteristics of a regular warehouse. Bucher v. Commonwealth,'
103 Pa. St. 523; National Bank v. Sherer, 225 Pa. St. 470.
Should the distiller desire to sell or pledge whiskey
the act of August 27, 1894, §§ 51, 52, 28 Stat. 564, affords
ample relief.
The court, for reasons of public policy, will not permit
a man to be his own warehouseman and pass title by delivery of receipts, and thus afford an opportunity for duplication and fraud. The supervision of the Government
lessens the danger of such fraud. Although the District
Court held that the Government is a bailee, it is clear that in
the one respect essential to prevent fraud, it is in no sense a
bailee for it does not issue or control the issue of warehouse
receipts and keeps no record of change of ownership.
Generally speaking, the Government cannot be said
to be a bailee. It issues no receipts, recognizes no transfer
of title or other interest, assumes no responsibility, and
is not chargeable with negligence.
The Federal Government exercises the same control
over the distillery as it does over the warehouse proper.
The Internal Revenue Acts of the United States, Rev.
Stat., §§ 3267, 3276, 3287, 3288, 3293, 3292 A, 3301, 3303,
provide for the warehouse construction and custody and
control thereof by the Government.
In no sense are the goods bailed to the Government, so
as to permit constructive delivery to be made. United
Statesv. Thirty-six Barrels,7 Blatchf. 459; Witten v. United
States, 143 U. S. 76.
In order that both the Government and the public
VOL. ccxxxii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Appellee.

232 U. S.

might be protected from fraudulent duplication of receipts,
the act of 1894 was passed, whereby the distiller could defer
the payment of tax and permit his product to ripen, but
denied to him the opportunity of preying upon the credulous public. It is therefore in furtherance both of the convenience of the distiller and the protection of the public,
that warehouse receipts should be negotiable only where
the whiskey is deposited in a public bonded warehouse.
The injury to the liquor traffic dwelt upon by counsel
is imaginary rather than real, and is indeed a weak support for a principle of law affording so widespread an
opportunity for fraud and deceit. It is urged that the
trade would be injured, and therefore the court should
countenance a practice running counter to public policy.
This injury, if real, could and would be corrected by
proper legislation requiring the counter signature of some
person in authority, in control of the warehouse, or some
other simple provision entirely safeguarding the interests
of the public. Such fraud is not possible in Pennsylvania
since the passage of the act of May 16, 1901, Pub. Laws
p. 194, and as to the law in that State see Barlow v. Fox,
203 Pa. St. 114; Miller v. Browarsky, 130 Pa. St. 372;
Rosenbaum v. Batjer, 154 Pa. St. 544; Sloan v. Johnson,
20 Pa. Super. Ct. 643; White v. Gunn, 205 Pa. St. 229,
citing Clow v. Woods, 5 S. & R. (Pa.) 575. See also Conrad
v. Fisher, 37 Mo. App. 352; Union Trust Co. v. Trumbull,
137 Illinois, 146.
As to the law of the Federal courts relative to warehouse
receipts, see United States v. Witten, 143 U. S. 76.
As to the rights of the trustee in bankruptcy in such a
case as this, see Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S. 149; Security
Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Mr. PhilipS. Zieber and'Mr. A.
Leo Weil, with whom Mr. Thomas Iaeger Snyder was on
the brief, for appellee.

TANEY v. PENN BANK.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
On February 3, 1908, a petition in bankruptcy was
filed against the Miller Pure Rye Distilling Company;
it was adjudicated a bankrupt on February 19, 1908,
and the appellant was appointed trustee. The Penn
National Bank of Reading, Pennsylvania, the appellee,
intervened in the bankruptcy proceeding with a petition
asking for the delivery to it of two hundred barrels of
whiskey stored in the bonded warehouse of the distilling company, upon the ground that the property had
been lawfully pledged by the company to the bank.
The District Court sustained the lien and accordingly
held the claimant entitled to the delivery sought (176
Fed. Rep. 606); and, on appeal, this decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals (187 Fed. Rep. 689).
The pertinent facts are these: On August 27, 1907,
the bank lent to the distilling company $2500 for which
the company gave its four months' note reciting the deposit with the bank, as collateral security, of "200 bbls.
whiskey in bonded warehouse at Womelsdorf, Pa., as
per Warehouse Rects, gauger's ctf. &c. accompanying."
The form of the receipts is shown by the following copy
of one of them:
25 Bbls.
First District of -Pennsylvania.
United States Internal Revenue Distillery Bonded
Warehouse of Miller Pure Rye Distilling Company.
Ryeland, Berks Co., Pa., August 26th, 1907.
Received Qn Storage from Ourselves Twenty-five (25)
Barrels of Miller Pure Rye Whiskey Distilled, Marked
and Numbered as per Record Attached, Subject to our
Order and Risk of Loss or Damage by Fire, The Elements,
Leakage, Evaporation or Accident, Deliverable only upon
Surrender of this Certificate, Payment of Tax and other
"No. 5454.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Charges due Thereon, and Storage at the Rate of Five
Cents per Barrel per month, from August 26th, 1907.
Inspection Spring 1907.
Stored in Warehouse No. 2.
Serial Nos. of Packages 7964/7988.
Miller Pure Rye Distilling Co.,
S. V. NAGLE, President.
Address all Communications to Miller Pure Rye Distilling Company, Philadelphia, Pa.
Special Notice-Particular care should be taken of
this Certificate as the whiskey cannot be delivered without
its surrender."
These receipts were indorsed by the company, and,
with the gauger's certificates, were delivered to the bank.
The whiskey itself was not actually delivered and remained in the bonded warehouse. The note not being
paid at maturity, the bank upon notice sold the warehouse receipts at public sale on February 5, 1908, and
became the purchaser. This sale, however, is not material
to the present question which turns upon the validity of
the lien.
There is no doubt as to the intention and actual good
faith of the parties. The loan was made in reliance upon
the designated security and the ground of attack is that
the lien failed for want of delivery of possession.
The legal effect of the transaction depends upon the local
law. Thompson v. Fairbanks,196 U. S. 516; Humphrey v.
Tapman, 198 U. S. 91; York Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell,
201 U. S. 344; Hiscock v. Varick Bank, 206 U. S. 28;
Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415, 425;
Bryant v. Swofford Bros., 214 U. S. 279. Reviewing the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania with
respect to sales-the principles of which were deemed to
be applicable-the Circuit Court of Appeals reached the
following conclusion: "It suffices to say that the law of

TANEY v. PENN BANK.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania in respect of the question we are now considering, is settled by a line of cases extending through
nearly a century. Starting with the policy of the statute
of Elizabeth, for the circumvention of fraud and deceit
in sales of personal property (which nowhere in terms
refers to retention of possession by a vendor), it has
wisely developed the spirit of that statute and evolved the
salutary rule, that where there is nothing in the case but
the retention of a physical possession by the vendor,
which he is capable of delivering to the vendee, such
retention is fraud per se, and not merely evidence of fraud,
even though there be nothing inconsistent with the most
perfect honesty. But this rule is not applied by the courts
of Pennsylvania to cases where the inherent nature of the
transaction and the attendant circumstances are such as
to preclude the possibility of a delivery by the vendor,
that would be consistent with the avowed and fair purpose of the sale, or where the absence of a physical delivery
is excused by the \usages of the trade or business in which
the sale was made." 187 Fed. Rep. 689, 696.
We entertain no doubt as to the correctness of this
statement (Clow v. Woods, 5 S.& R. 275; Barr v. Reitz,
53 Pa. St. 256; McKibbin v. Martin, 64 Pa. St. 352;
Crawford v. Davis, 99 Pa. St. 576; Stephens v. Gifford,
137 Pa. St. 219; Presselv. Bice, 142 Pa. St. 263; Garretson
v. Hackenberg, 144 Pa. St. 107; Barlow v. Fox, 203 Pa. St.
114; White v. Gunn, 205 Pa. St. 229); and it was in the
light of these principles that the court below held that,
considering the situation of the property and the usages
of the business, the transaction in question was valid.
To insure collection of the heavy tax that is laid upon
distilled spirits, the production is carefully supervised
and the product is impounded. Rev. Stat., §§ 3247-3334,
as amended; Act of May 28, 1880, c. 108, 21 Stat. 145;
Act of August 27, 1894, c. 349, §§ 48-67, 28 Stat. 509,
563-568: 2 Comp. Stat. U. S.pp. 22 et seq. Every dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

tiller is required to provide, at his own expense, "a warehouse, to be situated on and to constitute a part of his
distillery premises, and to be used only for the storage
of distilled spirits of his own manufacture until the tax
thereon shall have been paid." This warehouse, when
approved by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, is
declared by the statute to be "a bonded warehouse of the
United States, to be known as a distillery warehouse,"
and is "under the direction and control of the collector
of the district, and in charge of an internal-revenue storekeeper, assigned thereto by the commissioner" (§ 3271).
While the statute provides that "every distillery warehouse shall be in the joint custody of the store-keeper and
the proprietor thereof," the control of the Government's
representative is made dominant, as in the nature of the
case it must be in order to fulfill the purposes of the act.
The warehouse, the statute continues, "shall be kept
securely locked, and shall at no time be unlocked, or
opened, or remain open, unless in the presence of such
store-keeper, or other person who may be designated to
act for him, as provided by law; and no articles shall be
received in or delivered from such warehouse except on an
order or permit addressed to the store-keeper and signed
by the collector having control of the warehouse" (§ 3274).
Under the departmental regulations "the only lock to the
warehouse door must be the Government lock, the key
of which must at all times be in charge of the store-keeper."
There must be an immediate removal of the distilled
spirits to the distillery warehouse as soon as they are
drawn into casks or packages and gauged, proved and
marked, as required, and thereupon the internal revenue
gauger "shall, in the presence of the store-keeper of the
warehouse, place upon the head of the cask or package
an engraved stamp, which shall be signed by the collector
of the district and the store-keeper and gauger; and shall
have written thereon the number of proof-gallons con-

TANEY v. PENN BANK.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tained therein, the name of the distiller., the date of the
receipt in the warehouse, and the serial number of each
cask or package, in progressive order, as the same are
received from the distillery" (§ 3287; Act of May 28,
1880, c. 108, § 6). The spirits must be entered for deposit in the warehouse under the regulations prescribed
by the commissioner and bond must be given for the payment of the tax. The statute gives the form of the entry
which, made in triplicate and duly verified, must set forth
the name of the person making it, the designation of the
warehouse, the specification of the spirits deposited, with
the marks and serial numbers of the packages, etc., and a
statement of the amount of tax. Withdrawal may be
made on payment of the tax-which is payable within
eight years-by application to the collector in charge
of the warehouse and the making of a withdrawal entry (§§ 3293, 3294; Act of May 28, 1880, c. 108, §§ 4,
5, 21 Stat. 145; Act of August 27, 1894, c. 349, §49, 28
Stat. 509, 563). Provision is made for regauging and
for an allowance for loss from leakage or evaporation
(Id. § 50, 28 Stat. p. 564; Act of Mar. 3, 1899, c. 435, 30
Stat. 1349; Act of Jan. 13, 1903, c. 134, 32 Stat. 770);
and after four years the spirits may be bottled in bond,
in a separate portion of the warehouse set apart for that
purpose, under the supervision of the government official
(Act of March 3, 1897, c. 379, 29 Stat. 626). The storekeeper is to keep "a warehouse-book" in which all deposits and deliveries are to be entered with appropriate
description including marks and serial numbers (§ 3301).
And the removal "of any distilled spirits from a distillery
warehouse

.

. . in any manner other than is pro-

vided by law" is punishable by fine and imprisonment
(§ 3296).
The minute regulations of the statute, and the provision
for prolonged governmental control, proceed upon a
recognition of the exigencies of the business. It is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

matter of common knowledge that the product is not
ready to be marketed for consumption when it is drawn
from the still. It must undergo an aging process and for
this purpose it is kept in store for several years. In laying
the tax, Congress has taken this necessity into consideration permitting a long postponement of the required payment, the spirits meanwhile being held in charge of the
Government's representative. It is, however, a matter
of obvious business importance that the distiller should
be able to release the capital represented in the cost of
production of the spirits in store and to make it available
for further production; and hence the practice is well
established to (eal with the product in the bonded warehouse by sale or pledge, storage certificates suitably
identifying the property being delivered in lieu of the
actual transfer of possession. The District Court found
as a fact that it is "the unbroken custom of the trade to
treat storage receipts for spirits as completely equivalent
to the spirits themselves, And to sell or pledge them freely
without question." This finding is approved by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and the fact that this custom
exists we understand to be undisputed.
It is argued for the appellant that one cannot make
himself a warehouseman of his own goods and issue socalled receipts to take the place of the delivery which the
law requires to give effect to his sale or pledge (Security
Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415, 422; Bank v. Jagode, 186 Pa. St. 556). The argument ignores the special
circumstances of the case and the .restrictions imposed by
law upon the distiller. The building is his, but the Government is in complete control. The spirits are his, but
he is subject to fine and imprisonment if he attempts to
remove them. It is undoubtedly true that the Government is not strictly a bailee. It assumes no responsibility
to the distiller for the safe-keeping of the goods (United
States v. Whitten, 143 U. S. 76, 78). But the immunity

TANEY v. PENN BANK.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is incident to the exercise of governmental power
in no way limits its effect upon the distiller's relation to
the goods. They are effectually taken out of his power so
that he is absolutely unable to make a physical delivery
of them until the tax is paid. On the other hand, to pay
the tax and remove the property before the aging process
is completed would defeat the object of the deposit for
which the statute provides, and would frustrate the purpose of a transfer of spirits in bond, which is an entirely
lawful transaction. In these circumstances, the certificates-such as were here used-appropriately represent
the property.
It is said that the distiller need not use his own warehouse but may place the goods in one of the general
bonded warehouses established under the act of 1894 (28
Stat. pp. 564, 565). The appellee asserts that this would
be impracticable; that no general bonded warehouse had
been established in the collection district in question;
that there are only twelve in the entire country with a
capacity that is extremely small in comparison with the
output of the distilleries. But, aside from this, the distillery warehouse is equally recognized by law; it is "a
bonded warehouse of the United States." If it is a fit
place for storage, the distiller is not obliged to remove the
spirits elsewhere. And while they are thus deposited in
conformity with law he is not debarred from passing title
or creating a special interest by way of pledge.
The fundamental objection is that the custom, to which
the entire trade is adjusted, is opposed to public policy.
But we know of no ground for thus condemning honest
transactions which grow out of the recognized necessities
of a lawful business. The case is not one where credit may
be assumed to be given upon the faith of the ostensible
ownership of goods in the debtor's possession. Everyone
dealing with distillers is familiar with the established
practice in accordance with which spirits are held in store,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

under governmental control, and are transferred by the
delivery of such documents as we have here. There is no
warrant for saying that creditors are misled by delusive
appearances. The usage serves a fair purpose and there
is no public policy which requires that the trade should be
thrown into disorder by a refusal to uphold it. It is urged
that frauds may be perpetrated by the duplication of such
documents; but the present dispute does not call for the
determination of the equities as between two innocent
purchasers. We are concerned here simply with the
rights of creditors represented by a trustee in bankruptcy
and we agree with the court below in its conclusion that,
in the circumstances disclosed, his right is inferior to that
of the appellee.
The decree is affirmed
Affirmed.

CHAPMAN & DEWEY LUMBER CO. v. ST. FRANCIS
LEVEE DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
ARKANSAS.
No. 82. Argued December 12, 1913.-Decided January 26, 1914.
Whether particular lands patented by the.United States to a State have
passed from the latter to one or the other of two persons claiming
adversely through the State is a question of local law, but whether
the patent from the United States embraced the lands is a Federal
question.
Where public lands are patented "according to the official plat of the
survey returned to the General Land Office by the Surveyor General," the notes, lines, landmarks and other particulars appearing
upon the plat become as much a part of the patent, and are as much

