OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

But it has been held for many years that the purpose
and effect of these statutes was to give the judges of the
Supreme Court sitting in the County District Courts authority to hear cases arising under territorial laws, and to
make the jurisdiction over such cases exclusive in those
courts. Lincoln-Lucky & Lee Mining Co. v. District Court,
7 New Mex. 486, 499-501. Murphy v. Murphy, 25 N. W.
Rep. 806. The statutes, we believe, have not been understood to attempt to withdraw from the courts of the larger
districts the authority expressly conferred upon them by
'the Revised Statutes and the Organic Act, a thing that of
course territorial statutes could not do. See The City of
Panama,101 U. S. 453. We should not decide against the
local understanding of a matter of purely local concern
unless we thought it clearly wrong, instead of thinking it,
as we do, plainly right. Phonix Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231
U. S. 578, 579.
Judgment affirmed.

EBERLE v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. I%

Argued January 16, 19, 1914.-Decided March 23, 1914.

The validity of a local option law adopted after amendments is not
affected by the fact that the amendments are subsequently declared
to be unconstitutional.
Unconstitutional amendments to a constitutional statute are mere
nullities.
Whether the adoption by a district of a local option statute is affected
by the subsequent determination by the courts that certain features
of the act were unconstitutional, is not a Federal question and is for
the state court to determine.
On writ of error under § 237, Judicial Code, this court cannot inquire

EBERLE v. MICHIGAN.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

into motives or arguments which influenced electors to vote for or
against a measure, or reverse the action of the state court on the
ground that the electors voted under misapprehension.
A State may prohibit the sale of liquor absolutely or conditionally;
may prohibit the sale as a beverage and permit it for medicinal purposes; may prohibit the sale by merchants and permit it by licensed
druggists; and so held, that the Michigan Local Option Act of 1889
is not unconstitutional under the equal protection provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment on account of discrimination in making
certain specific exceptions to the general prohibition.,
While a liquor law which prohibited the sale of property existing at the
time of its enactment might be confiscatory (Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18
Wall. 129), the prohibition of manufacturing liquor after the enactment is not confiscatory even as applied to liquor manufactured for
the purpose of giving value to a product existing but unfinished when
the act was passed.
Liquor laws are enacted by virtue of the police power to protect the
health, morals and welfare of the public; and, while such laws may
operate to depreciate the value of property used in the manufacture
of liquor, such depreciation is not the taking of property without due
process of law as prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment, and
so held as to the Michigan Local Option Act of 1889. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
Nothing in the record in this case indicates that the Michigan Local
Option Act of 1889 in any way interferes with or is a burden upon
interstate commerce.
167 Michigan, 477, affirmed.

THE- facts,

which involve the constitutionality of the

Michigan Local Option Act of 1889 under the commerce,
due process and equal protection clauses of the Federal
Constitution, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Richard Price for plaintiffs in error:
The Local Option Act is repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States.
It is an arbitrary and unfair discrimination against
home manufacturers.
The act protects certain traffic.
The invalidity of the wine and cider clause invalidates

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

entire act. Atty. Gen'l v. Detroit, 29 Michigan, 108; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, Boston Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Cooley's Const. Limitations (7th ed.),
pp. 246, 247, 249; Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137;
Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 655; Kidd v. Pearson, 138
U. S.1; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; People v. Michigan CentralR. Co., 145 Michigan, 140; Walling v. Michigan,
116 U. S.446. See also Herman v. State, 8 Indiana, 545;
Allgeyer v . Louisiana,165 U. S.578, 589; Butchers' Union
v. Crescent City, 111 U. S.746, 766.
Mr. Grant Fellows, Attorney General of the State of
Michigan, for defendant in error:
The Michigan Local Option Act is not unconstitutional
under either the commerce clause, the Fourth Amendment
or the Fourteenth Amendment. Barron v. Baltimore,
7 Pet. 243; Delamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93;
Eilenbecker v. Plymouth Co., 134 U. S.31; Feek v. Bloomingdale, 82 Michigan, 393; Friesnerv. Charlotte, 91 Michigan, 504; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.1; Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S.623; Lloyds v. Dollison, 194 U. S.445; People v.
Eberle, 167 Michigan, 477; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S.
252; Ripley v. Texas, 193 U. S. 504; Tiernan v. Rinker,
102 U. S.123.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR delivered the opinion of the court.

The Michigan Local Option Law of 1889 (Pub. Acts,
No. 207), makes it unlawful to manufacture or sell malt,
vinous, spirituous or intoxicating liquors in any county
where a majority of the electors vote in favor of prohibition.
The provisions of the law, however, do not (§ 1) apply
to druggists selling such liquors in compliance with the
restrictions imposed upon them by the general laws of
this State. It was also provided (§ 15) that "nothing in
this act shall be so construed as to prohibit the sale of wine
for sacramental purposes, nor shall anything herein con-

EBERLE v. MICHIGAN.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tained prohibit druggists or registered pharmacists from
selling or furnishing pure alcohol for medicinal, art, scientific and mechanical purposes;" Public Acts of Michigan
for 1889, pp. 287, 293.
By amendments passed in 1899 and 1903 (acts of 1899,
p. 280; acts of 1903, p. 229), it was further provided that
the act should not be construed to "prohibit the sale of
wine or cider made from home grown fruit in quantities
of not less than five gallons, nor . . . to prohibit
. . to prothe manufacture of wine or cider, nor
hibit the sale at wholesale of wine or cider manufactured
in said [dry] county to parties who reside outside of said
county."
As'a result of an election held April 13, 1909, the law
became operative in Jackson County on May 1st, 1909.
The defendants, who were officers of a brewing company,
were charged with having thereafter manufactured beer
in that county, in violation of the statute. They moved
to quash the Information, upon the ground that the act
was void because it interfered with interstate commerce,
took property without due process of law, and so discriminated against them and other manufacturers residing
in dry counties as to deny.them the equal protection of the
law. These defenses were overruled. On the trial they offered evidence tending to show that the beer which they
had manufactured had not been made for sale, but to be
used in causing re-fermentation of 1600 barrels of beer
worth $5 a barrel, which was on hand at the date of the
election, with a view of making it salable, and thereby save
themselves against loss. Under the charge of the court, the
jury returned a verdict of guilty. The case was then
taken to the Supreme Court of Michigan, which held
(167 Michigan, 477) that the amendments of 1899 and
1903 (permitting the manufacture and sale of wine and
cider in dry counties), were void as an unlawful discrimination against the products and citizens of other States and

OCTOBER TERM. 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

a violation of the equal protection clause of the Constitution. The court, however, sustained the conviction and
sentence of defendants upon the ground that the original
Local Option Act was constitutional and had not been
rendered invalid by the void amendments of 1899 and
1903. The case was then brought here where, in addition
to the errors previously assigned, the plaintiffs in errordefendants in the trial court-insisted that the court erred
in holding that the act could be valid if the amendments
relative to wine and cider were stricken-said provisions
"being a part of the Act at the time the Local Option Law
was adopted in Jackson County, where defendants reside,
and operating, together with the other provisions of the
Act, to bring about such adoption."
1. The argument here was principally directed to a
discussion of this assignment of error-the defendants
contending that the discriminatory wine-and-cider amendments formed an integral part of the law (Endlich on
Statutes, §§ 94, 294) which had been submitted to the
voters and which, when adopted, it was claimed, was
adopted as a whole. It was insisted that the provisions
permitting the manufacture and sale of wine and cider
induced many to vote for the law as amended, and it
was, in effect, argued that these amendments could not
be treated as a part of the statute for the purpose of
carrying the election and then be held void in order to
save the law from being set aside as discriminatory. In
support of this contention, defendants relied on State ex
rel. Huston v. Commissioners, 5 Oh. St. 497, where the
court was considering a local option statute, one section
of which provided for an election to determine whether a
county seat should be removed, and another (§5) contained
unconstitutional provisions which were such "as would
naturally influence the vote upon the adoption or rejection
of the first and main section." It was held that: "The provisions of both sections are made equally to depend upon

EBERLE v. MICHIGAN.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the result of the election; they were submitted by the legislature collectively to the voters, and could only be passed
upon as a whole; and . . . must, therefore, stand or
fall together." But in that case the valid and invalid provisions formed an inseparable part of a single act which
was void as a whole, whether treated as having been
adopted by the legislature or the people. On the other
hand in the case at bar the original Local Option Law
of 1889 had been held to be constitutional as a whole,
and its validity could not be impaired by the subsequent
adoption of what were in form amendments but, in legal
effect, were mere nullities.
2. It is true that the fact that these amendments were
on the statute book may have influenced electors. Some
may have voted for the law because of the supposed permission to make wine. Others may have opposed its
adoption because of the supposed exemption of wine from
the operation of the act. But in either event these void
amendments were not a part of the law but extraneous inducements which may or may not have determined the
result. The attack, therefore, goes rather to the regularity
of the adoption than to the constitutionality of the statute
after it had been adopted for Jackson County. But it
was for the state court to determine that matter and to
decide whether the election was void because the question
apparently submitted was the adoption of the law and
amendments, when, in reality, only, the law itself was
submitted. This court, on writ of error from a state court
cannot inquire into the motives or arguments which influence men to vote for or against a measure. Neither
can we reverse the decision of the state court, and declare
the act inoperative in Jackson County because the electors
thereof may have voted under a misapprehension as to the
matter submitted, any more than we could set aside a
statute because it had been enacted contrary to parliamentary rules relating to the introduction, debate and
VOL. ccxxxii-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

passage of a bill. The original Local Option statute had
been held to be constitutional, and prohibited, without
discrimination, the manufacture of all liquors. That valid
act the defendants violated and their conviction cannot
be set aside on the ground that some or all of the electors
voted to make the law operative in Jackson County under
the supposition that as wine could be manufactured, the
equal protection clause of the Constitution would make
it likewise lawful to manufacture beer and other liquors.
3. Nor can the judgment be reversed because the
original act, while prohibiting liquor to be sold by merchants permitted it to be sold by druggists for medicinal,
mechanical or scientific purposes. The 6ontention that
this was an unlawful discrimination is answered by Kidd
v. Pearson, J 28 U; S. 1; Rippey v. Texas, 193 U. S. 504;
Lloyd v. Dollison, 194 U. S. 445. Those cases show that
the State may prohibit the sale of liquor absolutely or conditionally; may prohibit the sale as a beverage and permit
the sale for medicinal and like purpose; that it may prohibit the sale by merchants and permit the sale by licensed
druggists.
4. It was further contended that the act takes property
without due process of law because it made no provision
for the sale of liquor on hand at the time the law became
operative. But the record does not call for a decision of
that question, nor does it bring the case within the principle, suggested in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 133,
that a statute absolutely prohibiting the sale of property
in existence at the time of the passage of the law would
amount to confiscation and be void as depriving the owner
of his property without due process of law. The defendants were not charged with selling property which was in
their possession when the law went into effect in May,
1909, but with manufacturing beer in September, 1909,
several months after its adoption. The fact that such beer
may have been made for use in starting re-fermentation of

SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

other beer that was on hand when the law became operative, does not bring the case within the principle for which
the decision is cited. For the right to manufacture beer
to be utilized in giving value to an unfinished brew is no
more protected by the Constitution than the right to
manufacture beer in order to utilize the brewery and
thereby preserve the value of the plant as a going concern.
Liquor laws are enacted by virtue of the police power
to protect the health, morals and welfare of the public.
Such laws may operate to depreciate the principal value
of distilleries, breweries and other property, in use and
on 'hand when the law is passed, but it has been held in
many cases that such depreciation is not the taking of
property prohibited by the Constitution. Boston Beer Co.
v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623. There is nothing in the record calling for a discussion
of the assignment of error relating to interstate commerce.
The judgment must be
Affirmed.

SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD, TRUSTEE OF
BROWN & CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 213. Argued January 29, 1914.-Decided March 23, 1914.
Where one has deposited trust funds in-his individual bank account and
the mingled fundis at any time wholly depleted, the trust fund is
thereby dissipated and cannot be treated as reappearing in sums
* subsequently deposited to the credit of the same account.
One seeking to charge a fund in the hands of a trustee for the benefit
of all creditors as being the proceeds of his property and therefore a
special trust fund for him, has the burden of proof; and if -he is un-

