OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Counsel for Parties.

232 U. S.

show, and the change that is good as against her husband
ought to be good as against all. In the later decisions the
right to change and the effect of the change are laid down
in absolute terms. Gordon v. Yost, 140 Fed. Rep. 79.
Watertown v. Greaves, 112 Fed. Rep. 183. ,Shute v. Sargent, 67 N. H. 305. Buchholz v. Buchholz, 115 Pac. Rep.
88. See Haddock v. Haddock, sup., Barber v. Barber, 21
How. 582, 588, 597, 598. We see no reason why the wife
who justifiably has left her husband should not have
the same choice of domicil for an action for damages that
she has against her husband for a divorce.
We answer the question, Yes.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. KENNEDY.
IRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 246. Submitted March 9, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.

Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Polt, ante, p. 165, followed to
the effect that the statute of South Dakota of 1907, c. 215, making
railroad companies liable for double damages in case of failure to pay
a claim or offer a sum equal to what the jury finds the claimant entitled to, is unconstitutional under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
28 So. Dak. 94, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Burton Hanson, Mr. William G. Porterand Mr. F.
L. Granthamfor plaintiff in error.

No brief filed for defendant in error.

PORTO RICO v. RAMOS.

232 U. S.

Syllabus.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

The ground upon which it is asserted in this case that
the statute of the State of South Dakota, upon which the
judgment of the court below here under review was based,
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, was
considered and held to be well taken in a case decided this
term. (Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, ante, p. 165.)
As that decision is conclusive upon all the issues here
presented and establishes that the statute in question is
inconsistent with the Constitution and void, it results that
for the reasons stated in the case referred to, the judgment
in this case must be reversed and the case remanded to the
court below for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO v, RAMOS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 390. Submitted February 25, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.
Immunity of sovereignty from suit without consent does not permit
the sovereign to reverse the action invoked by it so that it may
come in and go out of court at will without the right of the other
party to resist either step.
While Porto Rico may not in ordinary actions be sued without its consent, a voluntary appearance after due consideration and request to
be made a party by the Attorney General on the ground of interest
in the controversy, amounts to a consent, and thereafter Porto Rico
cannot object to the jurisdiction on account of its immunity as a
sovereign. Porto Rico v. Rosaly, 227 U. S. 270, distinguished.

