SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

other beer that was on hand when the law became operative, does not bring the case within the principle for which
the decision is cited. For the right to manufacture beer
to be utilized in giving value to an unfinished brew is no
more protected by the Constitution than the right to
manufacture beer in order to utilize the brewery and
thereby preserve the value of the plant as a going concern.
Liquor laws are enacted by virtue of the police power
to protect the health, morals and welfare of the public.
Such laws may operate to depreciate the principal value
of distilleries, breweries and other property, in use and
on 'hand when the law is passed, but it has been held in
many cases that such depreciation is not the taking of
property prohibited by the Constitution. Boston Beer Co.
v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623. There is nothing in the record calling for a discussion
of the assignment of error relating to interstate commerce.
The judgment must be
Affirmed.

SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD, TRUSTEE OF
BROWN & CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 213. Argued January 29, 1914.-Decided March 23, 1914.
Where one has deposited trust funds in-his individual bank account and
the mingled fundis at any time wholly depleted, the trust fund is
thereby dissipated and cannot be treated as reappearing in sums
* subsequently deposited to the credit of the same account.
One seeking to charge a fund in the hands of a trustee for the benefit
of all creditors as being the proceeds of his property and therefore a
special trust fund for him, has the burden of proof; and if -he is un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

232 U. S.

able to identify the fund as representing the proceeds of his property,
his claim must fail as all doubt must be resolved in favor of the
trustee who represents all creditors.
193 Fed. Rep. 24, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve determining the relative rights
to the bank balance of a bankrupt stockbroker, of the
trustee and of a customer whose securities the bankrupt
had sold, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. Benton Crisp, with whom Mr. Theodore M.
Crisp was on the brief, for appellants:
The bankrupts wrongfully and fraudulently converted
the property of the appellants. This was found by both
courts below.
The bankrupts commingled the proceeds of appellants'
property with that of their own, and the combined or
commingled funds having been traced into the Hanover
National Bank funds, a part of which are now in the
hands of the trustee, so long as any portion of said funds
remained, the appellants are entitled to have their money
paid out of them and if said funds were used to release
collateral in the bank, which collateral, or the proceeds of
which collateral-, went into the hands of the trustee, they
should be impressed with a lien in favor of the appellants.
Gorman v. Littlefield, 229 U. S. 19; Peters v. Bain, 133
U. S. 670; Frelinghuysenv. Nugent, 36 Fed. Rep. 229, 239;
In re Marsh, 116 Fed. Rep. 396; Erie Railroad Co. v. Dial,
140 Fed. Rep. 689; In re Royea, 143 Fed. Rep. 182; Smith
v. Motley, 150 Fed. Rep. 266; Smith v. Township, 150
Fed. Rep. 257; In re Stewart, 178 Fed. Rep. 463, 470;
National Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Cavin v.
Gleason, 105 N. Y. 256; Knatchbull v. Hallet, L. R. 13 Ch.
Div. 696.
All equities are in favor of the appellants. They have
been fraudulently deprived of their property and if they
are unable to obtain it in this proceeding, the general

SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD.
232 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

creditors of the bankrupts will profit by the fraudulent
acts of the latter. This is not in keeping with the policy
of the Bankruptcy Law. Hurley v. Atchison &c. Ry. Co.,
213 U. S. 126, 134;. In re Chase, 124 Fed. Rep. 753.
Mr. Edwin D. Hays, with whom Mr. Daniel P. Hays and
Mr. Ralph Wolf were on the brief, for appellee:
The burden was on the appellants to show that their
property, or the proceeds thereof, came into the hands of
the trustee. FirstNationalBank v. Littlefield, 226 U. S. 110;
In re McIntyre, 181 Fed. Rep. 960; American Can Co. v.
Williams, 178 Fed. Rep. 420; Matterof Hicks, 170 N. Y. 195.
All trust funds deposited by the bankrupts in the Hanover National Bank prior to the certification on August 25
of the check for $146,600 to Coombs & Co. were dissipated
by the certification of said check, and no funds so deposited
came into the hands of the receiver or trustee.
The cases in appellants' brief do not conflict with the
position taken by the appellee on this appeal.
It is undoubtedly the law that if trust moneys or property are mingled with other moneys or property by a
trustee, they may be followed by cestui que trust, so long
as the fund into which they go is not dissipated. This is
true even if the trust money or property loses its identity
by reason of the mingling provided the fund into which it
went is still in existence. FirstNational Bank v. Littlefield,
supra.
If trust money is wrongfully placed by the trustee in
his general bank account and mingled with other moneys
of the trustee, the claimant may still follow them so long
as he can show a balance remained continuously in the
account from the time of the deposit equal to the amount
claimed, but if the account is entirely depleted as was the
bankrupts' account in the case at bar by the certification
of the Coombs checks, the trust moneys become dissipated
and no longer traceable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

MR. JUSICE LAxmAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This record presents for determination another of the
many questions arising out of the tangled and complicated
affairs of Brown & Co., stockbrokers of New York City,
who made an assignment on August 25, 1908, and who
were subsequently adjudged bankrupts. The proceeding
is by Schuyler, Chadwick & Burnham, to recover trust
funds which they claim to have traced into the possession
of Brown & Company's Trustee in bankruptcy. The case
involves an application of the rule that where one has
deposited trust funds in his individual bank account and
the mingled fund is at any time wholly depleted the trust
fund is thereby dissipated, and cannot be treated as reappearing in sums subsequently deposited to the credit
of the same account. Knatchbull v. Hallett, L. R. 13 Ch.
Div. 696; Peters v. Bain, 133 U. S. 671 (1), 693; Board
of Com'rs v. Strawn, 157 Fed. Rep. 49, 54.
There is no controversy about the law, but a complete
disagreement about matters of fact where it is necessary
to decide with certainty, on the one hand, the exact time
and order in which a series of checks were deposited; and,
on the other, to determine, with equal certainty, the exact
order in which a series of checks drawn on that account
were paid and what use was made of the money so drawn.
As the bankruptcy occurred on August 25, 1908, and as
the testimony was taken several months later, it is not
surprising that the witnesses were not able to establish
definitely the order in which these transactions took
place, nor that the Referee, District Judge and Court of
Appeals each differed from the other as to what had been
proved. The Referee found that Schuyler, Chadwick &
Burnham had traced their funds into the hands of the

Trustee and were therefore entitled to recover. The
District Judge agreed with the Referee in this conclusion
but disagreed with him aj to some of the findings of fact

SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on which that conclusion was based. The Circuit Court
of Appeals disagreed with both and held that the trust
fund had not been traced into the hands of the Trustee
and thereupon dismissed the complaint. The appeal from
that decree involves a consideration of the facts, which
may be thus briefly stated:
Brown & Co. were brokerg in New York City, and on
August 24th, 1908, by false representations of solvency
obtained from Schuyler, Chadwick & Burnham, 300
shares of Interborough stock (worth $32 per share) agreeing at once to send in payment a check for $9,600, capable
of certification. This was not done and in spite of repeated demands the check was not delivered until after
banking hours on August 24th and too late to have it
certified that day. In the meantime Brown & Co. sold
to Miller the
300 shares Interborough, for ............. $ 9,600
1000 shares Northern Pacific ............. 143,000
1000 shares Great Northern .............. 137,000
Total ...................... $289,600
Miller thereupon gave Brown & Co. a check-for $266,600,
which was deposited in the Hanover National Bank on
August 24. Miller retained the balance of $23,000 on
some claim which was not admitted by Brown & Co.
They later that day obtained from Miller a check for
$23,000, which was deposited in the bank the next morning, but after the Bank had refused to pay or certify the
Schuyler, Chadwick & Burnham check for $9,600.
It thus appeared that the stock fraudulently obtained
by Brown & Co. had been sold by them, with other stock,
to Miller who paid for the whole in two checks-one for
$266,600 deposited to Brown & Co.'s account in the
Hanover National Bank on August 24th, and another
for $23,000 deposited in the same bank on August 25th.
1. If the trust fund of $9,600 was included in the check

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

for $266,600, then it was dissipated except to the extent
of $6,180.17, which was the sum left to Brown & Co.'s
credit at the close of business on August 24th. And inasmuch as all of that balance was paid out early the next
day, the trust fund was thereby wholly dissipated so far
as the bank account was concerned.
If, however, the trust fund of $9,600 is to be treated as
having been included in Miller's check for $23,000, then
a similar result follows, though on this point the evidence
of the witnesses and the findings of the two courts are
in conflict. The controlling question was whether the
$23,000 had been deposited before or after the payment
of a check for $146,000 which absorbed the whole amount
then in bank. We see no reason to disturb the finding of
the Circuit Court of Appeals that the check for $23,000
was deposited soon after the Bank opened on August 25th,
and that it, with other money deposited during the
morning, was used at about 11.30 A. M. to pay this check
for $146,000 given by Brown & Co. to Coombs & Co. The
payment of this large sum depleted the account and dissipated the trust fund in bank.
2. The appellants, however, presented their case in a
double aspect. They contended that even if the trust
fund of $9,600 was checked out of the bank they are able
to trace the fund into stocks that subsequently came into
the hands of the Trustee in Bankruptcy. This was based
on the claim that out of the proceeds of the Miller checks,
Brown & Co. had paid notes due to the bank and thereby
released collateral which ultimately came into the possession of the Trustee.
But the record fails to show when the $266,600 was
deposited and it also fails to show with the requisite certainty the particular use made by Brown & Co. of that
money. The banking transactions on August 24th involved several millions of dollars. Money was deposited
by Brown & Co. in the bank and money was borrowed by

SCHUYLER v. LITTLEFIELD.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Brown & Co. from the bank. Part of the loans were
deposited to their bank account and a part, represented by
cashier's checks, did not appear in that account. Money
was paid by Brown & Co. to outsiders and to the bank.
Payments to the bank were made on accounts of notes,
some of which represented loans appearing in the deposit
account, and others represented loans which had not been
so entered. Some of the loans were secured and others
were unsecured, and whether the money received from
Miller (which included the trust fund of $9,600), was used
to pay the secured or unsecured loans does not appear with
certainty.
It would serve no useful purpose to make a detailed
statement of the testimony. The evidence has been fully
discussed by the Court of Appeals (193 Fed. Rep. 24-33)
in considering this claim of appellants along with that of
several other parties seeking, on somewhat similar facts,
to trace trust funds into the bank and thence into collateral
which ultimately came into the hands of the Trustee. All
these claims were disallowed because of the failure to make
the requisite proof. Our investigatibn of the facts leads
us to the same conclusion so far as concerns the appellants'
claim. They were practically asserting title to $9,600
said to have been traced into stock in the possession of the
Trustee. Like all other persons similarly situated, they
were under the burden of proving their title. If they were
unable to carry the burden of identifying the fund as
representing the proceeds of their Interborough stock
their claim must fail. If their evidence left the matter
of identification in doubt the doubt must be resolved in
favor of the Trustee, who represents all of the creditors
of Brown & Co., some of whom appear to have suffered
in the same way. Like them, the appellants must be
remitted to the general fund.
The decree is affirmed,

