WEINMAN
232 U. S.

V. DE

PALMA.

Syllabus.

fused to carry out the illegal purpose, no *offense against
the laws of the United States'was committed. It is argued
that the end and object of the act is to prevent immorality
and trafficking in girls, and not the mere act of transportation. But we think that by the plain language of the

statute, the offense is complete when "any such woman or
girl shall be transported in interstate or foreign commerce,
or in any Territory or the District of Columbia" as a
result of any of the criminal acts previously described.
The suggestion that the law contemplates a locus pwnitentias for defendant, after the journey is ended and tjie
woman or girl has been brought to the intended destination within the walls of a house of prostitution, is obviously untenable.
We find no error in the record.

Judgments affirmed.

WEINMAN v. DE PALMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 173.

Argued January 20, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where the owner of demised premises makes a contract with an adjoining owner for construction of a party wall, which contract cannot
be carried out according to its terms without entry upon the demised premises and undermining the tenant's wall, and the adjoining
owner, or his servants, in performing the contract commit such a
trespass upon the tenant's possession and undermine the wall, the
contract is evidential of a command or approval of the trespass by
the landlord, such as to render him liable severally, or jointly with
the adjoining owner, in an action by the tenant for the resulting
damages.
Where a trespass results in the destruction of a building with consequent interruption of a going business, the loss of future profits-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

reasonably certain and proved with reasonable exactitude-is a
proper element for consideration in awarding compensatory damages.
Where the contractor is required to follow instructions of the owner
he is not such an independent contractor as to relieve the owner of
liability for his acts.
The "independent contractor" doctrine does not apply where the
work that the contractor does amounts in itself to a nuisance or
necessarily operates to destroy the property of another.
16 New Mex. 302, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Neill B. Fieldfor plaintiffs in error.
Mr. F. E. Wood, with whom Mr. Owen N. Marron and
Mr. A. B. McMillen were on the brief, for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In November, 1901, Weininan, one of the plaintiffs in
error, being the owner of a building and lot of land in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, leased them to defendants in
error for a term of two years, to commence in December,
following. They entered into possession, and occupied
and used the building in their business of prescription and
retail druggists. Plaintiff in error Barnett was the owner
of an adjoining lot and building. Some time in May or
June, 1902, while the Weinman building was occupied by
defendants in error, Barnett took down and removed his
building, including the wall adjacent to the Weinman
building. The east wall of the latter was an old adobe
wall that stood close to, but perhaps a few inches away
from, the easterly boundary line of the lot. In May, 1902,
Weinman and Barnett entered into an agreement in
writing, whereby Barnett was to construct a party wall,

WEINMAN v.
232 U. S.

DE

PALMA.

Opinion of the Court.

to stand one-half of its full thickness upon each lot; the
footing course to be 40 inches wide; the foundation wall
to be 18 inches thick from the top of the footing to its full
height, where it was to receive the first floor joists; the
wall above that to be of less thickness. It was stipulated
that Barnett should be permitted to take down any part
of the east wall of the Weinman building as might be
necessary in order to locate the new wall centrally over
the property line, and if through his fault damage should
be done to the Weinman building, he was to make it good.
In the execution of this agreement, it was necessary to
undermine the east wall of the Weinman building. Barnett made an agreement with one Grande, a general contractor, by which the latter was to do the excavation and
stone work according to plans and specifications, and as
directed by La Driere, a superintendent who was in
Barnett's employ. Grande proceeded under La Driere's
direction to do the work. It would seem that the purpose was to excavate for the party wall in sections, so
that support for the Weinman building should not at any
time be entirely lacking. On or about June 30, the contractor having excavated for a space about 5 feet in
length along the line between the two lots at the northeast corner of the Weinman building, and extending under
the east wall of that building for approximately 12 inches,
the wall fell, damaging!the stock-in-trade and fixtures of
defendants in error, and rendering the building untenantable. They removed what remained of their stock andfixtures to another and less desirable location, and carried
on their business there, up to the time their lease of the
Weinman lot and building would have expired by its
terms. After the wall fell, Weinman made demand for the
rent payable by the lease for the month of July, 1902, and,
defendants in error having refused to pay it, Weinman
took possession.
Defendants in error brought suit against both Weinman

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

and Barnett in the district court of one of the counties of
the then Territory of New Mexico. The action was in
the nature of an action of trespass, and damages were
claimed for the destruction of parts and injury to other
parts of the stock-in-trade and fixtures, for the being
compelled to remove to a less favorable location at considerable expense, and for the loss of profits in the business.
(There was also a claim of damages for eviction and the
loss of the leasehold, but this was afterwards abandoned.)
Answers were filed, and there were subsequent amendments to the pleadings, but it is not necessary to recite
them.
The action has been at least three times tried by jury,
and three times reviewed by the Supreme Court of New
Mexico. Upon the first trial a verdict was directed in.
favor of defendants, and the Supreme Court reversed the
judgment and remanded the cause -for a new trial. 13
New Mex. 226. The second trial resulted in a verdict
and judgment for plaintiffs, which was reversed because
compensation for loss of profits and for goods injured was
included without sufficient evidence to sustain this part
of the recovery. 15 New Mex. 68. At the last trial, the
proof was to some extent supplemented, and there was a
judgment in favor of plaintiffs for $7,738, based upon
the verdict of a jury for that amount. On appeal, the
Supreme Court found error only with respect to the proof
as to damaged goods, and required plaintiffs to elect
whether they would file a remittitur of $770 on this account, or submit to a new trial. 16 New Mex. 302. They
chose the former alternative, and the judgment was
affirmed for the reduced amount. The present writ of
error was then sued out.
The record is voluminous. In the territorial Supreme
Court, 105 assignments of error were filed in behalf of
Barnett and 68 in behalf of Weinman. In this court the
assignments of error are 110 in number. We shall make no

WEINMAN v.
232 U. S.

DE

PALMA.

Opinion of the Court.

effort to deal with them in detail. The points that seem
to require mention are the following:
We agree with the Supreme Court of New Mexico that
where the owner of demised premises makes a contract
with an adjoining owner for the construction of a party
wall, which contract cannot be carried out according to its
terms without entry upon the demised premises and an
undermining of the tenant's wall, and the adjoining owner
or his servants in the performance of the contract do commit such a trespass upon the tenant's possession and undermine the wall, the contract is evidential of a command or
approval of the trespass by the landlord, such as to render
him liable severally, or jointly with the adjoining owner,
in ali action by the tenant for the resulting damages.
Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1, 9; Northern Trust Co. v.
Palmer, 171 Illinois, 383, 388; Collins v. Lewis, 53 Minnesota, 78, 83; Snow v. Pulitzer, 142 N. Y. 263, 268.
In our opinion, the court correctly held that where a
trespass results in the destruction of a building, with
consequent interruption of a going business, the loss of
future profits (these being reasonably certain and proved
with reasonable exactitude), forms a proper element for
consideration in awarding compensatory damages. Allison v. Chandler, 11 Michigan, 543, 550; Schile v. Brokhahus, 80 N. Y. 614, 620; Snow v. Pulitzer, 142 N. Y.
263, 270; Chapman v. Kirby, 49 Illinois, 211, 219; City of
Terre Haute v. Hudnut, 112 Indiana, 542, 552; Fibre Co. v.
Electric Co., 95 Maine, 318, 327. And see Anvil Mining
Co. v. Humble, 153 U. S. 540, 549; Brown v. Honiss, 74
N. J. Law, 501, 514.
We agree also with the court below that upon the last
trial there was legitimate evidence upon which to base an
allowance of damages for loss of profits, and no substantial error in the rulings on evidence or in the instructions
to the jury upon the subject.
It is contended that plaintiffs in error are not responsible

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

for what was done by Grande in building the party wall
because he was an independent contractor.
But the evidence showed that he was required to follow
the instructions of La Driere, who was Barnett's agent,
and that La Driere was in fact in charge of the work. For
this reason it was properly held that Grande was not an
independent contractor. Railroad Co. v. Hanning, 15
Wall. 649, 657; Singer Mfg. Co. v. Rahn, 132 U. S. 518, 523.
Nor d6ee the "independent contractor" doctrine apply where the work that the contractor is to do of itself
amounts to a nuisance or necessarily operates to injure or
destroy the property of plaintiff. Chicago v. Robbins,
2 Black, 418, 426; Robbins v. Chicago, 4 Wall. 657, 678.
The other points that are raised have been examined,
and we find no material error. They have been sufficiently
discussed in the court below, and require no particular
mention here.
Judgment affirmed.

OHIO TAX CASES.
OHIO RIVER AND WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. DITTEY ET AL., AS THE TAX COMMISSION OF OHIO.
MARIETTA, COLUMBUS AND CLEVELAND RAILROAD COMPANY v. CREAMER ET AL., AS THE
TAX COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Nos. 642, 643.

Argued January 7, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

Where the Federal jurisdiction does not depend upon diversity of
citizenship but on Federal questions presented by the record, it extends to the determination of all questions presented irrespective of
the disposition made of the Federal questions.

