OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Parties.

232 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. BROWN v. LANE,
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR. 1
APPLICATION FOR ALLOWANCE OF WRIT OF ERROR.
No.

Submitted February 24, 1914.-Decided March 2, 1914.

Although, on the face of the record, this court may have jurisdiction
to review a judgment, the right of review does not obtain where the
formal questions presented by the record are absolutely frivolous
and devoid of all merit. Consolidated Turnpike Co, v. Norfolk &c.
Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596.
The foregoing rule heretofore generally announced in regard to cases
coming from state courts, applies to cases coming from the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia under the third and fifth paragraphs of § 250, Judicial Code.
Vesting the Secretary of the Interior with power not only to appoint
members of a tribal council of an Indian tribe but also with the power
to remove such members for good cause to be by him determined,
is not unconstitutional because it permits such removal without
notice or hearilng, nor does it deprive a member so removed of any
property iights without due process of law in violation of the Fifth
Amendment.
Under § 9 of the act of June 28, 1906, dividing the lands and funds of
the Osage Indians and providing for the appointment by the Secretary of the Interior of a tribal council, the authority to remove
members from such council for good cause to be by him determined is
not qualified by necessity of notice or hearing to the members so
removed.
Writ of error to review 40 App. D. C. 533, denied.

THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court to

review judgments of the Court of.Appeals of the District

of Columbia and the construction of the Osage Indian
Act of 1906, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Andrew Wilson, Mr. Albert L. Wilson and Mr. James
P. Schick for plaintiff in error.
,Original docket title Ulnited States sx rel. 3rown v. Fisher, Secretary of the Interior.

BROWN v. LANE.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

By

The act of June 28, 1906, c. 3572,.34 Stat. 539, 545, entitled "An Act for the division of the lands and funds of
the Osage Indians in Oklahoma Territory, and for other.
purposes" in its ninth section provided among other things
for a tribal council composed of eight persons. The members of this council were to be chosen at an election
whose date was fixed and which was to be conducted in
the manner directed by tle Commissioner of Indian Affairs, provision being made for the biennial recurrence
of such election and consequently for a two years' term
for the members of the council. The provision, however, creating the council contained this express qualification: "And the Secretary of the Interior is hereby
authorized to remove from the council any member or
members thereof for good cause, to be by him determined." On January 2, 1913, the Secretary of the In•terior, in the exertion of the power thus conferred, by a
formal order removed "each and every member of the
council." It was declared in the order that the power
exercised was exerted for good cause, and this statement
was followed by a specification of various acts of misfeasance or nonfeasance, which it was deemed rendered
the removal necessary. Among those who were thus removed, was A. H. Brown, the relator, who shortly after
the action of the Secretary, that is, in February, 1913,
commenced proceedings by mandamus to vacate the
order on the ground that it had been made without
previous notice and without affording an opportunity to
be heard and to defend, and therefore was not authorized
by the statute, and if it was authorized was void because
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
The trial court denied the relief and the Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Appeals of the District in affirming such action held that
the statute conferred upon the Secretary power to remove
without necessity of notice or hearing and moreover that
as so construed the statute was not in conflict with the
Constitution (40 App. D. C. 533). This application for
the allowance of a writ of error is before us because of the
reference of the same to the court by the Chief Justice to
whom it was primarily presented.
The asserted right to the writ is based upon the third,
fifth and sixth paragraphs of § 250 of the Judicial Code:
the third conferring the right to review "in cases involving
the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States, or the constitutionality of any law of the
United States"; the fifth giving such right "in cases in
which the validity of any authority exercised under the
United States, or the existence or scope of any power or
duty of an officer of the United States is drawn in question"; and the sixth also giving the right to review in
cases "in which the construction of any law of the United
States is drawn in question by the defendant." On the
face of the record from a merely formal point of view it is
apparent that the case as presented is embraced within
both the third and fifth paragraphs. But it is elementary
that where the jurisdiction depends upon the presence of
controversies of a particular character or the existence of
prescribed questions or conditions, substance and not mere
form is the test of power and therefore even in a case
where the requisite for jurisdiction formally exists the
right to review does not obtain where it is evident that the
formal questions as presented by the record are so wanting
in substance as to cause them to be frivolous and devoid of
all merit. Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk &c. Ry.
Co., 228 U. S. 596, 600, and cases cited. It is true that the
doctrine has generally found expression in considering
the rightto review cases coming from state courts, but
the principle is here directly and necessarily applicable

BROWN v. LANE.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in consequence of the nature and character of the limitations imposed by the statute upon the right to review
cases decided by the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia. Coming to test the existence of jurisdiction to
review the controversy and consequently to determine
whether the writ prayed for should be allowed we are
clear that the propositions upon which it is asserted jurisdiction to review exists are so wholly unsubstantial and
frivolous and devoid of all merit as to afford no ground
whatever for the exercise of jurisdiction and the consequent allowance of the writ.
This conclusion is reached because we are of the opinion
that on the face of the statute it plainly vested the Secretary of the Interior with the power and discretion to
remove without the necessity of giving notice or affording a
hearing and because we are unable to perceive any basis
whatever for the contention that if the statute gives such
power it conflicts with the Fifth Amendment. The right
to membership in the council which the statute created
and the power to remove at discretion which it conferred
on the Secretary of the Interior were indissolubly united,
and it is impossible to admit the existence of the one without recognizing the other and therefore to adopt the premise upon which the proposition must rest would be but
to destroy the right to continue in office which the proposition is urged to maintain, since the office may not be
treated as existing free from the safeguards concerning the
discharge of its duties which the statute provides. The
argument is not strengthened by confounding the asserted
right of the relator to continue to be a member of the
tribal council with rights of property assumed to exist in
favor of the members of the tribe, and upon the resulting
confusion to urge that the assumed rights of property will
be taken without due process if the authority of the
Secretary to remove a member of the tribal council without
notice and hearing be upheld. On the contrary, if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

possession of the asserted property rights be assumed, it
must follow that the power to remove, given by the statute, must be sustained. Considering the context of the
act, the limitation which it imposes upon the members of
the tribe and the tribe itself to contract and the large
administrative supervision over such subjects which the
statute confers upon the Secretary, it is not disputable
that the right to remove for "good cause to be by him
determined" which the statute gives to the Secretary is
but an appropriate means provided for the accomplishment of the duties cast upon him with reference to the
subject-matters stated. Under these circumstances the
proposition could not be maintained without holding
that although the duty existed to protect by appropriate
legislation the tribe and its members, suich legislation if
enacted, would be repugnant to the Constitution.
Writ denied.

YOUNG, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 389. Argued February 26, 1914.-Decided March 9, 1914.
The Circuit Court of Appeals having, pursuant to the state court
practice in Pennsylvania, reversed a judgment in favor of the plaintiff and remanded to the trial court with instructions, not for new
trial, but for judgment for defendant, non obstante veredicto, this
court affirms the judgment of reversal so far as the case is remanded
to the trial court, but reverses it as to the direction to enter judgment for defendant, and remands the case to the trial court for a new
trial conformably with the provisions of the Seventh Amendment.
Slocum v. New York Life InsuranceCo., 228 U. S. 364.
200 Fed. Rep. 359, modified and affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

