HOLT v. HENLEY.
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

HOLT v. HENLEY, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 229.

Argued March 5, 1914.-Decided March 16, 1914.

The amendment to the Bankruptcy Act of June 25, 1910, giving the
trustees, as to all property coming into the custody of the Bank-

ruptcy Court, the rights of a creditor holding a lien, should not be
construed to impair then existing rights.
Whether the power of Congress is limited in that respect or not, the
usuil interpretation of such statutes is to confine their effect to
property rights subsequently established.
The right of one who had sold to the bankrupt under an agreement to
retain title until payment, as it existed on June 25, 1910, was not
affected by the amendment to the Bankruptcy Act of that date even
if he did not comply with the statute of the State in regard to recording the agreement.
The goods in this case having been sold on conditional sale prior to the
amendment of June 25, 1910, the seller had a better title than the
trustee. York Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell, 201 ,U. S. 344.
Where the addition to the premises covered by the mortgage is not in
its nature an essential indispensable part of the completed structure
contemplated by that instrument, and its removal would not affect
the integrity of that structure, the mortgagee takes just such interest
in the addition as the mortgagor acquired, no more no less.
A sprinkler plant placed on mortgaged premises after the execution of
that instrument and under an unrecorded conditional sale agreement held not to have attached to the freehold or to be covered by
the after acquired property clause 'beyond the extent which the
mortgagor had acquired.
193 Fed. Rep. 1020, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the relative rights of the
trustee in bankruptcy, the mortgagee and the original
owner of a sprinkling plant placed on the property of the
bankrupt subsequent to the making of the mortgage

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U-S.

under an agreement of conditional sale, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. S. 0. Bland, with whom Mr. R. T. Armistead was
on the brief, for appellant.

Mr. Norvell L. Henley for the Peninsula Bank and Henley, trustee.

Mr. 0. D. Batchelor for Phillips, Spencer and Cooke,
trustees in bankruptcy.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition to the District Court sitting in Bankruptcy for leave to remove an automatic sprinkler system
and equipment from the premises of the bankrupt, the
Williamsburg Knitting Mill Company. It is opposed by
the trustee of a mortgage of the plant of the Company
and the holder of the mortgage notes, and by the trustees
in bankruptcy, both of which parties claim the-property.
The referee, the District Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals decided in favor of the latter claims. 190 Fed.
Rep. 871. 193 Fed. Rep. 1020, 113 C. C. A. 87. The
petitioner, Holt, appeals. The facts are as follows: An
agreement to install the sprinkler was signed by Holt on
August 28, 1909 and by the bankrupt on October 14, 1909.
The installation was begun about December 6, 1909 and
finished in the latter part of March 1910, the equipment
consisting of a fifty-thousand gallon tank on a steel tower
bolted to a concrete foundation, pipes connecting the
tank with the mill. By the agreement the system was to
remain Holt's property until paid for and Holt was- to
have a right to enter and remove it upon a failure to pay
as agreed. It also was to be personal property during the
same time. A large part of the price has not been paid.
But by the Code of Virginia, ยง 2462, unless registered as
therein provided, which this was not, such sales are void

HOLT v. HENLEY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to creditors (construed by the Virginia courts to mean
lien creditors only), and as to purchasers for value without
notice from the vendee. On November 23, 1909, the
mortgage deed was executed, covering the plant on the
premises and that 'which may be acquired and placed
upon the said premises during the continuance of this
trust.' The mortgagees claim the system by virtue of this
clause and the fact that it had been attached to the soil.
As bearing on this last it should be added that there now
is a smaller tank on the same steel tower, that supplies the
mill for domestic purposes, but this was not put there by
Holt.
The trustees in bankruptcy join with Holt in disputing
the claim of the mortgagees, but set up one of their own,
which we will deal with before discussing that of the mortgagees. They rely upon the act of June 25, 1910, c. 412,
ยง 8, 36 Stat. 838, 840, amending ยง 47a (2) of the Bankruptcy Act, and giving them, as to all property coming into
the custody of the Bankruptcy Court, the rights of a
creditor holding a lien. Before that amendment, Holt
had a better title than the trustees would have got. York
Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344. We are of
opinion that the act should not be construed to impair it.
We do not need to consider whether or how far in any
event the constitutional power of Congress would have
been limited. It is enough that the reasonable and usual
interpretation of such statutes is to confine their effect, so
far as may be, to property rights established after they
were passed. If, as they sometimes do, te registry statute
had fixed a time within which the regisuration must take
place and the time had elapsed, we think it clear that the
amendment would not be read as attempting to diminish
Holt's rights. But the most obvious if not the only way
of reaching that result would be by taking the amendment
to affect subsequently established rights alone. That is a
familiar and natural mode of interpretation, whereas it

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

would be highly artificial to say that it affected existing
rights that still might be secured but not those for which
the chance had been lost. Therefore we think it immaterial if true, that for a month or two after the amendment
was passed Holt might have docketed a memorandum as
provided by the Virginia act. The retention of title by
him and his refraining from recording it both were perfectly lawful. His continuing title simply was postponed
to purchasers without notice and creditors getting a lien.
We are of opinion that it was not affected by the enactment of later date than the conditional sale. The opposite
construction would not simply extend a remedy but would
impute to the act of Congress an intent to take away rights
lawfully retained, and unimpeachable at the moment when
they took their start. We agree with the decision in
Arctic Ice Machine Co. v. Armstrong County Trust Co., 192
Fed. Rep. 114; 112 C. C. A. 458. In re Schneider, 203 Fed.
Rep. 589. See also Southwestern Coal & Improvement Co.
v. McBride, 185 U. S. 499, 503.
We turn now to the claim of the mortgagees. This is
based upon the clause extending the mortgage to plant
that may be acquired and placed upon the premises while
the mortgage is in force, coupled with the subsequent
attachment of the system to the freehold. But the foundation upon which all their rights depend is the Virginia
statute giving priority to purchasers for value without
notice over Holt's unrecorded reservation of title; and as
the mortgage deed was executed before the sprinkler system was put in and the mortgagees made no advance on
the faith of it, they were not purchasers for value as against
Holt. York Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344,
351, 352. There are no special facts to give them a better
position in that regard. But that being so, what reason
can be given for not respecting Holt's title as against them?
The system was attached to the freehold, but it could be
removed without any serious harm for which complaint

HOLT v. HENLEY.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

could be made against Holt, other than the loss of the
system itself. Removal would not affect the integrity of
the structure on which the mortgagees advanced. To hold
that the mere fact of annexing the system to the freehold
overrode the agreement that it should remain personalty
and still belong to Holt would be to give a mystic importance to attachment by bolts and screws. For as we
have said, the mortgagees have no equity and do not bring
themselves within the statutory provision. We believe
the better rule in a case like this, and the one consistent
with the Virginia decisions so far as they have gone, is
that "the mortgagees take just such an interest in the
property as the mortgagor acquired;- no more no less."
Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235. Meyer v. Western Car Co.,
102 U. S. 1. Monarch Laundry v. Westbrook, 109 Virginia,
382, 384, 385. Hurxthal v. Hurxthal, 45 W. Va. 584.
Campbell v. Roddy, 44 N. J. Eq. 244. Davis v. Bliss, 187
N. Y. 77. Hendy v. Dinkerhoff, 57 California, 3. Binkley
v. Forkner, 117 Indiana, 176. Cox v. New Bern Lighting
& Fuel Co., 151 No. Car. 62. Baldwin v. Young, 47 La.
Ann. 1466; In re Sunflower State Refining Co., 195 Fed.
Rep. 180; 187. The case is not like those in which the
addition was in its nature an essential indispensable part
of the completed structure contemplated by the mortgage.
The system although useful and valuable can be-removed
and the works still go on.
Decree reversed.

VOL.

ccxxxii-41

