UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing further proceedings in the state court, unless the cause
should be remanded. Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196
U. S.239, 245; Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. vi McCabe,
213 U. S. 207, 217, 219; Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v.
McDonald, 214 U. S. 191, 195; French v. Hay, 22 Wall.
250; Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 494.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 710.

Submitted January 8, 1914.-Decided January 26, 1914.

Under § 5480, Rev. Stat., it was necessary to charge not only that a

scheme to defraud was devised but that it was intended to be effected by opening or intending to open correspondence with some
other person by means of the post office; under § 215 of the Criminal

Code it is only necessary to charge that the scheme be devised or
intended to be devised and a letter placed in the post office for the
purpose of executing the scheme or attempting to do so.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 215 of the
Criminal Code, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Indictment under § 215 of the. Criminal Code charging
the use of the mails in furtherance of a scheme to defraud.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

It consists of two counts to which demurrer was filed,
which, in specific objections, challenged the sufficiency
of the indictment. The demurrer was sustained and judgment entered quashing the indictment. The charges
of the indictment, condensed, are as follows:
On the fifth of May, 1911, within the County of Mobile
and the jurisdiction of the court, defendant devised a
scheme and artifice to defraud various banks, persons and
corporations, particularly such as could be induced through
the firm of Hollingshead and Campbell, of New York City,
to purchase or lend money upon the notes of the Southern
Hardware & Supply Company, engaged in the mercantile
business at Mobile, Alabama, and of which defendant was
the president.
Hollingshead and Campbell were money brokers and
engaged in the business of inducing banks, persons and
corporations to purchase and lend money upon commercial
paper, and it was the intention and purpose of defendant
in his negotiations with said firm to induce and cause it to
sell and dispose of the notes of the Hardware & Supply
Company and to obtain money and credit for its notes
and other evidences of indebtedness. The defendant was
authorized to sign such notes and other evidences of indebtedness and to prepare statements of the financial and
business condition of the company.
It was a part of the scheme for defendant to induce
Hollingshead and Campbell to sell and dispose of the notes
of the Hardware & Supply Company and to persuade and
influence the various banks, etc., to lend money upon the
notes of that company, to prepare and cause to be prepared and sent through the United States mails to Hollingshead and Campbell, false and fraucidulent statements of
the business affairs and financial condition of the Hardware
& Supply Company, and which defendant was to, and did,
represent to be statements showing the correct and true
condition of the business affairs and financial condition

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Hardware & Supply Company. These statements
did not show the true condition of the company's affairs,
but were to show and did show its assets to be greatly in
excess of those actually had and owned by it, and its
liabilities to be much less than their true amount and
"falsely and fraudulently showed the company to be in a
much better financial condition than it was in fact at the
time such statements were made and were to be made."
Part of the scheme was to make Hollingshead and Campbell believe the statements were correct, and they did
make that firm so believe, and to rely upon them, and,
so relying upon their truth, to recommend the purchase
of the Hardware & Supply Company's notes and the lending of money upon them, defendant knowing that that
company "was not then and there in a strong financial
condition."
Defendant caused the statements to be sent through
the United States mails to Hollingshead and Campbell.
Hollingshead and Campbell believed them, and, relying
upon their truth, recommended various banks, persons
and corporations to purchase the notes and lend money
upon the notes of the Hardware & Supply Company.
The names of certain banks and the amounts they loaned
are given.
For the purpose of executing the scheme and artifice,
defendant deposited in the United States post office at
Mobile, Alabama, a letter, dated June 27, 1911, addressed
to Hollingshead and Campbell at New York. The letter
contained a statement of the financial condition of the
company showing the assets, liabilities and profits of the
Hardware & Supply Company. It also contained comments upon the business of the company and its relations
with Hollingshead and Campbell. It was sent through
the mails and delivered to the latter at New York. The
letter and the statements are charged to have shown the
assets of the Hardware & Supply Company to be greater

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

and its liabilities to be less than they actually were. And
it is charged that defendant having devised a scheme and
artifice to defraud, and for the purpose of their execution,
placed and caused to be placed in the United States post
office at Mobile, Alabama, the letter above stated, and that
it was sent and delivered by the Post Office Establishment
of the United States.
The second count in the indictment charges defendant
with having devised "a scheme and artifice for obtaining
moneys, goods, and chattels by means of false and fraudulent representations and promises from various banks,
persons, firms and corporations." The manner and means
are charged as in the first count.
The scheme, it will be observed, was to defraud certain
banks and persons and it was to be accomplished by deception practiced on Hollingshead and Campbell, money
brokers, through false statements sent to that Company
through the mails, whereby they would be induced to recommend the commercial value of the notes and other
evidences of indebtedness of the Southern Hardware &
Supply Company, of which defendant was the president.
The first count charges a scheme to defraud various banks,
etc., through the representations of Hollingshead and
Campbell "out of their's, the said banks', and persons',
firms' and corporations' moneys, goods and chattels."
In the second count the scheme is alleged to be "for obtaining moneys, goods and chattels by means of false and
fraudulent representations and promises" from -the various
banks and persons.
Commenting on the indictment, the District Court said,
"The first count of the indictment does not clearly set out
the scheme to defraud. It fails to allege that the scheme
devised to defraud said banks, etc., was by means of
false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises.
And it fails to allege how the scheme was to be executed.
It does not allege that the scheme devised was to be exe-

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cuted by the use of the Post Office establishment or mails
of the United States." The conclusion of the court was
that the "said first count of the indictment" was "defective and insufficient."
Further commenting, the court said: "The second count
of the indictment is subject to the same defects and objections as are found in the first count, except that the
second count does allege that the scheme to defraud was
by means of false and fraudulent representations and
promises. It does not directly allege that the scheme to
defraud wa to be executed by the use of the Post Office
Establishment or mails of the United States. In some
part of the second count it is implied in an allegation in
this way: That it was a part of the said scheme that the
defendant was to and did prepare statements of the business affairs and financial condition of the Southern Hardware & Supply Company, and sent the same to Hollingshead & Campbell to induce them to do certain things, etc.
The gist of the offense is the use of the United States mails
in the execution of the scheme, or in attempting s'o to do.
It is not an unlawful scheme unless the use of the mails
was a part of the scheme, and the indictment must affirmatively allege every fact necessary to constitute the offense
sought to be charged, that the court may see that an unlawful scheme has been devised. It is alleged that said
statements were false and fraudulent, and that they were
sent through the mails to Hollingshead & Campbell,
from which it might be implied that such was a part and
intention of the scheme." The court further said that
implication of a material and essential fact could not
supply the place of its direct averment, that there was no
allegation that the banks and others to be defrauded had
seen the statements sent HoUingshead and Campbell
or had knowledge of them or of their contents or that they
were intended to deceive the banks and to induce them
to lend their money, except as this might be implied from

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

sending the statements to Hollingshead and Campbell.
The court expressed the opinion that while "the second
count is better than the first, it is insufficient in the particulars mentioned."
We have made these quotations from the court's opinion as the case is here by direct appeal under the Criminal
Appeals Act as involving the construction of the statute
and not of the indictment. And this is the contention of
the Government, and that the court erred in failing to
"note the essential differences between section 5480 of
the Revised Statutes and section 215 of the Criminal
Code (Act or! March 4, 1909, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1130)
which succeeded it."
Section 5480 (as amended in 1889, 3 Comp. Stat. U. S.,
p. 3697), provided, "If any person having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud,
to be effected by either opening or intending to open correspondence or communication with any person, whether
resident within or outside the United States, by means of
the Post-Office Establishment of the United States, or by
inciting such other person or any person to open communication with the person so devising or intending, shall,
in and for executing such scheme . . . place or
cause to be placed any letter . . . in any postoffice . . . to be sent or delivered by the said PostOffice Establishment, . . . such person so misusing

the Post-Office Establishment shall, upon conviction, be
punishable

"

Section 215 of the Criminal Code is as follows: "Whoever, having devised, or intending to devise any scheme or
artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by
means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or
promises,
.
. shall, for the purpose of executing such
scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, place . .
any letter, . . . whether addressed to any person

residing within or outside the United States, in any post-

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

office, . . . to be sent or delivered by the PostOffice Establishment of the United States,
shall
be" punishable by fine
It is contended by the Government that these provisions are broader than those of § 5480 of the Revised
Statutes, that hnder the latter it was necessary to charge
not only a scheme to defraud was devised but that it was
intended to be effected by opening or intending to open
correspondence with some other person by means of the
Post Office Establishment. Under § 215 of the Criminal
Code it is only necessary that the -scheme should be
devised or intended to be devised and a letter be placed
in the post office for the purpose of executing the scheme
or attempting to do so. And as declaring the elements
of the offense under § 215 and its distinction from an
offense under § 5480 of the Revised Statutes, the following cases are cited: Ex parte King, 200 Fed. Rep. 622;
United States v. Maxey, 200 Fed. Rep. 997; Stockton v.
United States (C. C. A. Seventh Circuit), 205 Fed. Rep.
462; United States v. Goldman, 207 Fed. Rep. 1002.
There is a distinction between the sections, and the
elements of an offense under § 215 are (a) a scheme devised
or intended to be devised to defraud, or for obtaining
money or property by means of false pretenses, and, (b)
for the purpose of executing such scheme or attempting
to do so, the placing of any letter in any post office of the
United States to be sent or delivered by the Post Office
Establishment. The District Court apparently overlooked
the distinction between the sections and was of opinion
that something more was necessary to an offense under
§ 215, than the averment of the scheme and its attempted
execution in the manner stated. The court expressed the
view, we have seen, that the indictment did not clearly
set out the scheme to defraud, that it did not allege the
scheme devised or attempted was by means of false or
fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, or that
VOL. ccxxxuI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

232 U. S.

the scheme was to be executed by the use of the Post Office
Establishment or mails of the United States. And the
court said that it was a necessary element of the offense

that the false statements sent to Hollingshead and Campbell by defendant were to be used by the latter company to

induce the person intended to be defrauded to purchase
the notes of the Southern Hardware & Supply Company'
or to lend money upon them, or that such person had
knowledge of the contents of the statements. It is mani-

fest that the court considered these facts were necessary

to be averred in order to constitute an offense'under
§ 215. In this the court was in error.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with direction to

overrule the demurrer.

BURBANK v. ERNST, TUTRIX OF BURBANK,
A. MINOR.
iERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 151.

Argued January 15, 16, 1914.-Decided January 26, 1914.

Where the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment depends
upon domicile that question is open to rekxamination in the court of
another State asked to give the"judgment full faith and credit as
required by the Federal Constitution. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S.
14.
Where the evidence as to domicile of the deceased is conflicting and the
state court is warranted in finding that the court of probate of another State did not have jurisdiction to probate a will because the
domicile of deceased was not in that State, this court will not retry
the facts; and under the facts, as found in this case, the decree of
probate is not entitled to full faith and credit in another State.
Where the headnote of a decision of a state court is not given special

