TAYLOR v. TAYLOR.
232 U. S.

Syllabus.

arguendo conceded that such power had been theretofore
possessed by the officials who exercised authority within
the area which was made a territory by the constitution."
But this only in passing. We are not called upon to
consider the power of the territorial officers. The validity
of the grants have been pronounced by Congress and we
are only required to consider their relation to each other
and the public domain. We have seen that the Beck
grant in all of its steps, was prior to the Perea grant.
Juridical possession was given of it before the Perea grant
was applied for and the conveyance of the land embraced
within its boundaries made complete. It was confirmed
first by the Surveyor General of the Territory and surveyed first by the Interior Department, and a survey
"was essential to its accurate segregation and delimitation." Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, supra, 158 U. S.240, 250.
It follows from these views that the land in conflict is
part of the Beck grant, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Territory is reversed and the cause remanded
to the Supreme Court of the State for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 224.

Argued January 30, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

The Employers' Liability Act of 1908, as amended in 1910, supersedes
all state statutes upon the subject covered by it, and the distribution
of the amount recovered in an action for death of an employ6 is
determined by the provisions of that act and not by the state
law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

232 U. S.

The source of right of the widow of an employ6 of an interstate carrier
to maintain an action for his death is the Federal statute, whether
the cause of action is based on § 1 or § 9, and the father of the deceased is nof entitled to share in the amount recovered.

facts, which involve the construction of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act of 1908 as amended in 1910, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Frederic D. Mckenney, with whom Mr. George F.
Brownell, Mr. John Spalding Flannery and Mr. William
Hitz were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

It was error for the state court to hold that the'net proceeds of the judgment recovered in the action of the administratrix against the railroad company, under the circumstances shown in the record herein, were not distributable
under the provisions of the federal Employers' Liability
Act of 1908 as amended in 1910.
The net proceeds of this judgment are not "assets of the
decedent's estate" within the ordinary acceptation of that
phrase.
In support of these contentions see: American R. R. Co.
v. Didrickson, 227 U. S. 145, 149; Florida Cent. Ry. Co. v.
Sullivan, 120 Fed. Rep. 799; Gulf &c. R. Co. v. McGinnis,
228 U. S. 173, 175; McCarty v. N. Y., L. E. & W. R. Co.,
62 Fed. Rep. 437; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wh. 316;
McCune v. Essig, 199 U. S. 387; Marvin v. Maysville
St. R. R. Co., 49 Fed. Rep: 436; Mich. Cent. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 56; 67; Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry. Co. v. Wulf,
226 U. S. 570, 576; Mondou v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R.
Co., 223 U. S. 1; St. L., Iron M. & S. R. Co. v. Hesterly,
228 U. S. 702; St. Louis &c. R. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S.
156, 158; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 473; Stewart
v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 445; United States
v. Hall 98 U. S. 343; Wilson v. Tootle, 55 Fed. Rep.
211.

TAYLOR v. TAYLOR.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

No brief was filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiff in error and defendant in error are respectively the widow and father of one Howard Taylor, a
resident of Orange County, State of New York, who
through the negligence of the Erie Railroad Company met
with an accident which caused his death.
Plaintiff. in error was appointed the administratrix of
his estate with right to prosecute any right of action
granted by special provision of law as such administratrix.
She brought suit, as such administratrix, against the Railroad Company for damages, alleging the employment of
her husband in interstate commerce upon a train running
from Port Jervis, New York, to Jersey City, New Jersey,
the negligence of the Railroad Company as the cause of
his death, and that the action was brought under the act of
Congress of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, entitled
"An Act relating to the Liability of Common Carriers by
Railroad to their Employs in Certain Cases," known as
the Employers' Liability Law.
By permission o ,,le Surrogate of Orange County, she
compromised with the railroad, accepting a judgment for
$5,000.
Defendant in error filed a petition in the Supreme Court
of Orange County for an order directing plaintiff in error
to pay over to him one-half of the net proceeds of the
judgment in accordance with the statute of distribution of
the State. The motion was denied and an order was
entered determining that plaintiff in error, as widow
of the deceased, was entitled to receive and retain for her
own use all of the net proceeds of the judgment. The
order was reversed by the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court and the judgment of reversal, on appeal to
the Court of Appeals, was affirmed and the record re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

mitted to the Supreme Court. This writ of error was then
prosecuted.
The Appellate Division was of opinion that the law of
the State gave the right of action and determined the
distribution of the proceeds of the judgment. Considering
the act of Congress and its provisions, the court was of the
view that the act of Congress "should be construed as
one granting a new remedy under certain circumstances,
where none, or a less adequate one, existed under the state
laws, and as not intended to supplant or abrogate a right of
action of practically equal extent existing under the laws
of the State." The court further said, "It is only on the
theory that this act of Congress constitutes the exclusive
rule applicable to the facts of the case before us that the
order of the Special Term [the order under review] can be
upheld. If the remedy afforded by our laws be concurrent
with that provided by Congress, then we think that our
public policy will not permit an administratrix appointed
by our courts under our laws, to use the Federal statute
simply for the purpose of defeating our statute of distribution of personal property." The Court of Appeals expressed the opinion that the case presented a case of
conflict between the Federal and state statutes and determined that the state statutes must prevail. It was said
that the power of Congress "to regulate interstate commerce must end somewhere, and as far as employs of
common carriers engaged in interstate commerce are
concerned, it appears to us that it must end with the
death of the employd." And considering that the consequences of a contrary doctrine would give Congress power
over the distribution of real estate which might happen
to be purchased by the earnings of an employ6 in interstate commerce, the court declared that the act of Congress in so far as it attempted to distribute the funds in
controversy was "invalid and unauthorized." There were
dissenting opinions expressed. The judgment of the

TAYLOR v. TAYLOR.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Appellate Division of the Supreme Court was affirmed and
the record was remitted to the Supreme Court to be proceeded upon according to law and the judgment of the
latter court was entered conformably thereto.
We have had many occasions to declare the comprehensive and exclusive power which Congress possesses over
interstate commerce. And starting with that power as a
factor, we have only to consider the breadth and meaning
of the act of Congress.
Section 1 provides that every common carrier by railroad, while engaged in interstate commerce, "shall be
liable in damages to any person suffering injury while he is
employed by such carrier in such commerce, or, in case of
the death of such employ6, to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband
and children of such employS; and, if none, then of such
employ6's parents; and, if none, then of the next of kin,
dependent upon such employ6, for such injury or death
resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of any of
the officers, agents, or employ~s of such carrier," or by
reason of any defect in its instrumentalities.
Section 6, as amended by the act of April 5, 1910,
c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, provides that the jurisdiction of the
*courts of the United States shall be concurrent with that
of the courts of the several States, and if the action be
brought in a state court it shall not be removed to a court
of the United States.
Section 9, as amended by the same act, c. 143, 36 Stat.
291, is as follows:
"That any right of action given by this Act to a person
suffering injury shall survive to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow or
husband and children of such employ6, and, if none, then
of such employ6's parents; and, if none, then of the next of
kin dependent upon such employ6, but in such cases there
shall be only one recovery for the same injury."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

The act has come up for consideration in a number of
cases. In Mondou v. New York, New Haven & Hartford
R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 1, it and its amendments were declared
to be constitutional, that having been enacted in pursuance of a power reserved to Congress, state laws must give
away to them. They established the policy for all, it was
decided, and the courts of a State cannot refuse to enforce
them on the ground that they are not in harmony with the
policy of the State. Congress having acted, it was said,
p. 55, "the laws of the States, in so far as they cover the
same field, are superseded, for necessarily that which is not
supreme must yield to that which is."
In Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Wulf, 226 U. S.
570, 576, the Mondou Case was applied. The action was
brought by the mother of a deceased employ6 in interstate
commerce, under the state statute. The petition was
subsequently amended to embrace a right of action by her
under the Federal law as the personal representative of the
decedent. The amendment was held not to be the commencement of a new action. It was said that notwithstanding the original petition asserted a cause of action
under the state statute without making reference to the
act of Congress, the court was presumed to be cognizant of
the Federal enactment, and "to know that, with respect
to the responsibility of interstate carriers by railroad to
their employ6s injured in such commerce after its.enactment it had the effect of superseding state laws upon the
subject."
In Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S.59,
68, it is again said that the act of Congress has undertaken
to cover the subject of the liability of railroad companies
to their employ~s injured while engaged in interstate commerce and that state legislation was superseded by it.
"The obvious purpose of Congress," it was said, "was
to save a right of action to certain relatives dependent
upon an employ6 wrongfully injured, for the loss and

TAYLOR v. TAYLOR.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

damage resulting to them financially by reason of the
wrongful death." And again, "It is one beyond that
which the decedent had,-one proceeding upon altogether
different principles."
The same view was expressed in American Railroad Co.
v. Didrickson, 227 U. S. 145, 149. The action was by
surviving parents, they being the sole beneficiaries under
the statute. A distinction was expressed between a cause
of action to an injured employ6 and in case of his death, a
cause of action to dependent relatives; and of the first it
was said that it does not survive his death but that in such
case the act "creates a new and distinct right of action for
the benefit of the dependent relatives named in the
statute" for the damages which results to them because
they have been deprived of a reasonable expectation of
pecuniary benefits on account of his wrongful death.
In Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. McGinnis,
Administratrix, 228 U. S. 173, the statute was again considered as giving a cause of action to the personal representative of the deceased employ6 for the benefit of the
persons designated because of the pecuniary loss resulting
to them.
In St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v.
Hesterly, 228 U. S. 702, the same principles were applied.
In St. Louis, S. F. & Texas Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156,
the action was by the widow and parent of an interstate
commerce employS. The petition stated a case under
the state statute. The Railroad Company contended
that the Federal statute was the applicable one. There
was a conflict between the statutes. The state statute
gave the right of action to the surviving husband, wife,
children and parents; the Federal statute vested the right
of action in the personal representative of the deceased for
certain named beneficiaries, the parents of the deceased
having no rights if there be a widow, husband or children.
The Railroad Company, therefore, interposed the objecVOL. ccxxxn-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

tion grounded on the Federal statute that the plaintiffs
were not entitled to recover on the case proved. The
state court overruled the objection and we declared the
ruling to be error. We said, p. 162, "Two of the plaintiffs, the father and mother, in whose favor there was a
separate recovery, are not even beneficiaries under the
Federal statute, there being a surviving widow; and she
was not entitled to recover in her own name, but only
through the deceased's personal representative, as is shown
by the terms of the statute and the decisions before cited."
These cases were all brought under the statute as originally enacted and before the amendments of 1910.
Section 1, however, was not amended, and in St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Hesterly, supra, it
was said that the amendment of April 5, 1910, which
added § 9, quoted above, "in like manner allows but one
recovery, although it provides for survival of the right
of the injured person."
It is clear from these decisions that the source of the
right of plaintiff in error was the Federal statute; and this
whether the cause of action is based on the first section of
the act or on § 9, added in 1910. From plaintiff in error's
complaint against the Railroad Company it is not clear
whether she counted on § 1 alone or on that and § 9. If
under § 1, the cause of action was not derived from the
deceased in the sense of a sucdession from him. As said
in one of the cited cases, her cause of action was "one
beyond that which the decedent had,-one proceeding
upon altogether different principles." It came to her, it is
true, on account of his death but because of her pecuniary
interest in his life and the damage she suffered by his
death. It was her loss, not that which his father may have
suffered. The judgment she recovered was for herself
alone. He had no interest in it.. Any loss he may have
suffered was not and could not have been any part of it, as
we have seen.

CALAF v. CALAF.
232 U. S.

Counsel for Appellants.

If the action included a right under § 9, the recovery was
for her benefit exclusively as the widow of the decedent.
The language of the section is that the right of action given
to the employ6 survives to his personal representatives for
the benefit of his parents only when fhere is no widow.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistentwith this opinion.

CALAF Y FUGURUL v. CALAF Y RIVERA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 199. Argued January 26, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.
While under the laws of Toro parol acts, although not amounting to a
solemn recognition, may have entitled a natural child to sue in Porto
Rico for a share of the parent's inheritance and prove the acts in the
same suit, the existing Code requires a preliminary proceeding to
prove those, acts and to declare their effect, and limits the time within
which such proceeding can be brought. Cordova v. Folgueras, 227
U. S. 375.
A judgment or decree bars all grounds for the relief sought and, as
res judicata, it is a bar to a subsequent suit between the same
parties the object of which is to reach the same result by different
means.
Whether the judgment in a former suit between the same parties was
or was not final is a question of local practice upon which this court
follows the local court unless strong reasons are produced against it.
17 Porto Rico, 185, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the laws
of Porto Rico relating to the recognition as heirs of natural
children, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Manuel Rodriguez Serra, with whom Mr. Charles
Hartzell was on the brief, for appellants.

