OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

LEROY FIBRE COMPANY v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 175.

Submitted January 19, 1914.-Decided February 24, 1914.

One's lawful uses of his own property cannot be subjected to the servitude of the wrongful use by another of the latter's property.
In an action at law by the owner of a natural product of the soil, such as
flax straw, which he lawfully stored on his own premises and which
was destroyed by fire caused by the negligent operation of a loco-

motive engine, to recover the value thereof from the railroad company operating the engine, it is not a question for the jury whether
the owner was also negligent without other evidence than that the
railroad company preceded the owner in the establishment of its
business, that the property was inflammable in character and that
it was stored near the railroad right of way and track.
It is not a ques ion for the jury whether an owner who lawfully stores
his property on his own premises adjacent to a railroad right of way
and track is held to the exercise of reasonable care to protect it from
fire set by the negligence of the railroad company and not resulting
from unavoidable accident or the reasonably careful conduct of its
business.
As respects liability for the destruction by fire of property lawfully held
on private premises adjacent to a railroad right of way and track,
the owner discharges his full legal duty for its protection if he exercises that care which a reasonably prudent man would exercise under
like circumstances to protect it from the dangers incident to the operation of the railroad conducted with reasonable care.

following questions are certified:
"1. In an action at law by the owner of a natural product of the soil, such as flax straw, which he lawfully stored
on his own premises and which was destroyed by fire
caused by the negligent operation of a locomotive engine,
to recover the value thereof from the railroad company
operating the engine, is it a question for the jury whether
the owner was also negligent without other evidence than
THE

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. 341
232 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that the railroad company preceded the owner in the
establishment of its business, that the property was inflammable in character and that it was stored near the
railroad right of way and track?
"2. Is it a question for the jury whether an owner who
lawfully stores his property on his own premises adjacent
to a railroad right of way and track is held to the exercise
of reasonable care to protect it from fire set by the negligence of the railroad company and not resulting from unavoidable accident or the reasonably careful conduct of
its business?
"3. As respects liability for the destruction by fire of
property lawfully held on private premises adjacent to a
railroad right of way and track, does the owner discharge
his full legal duty for its protection if he exercises that care
which a reasonably prudent man would exercise under
like circumstances to protect it from the dangers incident
to the operation of the railroad conducted. with reasonable care?"
The LeRoy Fibre Company, plaintiff in error (we will
refer to it as plaintiff), brought an action against defendant in error (referred. to herein as defendant) in a state
court of Minnesota to recover the value of certain flax
stra* alleged to have been negligently burned and destroyed by defendant. The cause was removed to the
Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota, where it was
tried. One of the grounds of negligence set forth was that
a locomotive engine of defendant, while passing the premises of plaintiff, was so negligently managed and operated
by defendant's employds that it emitted and threw sparks
and coals of unusual size upon the stacks of flax straw and
thereby set flre to and destroyed them.
The evidence at the trial showed the following without
dispute: "Some years after defendant had constructed
and commenced operating its line of railroad through
Grand Meadow, Minnesota, the plaintiff established at

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

232 U. S.

that village a factory for the manufacture of tow from flax

straw. The plaintiff had adjacent to its factory premises,
a tract of ground abutting upon the railroad right of way
and approximately 250 by 400 feet in dimension upon
which it stored flax straw it purchased for use in its manufacturing business. There were about 230 stacks arranged
in two rows parallel with the right of way. Each stack
contained from three to three and a half tons of straw.
The distance from the center of the railroad track to the
fence along the line of the right of way, was fifty feet,
from the fence to the nearest row of stacks, twenty or
twenty-five feet, and from the fence to the second row
of stacks, about thirty-five feet. A wagon road ran between the fence and the first row. On April 2, 1907, during
a high wind, a fire started upon one of the stacks in the
second row, and as a regult all were consumed. The fire
did not reach the stack through the intervening growth

or refuse but first appeared on the side of the stack above
the ground. The flax straw was inflammable in character.
It was easily ignited and easily burned.
"There was subtantial evidence at the trial tending
to show that the fire was started by a locomotive engine
of defendant which had just passed and that through
the negligent operation of defendant's employ~s in charge,
it emitted large quantities of sparks and live cinders which
were carried to the straw stack by a high wind then prevailing. It was contended at the trial by defendant, that
plaintiff itself was negligent and that its negligence contributed to the destruction of its property. There was no
evidence that plaintiff was negligent save that it had
placed its property of an inflammable character upon its
own premises so near the railroad tracks, that is to say,
the first row of stacks, seventy or seventy-five feet and
the second row in which the fire started about eightyfive feet from the center of the railroad track. In other
words, the character of the property and its proximity

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI.,IMIL. & ST. P. RY.
232

U. S.

343

Argument for LeRoy Fibre Company.

to an operated railroad for which plaintiff was responsible was the sole evidence of plaintiff's contributory negligence.
"The trial court charged the jury that though the destruction of the straw was caused by defendant's negligence, yet if the plaintiff in placing and maintaining two
rows of stacks of flax straw within a hundred feet of the
center line of the railroad, failed to exercise that ordinary
care to avoid danger of firing its straw from sparks from
engines passing on the railroad that a person of ordinary
prudence, would have exercised, under like circumstances
and that the failure contributed to cause the accident
the plaintiff could not recover. The trial court also submitted two questions to the jury as follows:
"1. Did the Fibre Company in placing and keeping two
rows of flax straw within one hundred feet of the center
line of the railroad, fail to use the care to avoid danger
to its straw from sparks of fire from engines operating
on that railroad, that a person of ordinary prudence
would have used under like circumstances? 2. Did the
engineer McDonald, fail to use that degree of care to
prevent sparks from his engine from firing the stacks
as he passed them, on April 2, 1907, that a person of
ordinary prudence would have used under like circumstances?
"The jury answered both questions in the affirmative
and found a general verdict for the defendant. Judgment
was accordingly entered for defendant. The plaintiff
duly saved exceptions to the charge of the court regarding
its contributory negligence and to the submission of the
first question to the jury, and has assigned the action of
the court as error.
Mr. John F. Fitzpatrick, Mr. E. P. Sanborn and Mr. F.
M. Catlin for Le Roy Fibre Company:
In an action at law by the owner of a natural product

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for LeRoy Fibre Company.

232 U. S.

of the soil such as flax straw, which he lawfully stored
on his own premises and which was destroyed by fire
caused by the negligent operation of a locomotive engine
to recover the value thereof from the railroad company
operating the engine, it is not a question for the jury
whether the owner was also negligent without other evidence than that the railroad company preceded the owner
in the establishment of its business, that the property
was inflammable in character and that it was stored near
the railroad right of way and track.
The owner has the same right to use his property adjacent to a railroad right of way for any lawful purpose for
which it is adapted as he would have if there was no railroad there. The only limitation upon the use and enjoyment of his property is that he use it in such a manner as
not to injure that of another.
In storing his own property upon his own premises he
exercises a lawful right. From that act no possible injury
can come. In locating it on his own premises even near
the right of way he owes the railroad company no duty to
anticipate or guard against injury to it from the negligence
of the railroad company. Without the breach of some
duty by the owner there can be no negligence on his
part.
He has violated no duty and hence is guilty of no
negligence. Grand Trunk R. R. Co. v. Richardson, 91
U. S. 454, 473; Cincinnati &c. R. R. Co. v. South Fork
Coal Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 530; Thompson on Negligence,
§ 2314; Shearman & Redfield on Negligence, § 680;
Richmond & D. R. R. Co. v. Medley, 75 Virginia, 499;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Marbury Lumber Co., 125
Alabama, 235; Patten v. St. Louis &c. R. R. Co., 87
Missouri, 117; Kellogg v. C. N. W. R. R. Co., 26 Wisconsin,
223; Salmon v. Ry. Co., 38 N. J. L. 5; L. & N. R. R. Co.
v. Richardson, 66 Indiana, 43; Pittsburgh&c. R. R. Co. v.
Jones, 86 Indiana, 496; Louisville & N. R. R. Co. v.

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. 345

232 U.S.

Argument for LeRoy Fibre Company.

Beeler (Ky.), 103 S. W. Rep. 300; Cleveland, C. St. L. R. R.
Co. v. Scantland (Ind.), 51 N. E. Rep. 1068; Phila. R. R.
Co. v. Hendrickson, 80 Pa. St. 182; Reed v. Missouri P. R.
R. Co., 50 Mo. App. 504; Rutherford v. Texas & P. R. R.
Co. (Texas), 61 S. W. Rep. 422; Gulf, C. & S. R. R. Co.
v. Fields, 2 Texas App. Civ. Cas. 700; Kimball v. Borden,
97 Virginia, 477; Kalbfleisch v. Long Island R. R. Co., 102
N. Y. 520; Louisville & N. R. R. Co. v. Malone, 116
Alabama, 600; 3 Elliott on Railroads, § 1228.
It is not a question for the jury whether an owner who
lawfully stores his property on his own premises adjacent
to a railroad right of way and track is held to the exercise
of reasonable care to protect it from fire set by the negligence of the railroad company and not resulting from unavoidable accident or the reasonably careful conduct of its
business.
The doctrine of contributory negligence of the owner
has no application in such a case. Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co.
v. Marbury, 125 Alabama, 235; 50 L. R. A. 620; Phila.
R. R. Co. v. Hendrickson, 80 Pa. St. 182; 13 Am. & Eng.
Ency. 482; 2 Thompson on Negligence, § 2314; Kendrick
v. Towle, 60 Michigan, 363; Mississippi Ins. Co. v. Louisville R. R. Co., 70 Mississippi, 119; Louisville R. R. Co. v.
Beeler (Ky.), 11 L. R. A. (N. S.) 930.
As respects liability for the destruction by fire of property lawfully held on private premises adjacent to a railroad right of way and track the owner discharges his full
legal duty for its protection if he exercises that care which
a reasonably prudent man would exercise under like circumstances to protect it from the dangers incident to the
operation of the railroad conducted with reasonable care.
Fero v. Buffalo R. R. Co., 22 N. Y. 209; Cook v. Champlain
Trans. Co., 1 Denio, 91.
The negligence of the railroad company is the proximate cause of the loss. Reed v. Mo. Pac. R. Co., 50 Mo.
App. 504; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. East Tenn. R. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Railway Company.

232 U. S.

Co., 60 Fed. Rep. 993; Inland Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551,
558.
Mr. H. H. Field and Mr. M. B. Webber for the Railway Company:
The contention of plaintiff in error that no matter how
one may conduct his business upon his own premises,
contributory negligence cannot be urged against him in a
case brought by him to recover damages caused to his
property by the negligence of an adjacent owner; that no
case of the kind can arise which presents the question of
contributory negligence as one of fact for a jury; that one
may conduct his own business in a manner best adapted to
invite the very peril which overtakes him, and nevertheless recover damages notwithstanding his culpable carelessness, because his negligent act was committed upon
his own premises, is unsound. The question is, whether
under all the circumstances an ordinarily prudent man
would or would not have so acted, and such questions are
eminently for a jury.
When one condudts his business in a manner, and at a
place, such as a person of ordinary care and prudence
would not, then he is not within the protection of the law
as outlined in cases relied upon by opposing counsel.
Railway Co. v. Johnson, 54 Fed. Rep. 474; Clark v. Railway
Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 341.
The voluntary and needless accumulation of shavings
or other combustible matter upon the land close to a railroad has been regarded and held to constitute contributory
negligence. Such a case is plainly distinguishable from
those cases in which combustible matter had accumulated
by the act of nature. Shearman &-Redfield on Negligence,
§ 679; Murphy v. Chicago &c. Ry.. Co., 45 Wisconsin, 222;
Ward v. Milwaiikee Ry. Co., 29 Wisconsin, 144; see also
Collins v. N. Y. Cent. Ry. Co., 5 Hun, 499; S. C., 71 N. Y.
09; Niskern v. Chicago Ry. Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 911; Railway

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. 347
232 U. S.

Argument for Railway Company.

Co. v. Shanefelt, 47 Illinois, 497; Hoffman v. C., M. & St.
P. Ry. Co., 40 Minnesota, 60; Karsen v..C., M. & St. P. Ry.
Co., 29 Minnesota, 12; Martin v. North Star Iron Works, 31
Minnesota, 407; Schell v. Second National Bank, 14
Minnesota, 34; Murphy v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 45 Wisconsin, 222; Fero v. Buffalo &c. Ry. Co., 22 N. Y. 209;

Omaha FairCo. v. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 60 N. W. Rep. 320.
A party who erects his buildings on or near the track of
a railway company knows the dangers incident to the use
of steam as a motive power, and must be held to assume
some of the hazards connected with its use on those great
thoroughfares. Toledo, W. & W. R. R. Co. v. Larmon, 67
Illinois, 68; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Pennell, 94
Illindis, 448; see also Kansas City &c. R. R. v. Owen, 25
Kansas, 419; K. P. R. R. Co. v. Bradey, 17 Kansas, 380;
Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Cornell, 30 Kansas, 35; G.W. Ry. Co.
v. Haworth, 39 Illinois, 347.

The rule that contributory negligence on the part of
plaintiff will bar a recovery, is relaxed in Illinois, only in
cases where the negligence of the plaintiff is slight, and
that of the defendant in comparison gross. Railroad Co.
v. Hillmar, 72 Illinois, 235; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Hammer,
72 Illinois, 347; C. & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Hatch, 79 Illinois,
137; Kewanee v. Depew, 80 Illinois, 119; C., B. & Q.Ry. Co.
v. Gregory, 58 Illinois, 272.
However, the doctrine of comparative negligence does
not prevail in Minnesota, and we believe does obtain only
in Illinois and Georgia. Neither does the last chance
doctrine prevail in Minnesota. Such a rule in cases of concurrent negligepce proximately contributing to the injury,
would practically do away with the doctrine of contributory negligence. Fonda v. St. Paul City Ry. Co., 71 Minnesota, 438. See Bigelow..on Torts, 311, see also Keese v.
C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 30 Iowa, 78; Garret°v.Railway Co.,
36 Iowa, 121; Slosson v. Railway Co., 60 Iowa, 215; Bryant
v. Railway Co., 56 Vermont, 710.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

Many of the cases cited by counsel, when limited to the
precise points presented by their facts, can be distinguished
from this case. So as to Inland Coasting Co. v. Tolson,
139 U. S. 551; Grand Trunk R. R. Co. v. Richardson, 91
U. S. 454; Louisville Ry. Co. v. Beeler, 11 L. R. A. (N. S.)
930.
In the absence of special legislation a man does not become a wrongdoer by leaving his property in a state of
nature. Salmon v. Railroad Co., 38 N. J. L. 5; Kellogg v.
Railroad Co., 26 Wisconsin, 223.
It is not always a breach of duty that constitutes negligence. One may be negligent in using his own property,
and yet owe no duty to his neighbor to handle it carefully.
But when such negligence combined with that of his
neighbor causes one damage, which would not have resulted had he been ordinarily careful, he cannot saddle
the loss upon his neighbor.
The instant case is not one involving damage to property left in its natural state,-as for instance a timber lot,
a farmer's meadow, or the stubble on his grain field,-but
does involve the affirmative act of bringing in from the
adjacent country the most inflammable product of the
field, and stacking it on a vacant lot abutting the right of
way of the defendant in error, where it was more likely
to be burned than not,-an act no ordinarily prudent
person would have done.
If the contention of counsel for plaintiff in error is
declared the law, a ready and profitable market will then
be made for many kinds of property not otherwise saleable.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions certified present two facts-(1) The
negligence of the railroad was the immediate cause of the
destruction of the property. (2) The property was placed

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. 349
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by its owner near the right of way of the railroad, but on
the owner's own land.
The query is made in the first two questions whether
the latter fact constituted evidence of negligence of the
owner to be submitted to the jury. It will be observed, the
use of the land was of itself a proper use--it did not interfere with nor embarrass the rightful operation of the railroad. It is manifest, therefore, the questions certified,
including the third question, are but phases of the broader
one, whether one is limited in the use of one's property by
its proximity to a railroad; or, to limit the proposition to
the case under review, whether one is subject in its use to
the careless as well as to the careful operation of the road.
We might not doubt that an immediate answer in the
negative should be given if it were not for the hesitation of
the Circuit Court of Appeals evinced by its questions, and
the decisions of some courts in the affirmative. That
one's uses of his property may be subject to the servitude
of the wrongful use by another of his property seems an
anomaly. It upsets the presumptions of law and takeF
from him the assumption and the freedom which comes
from the assumption, that the other will obey the law, not
violate it. It casts upon him the duty of not only using
his own property so as not to injure another, but so to use
his own property that it may not be injured by the wrongs
of another. How far can this subjection be carried? Or,
confining the question to railroads, what limits shall be
put upon their immunity from the result of their wrongful
operation? In the case at bar, the property destroyed is
described as inflammable, but there are degrees of that
quality; and how wrongful must be the operation? In
this case, large quantities of sparks and "live cinders"
were emitted from the passing engine. Houses may be
said to be inflammable, and may be, as they have been, set
on fire by sparks and cinders from defective or carelessly
handled locomotives. Are they to be subject as well as

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

stacks of flax straw, to such lawless operation? And is the
use of farms also, the cultivation of which the building of
the railroad has preceded? Or is that a use which the
railroad must have anticipated and to which it hence owes
a duty, which it does not owe to other uses? And why?
The question is especially pertinent and immediately
shows that the rights of one man in the use of his property
cannot be limited by the wrongs of, another. The doctrine
of contributory negligence is entirely out of place. Depart
from the simple requirement of the law, that every one
must use his property so as not to injure others, and you
pass to refinements and confusing considerations. There
is no embarrassment in the principle even to the operation
of a railroad. Such operation is a legitimate use of property; other property in its vicinity may suffer inconveniences and be subject to risks by it, but a risk from
wrongful operation is not one of them.
The legal conception of property is of rights. When
you attempt to limit them by wrongs, you venture a
solecism. If you declare a right is subject to a wrong you
confound the meaning of both. It is difficult to deal with
the opposing contention. There are some principles that
have axiomatic character. The tangibility of property
is in its uses and that the uses by one owner of his property
may be limited by the wrongful use of another owner of
his, is a contradiction. But let us pass from principle to
authority.
Grand Trunk Railroad Company v. Richardson, 91 U. S.
454, was an action for damages for the destruction of a
sawmill, lumber shed and other buildings andmanufactured lumber, by fire communicated by a locomotive engine of a railroad. Some of the buildings were erected in
part on the company's land near its track, and the railroad company requested the court to charge the jury that
the erection of the buildings or the storing of lumber so
near the company's track, as the evidence showed, was an

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY.
232 U. S.

351

Opinion of the Court.

improvident or careless act, and that if such location contributed in any degree to the loss which ensued, then
the plaintiffs could not recover, even though the fire
.was communicated by the railroad company's locomotive.
The court refused the request and its action was sustained.
Mr. Justice Strong, speaking for the court, said, "Such a
location, if there was a license for it [it not then being a
trespass], was a lawful use of its property by the plain.tiffs; and they did not lose their right to compensation
for their loss occasioned by the negligence of the defendant. Cookv. Champlain Transp. Co., 1 Den. 91; Fero v.
Railroad,22 N. Y. 215."
In Cincinnati &c. R. R. Co. v. South Fork Coal Co.,
139 Fed. Rep. 528, 530, there was the destruction of lumber placed on the railroad's right of way by permission of
the railroad. It was destroyed by fire occurring through
the negligent operation of the railroad's trains. Contributory negligence was urged against the right of recovery. The court (Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit), commenting on the cases cited by the
railroad, said: "But in so far as the opinions go upon the
theory that a plaintiff must lose his right of compensation
for the negligent destruction of his own property situated
upon his own premises because he had exposed it to dangers which could come to it only through the negligence of
the railroad company, they do not meet our approval."
After citing cases, the court continued, "The rights of
persons to the use and enjoyment of their own property
are held upon no such tenure as this. The principle would
forbid the use of property for many purposes if in such
proximity to a railroad track as to expose it to dangers
attributable to the negligent management of its business."
Other cases might be adduced. They are cited in Thompson on Negligence, § 2314, and Shearman and Redfield on
Negligence, § 680, for the principle that an owner of
property is not limited in the uses of his property by its

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
HOLMES, J., concurring.

232 U. S.

proximity to a railroad, or subject to other risks than those
which come from the careful operation of the road or
unavoidable accident.
The first and second questions we answer in the negative, and the third question in the affirmative.
So ordered.
MR.. JUSTICE HOLMES partially concurring.

The first two questions concern a standard of conduct
and therefore that which in its nature and in theory is a
question of law. In this, I gather, we all agree, although
the proposition often is forgotten or denied. But while the
standard is external to the judgment of the party concerned and must be known and conformed to by him
at his peril, The Germanic, 196 U. S. 589, 596, court&, by a
practice that seems at first sight an abdication of their
function where it is most needed but that I dare say is
justified by good sense, in nice cases leave the standard to
the jury as well as the facts. In the questions before us,
however, the elements supposed are few and frequently
recurring, so that but-for what I have to say I should be
very content to find that we were able to lay down the
proper rule without a jury's aid. Furthermore, with
regard to what that rule should be, I agree, for the purposes of argument, that as a general proposition people
are entitled to assume that their neighbors will conform to
the law; that a negligent tort is unlawful in as full a sense
as a malicious one, and therefore that they are entitled to
assume that their neighbors will not be negligent.
Nevertheless I am not prepared to answer the first
question, No, if it is to be answered at all. We are bound
to consider that at a trial the ease would be presented with
more facts-that this case was presented with at least one
more fact bearing upon the right to recover-I mean the
distance. If a man stacked his flax so near to a railroad

LEROY FIBRE CO. v. CHI., MIL., & ST. P. RY.
232 U. S.

353

HOLmES, J., concurring.

that it obviously was likely to be set fire to by a wellmanaged train, I should say that he could not throw the
loss upon the road by the oscillating result of an inquiry
by the jury whether the road had used due care. I should
say that although of course he had a right to put his flax
where he liked upon his own land, the liability of the
railroad for a fire was absolutely conditioned upon the
stacks being at a reasonably safe distance from the train.
I take it that probably many, certainly some,, rules of
law based on less than universal considerations are made
absolute and universal in order to limit those over refined
speculations that we all deprecate, especially where such
rules are based upon or affect the continuous physical
relations of material things. The right that is given to
inflict various inconveniences upon neighboring lands by
building or digging, is given, I presume, because of the
public interest in making improvement free, yet it generally is made absolute by the common law. It is not
thought.worth while to let the right to build or maintain a
barn depend upon the speculations of a jury as to motives.
A defect in the highway, declared a defect in the interest of
the least competent travellers that can travel unattended
without taking legal risks, or in the interest of the average
man, I suppose to be a defect as to all. And as in this case
the distinction between the inevitable and the negligent
escape of sparks is one of the most refined in the world, I
think that I must be right so far, as to the law in the case
supposed.
If I am right so far, a very important element in determining the right to recover is whether the plaintiff's flax
was so near to the track ag-to be in danger from even a
prudently managed engine. Here certainly, except in a
clear case, we should call in the jury. I do not suppose
that any one would call it prudent to stack flax within five
feet of the engines or imprudent to do it at a distance of
half a mile, and it wopld not be absurd if the law ultiVOL. ccxxxi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
HoLMEs, J., concurring.

232 U. S.

mately should formulate an exact measure, as it has tended
to in other instances; (Martin v. District of Columbia,
205 U. S. 135, 139;) but at present I take it that if the
question I suggest be material we should let the jury
decide whethc-r seventy feet was too near by the criterion
that I have proposed. Therefore, while the majority
answer the first question, No, on the ground that the
railroad is liable upon the facts stated as matter of law,
I should answer it Yes, with the proviso that it was to be
answered No, in case the jury found that the flax although
near, was not near enough to the trains to endanger it if
the engines were prudently managed, or else I should
decline to answer the question because it fails to state the
distance of the stacks.
I do not think we need trouble ourselves with the
thought that my view depends upon differences of degree.
The whole law does so as soon as it is civilized. See Nash
v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376, 377. Negligence is all
degree-that of the defendant here degree of the nicest
sort; and between the variations according to distance that
I suppose to exist and the simple universality of the rules
in the Twelve Tables or the Leges Barbarorum, there
lies the culture of two thousand years.
I am authorized to say that THE CHIEF JUSTICE concurs
in the opinion that I express.

