OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

its own citizens if it pleases. Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519, 529. We see nothing in the treaty that purports
or attempts to cut off the exercise of their powers over the
matter by the States to the full extent. Compagnie
Francaisede Navigationa Vapeur v. State Board of Health,
186 U. S. 380, 394, 395.

Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. COCKRELL, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 100.

Argued December 5, 1913.-Decided January 19, 1914.

As the right to remove a cause from a state to a Federal court exists
only in enumerated classes of cases, the petition must set forth the
particular facts which bring the case within one of such classes;
general allegations and mere legal conclusions are not sufficient.
The right of a non-resident defendant to remove the case cannot be
defeated by the fraudulent joinder of a resident defendant; but the
defendant seeking removal must allege facts which compel the conclusion that the joinder is fraudulent; merely to apply the term
"fraudulent" to the joinder is not sufficient to require the state court
to surrender its jurisdiction.
Where plaintiff's statement of his case shows a joint cause of action,
as tested by the law of the State, the duty is on the non-resident
defendant seeking removal to state facts showing that the joinder
was a mere fraudulent device to prevent removal.
It is not sufficient for a non-resident railroad corporation, joined as
defendant in a suit for personal injuries with two resident employ6s
in charge of the train'which did the injury, to show in its petition an
absence of good faith on plaintiff's part in bringing the action at all;the petition must show that the joinder itself is fraudulent.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. COCKRELL.
232 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

This court, while affirming the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
State, may, as it does in this case, express its disapproval of the reasoning on which it was based.
Issues of fact arising upon a petition for removal are to be determined
in the Federal court; and, where the petition sufficiently shows a
fraudulent joinder and the proper bond has been given, the state
court must surrender jurisdiction, leaving any issue of fact arising
on the petition to the Federal court. Wecker v. National Enameling
Co., 204 U. S. 176.
Where the state court refuses to give effect to a proper petition and
bond on removal, the defendant may resort to certiorari from the
Federal court to obtain the certified transcript and injunction to
prevent further proceedings in the state court.
144 Kentucky, 137, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky and the
construction of the statutes relative to removal of causes
from the state to the Federal court, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. John T. Shelby, with whom Mr. Henry T. Wickham,
Mr. Henry Taylor, Jr., and Mr. D. L. Pendleton were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Although plaintiff's declaration states a good cause of
action against the resident defendants and, under the law
of Kentucky it makes out a case of joint liability on all
the defendants, still, as the averments of fact upon which
he predicates the charge of joint liability is palpably untrue, and the joinder made for the fraudulent purpose of
depriving the non-resident defendant of the right to invoke
the jurisdiction of the Federal court, the right of removal
will not be destroyed by such joinder. Wecker v. National
Enameling Co., 204 U. S. 176.
Where a non-resident defendant in a ptition for removal appropriately, attacks as false and fraudulent the
averments of fact upon which, in the plaintiff's petition
the charge of joint liability is based, t6ie allegations of

OCTOBER TERM. 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

232 U. S.

the removal petition must, for the purpose of determining
the right of removal, be taken as true by the state court,
and if the plaintiff desires to make an issue as to their
truth, he must do this, in the Federal court, which latter
alone has jurisdiction to try such issue. Where, admitting
the averments of fact made in the removal petition to be
true, they make a proper case for removal, the application
ipso facto works the transfer to the Federal court and
deprives the state court of its jurisdiction to proceed
further. Stone v. South Carolina,117 U. S. 430; Carson v.
Hyatt, 118 U. S. 279; Carson v. Dunham, 121 U. S. 4214
Burlington &c. R'y Co. v. Dunn, 122 U. S. 513; Crehore v.
0. & M. R'y Co., 131 U. S. 240; Kansas City R'y Co. v.
Daughtry, 138 U. S. 298; Tex. & Pac. R'y Co. v. Eastin,214
U. S. 153; Ill. Cent. R'y Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308, 316.
Notwithstanding the clearness with which this court

has so often reiterated this rule, the Kentucky Court of
Appeals in I. C. R. R. Co. v. Coley, 121 Kentucky, 385,
and Dudley v. I. C. R. R. Co., 127 Id. 221, and other cases,
has erroneously held that even where the removal petition
contains allegations' which, if true, make a case for removal, the state court has the right to inquire whether
the facts alleged in the petition for removal be true. Ala.
& G. S. R. R. Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, is not
applicable to this case.
Mr. Edward S. Jouett, with whom Mr. Beverley R.
Jouett and Mr. A. F. Byrd were on the brief, for defendant
in error:

The state court is not bound to surrender its jurisdiction
unless the face of the record shows the defendant entitled
to remove. Ala. & G. S. R'y Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S.
206; Carson v. Hyatt, 118 U. S. 279; Crehore v. 0. & M.
R'y Co., 132 U. S. 240; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Wanglin, 132 U. S. 599; Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430.
Joint action is maintainable against the corporation

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. COCKRELL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and its employ6. Cent. Pass. R'y Co. v. Kuhn, 86 Kentucky, 578; C., N. 0. & T. P. R'y Co. v. Bohon, 200 U. S.
221; C. & 0. R'y Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131; I. C. C. R. Co.
v. Coley, 28 K. L. R. 336; Jones v. I. C. R. R. Co., 26 K.
L. R. 31; Pugh v. C. & 0. R'y Co., 101 Kentucky, 77;
Rutherford v. I. C. R. R. Co., 27 K. L. R. 397.
The mere allegation that the joinder is fraudulent is not
sufficient to authorize removal. Facts showing actual
fraud in connection with the joinder must be alleged.
Alabama G. S. R'y Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206; Ches. &
Ohio R'y Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 135; Ches. & Ohio R'y Co.
v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 215; Cin., N. 0. & Tex. Pac. R'y Co.
v. Bohon, 200 U. S. 221; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Willard, 220
U. S. 413; C., R. I. & P. R'y Co. v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S.
184; Ill. Cent. R'y Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308.
A removal petition which, as in this case, alleges no
extraneous facts in connection with the joinder, but merely
enumerates the plaintiff's charges of negligence against
the resident defendant and declares that each such allegation is false, was known so to be by plaintiff, and was made
for the fraudulent purpose of defeating removal, is insufficient. Enos v. Kentucky Distilleries Co. (C. C. A.), 189
Fed. Rep. 342; Ill. Cent. R'y Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308.
The opinion of the court below shows that the fireman
was negligent and was personally liable for his negligence.
Before this suit was filed the Kentucky vourts had decided that the fact, admitted here, of 'the fireman not
looking ahead upon approaching a crossing constituted
negligence. L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Gilmore, 114 S. W. Rep.
752; L. & N. R.. R. Co. v. Taylor, 104 S. W. Rep. 776.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action begun in the Circuit Court of Clark
County, Kentucky, by an administrator, to recover

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

damages for the death of his intestate, the defendants
being a railway company and the engineer and fireman
of one 6f its trains which struck and fatally injured the
intestate at or near a public crossing in Winchester,
Kentucky. The administrator, engineer and fireman were
citizens of Kentucky, and the railway company was a
Virginia corporation. The latter in due time presented
to the court a verified petition and proper bond for the
removal of the cause into the Circuit Court of the United
States, but the court declined to surrender its jurisdiction
and, over the company's protest, proceeded to a trial
which resulted in a judgment against the company, and
the Court of Appeals of the State affirmed the judgment,
including the ruling upon the petition for removal. 144
Kentucky, 137.
The sole question for decision here is, whether it was
error thus to proceed to an adjudication of the cause notwithstanding the company's effort to remove it into the
Federal court.
Rightly understood and much abbreviated, the plaintiff's petition, after stating that the train was being operated bythe engineer and fireman as employ6s of the railway company, charged that the injury and death of the
intestate were caused by the negligence of the defendants
(a) in failing to maintain an adequate lookout ahead of
the engine, (b) in failing to maintain any lookout upon the
left or fireman's side, from which the intestate went upon
the track, (c) in failing to give any warning of the approach
of the train, and (d) in continuing to run the train forward after it struck the intestate, and was pushing her
along, until it eventually ran over and fatally injured her,
when it easily could have been stopped in time to avoid
material injury. There was a prayer for a judgment
against the three defendants for $25,000, the amount of
damages adleged.
The railway company's petition for removal, while not

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. COCKRELL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

denying that the engineer and fireman were in the employ
of the company or that they were operating the train
when it struck and injured the intestate, did allege that
the charges of negligence (all being specifically repeated)
against the defendants were each and all "false and untrue, and were known by the plaintiff, or could have been
known by the exercise of ordinary diligence, to be false
and untrue, and were made for the sole and fraudulent
purpose of affording a basis, if possible, for the fraudulent
joinder" of the engineer and fireman with the railway
company and of "thereby fraudulently depriving" the latter of its right to have the action removed into the Federal
court, and that none of the charges of negligence on the
part of the engineer or fireman could be sustained on the
trial.
It will be perceived that but for the joinder of the two
employ~s as co-defendants with the railway company,
the latter undoubtedly would have been entitled to remove
the cause into the Federal court on the ground of diverse
citizenship, there being the requisite amount in controversy; and that the railway company attempted in the
petition for removal to overcome the apparent obstacle
arising from the joinder. Whether the petition was sufficient in that regard is the subject of opposing contentions.
The right of removal from a state to a Federal court,
as is well understood, exists only in certain enumerated
classes of cases. To the exercise of the right, therefore, it
is essential that the case be shown to be within one of
those classes, and this must be done by a verified petition
setting forth, agreeably to the ordinary rules of pleading,
the particular facts, not already appearing, out of which
the right arises. It is not enough to allege in terms that
the case is removable or belongs to one of the enumerated
classes, or otherwise to rest the right upon mere legal
conclusions. As in other pleadings, there must be a statement of the facts relied upon, and not otherwise appearing,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

in order that the court may draw the proper conclusion
from all the facts and that, in the event of a removal, the
opposing party may take issue, by a motion to remand,
with what is alleged in the petition. Gold-Washing &
Water Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 202; Carson v. Dunham,
121 U. S. 421, 426; Crehorev. Ohio & MississippiRy. Co.,
131 U. S. 240, 244; Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v.
Powers, 169 U. S. 92, 101.
A civil case, at law or in equity, presenting a controversy
between citizens of different States and involving the
requisite jurisdictional amount, is one which may be removed by the defendant, if not a resident of the State in
which the case is brought; and this right of removal cannot
be defeated by a fraudulent joinder of a resident defendant
having no real connection with the controversy. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Wangelin, 132 U. S. 599, 601;
Alabama Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S.
206, 218; Wecker v. NationalEnameling Co., 204 U. S. 176;
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308, 316.
So, when in such a case a resident defendant is joined with
the non-resident, the joinder, even although fair upon its
face, may be shown by a petition for removal to be only a
fraudulent device to prevent a removal; but the showing
must consist of a statement of facts rightly engendering
that conclusion. Merely to traverse the allegations upon
which the liability of the resident defendant is rested or to
apply the epithet "fraudulent" to the joinder will not
suffice: the showing must be such as compels the conclusion that the joinder is without right and made in bad
faith, as was the case in Wecker v. NationalEnameling Co.,
supra. See Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog, supra;
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co. v. Dowell,
229 U. S. 102, 114.
Here the plaintiff's petition, as is expressly conceded,
not only stated a good cause of action against the resident
defendants, but, tested by the laws of Kentucky, as it

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. COCKRELL.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

should be, stated a case of joint liability on the part of all
the defendants. As thus stated the case was not removable, the joinder of the resident defendants being
apparently the exercise of a lawful right. And while the
plaintiff's statement was not conclusive upon the railway
company, it did operate to lay upon the latter, as a condition to a removal, the duty of showing that the joinder
of the engineer and fireman was merely a fraudulent device
to prevent a removal. Of course, it was not such unless it
was without any reasonable basis.
Putting out of view, as must be done, the epithets and
mere legal conclusions in the petition for removal, it may
have disclosed an absence of good faith on the part of the
plaintiff in bringing the action at all, but it did not show
a fraudulent joinder of the engineer and fireman. With
the allegation that they were operating the
train which
did the injury standing unchallenged, the showing
amounted to nothing more than a traverse of the charges
of negligence, with an added statement that they were
falsely or recklessly made and could not be proved as to
the engineer or fireman. As no negligent act or omission
personal to the railway company was charged and its
liability, like that of the two employ~s, was, in effect,
predicated upon the alleged negligence of the latter, the
showing manifestly went to the merits of the action as an
entirety and not to the joinder; that is to say, it indicated
that the plaintiff's case was ill founded as to all the defendants. Plainly, this was not such a showing as to engender or compel the conclusion that the two employ~s
were wrongfully brought into a controversy which did not
concern them. As they admittedly were in charge of the
movement of the train and their negligence was apparently
the principal matter in dispute, the plaintiff had the same
right, under the laws of Kentucky, to insist upon their
presende as real defendants as upon that of the railway
company. We conclude, therefore, that the petition for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S.

removal was not such as to require the state court to surrender its jurisdiction.
While this conclusion requires an affirmance of the
judgment, we would not be understood as approving the
reasoning upon which the action of the trial court was sustained by the Court of Appeals of the State. That court,
apparently assuming that the petition for removal contained a sufficient showing of a fraudulent joinder, held
that the questions of fact arising upon the petition were
open to examination and determination in the state court,
and that no error was committed in refusing to surrender
jurisdiction, because upon the subsequent trial the evidenoe indicated that the showing in the petition was not
true as to the fireman. In so holding the Court of Appeals
fell into manifest error, for it is thoroughly settled that
issues of fact arising upon a petition for removal are to be
determined in the Federal court, and that the state court,
for the purpose of determining for itself whether it will
surrender jurisdiction, must accept as true the allegations
of fact in such petition. Stone v. South Carolina,117 U. S.
430, 432; Crehore v. Ohio & Mississippi Ry. Co., Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog, and Chicago, Rock Island &
PacificRy. Co. v. Dowell, supra. In this case had the petition contained a sufficient showing of a fraudulent joinder,
accompanied as it was by a proper bond, the state court
would have been in duty bound to give effect to the petition and surrender jurisdiction, leaving any issue of fact
arising upon the petition to the decision of the Federal
court, as was done in, Wecker v. National Enameling Co.,
supra. And had the state court refused to give effect to
the, petition, it and the bond being sufficient, the railway
'company might have obtained a certified transcript of the
record, resorting if necessary to a writ of certiorari for that
purpose, and, upon filing the transcript in the Federal
court, might have invoked the authority of the latter to
protect its jurisdiction by enjoining the plaihtiff from tak-

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
232 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing further proceedings in the state court, unless the cause
should be remanded. Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196
U. S.239, 245; Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. vi McCabe,
213 U. S. 207, 217, 219; Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v.
McDonald, 214 U. S. 191, 195; French v. Hay, 22 Wall.
250; Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 494.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 710.

Submitted January 8, 1914.-Decided January 26, 1914.

Under ยง 5480, Rev. Stat., it was necessary to charge not only that a

scheme to defraud was devised but that it was intended to be effected by opening or intending to open correspondence with some
other person by means of the post office; under ยง 215 of the Criminal

Code it is only necessary to charge that the scheme be devised or
intended to be devised and a letter placed in the post office for the
purpose of executing the scheme or attempting to do so.
THE facts, which involve the construction of ยง 215 of the
Criminal Code, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Indictment under ยง 215 of the. Criminal Code charging
the use of the mails in furtherance of a scheme to defraud.

