THE Rio GRANDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

controversy the case would be different. They have been
partners in fraud and neither can claim a preference over
the other on account of honesty of purpose or fairness in
dealing. But Allen's interest in the property was only that
of a tenant for life. The real owner was his wife, and upon
her death her children succeeded to her rights. It is the
title of these children that Vint now attempts to defeat. By
his own admissions in commencing his proceedings against
them' he concealed the truth. He thus in effect confesses
that he relied to some extent for his success upon their ignorance. After years of groping in the dark, they were
able to confront him with the facts and, as we think, to defeat the case he has attempted to make against them.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a decree DISMISSING THE BILL of the complain-

ants and GRANTING THE PRAYER OF THE CROSS-BILL for
cellation of the deed from Allen and wife to Vint.

THE

Rio

a can-

GRANDE.

1. In a proceeding in rem, a valid seizure and actual control of the res by
the marshal gives jurisdiction, and an improper removal of it from his
custody, as by an order of court improvidently made, does not destroy
the jurisdiction. Hence, where, on a libel in rem in the admiralty for
repairs, a vessel had been seized, and, on hearing, the libel was dismissed,
but on the same day an appeal to the Circuit Court was moved and allowed, a motion made on the next day by the claimants, and improvidently granted, to restore the vessel to them, does not divest the Circuit
Court of its jurisdiction to bear the appeal, if within due time the appeal is perfected by giving bonds in the way prescribed by statute.
2. In such a case as that above described, a decree by the Circuit Court that
the vessel was a foreign vessel-an issue whether it was so or not having
been raised in the pleadings-if pleaded or put in evidence in the District and Circuit Courts of another circuit, to which the case finally
gets on a new libel in reem by the original libellants against the vessel,
which, on a subtraction of it from the first district and circuit, they
have pursued into a new district and circuit, and seized anew, is conclusive of the foreign character of the vessel.

Oct. 1874.]

Tim Rio GRANDE.
Statement of the case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for Louisiana; the case
being thus:
In October, 1866, one Williams, a steamboat captain, purchased in New Orleans, a steamboat called the Rio Grande,
and took her to Mobile, Alabama. He there mortgaged her
to Stewart and Ross; and employed her in running between
certain towns at the upper and lower parts of Mobile Bay;
he, Williams, and not the mortgagees having possession.
While she was thus employed, Otis and others, in November, 1867, libelled her in the District Court for Alabama for
repairs. The libels alleged that the steamer was owned by
persons out of the State of Alabama, and belonged to some
port in the republic of Mexico, and that the repairs had
been made on the credit of the vessel.
Williams as owner, and Ross and Stewart as mortgagees,
intervened, denying that the repairs had been made on the
credit of the vessel. They asserted, contrariwise, that the
repairs had been made on the credit of Williams. They
denied also that the vessel was a foreign vessel, or had been
at any foreign port after her arrival at Mobile; asserting,
contrariwise, that she was a domestic vessel engaged in running in the internal waters of the State of Alabama.
In point of fact, the evidence tended to show that the
vessel had been originally a vessel of war (then named the
Susanna), built for the rebel confederacy; that she had been
captured during the rebellion by a vessel of the government, sent into Philadelphia and there condemned, and sold
as prize to one Hazard, an American citizen, on the 18th
of January, 1865; that Hazard sent her to Matamoras in
Mexico, under the command of one Tyler, and had given
him power to make sale of her; that for commercial purposes she was put under British colors, with a temporary
British registry, which expired while she was at Matamoras;
that while there she could leave the port in no other way
than by obtaining a temporary Mexican registry, which was
done by putting her in the name of Francisco Alcala, a citizen of Mexico, residing in New Orleans, under which Tyler
brought her to New Orleans; that all this was done for spe-

THE Rio

GRANDE.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

cial purposes, but that the vessel all the while was in reality
the property of an American citizen; that after Williams
brought the vessel to Mobile he was not allowed to register
her there as his own vessel, she being held under a Mexican
registry; and, finally, that the collector gave her a temporary
permit and license, on the 12th day of June, 1867, to run in
Mobile Bay and River, and referred to Washington for settlement the question whether she should be enrolled.
The court referred it to a master to determine whether
there had been a credit to the vessel, and if so whether the
vessel was a foreign one.
The master recapitulated leading facts as he conceived
them on both sides, bearing on the national character in law
of the vessel, some of which are above given-adding that
several of the witnesses swore that Captain Williams had
told them repeatedly that the vessel was bound for their
wages; that she was a foreign vessel, having Mexican owners;
but that Williams himself swore that he never told the libellants that they had a lien, and never represented the vessel
as being in point of fact owned by any one but himself;
though he had spoken of her Mexican registry.
The District Court for Alabama, on the whole case, was
in favor of the claimants, that is to say, it considered that
the debts set forth in the libels did not constitute a maritime
lien so as to give the court jurisdiction, and dismissed the
libel. This was on the l1th of May, 1868.
At the time that this decree of dismissal was rendered,
and within a few minutes thereafter, a motion was made to
the judge holding the court, that an appeal from the decree
be allowed. The motion was granted, and an order was
then and there made fixing the amount of the bonds to be
given on the appeal.
On the next day-that is to say, on the 12th of Maythe vessel being still in the custody of the marshal, owing
to the factof some clerical irregularity about the motion
for the appeal, the proctor of Stewart and Ross asked for
and obtained from the court an order of retention of thi
vessel to them, and the marshal having surrendered her to

Oct. 1874.]

THE Rio GRANDE.
Statement of the case.

them accordingly they immediately carried her out to sea,
and went off with her. The libellants, nevertheless, on the
14th and 15th of the month gave their appeal bonds in form,
and they were duly accepted by the clerk.
On the case being heard by the Circuit Court, that court
reversed the decree of the District Court and decreed for
the libellants; holding thus both that the credit had been
given to the vessel, and that the vessel was to be regarded
as a foreign one. But the vessel was no longer in the marshal's possession to answer. The res bad departed.
Hlowever, she was soon heard of at New Orleans, and the
libellants instantly sent, and, libelling her there, seized and
held her anew. To their libel they appended the record of
the proceedings in the District of Alabama.
The Ocean Towboat Company now intervened-a company which, in September, 1869, had acquired the right of
the old owner, Captain Williams, and of his mortgagees,
Stewart and Ross; the right of whom had passed in some
way to a Mrs. Price.
This company set up in answer to the new libel,
1st. That, at the time the libellants took their alleged appeals from the decree of the District Court for Alabama dismissing their libels, as also at the time the Circuit Court for
the State just named rendered the decree now invoked, the
steamer Rio Grande, proceeded against in rem, was neither
in the actual nor in the constructive possession of either
the District or the Circuit Court; but that, on the contrary,
the vessel had prior thereto been restored to the claimants,
Ross and Stewart, by virtue of the decree of the District
Court.
2d. That from the circumstances of the case, the claimants
could have nothing to urge against the libels in the said
District Court of Alabama, their ownership of the Rio
Grande having accrued long after the proceedings in that
court bad terminated, to wit, in September, 1869, and outside of the jurisdiction of the said court, to wit, in New
Orleans.
3d. That all the proceedings had in said Circuit Court for

THE Rio GRANDE.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

Alabama, in the matter of the said alleged appeals, were
exparte, irregular, and in violation of the rules, usages, and
laws of the admiralty, regulating the subject.
That as the libellants had failed to move that court to set
aside the decree of restoration heretofore mentioned, or to
appeal from the same; and as by reason of their laches in
this regard, they had suffered the decree to be carried into
effect by the marshal, they must be taken, notwithstanding
their form and show of an appeal, as having acquiesced in
the execution of the judgment of the District Court dismissing their libels for wanrt of jurisdiction.
4th. That the vessel was a domestic vessel, and, therefore,
not liable to a lien for repairs done to her in her home-port,
whether credit was given to her or not.
The District Court dismissed the libel filed there, as the
District Court of Alabama had done by the libel filed in it.
On appeal, however, the Circuit Court reversed-as the Circuit Court of Alabama had done by the decree of the District Court for that district-the decree of the inferior court,
and decreed in favor of the lien. The Ocean Towboat Company appealed.
It may be well here to say that the Judiciary and subsequent acts enact, in regard to appeals in admiralty from the
District Court to the Circuit Court, that upon sufficient security and service of notice being given, within a certain
time, to prosecute them with effect, the appeal shall be a
supersedeas and stay execution. The security and notice,
it seemed plain, had been duly given in this case.
Mr. D. C. Labatt, for the appellants, the Ocean Towboat
Company; Mr. P. Phillips, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants insist that at the time the libellants took
their appeal from the decree of the District Court of Alabama, the vessel proceeded against in ren was not in the
actual or constructive possession of the District or Circuit
Court, but that she had been previously restored to the

Oct. 1874.]

THE Rio GRANDE.
Opinion of the court.

claimants 1 y virtue of an order of the District Court, under
which the marshal could justify.
But the appeal which was allowed by that court on the
11th of May, operated as a stay of all proceedings upon or
under the judgment of dismissal of the libels made on that
same day, and but a few minutes before. The appeal was
well allowed, the bonds are in compliance with the order of
the court so far as it appears, were accepted by the clerk,
and were not objected to by the parties. We cannot agree
with the argument of the claimant that under such circumstances the Circuit Court in Alabama had no jurisdiction of
the appeal, and that its decree was void.
The appeal stayed all proceedings, and the parties were
bound to keep the vessel where it then was, to wit, in the
possession of the court. The appeal was taken and allowed
before any order of discharge was granted, and the bonds
required to make the appeal a stay of proceedings were
given within the time required by the statute.
The removal of the vessel pending an appeal to the Circuit Court'was illegal, in violation of the express directions
of the statute regulating appeals.
We do not understand the law to be that an actual and
continuous possession of the res is required to sustain the
jurisdiction of the court. When the vessel was seized by
the order of the court and brought within its control the
jurisdiction was complete. A subsequent improper removal
cannot defeat such jurisdiction. The present claimants are
not bondfide purchasers, setting up new interests. They are
purchasers only of such interest as passed under the claims
of Mrs. Price and Mr. 'Williams. This was the very title
set up, litigated, and decided in the Alabama suit. It cannot again be interposed and litigated a second time, as a
defence to that decree.
In Cooper v. Reynolds,* the court say: "Jurisdiction of
the res is obtained by a seizure under process of the court,
whereby it is held to abide such order as the court may
* 10 Wallace, 817.

THE Rio

GRANDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

-make concerning it. The power to render the decree or
judgment which the court may undertake to make in the
particular case depends upon the nature and extent of the
authority vested in it by law in regard to the subject-matter
of the cause."
In the case of The Brig Ann,* Chief Justice Marshall says:
"In order to constitute and perfect proceedings in ren it is
necessary that the thing should be actually or constructively
within the reach of the court. It is actually within its possession when it is submitted to the process of the court; it
is constructively so when by a seizure it is held to ascertain
and enforce a right or forfeiture which can alone be decided
by a judicial decree in rem. .... Before judicial cognizance
can attach upon a forfeiture in rem under the statute there
must be a seizure, for until seizure it is impossible to ascertain what is the competent forum. And if so, it must be a
good subsisting seizure at the time when the libel or information is filed or allowed. If a seizure be completely and
explicitly abandoned and the property restored by the v6luntary act of the party who has made the seizure, all rights
under it are gone. It is not meant to assert that a tortious
ouster of possession, a fraudulent rescue or relinquishment
of her seizure will divest jurisdiction. The case put is that
of a voluntary abandonment and release of the property
seized, the legal effect of which must be, we think, to purge
away all the prior rights acquired by the seizure."
In Taylor v. Carryl,t the rule is thus laid down: "In admiralty all parties who have an interest in the subject of
the suit, the res, may appear, and each may propound independently his interest. The seizure of the res and the publication of the monition or invitation to appear is regarded
as equivalent to the particular service of process in law and
equity. But the res is in no other sense than this the representative of the whole world. But it follows that to give
jurisdiction in rem there must have been a valid seizure and
an actual control of the ship-by the marshal of the court;
* 9 Oranch, 290-1.

t20 Howard, 599.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

Rio

GRANDE.

Opinion of the court.

and the authorities are to this effect.* In the present instance the service was typical. There was no exclusive custody or control of the bark by the marshal from the 21st
day of Januaiy, 1848, to the day of sale, and when the
order of sale was made in the District Court she was in the
actual and legal custody of the sheriff."
We hold the rule to be that a valid seizure and actual
control of the res by the marshal gives jurisdiction of the
subject-matter, and that an accidental or fraudulent or improper removal of it from his custody, or a delivery to the
party upon security, does not destroy jurisdiction.t In the
present case the order for restoration was in direct violation
of the statute regarding appeals, and did not operate to destroy the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. That court was
authorized to proceed as if no such order had been made.
It is further insisted by the appellants that the Circuit
Court in Alabama had no authority to render its decree, for
the reason that the subject-matter, to wit, materials and repairs to a vessel in a domestic port, gives no ground of jurisdiction. There are several answers to this suggestion:
1. We do not know that the facts are as alleged in the
objection. Supplies were furnished and repairs were made,
but whether the vessel was an American or a foreign vessel
we have no means of determinifig. The report of the master
makes reference to various matters which would authorize
a determination either way, but the testimony itself is not
given. Until a short time before the furnishing the materials the vessel had been a Mexican vessel, and the claimant
had repeatedly stated that she was a foreign vessel, but how
the fact was we have no legal means of determining.
2. Whether the vessel was foreign or domestic was one
of the questions presented to the Circuit Court and passed
upon by it, and conclusively.1
3. If there was error in the decision on this point it was
* Jennings v. Carson, 4 Cranch, 2; 2 Ware's Admiralty, 362.
t Jennings v. Carson, 4 Cranch, 23.
$ Hudson v. Guestier, 6 Cranchb, 284.
VOL. XXIII.

30

LEWIS V.

COCKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

error only, and not an excess of jurisdiction. The vessel
was in possession of the court when the suit was commenced.
It was the duty of the court to decide whether the proceeding should be in rem or in personam, and until reversed its
decree on this question is conclusive.
The judgment and decree of the Circuit Court in Alabama, that the vessel was subject to the lien of the libellants'
claim, remaining in full force, was conclusive of the right
of such claim when alleged in the District of Louisiana.
The judgment of the Circuit Court to that effect was right,
and must be
AFFIRMED.

LEwis v.

CoCKs.

1. A bill in equity is not the proper means to recover possession of land,
there being no fraud in the case, nor other matter specially the subject
of equitable cognizance, and a party cannot by any colorable suggestion
of fraud, account, &c., use such a bill in place of the common-law
remeay of ejectment. The court will look at the proofs, and if there be
no proof at all of the matters which would make a proper case for equity
it will disregard them, and look at the bill simply in its aspect of one to
recover land of which the complainant is out of possession.
2. If the bill be clear'ly one of the sort above spoken of it is the duty of the
court sud sponte, and though there be no demurrer, plea, or answer setting it up, to recognize the fact and give to it effect.

from the Circuit Court for Louisiana.
In March, 1863, Anderson, alleging himself to be a creditor to the extent of $8840 of one Cocks, filed a petition in
the "Provisional Court of INew Orleans"-a court established by proclamation of President Lincoln during the rebellion (while New Orleans was occupied by the troops of
the United States), and of which a full account is given in
preceding cases*-that Cocks, then absent from the State,
APPEAL

The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 129; Handlin v. Wickliffe, 12 Id. 173; Pennewet v. Eaton, 15 Id. 882; Mechanics', &c., Bank v. Union Bank, 21 Id.
278.

