UNITED STATES V.

SHREWSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error is dismissed upon the authority of Insurance Company v. Comstock.* The order of the Circuit
Court remanding the cause to the State court is not a "final
judgment" in the action, but a refusal to hear and decide.
The remedy in such a case is by mandamus to compel action,
and not by writ of eri'or to review what has been done.t

UNITED STATES V. SHREWSBURY.
Where, under a contract entered into between the government and a transporter of military stores, in the wilds of the 'West; it was provided that
a board of survey,, composed of military officers, should on the arrival
of the stores at their place of delivery, examine the quantity and condition of the stores transported, and "in case of loss, deficiency, or
damage, investigate the facts and report the apparent causes, assess the
amount of loss and injury, and state whether it was attributableto neglect
or want of care on the part of the contractor or to causes beyond his control," a copy of which, said the contract, "shall be furnished to the contractor, shall be attached to the bill of lading, and shall conclude the
payments to be made "-Held,that a report which did not report investigation of facts and the apparent causes, nor state whether the loss was
attributable to neglect or the want of care on the part of the contractor
or to causes beyond his control, but which merely on its face found the
deficiency and charged it accordingly would be supported; the contractor not having at the time objected either as to the form or the substance of the report, when it was made; and objecting only when he
came and got his money; when witnesses were scattered and gone, and
most of them difficult if not impossible to be found; and then notifying to the quartermaster nothing more definite than that he, the contractor, would claim a readjustment and full damages.

from the Court of Claims.
The case as found by the Court of Claims was thus:
On the 27th of March, 1865, W. S. Shrewsbury entered
into a contract with the United States to transport army
APPEAL

* 16 Wallace, 270.
t King v.The Justices of Gloucestershire, 1 Barnewall & Adolphus, 1; 1
Chitty's General Practice, 736 ; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters, 647; Ex parte
Newman, 14 Wallace, 165.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. SHREWSBURY.
Statement of the case.

stores from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and other forts there
and in Missouri, to Fort Lyon and other forts in the Territories of Colorado and New Mexico.
The contract contained a clause thus:
"In all cases where stores have been transported by the said
Shrewsbury, under this agreement, a board of survey shall be
called without delay, upon their arrival at the point of destination or delivery, to examine the quantity and condition of the
stores transported, and in cases of loss, deficiency, or damage,
to investigate the facts and report the apparent causes, assess
the amount of loss or injury, and state whether it was attributable to neglect or the want of care on the part of the contractor, or to causes beyond his control; and these proceedings,
a copy of which shall be furnished to the contractor, shall be
attached to the bill of lading, and shall conclude the payments
to be made on it.
"For loss of weight due to shrinkage . . . the contractor
shall not be liable, if the packages are delivered in good order
and condition, and the board of survey shall be satisfied that
such shrinkage did not arise from neglect or want of care on
the part of the contractor or his agents.
"For deficiencies or damages, the contractor shall pay the
costs at the point he receives the articles, and freight shall be
deducted in the latter case in proportion to the amount of damage assessed. Should no board of survey be called, through
failure on the part of the quartermaster's department or other
military authority to convene one, it shall be considered that the
contractor has delivered all the stores, as specified in the bill of
lading, in good order and condition, and he shall be paid accordingly."
On the 2d of June, 1865, one of Shrewsbury's transportation trains-train No. 124-received, at Fort Leavenworth,
858 sacks of corn, weighing in the aggregate 101,860 pounds,
averaging 1183 pounds per sack. The train arrived at Fort
Lyon, Colorado, in the latter part of July, and delivered the
corn in good order, except that 9 sacks, amounting to 1069
pounds, were lost. But, by reason of the difference or imperfection of the scales used in the determination of the
weight of the remainder and the shrinkage in weight upon

510

'UNITED STAiES V. SHREWSBURY.'

[Sup. Ct.'

Statement of the case.

the road, the remaining 849 sacks were reported to weigh
only 97,620 pounds instead of 100,791 pounds, their weight
when they .left Fort Leavenworth, and Shrewsbury was
charged with the loss of 3171 pounds. A board of survey
was ordered on the 31st July, 1865, which met on the 1st
August, 1865, and examined the supplies delivered.
The following were the proceedings of the board, as reported to the commanding officer, and as attached to the bill
of lading:
"Proceeding of a board of survey which assembled at Fort
Lyon, C. T., by virtue of the following order, viz.:
"1HEADQUARTERS, FORT LYoN, 0. T.,

"July 31st, 1865.

No. 145.]
[Special Order

"A board of survey is hereby ordered to meet at the commissary building to-morrow morning, at 9 V'clock, or as soon thereafter as practicable, to examine and report upon the quantity
and condition of certain commissary and quartermaster stores
being received by Lieutenant C. M. Cossett, Acting Assistant
Quartermaster, and A. C. S.
"D
Detail for the Board.
"First Lieutenant J. A. Cramer, veteran battalion, First Colorado Cavalry.
"First Lieutenant Henry Gronheim, Fifteenth Kansas Cavalry.
"By order of Theo. Conkney, captain, commanding post.
"JAMES

OLNEY,

"Second Lieutenant and Post Adjutant.
"FORT LO, 0. T.,
"August 1st, 1865.

"The board met pursuant to the above order.
"Present: First Lieutenant J. A. Cramer, veteran battalion,
First Colorado Cavalry, and First Lieutenant Henry Gronheim,
Fifteenth Kansas Cavalry, and proceeded to examine the supplies delivered by freight contractor W. S. Shrewsbury, in contractor's train No. 124, Fort Lyon, No. 5, and find as follows:
"Packages all correct, and in good order, with the exception
of nine sacks of corn deficient; weight agreeing with the bill of
lading with the exception of 4240 pounds of corn deficient.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. SHREWSBURY7

51

Statement of the case.

"The board, therefore, recommend that the deficiency of corn
be charged to the freight contractor, and that Lieutenant C. M.
Cossett, Acting Assistant Quartermaster, be permitted to drop
said deficiency from his return.
"The board then proceeded to other business."
These minutes were signed in form by the officers composing the board.
In pursuance of the foregoing recommendation Shrewsbury was charged by the quartermaster department for the
loss of 9 sacks of corn, and in addition to the 9 sacks of
corn with the 8171 pounds of difference in weight of the remainder of the corn before mentioned, and for this difference $449.61 was deducted from his account. He had never
been paid this balance. A general account was stated between the parties showing the amount allowed and deducted,
entitled:
"An account for the transportation of military stores from
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, to Fort Riley, Kansas, under contract with the United States, dated March 27th, 1865, as per the
accompanying bills of lading, receipts, and proceedings of boards
of survey, to wit."
The claimant was paid the total of the amounts allowed,
and at the foot he gave the following receipt:
"Received, at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, the 23d of October,
1865, of Captain H. L. Thayer, Assistant Quartermaster, United
States Army, the sum of $91,243.60, in full of the above account.
"W. S. SHREWSBURY."
At the time of receiving payment Shrewsbury protested
against the deduction, and notified the quartermaster who
made the payment that he should look to the United States
for a corrected adjustment and full payment.
The Court of Claims, upon the foregoing facts, decided as
conclusions of law:
That as to the shrinkage of corn and difference of weight,
the proceedings of the board of survey did not conform to
the terms of the contract, inasmuch as the board did not investigate the facts nor report the apparent causes, nor state

UNITED STATES V. SHREWSBURY.

[Sup. at.

Statement of the case.

whether the loss was attributable to neglect or the want of
care on the part of the contractor, or to causes beyond his
control; and that for the amounts thus withheld the claimant should recover.
Nott, J., in delivering the opinion of the court-said:
"The sacks of corn averaged 118k pounds per sack. It is,
therefore, apparent that the nine missing sacks (for which no
claim is made by the contractor) could not have weighed 4240
pounds when received at Fort Leavenworth, and that if"
'the
packages' were all correct and in good order, as found by the
board, the deduction ordered was an arbitrary deduction, which
any clerk could have made by a simple comparison of the two
weights, and which involved the exercise of no real examination or discretion.
"But the rule which the parties established for themselves by
their agreement was, that in case of ' deficiency' the board of
survey should Iinvestigate the facts and report the apparent
causes and assess the amount of loss or injury, and state whether
it was attributable to neglect or the want of care on the part of
the contractor, or to causes beyond his control.' In none of
these particulars do the proceedifngs of the board in any manner
carry out the intent and terms of the contract. The board did
not investigate the facts, it did not report the apparent causes,
it did not state whether tfie loss was attributable to neglect or
to the want of care on the part of the contractor, or to causes
beyond his control. As to all of these particulars the contractor
had the right to receive the investigation of the board, and the
contract was so rigid in assuring him of that right, that it provided that if the other party, who alone had the right to convene a board, should fail to do so, he should be deemed to have
' delivered all the stores, as specified in the bill of lading, in good
order and condition, and be paid accordingly.' We do not mean
to say that the failure of a board to investigate after it has been
properly convened will work the same result in favor of a contractor, but we do think that when a board is convened it must
carry out the intent of the agreement in its investigations, or
else that its proceedings will not be conclusive and binding upon
the contractor."
The judgment of the court was that the claimant recover.
The United States took this appeal.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V.

SHREWSBURY.

Argument for the United States.

Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. John Goforth, Assistant Attorney-General,for the appellant:
1. The reports of the board of survey contained everything made necessary by the terms of the contract. The
condition of the stores was reported, the deficiency in weight
noted, and the liability of the contractor for damages and deficiencies, contained in the recommendations of the boards.
The exact form of report was left to the judgment of the
boards.
2. If there were any informalities in the reports of the
boards of survey, the claimant waived them by acquiescence
in the conclusions of the reports, and acceptance of payment
on the vouchers or bills of lading, which included the deductions ordered by the boards, as in full of all services of the
various trains against which the boards had charged deficiencies. The agreement was to submit the questions of
the condition and quantity of the stores transported by the
claimant to boards of survey, and their reports were to be
conclusive as to the payments to be made on the bills of
lading or vouchers. Boards were ordered, and they met
and examined the transported stores, and their proceedings
were attached to the bills of lading. No protest or objection was made to the composition, the proceedings, or reports of the boards, nor any charge made of informality in
the proceedings or reports. The claimant accepted the conclusions of the boards, as in full payment of all services rendered, and then protested against the deductions made by
the boards. The boards were in the nature of an arbitration, acting for both parties.
Where there is a submission to arbitration, after a ratification of an award and execution of its requirements, it is
too late for the parties to set up any defect in the proceedings or in the award.*
3. The taking of the amount allowed by the boards of survey appointed pursuant to the contract, i. e., by the act of
both parties, and giving the receipts as in full payment fir
* Hoogs v. Morse, 31 California, 128; Tudor v. Scovell, 20 New Hampshire, 174.
83
VOL. XXIII.

'UNITED STATES V.

SHREWSBURY.

[Sup. Cr.

Argument for the contractor.

all services rendered by certain trains, bring the case within
the ruling of the Supreme Court in the cases of Justice,*
of Mason,t and of Sweeney, I notwithstanding a promise on
the part of the claimant to look elsewhere for the amount
of the deductions. In fact this case is more favorable for
the United States than those quoted, because it is an acceptance of an award which the contract says shall conclude all
payments on the bills of ladirg.
Mr. . F. Peck, contra:
1. It was optional with the government whether a board of
survey should be called in any case. Its proceedings were
to be all for the benefit of the defendant, its action and proceedings were ex pare, and it was composed entirely of government officers. On these accounts it is the more iniperative that the contract be construed strictly. If no board
should be called, it was to be considered that no deficiency
existed, and that full payment should be made.
The contractor consented that the officers constituting the
board of survey might, for the purpose of ascertaining
whether he had done his duty, do certain things, viz.:
1st. Examine the quantity and condition of the stores
transported, and in cases of loss, deficiency, or damage,
2d. To investigate the facts.
3d. To report the apparent causes.
4th. To assess the amount of loss or injury.
5th. To state whether it was attributable to neglect or
want of care on the part of the contractor or to causes beyond his control.
These five points were to be passed upon by the board,
if the government questioned his claim to full pay; ibut if
they undertook to act at all, they were to act in the way
prescribed.
The court below, whose conclusions of fact cannot be appealed from, says truly:
", The board did not investigate the facts; it did not report
*14 Wallace, 535.

t 17 Id. 67.

$ Ib. 75.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V.

SHREWSBURY.

'515

Argument for the contractor.

the apparent causes; it did not state whether the loss was
attributed to neglect or the want of care on the part of the contractor, or to causes beyond his control."
The board, therefore, ended the investigation where it
should have begun it. Having ascertained that there was a
deficiency, and the amount of it, then the issue arose as to
whom it should be charged. For this purpose they were
required to go on and investigate the facts concerning the
deficiency, to report the apparent causes of the deficiency,
and to state whether, in their judgment, it was attributable
to neglect or want of care on the part of the contractor, or
to causes beyond his control.
The proceeding which was provided for secured a body
in the nature of arbitrators. Now, it is settled that the
power and authority of an arbitrator is derived entirely from
the submission; he must therefore make his award strictly
in pursuance and in conformity with the submission. It is
a general rule that unless the arbitrator makes his award of
all matters submitted to him the award is entirely void.
2. It is next said that if there were any informalities in
the reports of the boards of survey, the claimant waived
them by acquiescence in the conclusions of the reports and
acceptance of payment on the vouchers or bills of lading.
The argument proceeds upon the misapprehension that
the contractor obtained an award in his favor, and received
the money. Such is not the fact. The board of survey had
no jurisdiction over the matter of freight-money; that was
definitely fixed by the contract, there was no controversy
concerning it. There was no award, and could be none, as
to the moneys earned by the contractor, but the report had
reference solely to the counter charges claimed by the United
States. The moneys received by the claimant had no reference to the matters considered by the board, and they were
both paid and received with an explicit understanding that
it was not to be a final adjustment.
The two cases cited on the other side in support of an
opposite view, are based upon the principle that a party
cannot take the benefits of an award without accepting its

UNITED STATES V. SHREWSBURY

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

disadvantages. There is no such principle involved here.
The claimant took that which had no relation to the controversy, submitting for the time to the reduction, but giving
notice that he would claim the amount withheld.
3. The final ground of defence is that the claimant is coneluded by the acceptance of the money and the receipt he
signed.
The gist of the inquiry is whether the money was paid
and accepted as a satisfaction. Undoubtedly, if it was, there
is an end of the case. If it was not, the right of action remains.
This court has had occasion to repeatedly consider the
precise question, under what circumstances will the payment and receipt of money be held as sufficient evidence of
this satisfaction ? Of course the intention of the parties
must govern, not the secret intentions or mental reservations, but the intention as evidenced by their acts and plain
declarations. There is nothing in any of the cases cited by
the other side-neither Justice's, nor Mason's, nor Clyde'swhich deny this.
Even upon the extreme view taken by the Attorney-General, that the board of survey passed upon the whole claim,
and that the claimant accepted the money under its award,
it was only required in order to preserve all of his rights
that he should protest at the time of receiving the money
that it was not in satisfaction of the whole claim.* If after
such protest the officers saw fit to pay him, his status was
not affected by such payment.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The counsel for the appellee maintains that the Cou'rt of
Claims in holding as it did for nought the findings and
recommendations of the board was right, because the agreement was, that in case of deficiency, the board should "investigate the facts and report the apparent cause, and assess
the amount of loss or injury, and state whether it was attrib* United States v. Justice, 14 Wallace, 586.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. SHREWSBURY.

517

Opinion of the court.

utable to neglect or want of care on the part of the contractor, or to causes beyond his control," and that their proceedings failed to carry out the intent and terms of the contract
in these particulars. This is too narrow and technical a
view of the subject. The provision of the contract touching
the board was important to the government. The points of
delivery were in the wilds of the West. If there was any
failure by the contractor, the time and place of delivery were
the time and place to ascertain the facts, and to put the evidence in an effectual shape. Afterwards it might be impossible for the government to procure the proofs, and if it were
done, the expense might greatly exceed the amount of the
items in dispute. At the delivery, the bill of lading spoke
for itself. The teamsters and guards who accompanied the
train were present, and could readily be examined. It is
said by the Court of Claims, in their conclusions of law, that
the board failed to make the requisite investigations of the
facts. To do this was one of the most important duties devolved upon them. It is to be presumed they discharged it.
They did not say, in terms, that they had done so, but they
reported conclusions carrying with them the strongest implication that what was recommended rested on a basis of
ascertained facts. The board, as honest men, could not
have announced such results without the proper previous
examination. The means were at hand, and the work was
easy. A formal and technical instrument was not to be expected from military men acting under such circumstances.
We think the reports were sufficient, and that they conform
in every substantial particular to the requirements of the
contract.
It does not appear that the contractor objected either as
to form or substance when the reports were made, nor that
he disclosed any objection subsequently until the time of
payment. Nor did his objections then assume a definite
shape. He notified the quartermaster that he should claim
"a readjustment and full payment." The reasons and
grounds of the claim were not stated. The payments were
made at a distant point and after the lapse of several months.

THE

TREMOLO PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The witnesses were then scattered and gone. Most of them
doubtless were difficult if not impossible to be found. As
the contractor was silent when he should have spoken, he
cannot be permitted to speak at the later period, in the
altered condition of things, which then existed, as regards
the other party. He must be held to have waived any exception which he might have taken at the proper time, and
to have been, when the payments were made, finally concluded.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded, with direc-

tions
To

DISMISS THE PETITION.

Mr. Justice FIELD dissented.

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
TREMAINE V. HITCHCOCK & CO.

HITCHCOCK & Co. v. TREMAINE.

1. An amendment which changed the character of a hill, allowed even after
final decree, the circumstances being peculiar and the cause having been,
in fact, tried exactly as it would have been if the bill had originally
been in the amended form.
2. The defendants, venders of organs generally, and selling sometimes organs
having a patented invention consisting of a combination of what was
called a "tremolo attachment," with the organ; and selling sometimes'
organs without the attachment, were decreed guilty, in their sales of
organs with the attachment, of infringing the complainant's patent.
Held,
i. That in the ascertainment of profits made by them from sales of the
organs with the tremolo attachment, it was proper to let them prove the
general expenses of their business in effecting sales of organs generally,
and deduct a ratable proportion from the profits made by the tremolo
attachment.
ii. That the master in the present case, for the particulars of which the
reader must see the statement of the case (infra, page 520), had ascertained on right principles the general expenses.

ON cross appeals from the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York.

