Oct. 1874.]

THE DEXTER.
Syllabus.

The title to the increment rests in the law of nature. It is
the same with that of the owner of a tree to its fruits, and
of the owner of flocks and herds to their natural increase.
The right is a natural, not a civil one. The maxim "qui
sentil onus debet sentire commodum" lies at its foundation.
The owner takes the chances of injury and of benefit arising
from the situation of the property. If there be a gradual
loss, he must bear it; if a gradual gain, it is his. The principle applies alike to streams that do, and to those that do
not overflow their banks, and where dykes and other defences are, and where they are not, necessary to keep the
water within its proper limits.*
In England the rule which is applied to gradual accretions
on the shores of fresh waters is applied also to such accretions on the shores of the sea.t
We may well hold that the adjudications of this court to
which we have referred are decisive of the case before us.
They are binding upon us as authority. We are of the
opinion that the United States never had any title to the
premises in controversy, and that nothing passed by the
several acts of Congress and of the legislature of Illinois,
relied upon by the plaintiff in error.
JUDGMENTS AFFIRMED.

THE DEXTER.
1. The rule of navigation prescribed by the act of Congress of April 29th,
1864, "for preventing collisions on the water," which requires "1when
sailing-ships are meeting end on, or nearly so, the helms of both shall
be put to port," is obligatory from the time that necessity for precaution begins, and continues to be applicable so long as the means and
opportunity to avoid the danger remain.
* 3 Washburne on Real Property, 58, *452; Municipality No. 2 v. Orleans
Cotton Press, 18 Louisiana Rep. 122.
t The King v. Lord Yarborough, 3 Dow & Clark's Appeal Cases, 178.

THE DEXTER.

[Sup..Or.

Statement of the case.
2. In a collision at sea, happening on a bright moonlight night, and when
the approaching vessel was seen by the officer in charge of the deck
long before the collision occurred, the absence of a lookout held unimportant; it being assumed that his presence would have done nothing
to avert the catastrophe.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland, affirming a decree of the District Court dismissing a
libel filed by the owners of the schooner Julia against
another schooner, the Dexter, in a cause of collision in
Chesapeake Bay, by which the Julia was totally lost; the
only difficulty in the controversy being-that usual one in
causes of collision at sea-to ascertain what were the facts of
the case; in other words, to settle the case; a matter rendered difficult in this cause, as in so many others of collision,
by the circumstance that witnesses of one side swore in direct opposition to witnesses of the other. The adjudication,
therefore, ministers nothing to juridical science.
The case, as it was assumed in both the courts below, and
in this, upon the contradictory testimony adverted to, was
thus:
On the night of November 17th, 1870-the night being
clear and the moon shining brightly-the schooner Julia
was sailing up Chesapeake Bay. The schooner Dexter was
sailing down it. The wind, which was fresh, was between
northwest and west-by-north, and the vessels were each sailing at the rate of eight miles ai hour; approaching, therefore, rapidly. The Julia was close to the wind, though not
as close as she would lie without impeding her course.
The helmsmen of the two vessels saw them respectively
when three miles from each other. What their exact course
then was, and whether likely to come together did not so
plainly appear. Some evidence tended to show that, at that
time, the vessels were not approaching eud on, but that the
Dexter was sailing with the wind free. But by the time that
they got to within a half-mile of each other the Julia was
heading north-northeast, and the Dexter south-southwest;
that is to say, the vessels were approaching from exactly
opposite directions; and the vessels were approaching also

Oct. 1874.]

THE -DEXTERt:
Statement of the case.

end on, or nearly so. As they thus approached the Dexter
ported her helm. The Julia kept on her course, till the
vessels got very near, when a collision was plainly threatened. The Julia then starboarded her helm. A collision
ensued, and the Julia, which was heavily laden with oysters,
went to the bottom.*
The only lookout on the Dexter when the Julia came in
sight was the captain, who, at the time of the collision, was
standing aft of the foremast.
The act of Congress "fixing certain rules and regulations
for preventing collisions on the water," among its "Steering
and Sailing Rules" thus provides :*
Two SAILING-SHIPS MEETING.

"ARTICLE 11. If two sailing-ships are meeting end on, or
nearly end on, so as to involve risk of collision, the helms of
both shall be put to port, so that each may pass to the port side
of the other."
Two SAILINO-SHIPS CROSSING.
"ARTICLE 12. When two sailing-ships are crossing, so as to
involve risk of collision, then if they have the wind on different

sides, the ship with the wind on the port side shall keep out of
the way of the ship with the wind on the starboard side, except
in the case in which the ship with the wind on the port side is
closehauled, and the other ship free; in which case the latter
ship shall keep out of the way. But if they have the wind on
the same side, or if one of them has the wind aft, the ship
which is to windward shall keep out of the way of the ship
which is to leeward."

No

SHIP, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, TO NEGLECT PROPER
PRECAUTIONS.

"ARTICLE 20. Nothing in these rules shall exonerate any ship,
or the owner, or master, or crew thereof, from the consequences
of any neglect to carry lights or signals, or of any neglect to keep
a proper lookout," &c.

The District Court, as already said, decreed a dismissal
* 13 Stat. at Large, 60.

T.

DEXTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Julia.

of the libel; the Circuit Court affirmed the decree, and the
owner of the Julia took this appeal.
Mr. R. F. Brent, for the appellant, owner of the Julia, contended1. That the captain was not a competent lookout, and
that if he had been so in general, he was standing on this
occasion aft of the foremast, and plainly could not see; that
Article 20 of the act of Congress is obligatory on vessels to
keep a proper lookout, and that none of the other rules which
the act prescribed dispensed with the obligation to do so.*
2. That this was not a case under Article 11th of the
Rules to Avoid Collisions; a matter which the learned
counsel attempted to establish by the evidence; arguing
that the theory of the Dexter, that the vessels were approaching each other "end on," was based on evidence not
trustworthy; that the Dexter, at the distance of two miles,
must have been upon the course diverging to the westward
and approaching the Julia, not only to the leeward as respected place, but also heading on a course bearing to the
eastward of the Julia's course; and that so she was not meeting end on, but was a vessel sailing with the wind free, and
subject to Article 12th; that the rules of navigation begin
to apply when vessels are within ten or twelve minutes of
each other; that hence the Dexter should not have put the
Julia in jeopardy, or even in a reasonable fear of danger;that a vessel with the wind free should give a wide berth to
one having the right of way ;t that porting the helm a point
or so, and then waiting (as did the Dexter) until the collision
was inevitable, was not enough to exonerate one whose duty
it was to give way;J that the Julia was closehauled and
never changed her course until the collision was imminent;
that a vessel with the right of way should keep her course;
and that if there was error on the Julia's part in the moment
* The Hypodatne, 6 Wallace, 224; The Ottawa, 3 Id. 268.

t Bentley v. Coyne, 4 Wallace, 509.
$ The Shakspeare, 4 Benedict, 129; The Carroll, 8 Wallace, 306.

Oct. 1874.]

THE DEXTER.
Argument for the Dexter.
I

of collision, such error would not prevent her from recovering if otherwise not in fault.*
Messrs. . T. Wallis and J1. H. Thomas, contra:
The case is one really involving nothing but fact; and on
the evidence the facts are plain. Two courts have found
them in one way. In such a case the findings are prima
facie right. On the case then as found, the matter is too
palpably plain for argument. The following points will occur at once, to every one, and they end all question:
1. When the vessels were half a mile apart, the Dexter
saw the Julia. They were "meeting end on, or nearly end
on," and under article eleven of the act of Oongress the
helms of both should have been put to port, so that each
could pass on the port side of the other.t
2. They were not "crossing" within the meaning of the
twelfth article. That section is applicable to two vessels on
different and converging tacks.
3. The Dexter ported her helm when far enough off to
pass safely on either side of the Julia. This was a full compliance with her obligations under either rule.
4. The Julia starboarded her helm. If the eleventh rule
was applicable, she ought to have ported; if the twelfth, she
ought to have kept her course. She violated her duty under
either rule.
5. It is unimportant, in view of the facts of this case, under
either of these rules, whether the Julia was closehauled or
not. There was nothing to prevent her from porting, going
farther to leeward, if that was her duty, or from keeping her
course, if subject to the twelfth rule. If she had done either
there would have been no collision.
6. The case as proved shows that the Julia was not closehauled.
7. The error on the part of the Julia was not excusable
on the ground of well-founded alarm arising from too dan* Bentley v. Coyne, 4 Wallace, 500..

t The Nichols, 7 Wallace, 656.

THn,-DEXTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

gerous proximity, the result of previous fault on the part of
the Dexter.
8. The absence of a special lookout other than the captain
on the Dexter could not have contributed to the collision.
Her captain saw the Julia two miles off; saw all that could
be seen, and did everything that could have been done under
any circumstances.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Objection is made by the libellant that the lookout of the
Dexter was insufficient, but it is unnecessary to decide the
question, as it was a clear night, and as each vessel was seen
by the other long before there was any necessity for precaution and in ample time before the collision to have done
whatever the circumstances required to have prevented the
disaster. Sufficient lookouts are required by the rules of
navigation, but where it appears that the officer in charge
of the deck saw the approaching vessel while she was yet so
distant that no precautions to avoid a collision had become
necessary, and that the want of a lookout did not and could
not have contributed to the collision, the vessel omitting
such a proper precaution will not be held responsible for the
consequences of the disaster if in all other respects she is
without fault.t
It is insisted by the libellant that the wind was from the
northwest and that his schooner was closehauled. On the
other hand, it is contended by the claimant that the wind
was west-by-north, and he denies that the course of the
schooner was such as is alleged by the libellant.
Strong doubts arise whether the wind was as far north as
the point assumed by the libellant, and the proofs fail to
convince the court that it was as far to the west as is supposed by the claimant. Difficulties attend the inquiry, but
the better opinion is that the course of the schooner of the
libellant was not as close to the wind as she would lay, without impeding her headway. Nor is it very material whether
* The Farragut, 10 Wallace, 337.

t 1b. 337.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

DEXTER.

Opinion of the court.

she was or not when the vessels were, first seen by each
other, as they were then two miles apart and were 'moving
through the water, by estimation, at the rate of fourteen or
fifteen miles an hour. Satisfactory proof is exhibited that
the schooner of the claimant was heading south-southwest,
and whatever may have been the course of the other
schooner when they were two miles apart, the proof is
equally satisfactory that her course when they were a half
a mile apart was exactly opposite to that of the schooner of
the claimant. Evidence is certainly exhibited in the record
tending to show that the course of the schooner of the libellants was east-northeast when the vessels were first seen by
each other, but it is convincing that when they were only a
half-mile apart they were approaching from exactly opposite
directions and that the case falls within the true intent and
meaning of the eleventh sailing rule prescribed by Congress.
Sailing ships are meeting end on, within the meaning of
that provision, when they are approaching each other from
the opposite directions or on such parallel lines as involve
risk of collision on account of their proximity, and when the
vessels have advanced so near to each other that the necessity for precaution to prevent such a disaster begins, which
cannot be definitely defined, as it must always depend, to a
certain extent, upon the speed of the respective vessels and
the circumstances of the occasion.*
Rules of navigation, such as the one mentioned, are obligatory upon vessels approaching each other from the time
the necessity for precaution begins and continue to be applicable as the vessels advance so long as the means and
opportunity to avoid the danger remain. They do not apply to a vessel required to keep her course after the approach
is so near that the collision is inevitable, and are equally inapplicable to vessels of every description while they are yet
so distant from each other that measures of precaution have
not become necessary to avoid a collision.
Apply the eleventh sailing-rule to the case and it is clear
The Nichols, 7 Wallace, 664.

THE DEXTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that the decree of the Circuit Court shbuld be affirmed, as
the evidence shows that the two vessels when they were
half a mile apart were approaching each other in opposite
directions and that the schooner of the claimant ported her
helm as required by that rule; and it is equally clear that
the collision would have been prevented if the schooner of
the libellant had perfinmed her duty in that regard. Instead of that she held her course until the danger became
imminent, and then, by the mistake of the man at the wheel,
put her helm in the wrong direction, which rendered the
collision inevitable.
Attempt is made in argument to exculpate the error of
the helmsman upon the ground that the danger was imminent, but such an excuse cannot be admitted as a valid
one where it appears that the imminence of the peril was
occasioned by the negligence, carelessness, or unskilfulness
of those in charge of the vessel setting up such an apology
for a violation of a plain rule of navigation.
Serious conflict exists in the testimony as to what was
done by the respective vessels when they were more distant
from each other, but it is not deemed necessary to give that
part of the evidence much examination, as it is clear that
they had ample time and opportunity to adopt every needful precaution to avoid a collision after it must have been
apparent to both that they were fast approaching each other
from opposite directions.
Resort is had by the libellant t6 that part of the evidence
to show that the case falls under the twelfth sailing-rule
and not under the eleventh, as contended by the claimant.
Even suppose that proposition could be maintained, which
is denied, it is quite clear that it would not benefit the libellant, as it is conceded that his schooner changed her course
by putting her helm to starboard and that it was that error
which produced the collision.
Viewed in any light it is clear that the libellant is not
entitled to recover.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

