46

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LoVINGSTON.
1. Where a survey begins "1on the bank of a river" and is carried thence

", to a point in the river," the river-bank being straight and running
according to this line, the tract surveyed is bounded by the river. It is
even more plainly so when it begins at a post "on the bank of the
river, thence north 5 degrees east up the river and binding therewith."
2. Alluvion means an addition to riparian land, gradually and imperceptibly made, through causes either natural or artificial, by the water to
which the land is contiguous:
3. The test of what is gradual and imperceptible is that, though the witnesses may see from time to time that progress has been made, they
could not perceive it while the process was going on.
4. It matters not whether the addition be on streams which do overflow
their banks or those that do not. In each case it is alluvion.

to the Supreme Court of Illinois.
The county of St. Clair, Illinois, brought ejectment against
Lovingston, for a piece of land within its own boundaries,
situated on the east bank of the river Mississippi (as its east
bank now runs), opposite to St. Louis. The land was confessedly "made land;" that is to say, it was land formed by
accretion or alluvion, in the general sense of that word;
though whether it was land made by accretion or alluvion
in the technical or legal sense of the word was a point in
dispute between the parties in the case. The bank of the
river had confessedly, in some way, been greatly changed,
and, in this part, added to. The tract in dispute is indicated on the diagram upon the next page, by the deeply
shaded or most dark part of it; the part at the bottom of
the diagram and on the left hand side of it.
ERROR

The case was thus:
Before the year 1815, and in pursuace of an early formed
intention by the government, to give a piece of land to soldiers in the old French settlements in Illinois, a survey was
made in the public lands for one N~icholas Jarrot, of one
hundred acres, which was either on or near to the Mississippi
River, as it then ran; though whether, in all its parts, on

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

47

Statement of the case.

the river or only beginning on its bank and leaving a strip or
pieces of land between the tract and the river-edges more
or less ragged-was one point in the case.
DIAGRAM NO. 1.

oC

54 '
00

........

.. .

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

I

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

The field-notes and a plot of the tract, as given in proof,
were thus:
DIAGRAM No. 2.
West.
S.50 W. 160 poles.

South.

100 acres.

A

North.

East.

"Beginniuu- on the bank of the Mississippi River, opposite St.
Louis, from which the lower window of the United States storehouse in St. Louis bears N. 701 W.; thence S. 5 W. 160 poles to
a point in the river from which a sycamore 20 inches diameter
bears S. 85 E. 250 links; thence S.85 E. 130 poles (at 30 poles
a slash) to a point; thence N. 15 W. 170 poles to a forked elm
on the bank of Cahokia Creek; thence N. 85 IV. 70 poles to the
beginning."
At thetime of this survey the west line of the tract, if not
in all its course on the river, was confessedly in all its course
near to the river; the general course of the river-bank in
1814, just before the survey, being indicated on the Diagram
No. 1 by the words "River-bank in 1814;" and the tract,
the field-notes of whose survey are above given, being
marked on that diagram as "No. 579, N. Jarrot."
To the north of this tract of one hundred acres to Jarrot
were two other tracts, each of one hundred acres. They
are numbered on the Diagram No. 1, the one 624 and the
other 766, and their general position is thus shown. Jarrot,
in virtue of a transfer from some other French settlei',
claimed also this latter tract, No. 766.
At a later date, that is to say in 1815, a certain Pierre
Coudaire got a survey which covered the whole of the three

Oct. 1874.]

49

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.
Statement of the case.

abovementioned tracts, and some irregular edges on the east
between them and the Cahokia Creek, as also a small strip
bending round and going to the south of the southernmost
of the three tracts, or tract No. 579. What this survey embraced on the west-that is to say, on the river side-not
embraced by the surveys of the others, or, more especially,
and so far as that extent of line was concerned, not embraced
by the west line of tract No. 579-and whether it embraced
anythIing at all-in other words, whether it brought the title
any more upon or to the river than the old surveys-was
one of the questions of the case. The field-notes of Coudaire's survey, which a drawing, Diagram No. 3, thus illustrates, called for a post in the northwesterly line of survey
DIAGRAM NO. 3.

Hf1SSISSIPPI
Post

BIVER
Post

No. 5 E., 551 poles 10 links.

:5.

I

"A

579.

624.

766.
0M0
_

"-.

Post

"

636.
p,

636 as the point of beginning; thence south 880 50' west
with said line 17 poles to a post; thence south 51' 10' east
with another line of said survey 134 poles, to a post on the
west side of Cahokia Creek; "thence down the said creek with
its different courses;" thence by courses and distances described to a post. The field-notes then continued:

"Thence 850 W. 174 poles to a post on the bank of the Atississippi River, from which*-thence N. 50 E., up the Mississippi
River and binding therewith (passing the southwesterly corner
of Nicholas Jarrot's survey No. 579, claim No. 99, at 6 poles),
* There was a considerable blank here, in which no doubt the bearing of
some object was meant to be inserted; though it never was in fact inserted.
-REP.

VOL. xxIII.

4

50

CouNTY oF ST. CLAm v. LoviNGs To.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

551 poles and 10 links to a post, northwesterly corner of Nicholas Jarrot's survey, No. 766, claim No. 100, from which a sycamore 36 inches diameter bears S. 21' W. 29 links; thence S. 85'
E. with the upper line of the last-mentioned survey 88 poles to
the beginning."
The right of Jarrot was confirmed at an earlier date than
that of Coudaire. Goudaire's survey bore the number 786.
Several old maps were introduced which seemed to show
plainly enough that at the time when the surveys were made
the river-bank, in this part of it, ran in what might fairly be
called a straight line. Oral testimony in the record proved
also that it did so.
We have already said that after the surveys were made
the east bank of the river greatly advanced. But what
caused this change in position was not quite obvious.
About the time when the new land began perceptibly to
form, certain coal-dykes for the accommodation of the public were built above the point where the land in controversy
was. 'The United States also made some improvements to
throw the channel of the river more towards the city of St.
Louis, that is to say, away from the side where these tracts
were, and the city itself put certain large rocks on one edge
of the river to preserve its own harbor. How far, exclusively of natural causes, all this had formed the new land
was not clear. The evidence showed, however, that the defendants had nothing to do with the making of any of these
artificial works, and it was not clear that in a river like the
Mississippi the new land might not have been made without
them, and by natural causes alone.
The fact that the additions were a making was perceptible
at certain intervals, though the additions were too gradual
to strike the eye as they were in the actual process of formation.
In this state of things, and a considerable addition having
now been made, Congress, on the 15th of July, 1870, passed
an act in these words :*
* Chapter 301, 16 Stat. at Large, 364.

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

51

Statement of the case.

"That the title of the United States to all lots, out-lots, tracts,
pieces, parcels, and strips of land in St. Clair County, State of
Illinois, lying and situate outside of the United States surveys
as noted in the field-notes of the United States surveyors, and
on the Mississippi River near surveys 766, 624, and 579, . . .
&c., be, and the same is hereby, confirmed and granted to said
St. Clair County, in said State."
The plaintiff, St. Clair County, claimed under the abovequoted acts, and under certain other acts of legislation, Federal and State, not necessary to be quoted.* Its positions
were:
1st. That the west boundary of the earlier and the later
survey was the same; that this west boundary was a line
originally established irrespective of the river line; that
accordingly the lands included by the surveys never extended to the river, and that the new-made land, even if
it were "accretion," or 61alluvion," never belonged to the
owner of tracts surveyed, as riparian owner, but was unconyeyed land belonging to the United States, which by its
above-quoted act of Congress, it had granted to the plaintiff,
St. Clair County.
2d. That if what is above said as to the western line of
the tracts as surveyed was not true, and if the tracts did
originally extend to the river, yet that the made land was
not "accretion" or "alluvion" in a legal sense, since the
making had been brought about by artificial means; that
therefore the new land belonged to the United States as sovereign.
3d. That even if neither of these two propositions were
true, yet that the surveys were specifically brought to the
river and were limited to one hundred acres each, and hence
that they could not embrace an addition as large as or larger
than themselves.
4th. That, independently of all other positions, the Mis* Act of February 18th, 1871, chapter 58, 16 Stat. at Large, 416; act of
September 28th, 1850, chapter 84, 9 Id. 519; also under the acts of the legislature of Illinois of the 22d of June, 1852; of the 12th of February, 1853;
of March 4th, 1854; of February 18th, 1859; and of March 11th, 1869.

52

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR v. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the right of the riparian owner.

sissippi in the sense of the American law-where "navigability" meant navigability in fact-was a "navigable river,"
as respected riparian rights, and that accretions on it belonged to the sovereign.
The position of the defendant, Lovingston, who held
under the two surveys, 579 and 786 (a valid title to which
was admitted to be in him, or in those under whom he
claimed), was, that those surveys were both (or certainly the
last one) bounded originally by the river, and that whether
the additions were caused wholly by natural causes or
whether in part by the artificial structures, as causes causative, the new land fell within the technical and legal idea
of accretion or alluvion, and so belonged to him as riparian
owner; and that it made no difference, even if by the terms
of the survey or grant the title came originally but to the
river, or whether the river was a "navigable" one or not.
Of this opinion was the Supreme Court of Illinois, where
the case finally came, and where judgment was given for the
defendant. The case was now here on error from that judgment.
Mr. Gustavus Koerner, for the plaintiff in error:
The history of these hundred acre tracts, often called militia
tracts, should be stated by the reporter as part of the case.
They are facts, which go to constitute the case, and are an
important part of it.
So far back as June 20th, 1788, in a resolve of the old
Congress of the United States,* a report was made to Congress, and approved by it, for confirming the rights of old
French settlers in Illin'ois.
The Congress under the present constitution in 1791tre-enacting the resolve of June 20th, 1788-provided in the
sixth section that the governor of the Territory should be
authorized to make a grant of land, "not exceeding one hundred
acres, to each person who bath not obtained any donation,"
* 1 Bioren & Duane's Statutes, 203, chap. 101.

t I Stat. at Large, 221.

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR v. LovINGSTON.

53

Argument against the right of the riparian owner.

&c., and who has done militia duty, "the said land to be laid
out in such form and place as the said governor shall direct."
Section eight provided that the governor should lay out
the said lands agreeably to the act of Congress of June
20th, 1788, an act which provided that they shall be located
within certain parallelograms. These parallelograms of one
hundred acres each were, of course, defined plats of ground.
They made what the Roman law calls agri limitati.*
Independently of which, it is plain that a grant is not
carried to the centre of the stream, but stops at the bank, if
the grantor describe the land as beginning on the bank of
a river; or as coming only to a post or point on the shore;
and carries a boundary, not by the stream, but by a straight
line between points on its bank. This confines and limits
everything to the lines described.
Now, alluvion is an accretion of a tract of land, bounded
by a river, the owzner of which is not limited by a certain measure.
It does not apply to the ager lirnitats. Moreover alluvion
must be not only gradual and imperceptible, but be also by
natural causes.t The causes here were not natural causes,
but artificial ones.
The common law as to rivers not navigable has adopted
the civil law.1
We have heretofore referred to the history of those claims;
now let us make the application.
The region of country from the mouth of Wood River, a
little below Alton, to the mouth of Kaskaskia River, between
the bluffs on the east and the Mississippi River on the west,
is generally known as the American Bottom. It is about
ninety miles long, and averages five miles in width.
At the time of the resolve of Congress, June 20th, 1788,
* Section 20, Inst., De rerum divisione et qualitate; Lem 7, Dig. 3; also
Lex 12 ib.; Lex 16, De acquirendo rerum dominio, 41, 1; Lex 24, Dig. 3,
De aqua et aqum pluv., &c., 39, 3; Lex 1, 1, Dig., De fluminibus, 43, 12.
f Section 20, Inst., De rerum divisione, 2, 1; Lex 7, 1, Dig., De acquirendo rerum dominio, 41, 1.
J 3 Washburne on Real Property, *452; Angel on Watercourses, 53;
1 Bouvier's Law Dictionary, title ,1Alluvion ;" 3 Kent, 428y:.

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the right of the riparian owner.

no American resided there. The principal settlements were
at the Kaskaskies, Prairie des Rochers, and Cahokia, the
latter opposite Carondelet, and a little below St. Louis,
though there were others, such as Fort Chartres, Prairie du
Pont, and Cantine, the latter extending nearest to Wood
River. Now, these donations, one hundred acres, were limited to exactly the quantity fixed by the law. .It would have
been most unjust-to give one militia man one hundred acres,
and to another, by possible accretion, one thousand acres.
It is to be presumed that the surveyors, under the direction of the governor of the Northwest Territory, carried out
the directions of the law; that is, that they laid out said
reservations in parallelograms. This being done, there was
no possibility of making the river the boundary, except
where, as in this case, as the maps show, accidentally the
river-bank was quite straight and fell on the western line of
the parallelogram, though it was not so straight but what
one of the points of the survey was fixed in the river.
Now in the field-notes of survey 579, the tract in question,
there is not a word said about meandering with the river, but
all goes on points and lines clearly given. The field notes of
the Coudaire tract are equally definite, and more significant;
for while the eastern boundary, beginning on the Cahokia
Creek, is made to run "thence down the said creek with its different courses," quite a diffirent language is adopted as to the
west boundary. It comes to a point on the bank of the Mississippi, but there is not a word said, as before, about going
up the said river with "its different courses." The language
is " up the Mississippi, and binding therewith."
The west line of the Coudaire survey seems in fact to be
identical with the west line of the three militia claims.
Both these land donations, militia claims and Coudaire
settlement rights, were each a well-defined, measured tract
of lan d.
Coudaire, whose right was younger than that under the
militia claims, took nothing of these militia claims nor anything but the fractions east, between the lines of the militia
claims and the meanders of the Cahokia Creek; the lower

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR v. LOVINGSTON.

55

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

part on Diagram No. 3, and which is shaded. The title of
the defendants to the land in question ultimately rests solely
on the militia claims; the Coudaire grant being utterly void
as to them.
There was no advantage of the river front when these
locations were made. The country was hardly settled. St.
Louis was a little village. The important point was Carondelet, on the Missouri side, six miles below. Cadfoes, and
now and then a keel-boat, were the only craft on the river.
No vharfitge, no woodyards were thought of.
We have thus far argued the case strictly within the case
in Middleton v. Pr'itchard,* and other decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, which are to the effect that all
grants bounded upon a river not navigable (to which class they
decide the Mississippi River to belong), as to riparian rights,
entitle the grantee to claim to the centre thread of the river
and all the islands lying between the main land and the
centre thread of the current.
The doctrine that no rivers are navigable, except wherein
ebb and tide flows, said to be the common-law doctrine, but
denied even in England, is repudiated by many decisions in
the State courts.t
In this court decisions have been made which strongly
favor the view that the navigability of the river does depend
on naeigation in fact, and not on the supposed English definition.
It then the Mississippi is a navigable river, as to riparian
rights, the accretions belong to the sovereign, and Congress
had an undoubted right to grant them to the county of St.
Clair.
r. W. H. Underwood, contra:
Every position taken by the opposing counsel is so well
3 Scammon, 510.
" Carson v. Blazer, 2 Binney, 475; Commonwealth v. Fisher, 1 Pennsylvania, 462; Wilson v. Forbes, 2 Devereux, 30; Cates v. Wadlington, 1
M Cord, 580; Elder v. Burrus, 6 Humphreys, 358; Bullock v. Wilson, 2
Porter, 436; People v. Canal Appraisers, 33 Now York, 461; Mcelanus v.
Carmichael, 3 Clark (Iowa), 1.

56

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup.

Ct

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

answered in the opinion of Thornton, J., delivering the

unanimous judgment of the court below, and every position
which we would desire to enforce is so well there presented,
that we do little but offer to this court his ideas in his own
language.
If the land of the riparian proprietor was bounded by the
Mississippi River, his right to the possession and enjoyment
of the alluvion is not affected, whether the stream be navigable or not. By the common law, alluvion is the addition
made to land by the washing of the sea, a navigable river,
or other stream, whenever the increase is so gradual that it
cannot be perceived in any one moment of time. The
navigability of the stream, as the term is used at common
law, has no applicability whatever to this case. If commerce
had been obstructed, or the public easement interrupted, or
a question was to arise as to the ownership of the bed of the
stream, then the inquiry as to whether the stream was navigable or not, in the sense of the common law, might be
pertinent. No such question is presented. On this branch
of the case the only question is: Have the United States,
or has the State, or the riparian owner, the right to the
accretion ?
If the river is the boundary, the alluvion, as fast as it
forms, becomes the property of the owner of the adjacent
land to which it is attached. On a great public highway
like the Mississippi, supporting an immense commerce and
bearing it to every part of the globe, purchasers must have
obtained lands for the beneficial use of the river as well as
for the land. Can it be presumed that the United States
would make grants of lands bordering upon this river, with
its turbulent current, and subject to constant change in its
banks by alluvion upon the one side and avulsions upon the
other, and then claim all accretion formed by the gradual
deposition of sand and soil, and deprive the grantee of his
river front? If he should lose his entire grant by the washing of the river he must bear the loss, and he should be permitted to enjoy any gain which the ever-varying channel
may bring to him. If a great government were to under-

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LoVINGSToN.

57

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

take under such circumstances to dispossess its grantee of
his river front, the attempt would be akin to fraud, and it
would lose the respect to which beneficent laws and the protection of the citizen would entitle it.
Sir William Blackstone says* as to lands gained from the
sea by alluvion, where the gain is by little and little, by
small and imperceptible degrees, it shall go to the owner of
the land adjoining. For "de nzininis non curat lex; and besides, these owners, being often losers by the breaking in
of the sea, or at charges to keep it out, this possible gain is,
therefbre, a reciprocal consideration for such possible charge
or loss."
The same reasoning applies, with all its force, to the lands
abutting upon the Mississippi River.
This question has been discussed with profound research
and great ability by the courts in Louisiana, as to accretions
upon this same river, and, the law clearly announced. In
Municipality No. 2 v. Orleans Cotton Presst it- was declared
that the right to future alluvial formations was a right inherent in the property, au essential attribute of it, the result
of natural law, in consequence of the local situation of the
land; that cities, as well as individuals, had the right to acquire it, jure alluvionis, as riparian proprietor; and that the
right was founded in justice, both on account of the risks to
which the land was exposed and the burden of protecting
the estate. The court further assimilated the right to the
right of the owner of land to the fruits of a tree growing
thereon.
The same principle was declared by this court in .Banks v.
Ogden..
The only portion of the field-notes to which we desire to
call attention is the following:
"' To a post on the westerly side of the Cahokia Creek, thence
down the creek with the different courses thereof,' and ' thence
- 18 Louisiana, 122.
2 Commentaries, 262.
2 Wallace, 57; see, also, The Mayor, &c., of New Orleans v. The United
States, 10 Peters, 662; Jones v. Soulard, 24 Howard, 41; Warren v. Chambers, 25 Arkansas, 120.

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

N. 850 W. 174 poles, to a post on the bank of the Mississippi
River; from which thence N. 50 E., up the Mississippi River
and bounding therewith (passing the southwesterly corner of
Nicholas Jarro's survey No.579, claim No. 99, at 6 poles), 551
poles and 10 links, to a post northwesterly corner of Nicholas
Jarrot's survey No. -, claim No. 100.'"
This survey was made iu 1815. From the copy of the
plat of it, from the custodian of the United States surveys,
it will be seen that the line along Cahokia Creek meanders
with the stream, which was sinuous, and hence the call in
the notes, "down the said creek, with the different courses
thereof." A further examination of the plat will show that
though the line from "a post on the bank of the Mississippi
River to a post northwesterly corner of Nicholas Jarrot's
survey, claim No. 100," is a straight line, the river-bank as
indicated by the plat was also straight in 1815. The Condaire survey embraces three militia claims which had been
surveyed before, and which were confirmed to Jarrot.
One of the Jarrot surveys begins on the bank of the Mississippi, and thence to a point in the river, &c.
Concede that the Jarrot survey did not make the river
the boundary by specific call, yet its beginning was on the
bank of the river opposite St. Louis, and thence it followed
the river to a point on it. It is, then, evident that at this
time there was no land between the western line of the
Jarrot survey and the river. All the plats introduced in
evidence show that the river-bank was straight, and the
point in the river must have been made for the purpose of
obtaining the bearing of the witness tree, a sycamore 250
links from the point. It is manifest that the river was the
boundary, and whether the grant was bounded by the river
or on the river can make no difference as to the question involved. The grant may be so limited as not to carry it to
the middle of the river, and yet not exclude the right to the
alluvion.
The counsel for the county argue that a grant is not carried to the centre of a stream, but stops at the bank, if the
-grantor describes the line as upon the margin, or at the edge

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

59

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

or shore, and that these terms become monuments, and that
they indicate an intention to stop at the edge or margin of
the river. This may be good law, and not affect the rights
of the defendants. They do not claim the bed of the stream,
and the river does not run over the land in dispute at ordinary stages of water. Their claim, if established, does not
obstruct the river, or interfere with its free navigation and
use by the public.
But the Coudaire survey not only covers the Jarrot surveys, but extends beyond them. It not only takes any fractions between the Jarrot surveys and Cahokia Creek-the
parts at the bottom of Diagram No. 3, and shaded-but the
land, if any, between their western line and the river. The
Coudaire survey ran up the river, binding it, and passed the
southwesterly corner of the Jarrot survey, No. 579, at six
poles. Language could not make it more plain, that the
western line was bounded by the river; and the plats confirm this view.
The only construction to be given to these grants is, that
the United States had conveyed the land to the bank of the
Mississippi. It follows that the grantees were riparian proprietors, and are the owners of the alluvial formations attached to their lands.
Unless such construction be given and adhered to rigidly,
almost endless litigation must ensue from the frequent
changes in the current of the Mississippi and the continual
deposits upon one or the other of its banks; the value of
land upon its borders would depreciate, and the prosperity
of its beautiful towns and cities would be seriously impaired.
Opposing counsel say that at the time the locations were
made there was no advantage of river-front, no wharfage,
and no wood-yards. This may be true, but even at this
early period the grantees must have realized the vast importance of the Mississippi to them, and to all the people of the
States bordering upon it, in the grand future soon to be unfolded. They must have seen the necessity, and accepted
the grants, for the purpose of securing an approach to the
river.

60

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR v. LoVINasTor.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

Before 1819 a ferry was established across the river, near
to the land in dispute, and has been since in constant operation. Before 1850 a city had sprung up on the Missouri
side of the river, and a prosperous village was growing on
the Illinois shore. Before 1852 a charter for a railroad had
been granted by the State, which resulted in the construction of a road from Terre Haute, in the State of Indiana, to
Illinoistown. Prior to the grant made by the United States
in 1870, a number of railroad tracks had been constructed
upon the ground formed by accretion, and an elevator erected,
and dykes for the use of wagons, and a large expenditure
of money made by the ferry company for the preservation
of the banks recently made. These are matters of known
public history.
It needed no prophetic eye to foresee, prior to the year
1850, these grand improvements which bring the products
of an empire to the Father of Waters. Their absolute necessity, and consequent construction, as an outlet for our
immense produce had been known for more than a quarter
of a century before their completion. Their usefulness
would be greatly crippled and the public thereby seriously
suffer if ready access to the river was denied.
It would be a strained construction to hold that, in making
these grants, the United States reserved all accretions, and
thus to deprive these proprietors of ferry privileges and the
beneficial enjoyment of the river.
It is further contended that the lands are not accretions,
as they were made by artificial and not natural means.
Concede, what is not clear, that the dykes, to some extent,
caused the accretions. They were not constructed for such
purpose; and the defendants had nothing to do with their
erection.
The fact that the labor of other persons changed the current of the river, and caused the deposit of alluvion upon
the land of the defendants, cannot deprive them of a right
to the newly made soil.
If portions of soil were added to real estate already pos-

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOvINGSTON.

61

Argument in favor of the right of the riparian owner.

sessed by gradual deposition, through the operation of natural causes, or by slow and imperceptible accretion, the
owner of the laud to which the addition has been made has
a perfect title to the addition. Upon no principle of reason
or justice should he be deprived of accretions forced upon
him by the labor of another, without his consent or connivance, and thus cut off from the benefits of his original
proprietorship. If neither the State nor any other individual
can divert the water from him, artificial structures, which
cause deposits between the old and new bank, should not
divest him of the use of the water. Otherwise ferry and
wharf privileges might be utterly destroyed, and towns and
cities, built with sole reference to the use and enjoyment of
the river, might be entirely separated from it.
In Godfrey v. The Cily of Alton,* the public landing had
been enlarged and extended into the river, both by natural
and artificial means, and this court held that the accretions
attached to and formed a part of the landing.
In New Orleans v. The United States,t the quay had been
enlarged by levees constructed by the city, to prevent the
inundation of the water, and the court held that this did not
impair the rights of the city to the quay.
In Jones v. Soulard,j the intervening channel between the
island and the Missouri shore had been filled up in consequence of dykes constructed by the city, and the riparian
owner succeeded.
In the case at bar the accretions have not been sudden,
but gradual, as we gather from the testimony. The city of
St. Louis, to preserve its harbor and to prevent the channel
from leaving the Missouri shore, threw rocks into the river,
and the coal-dykes were made to afford access to boats engaged in carrying across the river. The ferry company
protected such accretions by an expenditure of labor and
money.
The accretions are partly the result of natural causes and
partly of structures and work erected and performed for the
* 12 Illinois, 29.

t 10 Peters, 662.

1 24 Howard, 41.

62

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

good of the public. The defendants should not thereby lose
their frontage on the river, and be debarred of valuable
rights heretofore enjoyed. This would be a grievous wrong,
for which there would be no adequate redress.
Mr. Justice SWAYiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
We shall assume, for the purposes of this opinion, that all
the title which could be passed by Congress and the State
was and is vested in the plaintiff in error.
It is not denied, onthe other hand, that a valid title to
the surveys 579 and 786 is vested in those under whom the
defendant in error holds.
Two questions are thus presented for our determination:
One is, whether the river-line was the original west boundary of the surveys, or either of them ?
The other, if this inquiry be answered in the affirmative,
-is, to whom the accretion belongs?
The first is a mixed question of law and fact. The second
is a question of law.
Before entering upon the examination of the first of these
questions, it may be well to advert to a few of the leading
authorities apposite to this phase of the case.
It is a universal rule that course and distance yield to
natural and ascertained objects.* A call for a natural object, as a river, a spring, or even a marked line, will control
both course and distance.t
Artificial and natural objects called for, have the same
effect.1
In a case of doubtful construction, the claim of the party
in actual possession ought to be maintained, especially where
it has been upheld by the decision of the State tribunals.ยง
In Bruce v. Taylor,I a patent called " to begin on the Ohio
*

Preston's Heirs v. Bowmar, 6 Wheaton, 580.

- Newsom v. Pryor's Lessee, 7 Id. 7.

1 Barclay and others v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Peters, 499; Baxter v. Evett's
Lessee, 7 Monroe, 333.
Preston's Heirs v. Bowmar, supra.
2 J. J. Marshall, 160.

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

63

Opinion of the court.

River, and then for certain courses and distances, without
any corners or marked lines, to the mouth of the Kennikek,
and then certain courses and distances, without any courses
or marked lines, to a stake in the Ohio River." If the river
was the boundary, the land in controversy was within the
patent. If the courses and distances prevailed, the patent
did not affect it. The court said: "It is our opinion that
the river is the boundary." It was added: "Two of the
calls are on the river. There are no intermediate marked
lines or corners. The general description is, 'to lie on the
Ohio.' These facts alone would not leave room for any
other construction of the patent." This case is very instructive, and contains much additional argument in support of
the view expressed. Cockrell v. MflcQuinn,* is to the same
effect. In the latter case the court said: "None will pretend that the legal construction of a patent is not a matter
proper for the decision of the court whose province it is to
decide all questions of law." In Bruce v. Jllorgan,tthe rule
laid down in Bruce v. Taylor was affirmed.
Where a survey and patent show a river to be one of the
boundaries of the tract, it is a legal deduction that there is
no vacant land left for appropriation between the river and
the river boundary of such tract.t
Where a deed calls for a corner standing on the bank of
a creek, "thence down said creek with the meanders thereof," the boundary is low.water mark.ยง
Where a deed calls for an object on the bank of a stream,
"thence south, thence east, thence north to the bank of the
stream, and with the course of the bank to the place of beginning," the stream at low-water mark is the boundary.1j
Where the line around the land was described as "running to a stake at the river, thence on the river N. 60 40' 23
perches, thence N. 390 50' W. 33 perches, thence N. 200 20',
* 4 Monroe, 62.

t 1 B. Monroe, 26. $ Churchill v. Grundy, 5 Dana, 100.
M
McCullock's Lessee v. Aten, 2 Ohio, 309; see, also, Handly's Lessee -.
Anthony, 5 Wheaton, 880.
11Lamb v. Rickets, 11 Ohio, 311.

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

85 perches and 8 links to a stake by the river," it was held
that this description made the river a boundary.*
Where premises above tide-water are described as bounded
by a monument standing on the bank of the river, and a
course is given as running from it down the river as it winds
and turns to another monument, the grantee takes usque
flium aquce, unless the river be expressly excluded from the
grant by the terms of the deed.t
The eastern line of the city of St. Louis, as it was incorporated in 1807, is as follows: "From the Sugar Loaf east
to the Mississippi, from thence by the Mississippi to the
place first mentioned." This court held that the call made
the city a riparian proprietor upon the river.1 It was said
in this connection that "many authorities resting on adjudged cases have been adduced to us in the printed argument, presented by the counsel for the defendant in error,
to show that, from the days of Sir Matthew Hale to the
present time, all grants of land bounded on fresh-water
rivers, where the expressions designating the water-line are
general, confer proprietorship on the grantee to the middle
of the stream, and entitle him to the accretions. We think
this, as a general rule, too well settled, as part of the English and American law of real property, to be open to discussion."
It may be considered a canon in American jurisprudence,
that where the calls in a conveyance of land, are for two
corners at, in, or on a stream or its bank, and there is an
intermediate line extending from one such corner to the
other, the stream is the boundary, unless there is something
which excludes the operation of this rule by showing that
the intention of the parties was otherwise. Whether in the
present case the limit of the land was low-water, or the
middle thread of the river, is a question which does not
* Rix v. Johnson, 5 New Hampshire, 520.
t Luce v. Carley, 24 Wendell, 451.
1 Jones v. Soulard, 24 Howard, 44; see, also, Schurmeier v. St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad, 10 Minnesota, 830, and Shelton et al. v. Maupin, 16 .Missouri, 124.

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINGSTON.

65

Opinion of the court.

arise, and to which we have given no consideration. The
point was considered by this court in Railroad v. Schurnier.*
Survey 579 is the elder one. Its calls are: "Beginning
on the bank of the Mississippi River, opposite to St. Louis,
from which the lower window of the United States storehouse in St. Louis bears N. 70 W.; thence S. 5 west 160
poles to a point in. the ?iver from which a sycamore 20 inches
in diameter bears S. 85 E. 250 links; thence S. 85 E. 180
poles (at 80 poles a slash) to a point; thence N. 15 W. 170
poles to a forked elm on the batik of Cahokia Creek; thence
N. 85 W. 70 poles to the beginning."
It will be observed that the beginning corner is on the
bank of the river. The second corner is a point in the river.
The line between them is a straight one. Where the course
as described would have fixed the line does not appear.
There was an obvious benefit in having the entire front
of the land extend to the water's edge. There was no previous survey or ownership by another to prevent this from
being done. No sensible reason can be imagined for having
the two corners on the river, and the intermediate line deflect from it. Under the circumstances we cannot doubt
that the river was intended to be made, and was made, the
west line of the survey. In the light of the facts such is our
construction of the calls of the survey, and we give them
that effect.
The calls of survey No. 786, as respects this subject, are:
"Thence N. 85' W. 174 poles, to a post on the bank of the
.1ississippi River, from, which . . . ; thence N. 50 B. up the
Mississippi Ri'er and binding therewith (passing the southwesterly corner of Nicholas Jarrot's survey, No. 579, claim No.
99, at 6 poles), 551 poles and 10 links, to a post northwesterly corner of Nicholas Jarrot's survey, No. -, claim No.
100, from which a sycamore 36 inches diameter bears S. 210
W. 29 links; thence S. 85' E. with the upper line of the
last-mentioned survey 88 poles to the beginning."
Here the calls as to the river are more explicit than in
* 7 Wallace, 287.
VOL. XXIII.

5

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR v. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

survey No. 579. The language "up the Mississippi River
and binding thereon," leaves no room for doubt. Discussion is unnecessary. It could not make the result clearer.
The river must be held to have been the west boundary of
this survey also.
In reaching these views we pervert no principle of law or
justice. Our conclusions are sustained by authority and
reason.
This 'brings us to the consideration of the second question.
It is insisted by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in
error that the accretion was caused wholly by obstructions
placed in the river above, and that hence the rules upon the
subject of alluvion do not apply. If the ict be so, the consequence does not follow. There is no warrant for the
proposition. The proximate cause was the deposits made
by the water. The law looks no further. Whether the
flow of the water was natural or affected by artificial means
is immaterial.*
The law in cases of alluvion is well settled.
In the Institutes of Justinian it is said: "Moreover, the
alluvial soil added by a river to your land becomes yours
by the law of nations. Alluvion is an imperceptible increase, and that is added by alluvion which is added so
gradually that no one can perceive how much is added at
any one moment of time."t
The surveys here in question were not within the category
of the agri lUiniali of the civil law. The latter were lands
belonging to the state by right of conquest and granted or
sold in plats. The increase by alluvion in such cases did
not belong to the owner of the adjoining plat.1
The Code :Napoleon declares:
"Accumulations and increase of mud formed successively,
and imperceptibly on the soil bordering on a river or other
* Halsey v. McCormick, 18 New York, 147; 3 Washburne on Real Property, 58, 3534.
- Lib. II, Tit. I, 20.
$ D. XLI, 1, 16; Sanders's Institutes, 177; see, also, Morgan v. Livingston, 6 Martin's Louisiana, 251.

Oct. 1874.]

COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR V. LOVINIGSTON.

67

Opinion of the court.

stream is denominated ' alluvion.' Alluvion is for the benefit of the proprietor of the shore, whether in respect of a
river, a navigable stream, or one admitting floats or not; on
the condition, in the first place, of leaving a landing-place
or towing path conformably to regulations."*
Such was the law of France before the Code hapoleon
was adopted.t
And such was the law of Spain.j
Blackstone thus lays down the rule of the common law:
"'And as to lands gained from the sea, either by alluvion,
by the washing up of land and earth, so as in time to make
terra firma, or by dereliction, as when the sea shrinks below
the usual water-marks; in these cases the law is held to be
that if the gain be by little and little, by small and imperceptible degrees, it shall go to the owner of the land adjoining. For de minimis non curat lex; and besides, these owners
being often losers by the breaking in of the sea, or at charges
to keep it out, this possible gain is, therefore, a reciprocal
consideration for such possible charge or loss. But if the
alluvion be sudden or considerable, in this case it belongs to
the king; for, as the king is lord of the sea, and so owner
of the soil while it is covered with water, it is but reasonable
he should have the soil when the water has left it lry."ยง
Blackstone takes his definition from Bracton, lib. 2, chap.
2. Bracton was a judge in the reign of Henry III, and the
greatest authority of his time. Hale, in his De Jure M1aris,
says Bracton followed the civil law. Hale himself shows
the great antiquity of the rule in the English law.j
Chancellor Kent, the American commentator, recognizes
the rule as it is laid down by the English authorities referred to.
* Book II, of Property, &c., P 5.56.
f 4 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Brillon, 278; Morgan v. Livingston et al.,
6 Martin, 243.
: Partid. iii, tit. xxviii, Law 26.
2 Commentaries, 262; see, also, Woolwich's Law of Waters, 34; and
Shuhes's Aquatic Rights, 116.
De Jure Mars, 1st pt , ch. 6; see, also, The King v. Lord Yarborough,
1 Dow & Clark, Appeal Cases, 287.
ff 3 Commentaries, 428.

68

CoUNTY OF ST. CLAIR v. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

By the American Revolution the people of each State, in
their sovereign character, acquired the absolute right to all
their navigable waters and the soil under thern.* The shores
of navigable waters and the soi under them were not granted
by the Constitution to the United States, but were reserved
to the States respectively. And new States have the same
rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction over this subject as
the original ones.t
The question here under consideration is not a new one
in this court. In New Orleans v. The United Slates,t it was
said: "The question is well settled at common law that the
person whose land is bounded by a stream of water which
changes its course gradually by alluvial formations, shall
still hold the same boundary, including the accumulated
soil. No oth'er rule can be applied on just principles.
Every proprietor whose land is thus bounded is subject'to
loss by the same means which may add to his territory, and
as he is without remedy for his loss in this way he cannot
be held accountable for his gain."
To the same effect are Saulet v. Shepherd,ยง and Schools v.

BisleyII
In the light of the authorities alluvion may be defined as
an addition to riparian land, gradually and imperceptibly
made by the water to which the land is contiguous. It is
different from reliction, and is the opposite of avulsion.
The test as to what is gradual and imperceptible in the
sense of the rule is, that though the witnesses may see from
time to time that progress has been made, they could not
perceive it while the process was going on. Whether it is
the effect of natural or artificial causes makes no difference.
The result as to the ownership in either case is the same.
The riparian right to future alluvion is a vested right. It is
an inherent and essential attribute of the original property.
-*. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Peters, 367; Russel v. The Jersey Co., 15 Howard,
426.
t Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan et al., 3 Howard, 212; Pollard v. Kibbe, 9 Id.
471; Hallett v. Bute, 13 1d. 25; Withers v. Buckley, 20 Id. 84.
1110 Id. 110.
4 Wallace, 502.
$ 10 Peters, 662.

Oct. 1874.]

THE DEXTER.
Syllabus.

The title to the increment rests in the law of nature. It is
the same with that of the owner of a tree to its fruits, and
of the owner of flocks and herds to their natural increase.
The right is a natural, not a civil one. The maxim "qui
sentil onus debet sentire commodum" lies at its foundation.
The owner takes the chances of injury and of benefit arising
from the situation of the property. If there be a gradual
loss, he must bear it; if a gradual gain, it is his. The principle applies alike to streams that do, and to those that do
not overflow their banks, and where dykes and other defences are, and where they are not, necessary to keep the
water within its proper limits.*
In England the rule which is applied to gradual accretions
on the shores of fresh waters is applied also to such accretions on the shores of the sea.t
We may well hold that the adjudications of this court to
which we have referred are decisive of the case before us.
They are binding upon us as authority. We are of the
opinion that the United States never had any title to the
premises in controversy, and that nothing passed by the
several acts of Congress and of the legislature of Illinois,
relied upon by the plaintiff in error.
JUDGMENTS AFFIRMED.

THE DEXTER.
1. The rule of navigation prescribed by the act of Congress of April 29th,
1864, "for preventing collisions on the water," which requires "1when
sailing-ships are meeting end on, or nearly so, the helms of both shall
be put to port," is obligatory from the time that necessity for precaution begins, and continues to be applicable so long as the means and
opportunity to avoid the danger remain.
* 3 Washburne on Real Property, 58, *452; Municipality No. 2 v. Orleans
Cotton Press, 18 Louisiana Rep. 122.
t The King v. Lord Yarborough, 3 Dow & Clark's Appeal Cases, 178.

