530

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSET.
1. The purpose of a reissue is to render effectual the actual invention for
which the original patent should have been granted, not to introduce
new features.
Therefore, in an application for reissue parol testimony is not admissible
to enlarge the scope of the invention beyond what was described, suggested, or substaptially indicated in the original specification, drawings,
or Patent Office model.
2. 'Whether a reissued patent is for the same invention as the original, depends upon whether the specification and drawings of the reissued
patent are substantially the same as those of the original; and, if not,
whether the omissions or additions are or are not greater than the law
allows to.cure the defect of the original.
3. Where the original patent for improvement in paper shirt-collars, granted
to Andrew Evans, lIay 26th, 1863, stated the invention to consist,
first, in making the collars of parchment-paper, or paper prepared with
animal-sizing; and second, in coating one or both sides of the collar
with a thin varnish of bleached shellac, to give smoothness, strength,
and stiffness, and to repel moisture; the claim being for "1a shirt-collar
made of parchment-paper, and coated with varnish of bleached shellac,
substantially as described, and for the objects specified :" Held, that a
reissue thereof which describes a paper other than parchment-paper, or
one prepared with animal sizing, and which does not require either side
of the collars to be coated with a varnish of bleached shellac for any
purpose, the claim being for "a collar made of long-fibre paper, substantially such as is above described," is for a different invention from
that embodied in the original patent.
4. Articles of manufacture may be new in the commercial sense when they
are not nev in the sense of the patent law.
5. New articles of commerce are not patentable as new manufactures unless
it appears in the given case that the production of the new article involved the exercise of invention or discovery beyond what was necessary
to construct the apparatus for its manufacture.
6. It appearing that the collars made by Evans., apart from the paper composing them, were identical in form, structure, and arrangement with
collars previously made of linen paper of different quality, and of other
fabrics, and that Evans did not invent the special paper used by him,
nor the process by which it was obtained: Held, that he was not entitled
to a patent for the collars as a new manufacture.
7. The relations of an employer and a party employed by him, in regard to
the origin of inventions, stated.
8 The object in turning down a collar on a curved line instead of a straight
line is precisely the same, whether the collar be all paper, paper and
linen, or all linen. Hence, where it appeared that linen collars had

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.
Statement of the case.

been turned over on a curved line, to prevent wrinkling, and to afford
space for the cravat: Held, that it was not patentable to apply the same
mode of turning down to collars of paper or paper and linen.
Reissued patent of Andrew Evans, for "improvement in paper shirtcollars," July 10th, 1866 (original May 26th, 1863), and of Solomon
Gray, "for improvement in turnover shirt collars," March 29th, 1864
(original June 23d, 1863), pronounced invalid.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, in which court the Union Paper-collar Company filed a bill against Van Dusen, to enjoin him from
making shirt-collars out of a certain sort of paper which he
was using and to which they claimed an exclusive right, and
also from turning over the collars so made, by a particular
contrivance which lie was also using, and of which, as of
the fabric of the collar, the company claimed a monopoly.
The claim by the company of exclusive right as to the
fabric of the collars-that is to say, the sort of paper out of
which they were made-was founded on a grant to them of
a patent, reissued to one Andrew Evans; the claim of similar right as to the device by which the collar was turned
over, was founded on the grant to them of a patent reissued
to a certain Solomon Gray.
Van Duseu, admitting the use both of the special sort of
paper and of the device for turning the collars over, set up:
I. AS TO THE EVANS PATENT, THE ONE, NAMELY, FOR THE
FABRIC-

1. That the reissue to Evans was void, as not being for
the same invention as the original patent.
2. That, whether or not, both original and reissue were
void for want of novelty.
11. AS TO THE GRAY PATENT, THE ONE, NAMELY, FOR THE
DEVICE-

1. That it too was void for want of novelty.
The reader will, of course, remember that the Patent Act
authorizes the issue of a patent only when a person has invented or discovered some "new manufacture, or some new
and useful improvement thereof, not known or used by
others;" and also that while authorizing in certain cases
the reissue with anl amended specification of an original

532

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

patent, where the specification has been defective, the act
contemplates that the reissued patent shall secure no other
than "the same invention" meant to'have been secured by
the original.*
The case was thus:

I. As to the -Evans patent and reissue, the fabricfor making
shirt-colars. Paper being made out of linen, among other
things, and some sorts of paper being more stiff or more
tough than others, it had been observed long prior to the
grant of any patent on the subject, that shirt-collars could
be made out of the stiffer or more tough sort of papers, and
that the collars, if used but for a short time and not closely
looked at, might pass for linen collars. A man named Olmstead, the."property-man" of a band of negro minstrels,
who used to costume themselves in fantastic style, had used
them so far back as 1851 to dress his minstrels when performing at a place called " White's Varieties," in the Bowery, New York. lie said:
"In the year mentioned, and afterwards, we made wooden
blocks or patterns from linen collars, and laid the blocks on
paper. We would then mark the paper with a lead-pencil, and
afterwards cut out the collar from the paper by the marks, with
a pair of scissors. For stiff or 'stand-up' collars of large size
and fantastic shape-such as we used when we wanted collars
with long points and to come up nearly to the men's eyes-we
used Bristol boards, such as artists use. The outside of that
board is glossy. The other side, which is not glossy, the performer put next his face. The gloss prevented the burnt cork,
with which the so-called negro minstrels (who are all white
men) are blackened, from sticking to the paper. Turned-down
collars we made out of paper. We did this by simply pinning
the paper to a cravat and then laying it on a board and turning
it over the cravat. Sometimes these collars were cut in two at
the back; that is to say were made out of two pieces of paper.
When we wanted fancy collars we would prick the Bristol
board or paper. The holes looked like stitches. Sometimes
we would paint them pink or blue, or in stripes, so as to be like
* Revised Statutes of the United States-

4886, 4916.

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V.

VAN DUSEN.

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

colored linen or linen, with blue or pink stripes. The fabey
collars were worn, of course, only on the stage. But the white
ones, our men-who as a class are lazy fellows-would sometimes wear in the street. On the stage we could, with care,
wear the collars several times. In the street, only once or
twice. We got the Bristol boards and paper out of which we
made these collars at Rayner's, a stationer, in the Bowery. I
sol these collars for eight or nine years, and from two to five
cents. I did not go regularly into the business because I had
no capital."
Subsequently a person named Hlunt made a business of
selling paper-collars, and got a patent for the particular sort
which he made. This sort was made out of paper applied
to some woven fabric, the paper, which was worn on the
outside, giving to the loose and limber fabric of the woven
fabric rigidity, and the general appearance of a starched
linen collar, while the woven fabric, worn next the skin,
sustained and gave strength to the paper. Nevertheless,
these collars were expensive and had a harsh and inelegant
look. In addition, they wanted pliability, and when turned
over were apt to crack and form a roughened edge.
However, as already said, paper had long been made having diflrent degrees of toughness. Some paper-- shortfibre paper," as it is called, the sort commonly used for the
inferior class of newspapers-paper made from wood, or
from poor cotton rags (" soft stock," as it is called) or from
old paper itself, or by imperfect processes-is brittle, and
tears easily. But another sort, "long-fibre paper," that made
from linen rags, or linen canvas, manila rope, Kentucky
bagging, &c. (" hard stock," as it is called), and from which,
by some variation in the machinery producing it, and with
more time, are produced the papers known as bank-note
paper, cartridge-paper, silk-paper, and tissue-paper, among
the thin papers, and parchment-paper, drawing-paper, and
Bristol boards, among the thick, is highly tenacious and
some of it quite pliable.
A reference to the general features of the process of papermaking by mechanical means will assist comprehension of
subsequent parts of the case.

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

After the "stock"-best rags or what else-is sorted and
cut, it is generally cleaned by boiling, and finally put, with
the requisite quantity of water, into the "beating engine,"
where it is beaten or ground into pulp. The beating engine
is simply a vat divided into two compartments by a longitudinal partition, which, however, leaves an opening at either
end. In one compartment a cylinder revolves, called the
"roll," its longitudinal -axis being at right angles to the
length of the vat. In this cylinder, and parallel with its
axis, are inserted a number of blades or knives which project from its circumference. Directly beneath the roll,
upon the bottom of the vat, is a horizontal plate, called the
bed-plate, which consists of several bars or knives, similar
and parallel to those of the roll, bolted together. The roll
is so arranged that it can be raised or lowered, and also the
speed of its revolutions regulated at pleasure. The vat
being filled with rags and water, in due proportion, the
mass is carried beneath the roll, and between that and the
bed-plate, and passing round through the other compartment of the vat, again passes between the bed-plate and
roll, and so continues to revolve until the whole is beaten
into pulp of the requisite fineness and character for the
paper for which it is intended. When the beating first
begins, the roll is left at some distance from the bed-plate,
and is gradually lowered as the rags become more disintegrated and ground up. The management of the beating
engine is lert to the skill and judgment of the foreman in
charge. The knives may be sharp or dull, the roll may
be closely pressed upon the bed-plate or slightly elevated,
the bars and knives may have the angles which they make
with each other altered, so that they either cut off sharply,
like the blades of scissors, or tear the rags more slowly as
they pass between them. The duration of the beating also
varies according to the natnre of the pulp, the length of
fibre required, the condition of the knives, &c.; and the
speed of the revolutions given to the roll is varied in like
manner.

After the pulp has been beaten until the foreman judges

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSENm.

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

that it is of the right length of fibre and quality for the
paper desired, it is drawn off from the engine and first
passes through the "screens," a kind of sieve, which removes lumps and impurities. The pulp is then poured out
upon the wire-cloth, the water draining through the meshes
of the wires, an operation which is aided by "suction-boxes"
that exhaust the air and suck the water out of the pulp.
The thickness of the paper is mainly regulated by the
amount of pulp poured out upon the wire, it being kept
from flowing over the edge by raised guards. The pulp is
carried by the motion of the wire beneath a succession of
rollers, the first light and the last heavier, until a heavy
roller covered with felt carries it off the wire by its adhering
to the felt, and it then passes through heated rollers until it
comes out pressed into paper. It is finished by passing
under calender rolls, and given more or less gloss as may
be required. It is usually sized and colored in the vat
before the pulp is beaten. A white color is obtained by
bleaching the rags, selecting white rags if possible for the
original stock, taking pains to use clear water, and adding
blue coloring matter if a yellowish-white is not desired.
There seemed to be no essential difference in the principles on which the two sorts of paper-short fibre and hard
fibre-were made. The "stocks," as already said, were different. The machines using them, however, had no nechanical principles different for the two sorts of paper. For
long-fibre paper the knives used in the process of pulping
must be dull, and the process of beating must be longforty-four hours being commonly given. For the short-fibre
paper, the knives may be dull and the process of beating
may be short-four hours suffices. To produee a thick
paper, the device of doubling the sheet, where the machine
is a cylinder machine, has long been resorted to. And,
of course, wiere the paper is thick and of long fibre, it
yields the water in it less readily than when it is thin
and of short fibre, and more power must be brought on the
pulp in order to expel the water. In the Fourdrinier machine-where the principle of suction is used-stronger

536

COLLAR

CoiPANY

v.

VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct."

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

suction, it need hardly be said, is required to extract the
water in the case of the thick paper than of the other.
The matter of coloring is, of course,,a matter of taste.
In all parts of the subject, however, there is great room for
skill; the thicker-, more tenacious, and more sightly paper
being produced in different degrees of excellence according
as the proper "stock" is used, as the paper-making machines are good, and as they are scientifically used. And
as the demand for the thicker and more tenacious and pliable papers is comparatively limited, and the manufacture
of each of its branches, to some degree a special business,
there are much fewer machines for making it, and much
fewer makers of it than there are machines for making ordinary paper and makers of it.
Without any effort, therefore, to obtain or to produce a,
paper other than that already known and in use, Evans, who
was not a paper-maker at all, on the 15th of May, 1863, got
an original patent for an "Improvement in Shirt-collars."
His specification said:
"The nature of my invention consists"1First.In makingshirt-collars of a fabric known to the trade
as 'parchment-paper,' or paper prepared with animal sizing,
which may be manufactured cheaper than a fabric composed of
paper and cloth, is sufficiently tough and strong to form tenacious button-holes, is susceptible of a smoother surface and polish
than cloth-paper, and can be turned over without cracking and
forming a roughened edge, &c.
"Second. In coating one side or both sides of paper shirtcollars with a thin varnish of' bleached shellac,' which not only
adds smoothness, strength, and stiffness to the fabric, but also
being a repellent of water, prevents perspiration or other moisture from entering the collar. The shellac, moreover, renders
the surfitee of the paper sb hard and smooth that it wears much
longer without being soiled by exposure to dust or damp. I
make my collars of any of the patterns or shapes in general use,
either ' stand-up,' or ' turn-over,' and provided with button-holes,
by means of which they are attached to shirts in the usual
manner.

"I first take the 'parchment-paper,' or paper prepared with

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

537

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

aninmal sizing, and cover one side or both sides of it with thin
varnish of ' bleached shellac,' and allow it to dry. The paper is
then passed between polishing rollers, such as are ingeneral
use for polishing paper or cloth. And this operation finishes
the fabric ready to be made into collars. The collars are cut
out and the button-holes punched by dies with great rapidity.
"My invention constitutes, I think, a great improvement in
the art of making shirt-collars, producing a cheaper and better
article of its kind than any known or used before.
" Having thus described the nature and operation of my improvement, what I claim as new, and desire to secure by letterspatent, is"A shirt-collar made of parchment-paperand coated with varnish
of bleached shellac, substantially as described and for the objects
specified."
These collars made of parchment-paper coated with varnish of bleached shellac, were however open to objections.
They did not look at any time very much like starched linen,
became discolored after a little time, and showed plainly that
they were not linen. The moisture of the skin coming
against the sizing caused them to emit an odor not pleasant.
Moreover the "Byron" or turned-down collar was now
coming into vogue, and the parchment-paper with its coating of shellac answered even less well for it than it did for
the stiff or stand-up collar.
Evans now put himself into communication with different
paper-makers, to get a sort of paper better suited for his
purposes than any of the different sorts previously made;
something which while it was paper and could be produced
cheaply should yet have such a thickness, tenacity, pliability
united with strength, and have moreover that polish of surface, and that exact bluish tint which is found in the best
starched linen-as distinguished from yellowness and from
dead white-which would deceive even critical observers
who had no opportunity of judging otherwise than by the
eye. No such exact variety of paper had yet been made,
nor, so far as appeared, had been attempted to be made.
He went to numerous paper mills. He conferred with numerous paper-makers. He spent much money. He made

588

COLLAR COiPANY V. VAN DU

EN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Evans's patent; that for the fabric.

many suggestions. The manufacturers studied the matter
carefully; got the exact sort of "hard stock" that they
thought would produce the special sort of paper that he
wanted-and to which, in advance of its coming forth,
they gave the name of" collar-paper "-made certain alterations in the machinery of their mills, and went to work;
some producing their "failures," and some their approximations in close degree to what he wanted. Evan's would
sometimes come to the mills, "and had a great deal to say."
The following extract from one or two of his letters illustrates what sort of instruction he was constantly giving.
To one manufacturer, in acknowledging the receipt of some
paper, he says:
"The paper as regards color is all right. It is not, however,
thick enough to make the stand-up collar. It will answer for the
turn-over collar. I have now on hand stock enough that you
have sent me to make 40,000 collars; but it is only suitable for
the turn-over collar. I am very much in want of some thicker
stock to make a stand-up collar. You don't seem to understand
by my letters just what I want; and yet I try to explain explicitly for your information. What I wish you would do is for
you to come to Boston and see my place of business, and let us
have a good substantialtalk over the matter. It will take only one
day, and then Ican explain to you just what I want. I want to
show you what I have on hand, and show you by comparison
what I want for an alteration, if you cannot come, or do not
think it advisable to do so, please write me by return mail; and
then I will send another order, and take the chance of its being
right. I have not, however, had any stock right to cut one
style of collar which is very much wanted-the stand-up collar."
In another letter he says:
"I want the paper of the style marked A.S., the hard finish,
so that it may be strong. The color of the last two lots was
just right. You need not make any variation as to color. It
was perfect. Only give the paper to me thicker. Do not make
the quantities of each lot too large, for fear they will not be just
right. I was sorry not to see you in Boston. I could explain
to you much better by seeing you than by writing. Just please

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

Statement of the case.-Evans's reissued patent.
see if you understand me this time. It is so difficult for me to
explain by letter. I wish I could see you."
In a third he says:
"I am not positive that what you make will be just what I
want when finished. Instead of seven hundred pounds of each
size, I wish that you would not make more than two hundred
pounds of each, that I may see if it is just right. This is still
an experiment, and I have already lost considerable money in
experimenting in my paper. Could I but see you one half-hour
at my place, to explain to you, and show you by comparison,
there would be no doubt in the mind of either of us whats i
wanted. Don't be discouraged. " They like my collar as it is;
but I am going to have it more perfect. I want some stock
heavy enough, thick enough, strong enough, handsome enough,
to make my stand-up collar; but I want it just right, before you
make me up too large a quantity."
At last Evans got just the paper that he wanted.
In this state of ficts, he assigued his patent to the Union
Paper Collar Company, and they applied for and got a reissue.
The reissue like the original patent was for an "improvement in paper shirt-collars," and ran thus:
"Be it known that Andrew Evans, of Boston, &c., did invent
a new and useful improvement in shirt-collars, and that the following is a full, clear, and exact description of the same.
"Previous to the invention of the said Evans, collars were
made of paper applied to some woven fabric, the paper serving
the purpose of giving to the loose and limber fabric the body,
rigidity, or stiffness, and general appearance of a starched linen
collar, while the backing of cloth or fabric gave it the necessary
strength or resistance. The increasing cost of the backing and
the difficulty attending the manufacture, render the collars intended to be worn, as a general thing but once, too expensive
to answer the purpose they were designed for. The object of
the said Evans was, therefore, to make a paper-collar in which
the cloth-backing may be dispensed with, and which he did, as
follows:
"Said Evans discovered, as the result of many experiments,
that in order to produce a really good collar, the paper must pos-

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.-Evans's reissued patent.

sess the following qualities, viz., strength to withstand the usual
wear and tear, particularly where button-holes are used, without excessive thickness, such as to destroy the resemblance to
a starched linen collar, and tenacity or toughness, with pliability
sufficient to allow the collar to be folded upon itself without
cracking at the fold, and the pureness of color and necessary
polish to make it resemble starched linen.
"1He made his collars out of a paper which he produced, or
caused to be produced, in which he combined these qualities;
which paper was made of a long fibre, substantially, in this respect, like banknote-paper, but of about the same thickness as
that of an ordinary collar, and of a pure shade or color, such
as to resemble starched linen.
"By means of the length of fibre in the material, he was enabled to obtain, from the degree of thickness above specified, a
sufficient degree of strength, tenacity, and pliability to make a
collar practically useful for wear, without interfering with the
resemblance in appearance to a linen collar. A sample of the
paper which he thus found suitable and used, is shown, filed with
the original application of the said Evans for his patent, above
referred to.
" To produce a paper having the above-mentioned qualities,
what is known as ' ha'd stock' should be used in larger proportion than is required for other descriptions of paper, except for
that which is known as banknote-paper, and in the process of
pulping the stock dull knives should be used, and the distance
of the knives or beaters, and their mode of striking the knifebar, should be so arranged as to draw out the -pulp instead of
chopping it short, constituting what is known as the 'longbeating' process; and this long beating should be continued for
a great length of time, so that the fibre shall be not only long
but fine,-and thereby the paper not only be more strong, but
more smooth and even, and the fibre become bedded in the thickness of the paper so as not to mar the surface.
"After the stock is thus pulped, the paper, if made upon a
cylinder machine, may be run off in two or more sheets of pulp,
which may be united, as they run from several cylinders-and
pass together, one over the other, under the press or rolls-into
one sheet of the required thiekness; or one sheet may be first
run off upon a reel, and then united in'the same manner with
another sheet running from the cylinder, and both passing under

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DuSEX.
Statement of the case.-Evans's reissued patent.

the rolls together; but the former mode is found preferable in
practice, as the several sheets are in that case of equal degrees
of moisture, and therefore form in that state a more perfect
union.. In case a single sheet is used, made upon a cylinder
machine, as its thickness and length of fibre tend to retain the
moisture, great care must be taken to expel the water from the
pulp.
"In case a Fourdrinier machine is used, the paper may be
made of the required thickness from a single sheet of pulp; but
the ' wire' on which the pulp is formed should be supplied with
extra suction-boxes to remove the water, and its forward motion should be much slower than in the manufacture of ordinary
paper, whilst the lateral or vibratory motion of the wire should
be as rapid or more rapid than usual, in order to afford greater
time and motion for extracting the moisture from the pulp.
"Care should also be used to give to the paper in the pulp
the slight bluish tinge which is found in starched linen, and to
prevent its having a dead or yellowish-white color.
"The invention of said Evans is not confined to the use of
any specific proportion of' hard stock,' nor to any specific time
or mode of ' long beating' of the pulp, nor any specific method
of running off or uniting the sheets of pulp, or of exhausting
the moisture, or of giving the required tint; but it is believed
that the quality of stock to be used, the process by which the
length of fibre and the required shade of color are produced,
will be readily understood by paper manuficturers, having regard to the above description and the purposes for which the
paper is designed.
"This paper may be prepared with animal sizing, and when
so prepared it is known in the trade as parchment-paper, or
such sizing may be dispensed with.
"The paper may also be covered on one or both sides with a
thin varnish of bleached shellac, and allowed to dry; or such
varnishing may be dispensed with. The paper, having been
passed between polishing rollers such as are in general use for
polishing paper or cloth, is ready to be made into collars.
"The collars are tut out, and the button-holes, if ani-, are
punched by dies; and the collar may be indented along a line
running parallel with the exposed edges, so as to imitate the
stitching of sewed collars, and of such various patterns or shape
as are in use, either ' stand-up' or ' turn-over;' and provided, if

542

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Evans's reissued patent.

required, with button-holes, by means of which they might be
attached to shirts in the usual manner.
" What is claimed under this patent is the invention of the
said Evans, and desired to be secured by letters-patent, as. a new
article of manufacture, is"A collar made of long-fibre paper, substantially such as is
above described."As to whether the manufacture of collar-paper was a novelty, the evidence was contradictory. Mr. Crane, the manuficturer of it and a person long established in the business
of paper-making, said:
"It was at that time a new manufacture. We never heard
of it before. We had heard of the paper and cloth collar, but
never of collar-paper made expressly for collars before. I can't
recall any paper it resembles, except Bristol board; and this is
an entirely different thing, when you come to examine it. I
have often thought it over. If I have found paper as thick as
that, it lacked either the color, the strength, or the flexibility.
I have fbund paper that separately possessed the various qualities which are combined in that; thus a sheet of banknotepaper would possess its strength and flexibility; a sheet of

writing-paper would possess its whiteness aud smoothness; a
sheet of pasteboard its thickness. It was from six to twelve
months from the time we began our experiments before we succeeded in making collar-paper such as was satisfactory."
Other witnesses supported this view, one of them stating
that "a collar-paper, when first shown, was looked on by
him as a marvel in paper-making;" and others stating that
the use of collar-paper had been followed by the application
of paper to uses radically different from those previously
known; paper stronger, thicker, and more flexible than any
before made.
But this view of novelty was contradicted by numerous
experts of the defendant. The testimony, for example, of
one Derrickson, a paper manufacturer ot New York, who
became an apprentice to the paper-making business in 1823,
and had made it his business more or less ever since, will

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR OOMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

543

Statement of the case.
serve for an example of nearly what they all swore.

He

said:
"I have seen paper like this paper, called collar-paper, made
twenty-five years ago. There is no difference in it from other
papers, more than it is made in a double cylinder and is double;
the same as any other heavy paper is. it is strong; and, generally speaking, the heavier the paper is the stronger it is also.
I have seen better paper than the complainant's collar-paper
made at Pennypack, Pennsylvania, when I was an apprentice.
It was called thick writing-paper, and was used for ledgers.
There is no quality of toughness, capacity of being turned
without cracking, or thickness, which makes the collar-paper
substantially different, so far as I see, from the qualities of
other papers long in use in this country. Long-fibre paper has
been a common article of manufacture in the United States
longer than I can remember. It has been known in the market
as bank.note, bond-paper, cartridge-paper, drawing-paper, silkpaper, tissue, manillas, and tissue-paper.
"There is no essential difference in the.process and means
used to produce collar-paper, that I know of,and the process
and means employed to produce other thick, strong, pliable
long-fibre papers which I have enumerated. The same machinery answers for one as the other. No difference in stock
or in the essential manner of treating it. The specification in
the reissue of Evans's patent gives me no new information as to
paper-making."
Numerous witnesses supported and amplified this view.
So much for the Evans part of the case; the part relating
to the fabric. Now, as to the Gray part of it; the reissue
for turning the collar over. This reissue was granted June
23d, 1863, and was thus:
"Be it known that I, Solomon Gray, of Boston, &c., have invented certain new and useful improvements in turn-over shirt
collars; and I do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear,
and exact description of the same, reference being had to the
accompanying drawings making a part of this specification, in
which"Figure 1 (on page 545) represents the outline of the collar

544

COLLAR COMPANY

V. VAN

DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
before it is turned over, with lines dotted thereon to illustrate
the mode of folding it over, and the effect produced thereby.
"Figure 2 (on page 546) represents a perspective view of the
same, turned over and brought into a circular form, as it would
be on a person's neck. The same letters indicate like parts in
both drawings.
"In the making of turn-over shirt collars of paper or of cloth
and paper combined, it is exceedingly difficult to fold tHe material so that, when turned over on the arc of a circle it will
present a regular line; this cannot be done- by the eye, but
must be done by a gauged line made in the material, or by a
former of suitable shape laid on the material as a guide to turn
it over by.
"The first part of my invention consists in turning over the
collar by a line pressed into the material by a die or by drawing
a pointed instrument over it beside a pattern, and then following the indented line, or by turning it over the edge of the pattern or block of the proper curve or line.
"Another defect or difficulty in turn-over collars made of
paper, or of paper and cloth combined, consists in the wrinkling
or puckering of the inner part when brought into a circular
form, as it is when on the neck of the wearer, and which is
occasioned by the inner part, of necessity, occupying a smaller
circle than the outer part.
"The second part of my invention consists in turning the
collar over in a curved line, or in a series of straight lines and
straight angles, by which means the wrinkling or puckering is
entirely obviated. In a paper, or a cloth and paper combined,
collar, if turned over on a straight line, in addition to the wrinkling and puckering, there is another objection, viz., the difficulty
of inserting a neck-tie underneath the turned down portion and
the band, and when inserted it increases the tendency of the
inside to wrinkle and pucker. But, by turning over tile collar
on a curved line, or on a series of straight lines that elongate
the line by which it is turned over, there is a space formed between the turned down portion and the band portion in which
the neck-tie can be laid without the least tendency to wrinkle
or pucker.
"The third part of my invention consists in so turning over
a collar made of paper, or of paper and cloth combined, on a
curved or arched line, as that a space shall be left between the

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY v. VAN DUSEN.

Statement of the case.
turned over portion and the band portion, which space may be
occupied by a neck-tie of any ordinary description.
"To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe the same with reference to
the drawings.
"1Myinvention is not confined to any particular style of turnover collars, but I regard it as more particularly applicable to
collars made of paper or of paper and cloth combined.
FIG. 1.

-- - - - - -

---

---------------------------- ---------------

~--

--

----- - 7 1.
-

T-------------Oe

A

C==

"Hitherto collars have been turned over in a straight line, as
represented by the dotted lines, Y, in Fig. 1; and the practical
objection to all such collars has been mentioned above. The
line X, however, as will be seen in said Fig. 1, is an arc of a
circle; and on this line the part B is turned over on to the part A.
The best mode of doing this is to make in the collar an impression of the curve or line on which it is to be turned over, either
by means of a die pressed upon it or by drawing a pointed instrument over it beside or along a pattern. When this is done,
the collar can be readily turned over on or following the indented line. Or the collar may be turned over the edge of a
pattern or block of the proper curve or line. The line X, instead of being in a curve or arc of a circle, might be composed
of a series of straight lines, with an angle at the centre of the
collar, and accomplish the desired object about as well.
"I prefer, however, to make the fblding-line on the arc of a
circle. In turning the collar over on a curved line, as at X, instead of a straight line, as at Y, the corners b b of the turn-over
part B will be over the points X' .X, instead of the points Y1 Y',
where a straight line would bring them; by which it is evident
1
that the longer space, from Y1 to Y (i. e., from b to b), has only
to cover the shorter space from X1 to X1 on the part A, forming
the inner circle, and thus the inner circle will not be wrinkled
pr puckered by the tension of the outer one. Besides, by turning the collar on a curved line, so far from the outer portion
crowding upon the inner portion and thus wrinkling it, the pervOL. XXIII.

86

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
tion B will actually stand off from the portion A, a distance corresponding somewhat to the space shown between the lines b Y1
and b 2) and varying only with the extent of curvature of said
folding or turn-over line.
FIG. 2.

B

B

A
"This space between the two portions, A B, when the folding
over isdone, isavailable for a neck-tie, ifone be worn; but the
space itself prevents the two parts from pressing against each
other, which pressing tends to wrinkle one or the other. d., e,
and f,represent the button-holes,which are punched inthe material in the usual way.
"The drawings are about the size of a medium collar, and
the greatest distance from the straight line Y to the curved
line X1 isabout one-fourth of an inch; itmay,however,be more
or less, and still accomplish the object required. Collars thus
constructed never wrinkle nor pucker,and may even be rolled
up into a circle of not more than an inch or so in diameter (as
isoften convenient for transportation) without the slightest injury; as the difference inlength of the outer and inner portions,
and the fact that the outer portion stands off from the inner
portion so as to leave clear space between them, admits of such
rolling.
"Having thus fully described my invention, what I claim
therein as new and desire to secure by letters-patent is"First. The turning over of a paper or a paper and cloth collar
by a defined line, whether pressed into the material by a die or
pointed instrument, or by bending itover the edge of a pattern
or block of the proper curve or line, substantially as described.
"I also claim turning the part B, of a paper or a paper and
cloth collar, over on to or towards the part A, in a curved or

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DuSEN.

547

Statement of the case.

angular line instead of a straight line, substantially as and for
the purpose described.
"I also claim so turning over the part B, on to or towards
the part A, in the manner above described, as that a space shall
be left between the two parts, for the purpose and substantially
in the manner herein described."
As to the first of these claims-which covers a defined
line, whether straight or curved, made by the means indicated, either pressing a die or pointed instrument into the
material to make the line, or making the line by bending
the material over the edge of a pattern or block representing the desired line-the testimony of several witnesses
showed,
That anterior to the date of the patent, paper envelopes,
the tops and bottoms of paper boxes, and similar articles
requiring folds, were shaped or folded by placing the material upon a lead or other soft platten, and making the impression of the required shape or fold, by bringing down
upon it a steel "knife" and applying pressure, thus producing an indented or defined line, which the fold must
follow.
That the same method was also employed in paper-folding
machinery, and the folding and cutting of writing-papers.
That the method so employed for marking the folds of
envelopes was the same as that subsequently employed by
an Italian named Karcheski, to make the folds of paper
collars.
That linen collars, cut with band and top all in one, without seam where the band joins the top, were folded by means
of an indented line, anterior to the patent.
That these collars were turned down or folded in the process of- ironing: "ironed on blocks with a groove in the
block, and the iron passing in this groove, the collar would
receive the indenture to turn down on."
It was also proved that before the patent, paper collars
and paper and cloth collars had been turned over by such
defined line pressed into the material, or by bending over
the edge of a block or former.

COLLAR COMPANY v. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.-The Evans patent.

As to the second claim which covered the turning over of
the collar in a curved or angular line, whether by a defined
line or not, and by whatever means,'it was proved, and indeed was not denied, that linen collars had, from a date long
anterior to Gray's alleged invention, been turned over, on a
curved instead of a straight line, and that they bad been so
turned over "substantially for the purpose described" in
the patent, viz., to avoid wrinkling or puckering, and to
afford a space for the cravat.
It was shown that a common way of turning down linen
collars on such curved line, and a way familiar to all who
wear those collars, is to follow the line of the seam where
the band joins the top. The band being commonly cut upon
an arch or curve upon the upper side, the seam consequently
makes a curved line, which is followed as a gauge in making
the fold.
It is also proved by the witnesses, that paper collars had,
before Gray's application, been turned or fo]ded upon a
curve by methods the same as that described by Gray.
The third claim, was considered by the witnesses the same
as the second; and their testimony applied to it accordingly.
The court below found,
I. That Evans's reissue was void as not being for the
same invention as the original. It also considered that
Evans was not the inventor of the product patented by him.
IL That Gray's reissue was also void; his invention having
been anticipated.
From a decree accordingly this appeal was taken.
Mr. C. A. Seward (with whom was Mr. C. C. Morgan), for the
appellant:
I. As to the EVANs patent.
We assume,-for the reason that it was the identical paper
in the form of a collar that was embraced in both the original and in the reissued patents--that there was no such plain
repugnancy between the original and the reissue as to make
it necessary to be held, as matter of legal construction, that

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V.

VAN

DUSEN.

549

Argument for the appellant.-The Evans patent.

the new patent was not for the same invention as that embraced and secured in the original invention. With this
assumption, one rightly made we submit-we safely argue1st. That the collar-paper was a new and patentable invention.
2d. That Evans was the person who in truth invented it.
1st. IVo such paper as collar-paper had ever been thought of
before the time when it was now thought of.
That paper resembled no paper ever previously made. It
was not like bank-note or cartridge-paper, bond-paper, or
parchment-paper, or Bristol boards, or any other long-fibre
paper. It was a union of the known elements of paper, a
treatment of them by a new combination of old processes,
and a giving to them when united a new application, resulting in the production for the first time of a paper-as we
call it, though it might have been called by any new namewhich could be practically and successfully used in the
manufacture of collars, and which was not applicable to any
other use to which paper is applied. It was "a new combination of old materials constituting a new result or production," and so within the Lord Chief Justice Abbot's
definition,* a new and useful "composition of matter, having
qualities possessed by no other known material," and so
within the definition of Grier, J.,t and of other judges.T.
Indeed it is proved by the evidence that so much was this
"4collar-paper" an invention-such "a marvel" was it in
paper-making-that it opened at once a new field for inventive effbrt, by directing attention to the practicability of
making papers of such strength, thickness, and pliability as
would render them suitable for uses radically different from
any to which paper had been formerly applied. The invention of collar-paper, we may here mention, in illustration of
this statement and as a fact which will hardly be disputed
by the candid counsel opposing, was followed by the invenQuoted in Curtis on Patents, P 27, note 2.
j Goodyear v. The Rubber Company, 2 Wallace, Jr., 356.
1 See Many v. Jagger, 1 Blatchford, 372; Muntz v. Foster, 2 Webster's
Patent Cases, 96.

COLLAR COMPANY -0. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.-The Evans patent.

tion, in 1864, of paper hats-greatly superior to the old
Navarino hats, and now extensively worn-in 1867, of paper
belting for machinery-as tough as sole-leather-in 1868,
of paper boats-especially prized for their lightness and consequent fitness for hunting skiffs and for use in rowing
matches; also of paper vessels for petroleum and other volatile liquids, impermeable to gases and stronger and less
liable to corrode than those of tin; in 1869, of paper horsecollars, largely used in work-harnesses, especially in the
warmer parts of the South; inventions, indeed, which are
but the pioneers of a whole class of inventions in paper now
widely used and highly esteemed.
2d. It was to Eians that the credit of this invention was due.
Although Crane & Co. were skilful paper-makers, and
especially versed in the manufacture of long-fibre papers, it
is evident that until Evans began to give his directions,
neither they nor any one else had conceived of such a paper
as that now known as "collar-paper," and afortioribad not
conceived of the right modes of making it. Crane & Co.
went through a long process of instruction from Evans, and
from those instructions the art was obtained. It is thus
evident that the conception of the result to be attained originated with Evans alone. -He was led by investigation and
by trials of numerous papers to conceive of such a practicable combination of qualities in paper as would render it
suitable for a collar. Be it was who gave all the directions
which were needful to enable Crane & Co., without the exercise of any invention of their own, to effect the desired
combination.
Evans's conception therefore was not a mere vague and
unintelligent notion that it was possible to make a paper
which would answer the purpose, followed by a request to
his paper-makers to do it if they could. It was a conception
which was the result of a thorough familiarity, acquired by
diligent study and research, with the qualities and properties'
of numerous kinds of paper as respected their fitness in certain particulars for a paper collar; ending in the conviction
that it was practicable to combine this quality found in one

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DusEN.

Argument for the appellant.-The Evans patent.

with that quality found in another, and so on, until such a
combination was effected as would embrace all the essential
requisites.
This novel and useful result was anticipated by his foresight, and was confidently assumed by him as practicable,
at a time when no one could say, from any knowledge then
existing, that it could be attained. To reach it, he called
for a new combination of various methods which had been
employed before for the production, in other relationships,
of the several qualities he wished to unite. The details of
this combination, so far as the essential features which went
to make up the invention were concerned, were directly
specified by him when he gave Crane & Co. the instructions
which he did give.
Evans required of Crane & Co. that they should use their
judgment and skill-in obedience to his suggestions or instructions as to what was needful-to effect this combination of qualities. As the inventor, and as a practical collar
manufacturer, he took the samples of paper produced and
tested them, to see whether the combination presented gave
the desired result.
If invention implies a knowledge of defects and the means
of remedying them, then all that there is of this invention
belongs to Evats. He discovered the defects in all kinds
of existing paper. First, as to the color; second, as to thickness, weight, and strength. He suggested the remedy as to
both, first as to the color, and second, as to the strength.
As between himself and Crane & Co., Evans was the inventor, and being so had a right to claim the manufacture
of paper collars as his invention. If he was not, who was?
Was it Crane & Co.? Would any chancellor have enjoined
Evans on their bill from making the new product? Surely
not. If, as between Crane & Co. and himself, Evans was the
inventor, he was the inventor as against the world, for no
one but Crane & Co. and Evans were concerned in the
efforts to get this paper.
The case is not affected by the fact that the claim of the
patent is limited to the use of such paper in the manufacture

552

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN

DuSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.-Gray's patent.

of collars, collars being the only article for which it is suitable. The claim is not for making collars, but for making
collars out of collar-paper.
That Evans was not a paper-maker is quite unimportant.
Many inventors have not been skilled in the art with which
their inventions were connected. Evans rightly employed
(as other inventors might have done) those who were acquainted with the construction and adjustment of the machinery and working of the materials which were necessary
to be used in the production of the invention, and who were
skilled in that branch of art to which the invention related.
He had a right to use the skill of all kinds of trained operatives to effect his purpose; and just so long as those operatives were employed in contributing to that end, by a modification of material, or a change of process, oi- a change of
treatment, just so long were they endeavoring to produce
what Evans had directed them to make, and they were his
instruments; the hands with which he worked.*
What Evans was striving to produce, and as he states endeavoring to secure by a patent, was the product, not the
process. The product is new, and could not have been
made without the original conception and plan of manufacture which Evans originated.
If this product had not required invention, it is incredible
to suppose that so many years would have elapsed, and so
many other experiments have failed, before it was produced.
Some one produced the product. No one ever produced it
until Evans gave instructions therefor. No one other than
Evans ever pretended to have produced it. The natural
conclusion therefore is that Evans was the inventor of the
product.

H. As to GRAY"'S patent.
The principle of Gray's invention consists in the process
of folding a collar of paper or of cloth and paper by making
a defined curved line, exactly located or fixed, at or near the
- Pennock v. Dialogue, 4 Washington's Circuit Court, -538; Sparkman v.
Higgins, 1 Blatchford's Circuit Court, 205; Rlandy v. Griffith, 3 Fisher, 616.

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

Argument for the appellant.-Gray's patent.

outset, by being indented into the material with a suitable
instrument or broken into it over the edge of a pattern, and
turning the collar over on or following this line; whereby
certain important advantages in the collar itself may be
easily and conveniently secured.
The invention is not described as relating to collars of
any and every kind of material. The remark of the patentee, that "my invention is not confined to any particular
style of turn-over collars," must be understood as relating to
the fashion of the collars, and not to the materials of which
they are made. Style is contradistingaished from fabric or
material.
The claims of the patent, moreover, are limited to the application of the invention to collars of paper or of cloth and
vaper combined, the three claims corresponding respectively
to the three parts of the invention, as set forth in the foregoing specification. The patent, therefore, has reference
solely to collars of these materials.
The utility of the invention, as applied to collars of the
given fabric, is stated to be that it permits so folding collars
of paper or of cloth and paper on a curve as to avoid the
wrinkling or puckering of the bands when the collars are
put around the neck, and so folding them on a curve as to
leave room enough for a cravat between the turn-over portions and the bands.
The folding, therefore, on a defined indented curved line,
is to be regarded as an invention by which it is rendered
practicable to secure the advantages just set forth, in connection with collars of paper, or of cloth and paper combined, as
they had been secured before, in connection with linen collars, by modes of treatment radically different from Gray's
and entirely unsuitable for the folding of paper collars.
That the attainment of these advantages in connection
with such collars would be impracticable, without the aid
of Gray's process of folding, is made obvious by the fact
thdt although these advantages of not crimping and of space
for a cravat doubtless had been appreciated for many years
in linen collars, none of the collars of paper or of cloth and

554

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DusENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.-Gray's patent.

paper made and sold preceding Gray's invention, were folded
otherwise than on a straight line.
The second and third parts of the invention are both described as relating to collars of paper, or of cloth and paper
combined. In the seventh paragraph of the specification, the
patentee says: "The second part of my invention consists
in turning the collar" [that is, the kind of collar previously
described-one of paper or of cloth and paper] "over in a
curved line, . . . by which means the wrinklipg or pucker-

ing is entirely obviated." Also, in the same paragraph, he
remarks: "The third part of my invention consists in so
turning over a collar made of paper or of paper and cloth
combined, on a curved or arched line, as that a space shall
be left . . . which space may be occupied by a neck-tie."

The desirable results thus secured were new and important improvements in collars of these materials.
It will be observed, however, that the second and third
parts of the invention are not described as consisting merely

in these results, but in so turning collars of paper or of cloth
and paper combined, on such a curve as to secure these results; the manner of turning or defining the fold having
been previously described as a part of the invention. But
this manner of folding may be practiced without making

the curve large enough to afford either of these results.
The invention, therefore, does not consist solely in the specified manner of folding; but it consists also in so making
the fold, by this process, as to secure in collars of paper, or
of cloth and paper combined, the before-mentioned beneficial results previously unknown in such collars.
The second claim of the patent is for "turning the part B

of a paper or a paper and cloth collar over on to or towards
the part A, in a curved or angular line, substantially as"
(that is, in the way before specified, to wit, by Gray's process), "and for the purpose" (i. e., the prevention of wrink-

ling, previously set forth as the second part of the invention)
"described."

The third claim is for "so turning over the part B" (of
the paper or paper and cloth collar before specified) "on to

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY

V.

VAN DUSEx.

555

Argument for the appellee.-The Evans patent.

or towards the part A, in the manner above described" (i. e., by
Gray's process), "as that a space shall be left between the
two parts for the purpose and substantially in the manner
*

..

described."

The patent, therefore, in respect to each and all its claims,
must be regarded: (1) with reference to the mode of producing the curved fold; (2) with reference to the character
of the fold itself; (3) with reference to the peculiar fabrics
(paper or cloth and paper combined) of which the collars
are made, and to which the patent is expressly limited.
[The counsel then went on to comment on the policy of
the Patent Laws, with regard to disclosure of prior inventions, and to enforce the observations of the court in Gaylor
v. Wilder,* that the prior knowledge and use which would
defeat a patent must be "knowledge

and use existing in a

manner accessible to the public," arguing further on the
evidence (as interpreted by the counsel) that there was no
public knowledge of any experiment before Gray's patent.]
Mr. J.J. Coombs and Edward Wemore, contra:
I. As respects the Evans patent.
The argument of the other side sets out with an assumption essential to any argument on that side, that the original
patent and the reissue are for the same invention. But the
assumption is wholly false in fact and law. Whether or not
this is so is a matter to be judged of by inspection and comparison, which every one can make of the two instruments.
The invention meant to be patented by the original patent
was the making of collars of paper prepared with animal
sizing. The reissue is for making collars of any kind of
paper that is suitable for the purpose, and suitable principally because not prepared with animal sizing. The reissue
is thus plainly, palpably, undeniably for an invention radically different from any described or even alluded to in the
patent. If this is so the Gray patent falls dead. To stab
it further is worse than useless. Nevertheless, it is equally
* 10 Howarda 477.

556

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.-Gray's patent.

void if the assumption of the other side were wholly true
instead of being as it is, wholly untrue.
1st. N1 "new manufacture" was invented by any,one. Longfibre paper, which, and which alone, collar paper is, had been
long invented. Long-fibre paper in itself was not patentable, and giving to it any particular thickness, polish, or tint
by the same means that had been before tried to give to such
paper thickness, polish, or tint, could not impart a patentable character to it. Collar paper did at most but combine
in a higher degree than they were before combined in paper,
certain well-known characteristics of paper. But the combination was produced by old and well-known processes.
The production by old and well-known processes of old and
well-known characteristics, though in a higher degree than
previously known, does not make "a new manufacture," but
only a variety of an old one.
2d. Had any new manufacture been invented, -Evans did not
invent it.
Evans simply told Crane & 0o. what he wanted; and told
them as they brought to him from time to time what they
made, that was not what he wanted; telling them this till
they went on and, by their own processes, made what he did
want. Evans suggested no improvements in machinery or
in processes. All improvement, if any there was made in
either, was made"by Crane & Co.
Both these last two positions are capable of being largely
unfolded and strongly reasoned. But in view of the first
position taken by us, the position, namely, that the reissue
is for an invention radically different from that secured by
the patent (a position which it is plain'must be sustained by
the court), we forbear. Any further enforcement of them
is but "thrice to slay the slain." In a legal argument about
a patent, when one plain and absolutely conclusive reason is
given why the patent is void, it is unnecessary to assign
further reasons. Indeed worse than unnecessary; being in
truth but "wasteful and ridiculous excess."
I.

As to the

GRAY

patent, it presents nothing more than

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COmPANY v. VAN

DUSEI..

557

Opinion of the court.-The Evans patent.

the double use of a familiar process of folding, and on the
case as shown by the evidence is plainly void.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court
to the following effect.
The case presents two principal questions for decision:
1st. Whether the reissued patent granted to Evans for
improvement in paper shirt collars is a valid patent.
2d. Whether the reissued patent originally granted to
Gray for improvements in turn-over shirt collars is a valid
patent.
Infringement is admitted.
The defendants allege that the reissued patent of Evans is
not for the same invention as the original. This, if true, is
sufficient to show that the patent is invalid even if the patentee was the original and first inventor of the improvement
described in the origiual patent.
Power to surrender patents for the purpose suggested in
the act of Congress implies that the specification may be
corrected to the extent necessary to cure the defects and to
supply the deficiencies to render the patent operative and
valid, but the interpolation of new features, ingredients, or
devices which were neither described, suggested, nor substantially indicated in the specification, drawings, or patentoffice model were never allowed, and by a recent act of Congress it is provided that no new matter shall be introduced
into the specification, nor, in the case of a machine patent,
shall the model or drawings be amended except each by the
other.*
Repeated decisions also have established the rule that
parol testimony is not admissible, in an application for a reissued patent, to enlarge the scope ind effect of the invention beyond what was described, suggested, or substantially
indicated in the original specification, drawings, or patentoffice model, as the purpose of a surrender and reissue is
not to introduce new features, ingredients, or devices, but
* 16 Stat. at Large, 206.

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN

DUsEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Evans's patent.

to render effectual the actual invention for which the original patent should have been granted.
Unless, however, it is apparent upon the face of the new
patent that the commissioner has exceeded his authority, his
decision is final and conclusive, as the jurisdiction to reissue
patents is vested in him subject to a single exception, that
if there is such repugnancy between the old and the new
patent that it must be held, as matter of legal construction,
that the reissued patent is not for the same invention as that
embraced and secured in the original patent, then the reissued patent is invalid.
Whether a reissued patent is for the same invention as the
surrendered original or for a different one, must very largely
be determined by a comparison of the two instruments, as
the decision must necessarily depend upon the question
whether the specifications and drawings of the reissued patent are not substantially the same as those of the original;
and if not, whether the omissions or additions are or are
not greater than the law allows to cure the defects of the
original specification.
Instruments so widely different as are the original patent
to Evans and the reissue of it* can hardly be compared
within the usual meaning and ordinary application of that
word, as they really have substantially nothing in common,
so far as respects the description of the invention which
they respectively profess to secure. Examples where the
difference between the original and reissued patents is as
manifest as in this case may perhaps arise, but none such
were referred to in the argument of such a striking character, nor are any such within the recollection of the court
where the difference between the reissued and original patents is so pervading as in the case in decision.
Wide differences in that regard were exhibited in the case
of Gill v. Wells, recently decided by this court,t but they
were by no means as striking and unmistakable as those
disclosed in this record. Here the dissimilarity extends to
See the two instruments set out, supra,pp. 536-539.--REr.
S

f

22 Wallace, 1.

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COoPANY v. VAN DusEm.
Opinion of the court.-Evans's patent.

every part of the description of the invention. There it had
respect only to one of the elements of the patented combination.
Attempt was made in that case to emasculate the combination described in the original patent by leaving out one
of the material elements in order to give the exclusive right
a more comprehensive effect in prosecuting suits for infringement, but in the case before the court the reissued patent
is different throughout from the invention embodied in the
original patent.
Proof of that proposition is found also in the respective
claims of the patents as well as in the respective specifications. What I claim as new and desire to secure by letterspatent, says the original patentee, is a shirt collar made of
parchment-paper and coated with varnish of bleached shellac; but the patentee of the reissued patent claims as an
article of new manufacture a collar made of long-fibre paper
without referring to a coating of any kind; nor is the question affected in the least by the fact that the claim of the
respective patents concludes with the phrase, "substantially
as described," because the description of what is claimed, as
given in the respective specifications, is even more widely
different than the claims of the respective patents.
Instead of the phrase employed in the claim of the original patent, the specification to which it refers states that
the nature of the invention consists first in making shirt
collars of a fabric known to the trade as parchment-paper,
or paper prepared with animal sizing, and second, in coating
one or both sides of paper shirt collars with a thin varnish
of bleached shellac, which, as there represented, not only
adds smoothness, strength, and stiffness to the fabric, but
also, being a repellent of water, prevents perspiration or
other moisture from entering the collar.
Nor will any attempt to construe the claim of the reissued
patent by the specification have any tendency to remove the
difficulty in the way of the complainants, as the specification
is to the same effect a'sthe claim, and shows conclusively
that the manufacture there described is a collar made of

560

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DusEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Evans's patent.

long-fibre paper manufactured in the manner and by the
means therein minutely described; that the paper there described is not the parchment-paper described in the specification of the original patent, nor is it paper prepared with
animal sizing, nor does the specification or claim of the reissued patent contemplate or require that either side of the
collars shall be coated with varnish of bleached shellac for
any purpose. Animal sizing, according to that patent, may
be used or it may be omitted, and one or both sides of the
paper may be covered with a thin varnish of bleached shellac or such a coating may be omitted altogether, which shows
that those two requirements of the original patent are not
a material part of the invention embodied in the reissued
patent.
Authorities to support the proposition that a reissued
patent is invalid if not for'the same invention as the surrendered original are scarcely necessary, as the~rule is universally acknowledged.*
2. Suppose, however, the two may be so construed as to
obviate that objection to the reissued patent, still the second defence of the respondents remains to be considered,
that the patentee in the original patent is not the original
and first inven~tor of the alleged improvement.
Usually the patent when introduced is prim~facieevidence
to support the affirmative of that issue, but the representations of the specification may be such as to afford satisfactory
proof that the alleged invention is neither new nor useful.
Equivalent views were expressed by the Circuit Court in disposing of the question involved in the present issue, and in
those views the court here entirely concurs.t
Nothing was known to the supposed inventor respecting
paper made of long fibre when he obtained his original
patent, except that he previously found, as he states in his
reissued patent, a sample of it ready made, suitable for such
a purpose, and that he used it and filed it with his original
application for a patent. Where he found it does not appear,
* Gill v. Wells, 22 Wallace, 1.
t iPaper.collar Company v. Van Deusen, 10 Blatchford, 119.

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DuSEN.
Opinion of the court.-Evans's patent.

nor does it appear for what purpose he used it, except that
he filed it in the patent office. He does not even state that
the original patentee knew who made it, nor that he had
any knowledge of the process by which it was made.
Viewed in any reasonable light the narration shows that
the sample was made by another and not by the supposed
inventor, and it affords a strong ground of presumption that
he knew nothing respecting the process of manufacturing
such paper, or of the constituents of the manufacture, except
what is matter of common knowledge.
Hard stock, it is now said, must be used in larger proportions than is required for other descriptions of paper, and
that the pulp must be subjected for a greater length of time
to the long-beating process, so that the fibre shall be not
only long but fine, in order that the paper may be strong,
smooth, and even, and that the fibre shall become bedded
in the thickness of the paper so as not to mar the surface.
Neither of such requirements or conditions was contained
in the orig-inal specification, from which it may be inferred
that the original invention did not include the discovery of
the constituents of the paper to be used for the purpose, nor
the process by which the paper was to be manufactured.
Conclusive support to that proposition is found in the specification of the original patent, in which the patentee states
that he takes the parchment-paper known to the trade, or
paper prepared with animal sizing, and covers one or both
sides of it with thin varnish of bleached shellac, and having
allowed it to dry, the paper is then passed between polishing rollers, such as are in general use for polishing paper or
cloth, which operation finishes the fabric ready to be made
into collars.
Enough appears in these suggestions to show that the
specification of the original patent does-not describe the
process of making paper possessing the qualities of longfibre paper, but the making of collars out of parchmentpaper, showing that the discovery that for a good paper
collar the manufacturer must have paper which possesses
the qualities of long-fibre paper is a subsequent discovery.
VOL. XXIII.

86

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Evans's patent.

Nor does the statement in the reissued specification, that
he produced such a paper or caused it to be produced,
strengthen the case for the complainants, because the same
specification states in effect that he found a sample of such
paper suitable for the purpose and that he used it and filed
it with his original application, showing conclusively that
the paper existed prior to his supposed invention.
Improvements in the manufacture of paper have often
been made, and it may be that the discovery at that period
of the constituents for making such paper or of the process
by which paper possessing the described properties could be
produced would have been the proper subject of a patent.
Sufficient appears to show that the patentee learned from his
experiments that he wanted paper of the qualities described
in the reissued patent, and the evidence proves that he said
s& to the paper manufacturer, but it is clear that he did not
communicate any information to the manufacturer respecting the process by which such paper could be produced, nor
did he give the manufacturer any directions upon the subject. Information of the kind he could not communicate
for the best possible reason, which is that he was utterly
destitute of any knowledge as to the constituents of such
paper or the process by which it could be manufactured.
Such paper was eventually produced by the manufacturer
to whom the patentee applied to make the attempt, after
many experiments as to the character of the materials suited
to the end, and as to the mode of operation best adapted to
effect the desired result, without any assistance whatever
from the patentee.
Good paper collars may unquestionably be manufactured
from that product, but it is nevertheless true that the patentee is not entitled to a patent for the collars as a new
manufacture, for several reasons: (1.) Because he did not
invent either the product or the process by which the product is obtained. (2.) Because the collars, apart from the
paper of which they are made, are identical in form, strueture, and arrangement with collars previously made of linen,
paper of different quality, and other fabrics. (3.) Because

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DUSEN.

568

Opinion of the court.-Evans's patent.

it appears that the patentee is not the original and first inventor either of the paper or of the process by which the
paper is made, or of the collar which is denominated a new.
manufacture.
Articles of manufacture may be new in the commercial
sense when they are not new in the sense of the patent law.
New articles of commerce are not patentable as new manufactures, unless it appears in the given case that the production of the new article involved the exercise of invention or
discovery beyond what was necessary to construct the apparatus for its manufacture or production.*
Nothing short of invention or discovery will support a
patent for a manufacture any more than for an art, machine,
or composition of matter, for which proposition there is
abundant authority in the decisions of this court.t
Suffice it to say that it is not pretended that the original
patentee invented either the paper or the process, but the
claim in argument is that he was the first person to conceive
the idea that paper possessing the described qualities was
desirable for the purpose of making such collars, and that
inasmuch as he was not a paper manufacturer lie had a right
to employ trained skill to produce the desired product, and
that he, under the circumstances, should be regarded as the
actual inventor because he made known to the manufacturer
that paper of such qualities would be useful, and because he
employed the manufacturer to engage in the effort to produce the desired'article; but the patentee communicated no
information to the manufacturer as to the constituents or ingredients to be used, or as to the mode of operation by
which they were to be compounded in order to produce the
desired result.
Where a person has discovered a new and useful principle
in a machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, he
may employ other persons to assist in carrying out that principle, and if they, in the course of experiments arising frori
Glue Company v. Upton, 6 Official Gazette, 840.
" Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 Howard, 265; Phillips v. Page, 24 Id. 167;
Jones v. Morehead, 1 Wallace, 162; Stimpson v. Woodman, 10 Id. 121.

564

COLLAR COMPANY

V. VAN

DusEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Gray's patent.

that employment, make discoveries ancillary to the plan and
preconceived design of the employer, such suggested improvements are in general to be regarded as the property of
the party who discovered the original principle, and they
may be embodied in his patent as part of his invention.
Doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained, but persons employed, as much as employers, are entitled to their
own independent inventions, and if the suggestions commnunicated constitute the whole substance of the improvement
the rule is otherwise, and the patent, if granted to the employer, is invalid, because the real invention or discovery
belongs to the person who made the suggestions.*
Apply that rule to the present case and it is clear that the
original patentee was not entitled to a patent either for the
paper or the process, as he never made any invention or discovery upon the subject.
II. We come now to consider the reissued patent of Gray;
one defence to which is that the patentee is not the original
and first inventor of the improvement.
Three claims are contained in the reissued patent, substantially as follows: (1.) The turning over of a paper or a
paper and cloth collar by a defined line, whether pressed
into the material by a die or pointed instrument, or by bending it over the edge of a pattern or block of the proper
curve or line, substantially as described. (2.) So turning
the part B of a paper or paper and cloth collar over towards
the part A, in a curved or angular line, instead of a straight
line, substantially as and for the purpose described. (3.)
So turning the part B on to or towards the part A, in the
manner described, as that a space shall be left between the
two parts.
This third claim it is admitted is substantially the same
as the second claim, in consequence of which those two
claims will be considered together.
1. Collars of paper or paper and cloth, if turned over on
* Agawam Company v. Jordan, 7 Wallace, 602.

Oct. 1874.]

COLLAR COMPANY V. VAN DusEN.
Opinion of the court.-Gray's patent.

a defined line, are covered by the first claim, whether the
line is curved, angular, or straight, and whether the line is
made or pressed into the fabric by a die or any pointed instrument, or marked or effected by bending the material over
the edge of a pattern or block of the proper or preferred
line or curve. Evidently, therefore, it is intended to cover
collars turned over on a defined line effected in any possible
manner or by any practicable means, if made of paper or
paper and cloth. Shirt collars are turned over or down on
a curved line in order to prevent the collars from puckering
or wrinkling when bent in a circle, and in order to cause
the part turned over or down to set out a little from the
band portion of the same, so'as to admit a necktie between
the band and the part of the collar which is turned over.
Manifestly these objects are precisely the same whether
the collar be all paper, paper and cloth, or all linen. Hence
it is difficult to perceive upon what ground it can be held
that any change in the manner of turning down a collar on
a curved line, if made of any one of these fabrics, is patentable, if collars of either of the other fabrics have been
turned down before in the same manner and precisely for
the same purpose.
Evidence is exhibited which shows that many years before the patent was granted in this case paper envelopes and
the tops and bottoms of paper boxes were produced by
shapers of steel pressed on the material so as to produce
defined lines by which the material could be folded. Satisfactory proof is also exhibited that collars made of paper
and cloth were, several years earlier than the date of this
invention, folded over a piece of metal in a straight line,
which is the same process as that described in the specification of this patent, as it appears that the material was bent
over a pattern or block to give the proposed curve or line.
Plenary evidence is also exhibited showing that linen collars were ironed on blocks with a groove in the block by
which the collar received a defined line for the folding, which
accomplished the same purpose as the pattern or block.
Proofs were also exhibited showing that paper collars,

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. or.

Syllabus.

long before the alleged invention under consideration, were
folded by laying upon the unfinished side of the same a
piece of tin having at one edge the required curve, which
enabled the manipulator to accomplish the same object by
pressing upward over such curve a part of the collar so as to
mark the line of the curve and crease the paper preparatory
to turning the collar over, which enabled -the laundress to
accomplish the same object as the means described in the
specification of the patent.
Support to the answer is also derived from the proofs that
linen collars had for years been turned over in a curved line
and for the very purpose described, which is to prevent
wrinkling and to afford space for the cravat.
Taken as a whole, the proofs in this regard are conclusive,
that the patentee is not the original and first inventor of the
patented improvement described in either of the claims of
his patent.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.*
THE AmPERICAN WooD-PAPER Co. v. THE FIBRE DISINTEGRATING CO.
THE FIBRE DISINTEGRATING Co. v. THE AmERIcAN WOOD-PAPtR CO.
1. A manufacture or a product of a process may be no novelty, and, therefore, unpatentable; while the process or agency by which it is produced
may be both new and useful.

2. In cases of chemical inventions, when the manufacture claimed as novel
is not a new composition of matter, but an extract obtained by the decomposition or disintegration of material substances, it is of no importance, in considering its patentability, to inquire from what it has been
extracted.
3. When the substance of two articles produced by different processes is the
same, and their uses are the same, they cannot be considered different
manufactures.
4. Paper pulp extracted from wood by chemical agencies alone, is not a different manuficture from paper pulp obtained from vegetable substances
by chemical and mechanical processes.
* This case was adjudged October Term, 1873.

