GREEN

v.

GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

GREEN V. GREEN.
Where a husband and wife conveyed lands in trust for the sole and separate
use of the wife and for the children of the two parties, during the wife's
life in absolute property, as if she were aferne sole, and free and clear of
"any right, title, and estate, whether as tenants by the curtesy or otherwise,
of her present or any future husband, and from his control and from any liability
for his debts, and upon trust and to hold and dispose of and convey the said
premises in such manner and to such uses, interest, and purposes as the wife
may from time to time direct. by any last will and testament, or other testamentary writing, of what form soever, which she, the wife, notwithstanding her
present or any future coverture, shall and may direct, limit, and appoint; and
in the absence of any such direction, limitation, or appointment, or subject
thereto, or remainder after her death, to her heirs at-law of the wife "the rule in Shelley's case does not apply. A fee simple is not created in
the wife; and a deed by her, her husband and her trustee conveying or
pledging the property, is void and may be set aside by herself and her
children. She could pass title only by a testamentary writing of some
form.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The case was thus:
Thomas Green, by deed dated January 15th, 1867, conveyed certain real estate in Georgetown, D. C., to James
Green, infee in trust. The trust was in these words:

"For the sole tnd separate use of Catharine Green (wife of
the said Thomas) and for the children of said Thomas Green
and Catharine Green, during her life, in absolute right and
property, as if she was a feme sole, and free and clear of any
right, title, and estate, whether as tenants by the curtesy or
otherwise, of her present or any future husband, and from his
control and from any liability for his debts, and upon trust and
to hold and dispose of and convey the said premises in such
manner and to such uses, interest, and purposes as she, the said
Catharine Green, may from time to time direct, by any last will
and testament, or other testamentary writing, of what form soever,
which she, the said Catharine Green, notwithstanding her
present or any future coverture, shall and may direct, limit,
and appoint; and in the absence of any such direction, limitation, or appointment, or subject thereto, or remainder after her
death, to her heirs-at-law of the said Catharine Green."

Oct. 1874.]

GREEN v. GREEN.

Statement of the case.

On the 21st of Nqovember, 1868, James Green, as trustee,
and Thomas Green and Catharine Green united in a deed
to one Ward, whereby they conveyed to him in fee simple
the premises described in the deed first set forth, in trust to
secure the payment of a note for $6000, payable six months
from date, with interest, and bearing even date with the deed,
payable to the order of Lewis Wells. At this time Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Green had two daughters, both under age.
This note having matured, and continuing unpaid, Ward,
at the request of Wells, advertised the premises for sale, and
was proceeding to a sale thereof under the power contained
in the deed to Ward.
Hereupon Mrs. Green, and the two infant daughters by
their guardian, filed a bill in the court below-the bill in
this case-against the trustee, the husband, and Ward,
alleging that the deed to Ward was improvidently executed;
that Mrs. Green had no power to appoint or limit the fee
simple of the premises therein described by deed, but only
by a last will and testament, or a testamentary writing;
that the deed to Ward was accordingly void; that the powers contained in it were unauthorized by the deed of trust
to James Green for their benefit; that the title obtained
under the deed to Ward would impair the equitable title of
the said Mrs. Green and of her children under the deed for
her and their benefit, and asking that the deed to Ward
might be set aside, and an injunction issue restraining Ward
from selling under the alleged authority of the deed to him.
The trustee and the husband answered, admitting the facts
as alleged.
Ward answered denying that the deed was void. His
position was that under the rule in Shelley's case, the wife
became, by the conveyance in trust to James Green, the
owner of the property in fee simple; that the estate granted
to her for life, and the remainder to her heirs-at-law, being
both equitable estates, united in her as an estate of inheritance, and without reference to the exercise of the power of
appointment; that, being the owner of the fee, her deed to
Ward carried the full title to him.

GREEN

v.

GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The court below decreed a perpetual injunction, and that
the defendant, Ward, be absolutely enjoined and prohibited
from selling, or attempting to sell, the property described
in the trust deed, except the life interest of Mrs. Green in
one-third thereof, and that the defendants below pay the
costs of suit.
From this decree the defendants appealed to this court.
Messrs. L. S. Wells and W. B. Webb,for the plaintiffin error;
Mr. W. S. Cox, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
In Shelley's case,* the rule is thus laid down: "that when
the ancestor, by any gift or conveyance, taketh an estate of
freehold, and in the same gift or conveyance an estate is
limited either mediately or immediately to his heirs in fee
or in tail, the heirs are words of limitation of the estate and
not words of purchase."
Mr. Preston uses the following language, which is approved by Chancellor Kent:t " When a person takes an
estate of freehold legally or equitably under a deed, will, or
other writing, and in the same instrument there is a limitation by way of remainder, either with or without the interposition of another estate, of an interest of the same legal
or equitable quality to his heirs, or heirs of his body, as a
class of persons to take in succession from generation to
generation, the limitation to the heirs entitles the ancestor
to the whole estate."
The trust deed of Thomas Green of January 15th, 1867,
creates the following trusts, to which the premises are subjected :
1. To the use of Catharine Green and the children of
Thomas Green and herself during the life of Catharine
Green. There are two such children. Catharine and her
two children are, therefore, joint tenants, or tenants in common of the estate during the life of Catharine. The words,
1 Reports, 219.
t 1 Preston on Estates, p. 263; 4 Kent's Commentaries, 216.
*

Oct. 1874.1

GREEN V. GREEN.
Opinion of the court.

" as if she were feme sole," "free and clear of any right or
control of her present or future husband," do not define the
estate, but have the effect simply to exclude any possible
claim on the part of her husband or his creditors.
2. To such uses and purposes as the said Catharine may,
by testarieutary writing, limit and appoint.
3. In the absence of such limitation, or subject thereto,
or remainder after her death, to the heirs-at-law of the said
Catharine.
It is contended that these trusts create an estate in fee
simple in Catharine Green, which, by her deed to Mr. Ward,
has become vested in him.
The rule in Shelley's case is applicable to trust estates
where both the life estate and the remainder are of the same
character. The legal effect of the union of the estates, as
declared by that rule, does not occur where the life estate is
of an equitable character and the remainder is a legal estate,
or vice versa. Both estates must be of the same character.*
The Court of Chancery does not, however, consider itself
tied up to an implicit observance of the rule in respect to
limitations which do not immediately vest the legal estate.t
A distinction is also given by Mr. Fearne to the effect
that a trust or use created by deed will often, be held to
create an estate in the heirs named which cannot be cut off
by the act of the tenant for life, when the same effect would
not be given to an estate created by like language in a devise. The reason given, viz., that in the former case there
may often occur a valuable consideration in the intention to
make provision for the-issue of an intended marriage does
not exist when the transaction arises after marriage, but
still the rule is to some extent a rule of property.1
Mr. Cruise, however, says that the same mode of construction is adopted in case of deeds as in case of devises ;ยง
and so is the case of Ayer v. Ayer,j in Massachusetts.
After commenting on various authorities on this subject,
*

Fearne on Remainders, 62; Ware v. Richardson, 3 Maryland, 505.

t Fearne on Remainders, 3d ed., p. 61.
1 Cruise's Digest of Real Property, 459.

Ilb. 78-81.
Pickering, 330.

II16

GREEN v. GREEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Fearne adds: "This brings us to those cases of limitations in trust, in decreeing th6 execution of which the Court
of Chancery so far departs from that which would be the
legal operation of the words limiting the trust, if reduced to
a common-law conveyance, as to construe the words heirs of
the body of the cestui que trust, although preceded by a limitation for life, as words of purchase and not of limitation."
Such was the case of Papillon v. Yoice,* where A. devised a
sum of money to trustees, in trust, to be laid out in lands
and to be settled on B. for life, remainder to trustees
during the life of B., to support contingent remainders,
remainder to the heirs of the body of B., remainder over
with power to B. to make a jointure. It was decreed that
B. should have but an estate for life in the lands so to be
purchased, and Lord Chancellor King declared that the diversity was between the will passing a legal estate and leaving the estate executory, so that the party must come into the
Court of Chancery in order to have the benefit of the will,
that in the latter case the intention should take place and
not the strict rules of law.t
The case of Bagshaw v. Spencert is quite instructive in its
resemblance in some of its facts, to the present case, and in
the principle finally announced by Lord Uardwicke, viz.,
that there is a distinction between a trust in equity and a
mere legal estate, and that in the latter class the words must
be taken as they stand according to their legal determiuation, while a different rule prevailed in regard to trusts.ยง
Trusts are the mere creatures of confidence between party
and party, totally distinct in almost every quality from those
legal estates which are the subjects of tenure. They are in
their nature independent of tenure, and therefore not the
object of those laws which are founded in the nature of
tenure. They are rights arising solely out of the intent of
the party who created them, and therefore such intent could
be the only guide in the execution of them.j
* 2 Peere Williams, 471.

1 Vesey, 142, S. 0..; 2 Atkyns, 246, 570, 577.
jJ Fearne, 89.

t lb. 478.
Fearne, 88.
F

Oct. 1874.]

GR.EEN v0. GnEEN.

Opinion of the court.

Ware v. 1?ichardson*is a case like the one before us, governed by the laws of Maryland, and strikingly akin to it in
its main facts. In that case Mrs. Kennedy, "in consideration of the natural love and afection which she hath and
beareth towards Elizabeth Richardson, and in consideration
of five shillings to her paid by Samuel N. Ridgely, did grant,
bargain, sell, enfeoff, and convey to the said Samuel, his
heirs and assigns," certain property described, to have and
to hold in trust, first, that Mrs. Kennedy should enjoy the
same during her own life, and after her decease, upon the
further trust, that Elizabeth Richardson, during her natural
life, should hold and enjoy the same, the rents, issues, and
profits thereof, the same to convert to her own proper use
and benefit, as if she wereferne sole, without let or interference from her husband or liability for his debts; "and from
and immediately after the death of the said Elizabeth, then
to, and for the use and benefit of the legal heirs and representatives of the said Elizabeth, and to and for no other intent and purpose."
As in the present case, it was there contended that by the
rule in Shelley's case Elizabeth Richardson took a fee, and
that the estate was liable for her debts. The point was
elaborately argued by Mr. W. H. Norris in support of this
contention, and Mr. T. S. Alexander in opposition thereto,
before the Court of Appeals of Maryland. That court held
(Mr. Justice Mason delivering its opinion) that this deed
created but an equitable life estate in Mrs. Richardson, and
that it executed the legal estate in the heirs; that where the
estate limited to the ancestor is an equitable or trust estate,
and the estate limited to the heirs is an executed use or a
legal estate, the two will not coalesce in the ancestor. The
rule in Shelley's case was held not to be applicable, and the
estate was adjudged to have passed upon her death to her
children, Charles and Robert.
The cases of Doe v. Considine,t Croxall v. Shererd,T and of
Daniel v. Whartenby,ยง also bear upon the question before us.
* 3 Maryland, 505.

t 6 Wallace, 458.

$ 5 Id. 268.

$ 17 Id. 639.

492'

92MORAN

V.

PRATHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

In the last case the question arose under a devise "to
Richard Tibbitt during his natural lire, and after his death
to his issue by him l'awfully begotten of his body, to such
issue, their heirs and assigns forever," with limitations over.
It was held that the rule iii Shelley's case did not govern,
and that Richard took a life estate only. It is not as pointed
in its authority as the case of Ware v. Bichardson, for the
reason: 1, that the question arose upon a will and not upon
a deed; 2, that the limitation was not to Richard's heirs
simply, but to a class equivalent to the children of Richard.
To adjudge that the deed of January 15th, 1867, transferred and conveyed this property in fee to Mrs. Green, so
that by the common law her husband would have had as
tenant by curtesy an immediate and continuing right to
the enjoyment of the rents and profits during his life, and
so that her two children would have in it no estate legal or
equitable, would be in manifest violation of the intention of
the parties to that deed. A rule of the law of tenure, which
would require us so to hold, would work a monstrous perversion of justice. We are satisfied that there is no such
rule, and that a compliance with the evident intention of
the parties is in accordance with the rules of law.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MORAN ET AL.

V. PRATHER.

1. 'Where a firm, with several persons styling themselves, as a firm in this
case did, "creditors

of the steamboat B.," agreed to release P. (owner

of 11 parts of the boat, the rest being owned by two other persons) "from
all indebtedness due us oy the said steamboat so far as the said P. is
concerned." and where, on P.'s being about to sell to 0. for a price
greatly below its value had it been clear of debts, his interest in the
steamer, on condition that 0. would assume and pay all debts, the firm
executed an agreement by which they bound themselves to defend and
save the said P., free and harmless of any and all claims and demands
that may arise or be brought against said steamboat excepting those above
signed. Held,

(a.) That it was not allowable to show by oral testimony that the expression "1steamboat debts" was a well-known term among steamboat men

