S

iITH v. ADSIT.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.-The old case.

SMITH V. ADSIT.
Where a complainant alleging himself.to be a bonO fde purchaser, and setting out a case in the highest State court for equitable relief against a
sale to other parties which an owner of land had undertaken to make,
alleged that the party in making such second sale had violated an act of
Congress which made such sale void, and that the purchaser knew this;
and alleged also that the sale was made through fraud and imposition
on the vendor, with a prayer that the purchaser at such second sale
might be held a trustee for the complainant-if, in such case, the court,
holding that.there was no fraud and no trust proved, dismiss the bill in
consequence of that want of proof, and consequently for want of equitable jurisdiction, the fact that it says: "The most that can be said is that
the transaction was in violation of an act of Congress; but that would
not give a court of chancery jurisdiction to hold the second purchaser a
trustee and make him accountable as such," does not show that there
has been drawn in question the construction of a statute of the United
States, and that the decision has been against the title or right set up or
claimed by the complainant under such statute. The case rested on the
fact of a trust proved, and on the extent of the State court's equitable
jurisdiction; matters not the subject of review under section 709 of the
Revised Statutes, the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. The
case, which was between the same persons as those mentioned in Smith
v. Adsit (16 Wallace, 185), held to be undistinguishable from that one.

ON motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois; the case
being thus:
An act of Congress of February l1th, 1847, providing for
raising a military force for a limited time, enacted that a
bounty in the form of one hundred and sixty acres of land,
to be located by the warrantee, should be given to soldiers
honorably'discharged, but provided "that all sales, mortgages, powers, or other instruments of writing goino to affect
the title or claim to any such bounty right, made or executed prior to the issue of the warrant or certificate, should
be null and void to all intents and purposes whatever."
With this statute in force Smith filed a bill in one of the
inferior State courts of Illinois, against Adsit, Wright,
Rourk, and certain trustees of schools, charging that in

Oct. 1874.]

SMITH v.

ADSIT.

Statement of the case.-The old case.

1850, by conveyance from one Holmes, he, Smith, became
the owner of certain lands described. The bill averred that
Holmes had been a soldier in the Mexican war, that he received a certificate of service and of honorable discharge,
entitling him, under the acts of Oongress, to a land warrant,
and that he applied to Adsit to procure the warrant for him;
that Adsit prepared the necessary papers, and at the same
time made out a power of attorney for Holmes, authorizing
the assignment of the land war'ant about to be obtained,
with blank spaces for its date, for the number and date of
the warrant, and for the name of the attoyney, and that he
fraudulently induced Holmes to sign it; that this power of
attorney was filled up subsequently, and after the land warrant was obtained, with the name of one Hoard as the attorney, with the number and date of the warrant issued (No.
23,129, date August 18th, 1848), and with August 30th, 1848,
as the date of the power. The bill further charged that
Adsit then procured the attorney to assign the warrant to
him, that he located it and obtained for the land a patent in
his own name, as assignee of Holmes; that at the date of
the power Holmes was a minor, and that the defendants,
Wright, Rourk, and the school trustees, hold the land under
conveyances from Adsit, with notice of the plaintiff's rights;
that the power of attorney was a nullity because obtained
by fi'aud, and because of the minority of Holmes; and it
averred that if any sale was made by him to Adsit of the
land warrant, it was in fact made before the warrant was
issued, that it was therefore null by force of the act of Congress, and that consequently Adsit held and located the warrant as a trustee for Holmes, and that the purchasers from
him were chargeable with the same trust.
The prayer of the bill was that Adsit might be decreed to
have acquired the lands in trust for Holmes; that the other
defendants might be decreed to have purchased them, and
to hold them charged with the same trust; that an account
should be directed, and also a conveyance to the pJaintiff
as assignee of Holmes. There was also a prayer for general
relief.
VOL. XXIII.

24

SmITn

v.

ADSIT.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.-The old case.

The answer of Adsit, responsive to the bill, fully denied the
fraud charged, and averred that he purchased the land warrant from Holmes, without any agreement to act as his agent;
and the other defendants set up that they were bon~fde purchasers from Adsit, without notice of any equity in Holmes.
Both Holmes andAdsit were examined as witnesses. Holmes
swore to matters showing a trust; Adsit swore that the matters thus sworn to were false.
The court in which the bill had been filed entered a decree against Adsit for $6829, and dismissed the bill as to
the other defendants. Adsit then appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the decree against him was reversed, and the bill dismissed as to him, for want of jurisdietion; nothing further appearing-that is to say, no reason
or exfoliation of the grounds of the decree being given.
From that decree Smith, the complainant, appealed to this
court, under an assumption that the case came within section 709 of the Revised Statutes (the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or the act of February 5th, 1867, amendatory of it), and that a title, right, or privilege under a
statute of the United States, had been specially set up and
claimed by him and decided against by the Supreme Court
of the State.*
But this court dismissed the writ. It said:
"We do notperceive that we have any authority to review
the judgment of the State court. Plainly, if there be any Federal question in the case it is because the plaintiff claimed some
title, right, privilege, or immunity under the act of Congress to
which reference was made in his bill, and because the decision
of the court was against the title, right, privilege, or immunity
thus set up or claimed. Such a claim and such a decision must
appear in the record. But we think this does not appear. It
must be admitted that the question whether the sale of the
land warrant by Holmes to Adsit, if made before the warrant
issued, as charged in the bill, was not a nullity, may have been
presented, but it does not appear that such a question was de• For the exact language of the acts referred to, and in the main sufficiently familiar to the profession, see Appendix.

Oct. 1874.]

SMITH v. ADSIT.
Statement of the case.-The new case.

cided, much less that it was decided adversely to the plaintiff in

error.
"The bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

The judg-

ment of the court respecting the extent of its equitable jurisdiction is, of course, not reviewable here. The record does not
inform us what other questions, if any, were decided. It nowhere appears that the sale from Holmes to Adsit was ruled to
be valid, notwithstanding the act of Congress which declared
that sales of bounty-rights, made or executed prior to the issue
of land warrants therefor, shall be null and void. Nor was it
necessary to the decree that was entered that such a decision
should have been made. After the land had been sold by Adsit
to bond fide purchasers without notice, which had been decreed
in the court below, from which decree there was no appealafter it had thus been settled that there was no continuing trust
in the land-it may well have been determined that the plaintiff's remedy against Adsit was at law, and not in equity, even
if the sale from Holmes to him was utterly void. But whatever
may have been the reasons for the decision, whether the court
had jurisdiction of the case or not, is a question exclusively for
the judgment of the State court."
Smith, the complainant below, now brought the case here
on a new writ. In the present instance a revision of the
statutes of Illinois by its legislature, made A.D. 1874, having
enacted that the opinion of the court should be a part of the
record of every case, the opinion below was made part of
the record, which it had not been when the case was here
below, A.D. 1872. This opinion said:
"There is no evidence of a trust or of fraud on the part of
Adsit, his testimony balancing that of Holmes on that point.
Nothing, therefore, is left of the case but the fact of obtaining, by Adsit, Holmes's discharge, and procuring thereon a warrant to be issued for the land in controversy. The most that can
be said of this is that the transactionwas in violation of an act of
Congress, but that would not give a court of chancery jurisdiction
to hold Adsit as a trustee and make him accountable as such.
"None of the matter alleged, of trust and of fraud, has support in the testimony; nothing appears to corroborate Holmes's
statements, and they being denied by Adsit, the one is as much

SMITH V. ADSIT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

entitled to belief as the other. There is nothing, then, in the
record sufficient to give a court of chancery jurisdictionof the subjectmatter; there being no fraud and no trust established. Consequently the decree finding a trust existed must be reversed, and
the bill must be dismissed.
"If Holmes has any right to the money Adsit received for
the land, he can prosecute that right in a court of law, and recover according to the justice of his case.
"DECREE REVERSED."

Mr. W. J. Burgess, for the plainti"f in error and in support
of the jurisdiction:
The statutes of the State of Illinois* make the opinion of
the court part of the record.
Does that record thus composed present the question necessary to give this court jurisdiction ? Has a right claimed
under a statute of the United States been denied by the
Supreme Court of the State? That one has been, appears
from the record; from the language of that court used twice.
First that court said:
"1Nothing is left of the case, but the fact of obtaining by Adsit
Holmes's discharge, and procuring thereon a warrant to be issued
for the land in controversy. The most that can be said of this
is, that the transactionwas in violation of an act of Congress."
And then that court denied the relief which the plaintiif,
by reason of that act, claimed as entitled to. It said:
"That would not give a court of chancery jurisdiction to hold
Adsit as a trustee, and make him accountable as such."
Holmes set up, under the act of Congress referred to in the
bill of complaint, that he was entitled to the land. The legal
title Adsit had acquired from the United States. He transferred it to other parties before he obtained his patent upon
the papers as they existed in the land office. These papers,
and the patent when issued, advised all parties, claiming
under them, that the sole right in Adsit in this land, was
*Revised

Statutes, 1845,

19, p. 144; Revision of 1874, p. 329.

Oct. 1874.]

SMITH V. ADSIT.
Opinion of the court.

as the assignee of Holmes, under a land warrant, issued to
Holmes and assigned to Adsit under the power of attorney.
That power was simply void by the act of Congress set up in the
bill. Holmes so claimed it, and assigned the land to Smith,
the complainant, and the plaintiff in error, who avers in his
bill that by reason of that violation he is entitled to the legal
title and a conveyance of the land from the parties who had
derived that legal title from Adsit, with notice. Whether the
facts will sustain the right as set up is one thing; but a
right under an act or Congress is specifically made in the
pleadings of this case, and the decision of the State court is
in tolidem verbis against that right. So that we have alike in
the pleadings and in the judgment of the court, this vital
question both raised and denied of record.*
31r. Thomas Wilson, contra, and against the jurisdiction, contended that the case was essentially the same as when before
the court in 1872, and that the sentence relied on from the
opinion did not change it; that the court below had decided
that no trust was proved; and, of course, that there was
nothing for a chancellor to act on. That whatever might
have been said en passant or adjectitiously, this was the
ground on which the judgment below was rested.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not perceive that this case differs essentially from
what it was in 1872, when it was dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court to hear it. In the Supreme Court of
the State it was an appeal from an inferior court, in which
it had been sought to enforce an alleged trust, by a bill in
equity, and the bill was ordered to be dismissed, because the
court was of opinion no trust was proved. The record does
not show that the question whether the sale of the land warrant was a nullity if made before the warrant issued, was
passed upon, much less that it was decided against the complainant. The decree ordering the bill to be dismissed must
* Bridge Prop. v. Hoboken, 1 Wallace, 116; Brooks v. Martin, 2 Id. 86.

SMYTHE v). FisKE.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

have been made, if it had been decided that the sale was
void. Even then it would have been necessary to establish
the existence of a trust. What amounts to a trust, or out
of what facts a trust may spring, are not Federal questions,
and on a writ of error to a State court we can review only
decisions of Federal questions. The case is covered by
Smith v. Adsit, in 16 Wallace.
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

SMYTHE v. FISKE.
Under the Tariff Act of July 30th, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, 210), " silk ties"
are chargeable with a duty of 50 per cent. ad valorem. They fall under
the closing words of the eighth section of that act which enacts "1that on
all manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component material of
chief value, not otherwise providedfor, 50 per cent. ad valorem," shall be
charged. The words 41not otherwise provided for," mean not otherwise
provided for by previous parts of the section of which they make the
closing words; and so exclude reference to the acts of 1861 and 1862,
which laid a duty of but 35 per.cent. on "articles worn by men, women,
or children, of whatever material made."

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; in which court Fiske sued Smythe, collector, in
December, 1868, to recover money alleged to have been
illegally exacted by the said defendant, as collector, for duties upon imports.
The things in respect to which the duties were exacted
were silk neck-ties, imported in October, 1868.
The collector had exacted a duty of 60 per cent. upon
them, against the payment of which the defendant protested, because, as he alleged, silk neck-ties were liable to
a duty of but 35 per cent.
It was shown in evidence that the neck-ties in question
were made of silk, folded and ironed, turned over and
pressed by hand, the ends being afterwards stitched; that
ERROR

