DECISIONS
1N THE

SUPREIE COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERiVI, 1874.

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.
1. The owners of a vessel in flames towed by a tug and no longer in command of her own captain and crew, are not liable for injury done by
her to another vessel, by the negligence of the captain of the tug; the
said owners not having employed the tug, she being a tug whose regular business was the assistance of vessels in distress, and she having
gone, of her own motion, to the extinguishment of the fire in this case.
2. A vessel anchored in the Hudson, opposite to the Hoboken wharves, if
anchored three hundred and fifty yards from their river front, is anchored so far from shore that in case of a collision with a vessel towed
in flames out of the Hoboken docks, no allegation can be made that she
is anchored too near the shore.
3. A vessel at anchor having an anchor light and one man on deck, though
not strictly an anchor-watch, is guilty of no fault in not being better
lighted or watched.
4. A vessel whose business it is to give relief to vessels on fire is bound to
have chain hawsers or chain attachments on board, and if having only
manilla hawsers she is compelled to tow a vessel out of its dock with
such a hawser, which is burnt, so that the vessel on fire gets loose from
the tug, and, drifting, sets fire to another vessel, the tug is liable for the
damages caused.
5. The owners of a vessel who through their own carelessness (or that of
their captain) set fire to another vessel, cannot claim salvage for putting
that fire out.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case being thus:
A company in New York, called the New York Harbor
Protection Company, and whose business was the aiding,
VOL. XXIII.

1

( I )

2

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

protecting, and saving vessels in the port of New York,
when wrecked or in distress-including the rendering of
aid, protection, and safety to such vessels on fire or threatened with conflagration- was the owner of a steam-tug
called the Clarita. This tug was equipped, not only with
means suited to assist vessels wrecked or in distress, generally, but with special apparatus for extinguishing fires,
that is to say with powerful pumps and hose, worked by
steam as fire-engines, also with axes and instruments for
scuttling. The commander, too, was skilled in the use of
such apparatus as well as in the ordinary management of.a
vessel in seasons of storm and occasions of distress from
casualty and weather.
The dock of the vessel was at the foot of Canal Street,
New York, where she was kept in constant readiness for
servi e, with a crew on board, with fires "banked," so that
at any time she could be set in motion and brought into
service.
She was in her dock and in this state on the evening of
the 1st of August, 1870, having on board several hempen
hawsers strong enough to tow the largest vessels, but not
having any hawser of chain, nor a chain attachment for a
rope hawser. Hempen hawsers, as was proved, are the sort
of hawser universally used in the port of New York for
towing vessels heavily laden or disabled, and much preferable, in such cases, to chain cable. The only chains which
the tug had on board were her anchor-chains, of from fifty to
seventy fathoms long, down in the locker; very heavy chains,
too heavy, indeed, to be handled in any sudden emergency.
Though constantly called on for assistance in cases of collision, springing of leaks, wreck, and other catastrophes
arising from bad navigation, weather, or want of seaworthiness, and sometimes to extinguish fires before they had got
much headway, the Olarita had never, in five years, been
called on to tow more than one vessel in a state of conflagration, or one about to become in that state.
With this history, and in this state of things, on the evening aforesaid, and while the tug was in her dock at the foot

Oct. 1874.]

THE

CLARITA AND THE CLARA.
Statement of the case.

of Canal Street, New York, her captain espied a smoke
which indicated a fire, rising apparently out of the water's
edge, at Hoboken, on the Jersey shore, opposite. He got
steam up on his tug at once, and was shortly atthe Christopher Street slip, Hoboken, from which the smoke was ascending. He here found that a ferry-boat of the Hoboken
Ferry Company was on fire; the fire, however, being in her
hold, and not yet having burst forth anywhere into flame.
Numerous people were on or about her, assisting to put out
the fire. A Hoboken fire company was doing what it could,
and two other steamers in or near the dock were sending
water into her from their hose. The tug having made herself fast to the ferry-boat by one of her hempen hawsers got
to work and plied her engines vigorously. A gas-tank belonging to the ferry company, which, of course, was particularly liable to ignite and explode, was near by; the dock
had numerous vessels in it, and there were houses close to
the place which, if a conflagration took place in the dock,
would perhaps take fire and be consumed. The tug worked
diligently for an hour and more, but the fire being in the
hold, which was filled with flame and smoke, and therefore
could not be entered so as to direct the water advantageously, gained upon the most active and persistent efforts,
and it was soon discovered that it had reached the deck over
the hold and was ascending to the joiner-work, of which the
cabins and wheel-house, and other light wood-work on deck
were composed. The master of the burning ferry-boat,
who, with the chief of the Hoboken fire department, was on
board of her, now requested the captain of the tug to pull
the ferry-boat out of the slip and tow her on to Hoboken
Flats, which were the nearest flats, and not far off. The
captain of the tug hereupon, and within five minutes, attached the hawser, by which on arriving the tug had been
made fast to the ferry-boat, to an iron cleat on the bow of
the ferry-boat, and the tug (with the master of the ferryboat and men of the Hoboken fire department on board),
backed out of the ferry-slip and then went ahead.
Although, as already stated, the steam-tug had no chain

THE OLAIITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cable (other than unwieldy anchor chain) or chain attachment on board, it appeared by testimony given in the case
that there was a light chain cable on a boat in the dock
which had been assisting in putting out the fire. After the
ferry-boat had been hauled about two hundred yards out of
the slip, the flames burst out fore and aft and burned the
hawser off, and the ferry-boat was drifted by the tide foul
of a bark on the Hoboken side of the river, above the ferry
slip, at anchor, before the men on the tug could get hold of
her again, and set fire to the bark.
As soon as practicable, another hawser (hempen) was got
to the ferry-boat, and she was hauled off from the bark.
With this second hawser the ferry-boat was got round,
heading up the river, when this hawser, too, parted, from
being burned off by the fire on the ferry-boat. Then, as
soon as it could be done, a third hawser (this time a large
hawser of seven inches) was taken to the ferry-boat in a lifeboat belonging to the ferry-boat and by men from the ferryboat and the Hoboken fire department, and was again attached to the ferry-boat. But this hawser, too, was burned
off. The iron cleat to which these different hawsers had
been attached remained standing in the boat.
On this third parting of the hawser which had been attached to'the burning ferry-boat, every effort was made to
get a line to her again as soon as possible, but before one
was got to her she had drifted broadside upon the bows of
a schooner, The Clara, at anchor in the river, with a proper
anchor-light, but with all her men except one, who happened
to be up and walking about, asleep below, and set fire to
her fore-rigging, sails, and bowsprit. The place where the
schooner lay anchored was about three hundred and fifty
yards from the front of the Hoboken wharves. The ferryboat, which was 164 feet long, came midship on the bows.
The tug soon hauled up by the schooner and sent and attached the hawser again, and for a fourth time, to the burning ferry-boat. This time it was not burned off, and the
tug, plying all her force, dragged the burning boat from the
schooner away into the deep stream, where the hawser was

Oct. 1874.]

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.
Statement of the case.

cut and the half-consumed remains of the ferry-boat allowed
to sink.
As soon as the hawser was cut, the tug returned to the
schooner, which was now burning fiercely, and certain, unless aid came to arrest the flames, to be consumed entirely.
The tug made fast to her, and after having plied her engines
for two hours and more succeeded in extinguishing the
flames.
The owner of the schooner, thus saved from entire destruction, now filed a libel against the tug, to recover damages
for the injury which she, the schooner, had suffered from the
fire.

The owners of the tug in turn filed a libel against the
schooner, for salvage, as having saved her from being burnt
up entirely.
The case was heard upon the cross-libels.
The owners of the schooner contended, that the tug was
guilty of negligence, in not having had and used a chain
hawser. The owners of the tug alleged that their hawser
was good enough, and that the catastrophe was an inevitable
accident, and moreover that the schooner was to blame in
not having had an anchor-watch, who would have seen the
burning vessel drifting on her and would have got out of
her way. The District Court was of the opinion(1.) That the attempt to tow the burning ferry-boat out
into the stream by a keinpen hawser was an act of negligence.
(2.) That the drifting of the ferry-boat was not an inevitable accident, but was the result of negligence on the part
of those in charge of the steam-tug.
(3.) That the schooner, not being required by law to keep
a watch under the circumstances, was without fault, and
entitled to damages.
That court accordingly gave to the owners of the schooner
damages compensatory of the partial destruction which she
had suffered by being set on fire by the drifting and burning ferry-boat. And after such a decree dismissed, of course,
and from necessity, the libel of thetug for salvage, in preventing her being burned as to her residue.

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owners of the tug.

The Circuit Court on appeals confirmed the decrees, and
from the decrees of the latter court these appeals were
taken by the owners of the tug.
Mr. Van Santcoord,for the appellants:
The questions in the two appeals arise upon the same
facts; and the question whether the owners of the tug are
entitled to salvage for saving the schooner from being wholly
consumed, depends wholly on the question whether the tug
wrongfully caused the schooner to be set on fire in the first
instance. If she did not cause her so to be set on fire at all,
a claim for putting out the fire is a just one. If the tug did
wrongfully cause the schooner to be set on fire, a claim by
the tug for putting out the fire which she herself wrongfully
caused would be preposterous. We should not present it.
We confine ourselves, therefore, to the only question in
either case, whether the tug wrongfully caused the schooner
to be set on fire:
1. We say that she did not. It might be argued with a
certain plausibility that all that was done here by the captain of the tug, was done under order of the master of
the ferry-boat. The tug wias a vessel of New York, and
when she went into the docks of Hoboken, she put herself
under the authorities there. Both the master of the Hoboken ferry-boat and the engineer of the Hoboken fire department were aboard of the tug when she was drawing the
burning ferry-boat out into the stream, and it was their men
who carried the hempen hawser to the schooner at anchor.
2. It might be argued too with a certain plausibility that
the schooner was not anchored in a proper place, just in ftce
of the wharves of the Hoboken ferry.
3. We might assert with more confidence that the absence
of a proper "anchor-watch" should bar the schooner's claim,
or, at least, and if the tug be found in fault, cause an apportionment of the damages.* A considerable time elapsed
from the time that the hawser was burnt on the third occa* The Sapphire, 11 Wallace, 164; The Indiana, Abbott's Admiralty Report, 380, 335; Clapp v. Young, 6 Law Reporter, 111.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.
Argument for the owners of the tug.

sion till the burning ferry-boat ran afoul of the schooner.
Had there been an anchor-watch he could have sheered,
by means of the wheel, and slipped his chain, when the
schooner would have drifted, and the catastrophe would have
been avoided. But none of these arguments are pressed by
us, much stronger ones remaining.
4. Admitting that if anything was wrongfully done by
any one in the case, the tug was responsible for it all, we
assert that nothing was done wrong by any one; that the
case was one of misfortune, or, as it may be equally well
called, of inevitable accident.
It is to be observed in the first place that it is the interest
of shipping that an enterprising company, like the one which
owned this tug-a company which, at great expense, fits up
a tug with powerful steam-pumps, and keeps the vessel ready
with her fires banked, night and day, to move on a moment's
notice everywhere about a harbor for useful service-should
be encouraged. If in a great and sudden emergency it have
not done everything which on a retrospect, coolly made after
the event, may appear to have been the best thing, it should
not be dealt with hardly.*
Now, it is in evidence that such an occurrence as having
to tow a vessel in flames was a very rare one, though extinguishing fires while they are in dock or at anchor may not
be so uncommon a one; and that Manilla hawsers are the
only hawsers in use in towing vessels. It is plain too on ascertaining that the fire could not be got under by the fire
engines and pumps-the fire gaining upon these efforts, the
flames having already broke out under the guards and
reached her joiner work-that the only means of saving the
ferry-boat and preventing the spread of the conflagration to
the wharves and adjacent buildings and other property, was
an immediate removal of her out of the slip, with a view, if
possible, of beaching her on the nearest flat; it not being
possible from the condition of her deck to bring her to
* Nield v. London and Northwestern IRailway Company, Law Reports,
10 Exchequer, 7; also, Torbush v. City of Norwich, 88 Connecticut, 225.

8

THE CLARITA AND TiE CLARA.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the owners of the vessel at anchor.

anchor after getting out of the slip. A very short time, it
is admitted, occurred between the time when the order was
given to tow the boat out and the time when she was towed
out. The occasion was emergent. Confusion prevailed.
There was no one person in admitted command anywhere.
The captain of the tug acted entirely well, therefore, in
towing out the vessel with sucli hawsers as she was provided
with, and as were at her command, though they were not
incombustible. The case falls within Sir Francis Bacon's
illustration of the fifth rule of his Elements of the Common
?Law,* where, in illustration of his maxim Necessilas inducet
privilegium quoad jura privata,he says:
"The law ehargeth no man with default where the act is compulsory and not voluntary, and where there is not a consent and
election; and, therefore, if either there be an impossibility for a
man to do otherwise, or so great a perturbationof the judgment
and reason as, in presumption of law, man's naturecannot overcome,
such necessity carrieth a privilege in it."
If these views be correct the claim for salvage is obviously
just, and need not be enforced. The tug was not the cause
of setting the schooner on fire, and was the cause of saving
her after she had taken fire.
Mr. B. H. Owen, contra:
The first three positions of opposing counsel are but feebly
defended. They cannot be maintained.
1. The burning ferry-boat was in charge of the tug, and
the captain of the latter was in command of all, though
others may have aided him. Though the owners of the
ferry-boat may have advised or even ordered the tug to take
the vessel out of the dock, they did not order the tug to set
our schooner on fire.
2. The schooner was lawfully lying at anchor near the
middle of the river; a place where all vessels anchor. She
had a good and sufficient anchor-light-that is to say a light
* Bacon's Works, Montague's edition, vol. 13, p.'1 6 0 .

Oct. 1874.)

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

9

Argument for the owners of the vessel at anchor.

set in her forerigging-burning brightly.
puted.

This is not dis-

3. That she had no sufficient anchor-watch on duty at the
time was not a fault. The statutory rules did not require
such a watch. All that is required of a vessel at anchor is
to have a proper light displayed.* It is not customary for
vessels like the schooner to have an anchor-watch, unless it
be when there is fog, or the weather is boisterous and dangerous. But the want of an anchor-watch did not cause the
collision.
It is said, however, that if there had been an anchorwatch when the danger became imminent the schooner
might have been sheered by the use of her wheel or her
cable slipped, and so got out of the way of the burning boat.
This is assumption merely. With all hands on deck she
could not have been sheered far enough either way to avoid
the burning boat. The ferry-boat was 164 feet long, and it
came down broadside towards and upon the bows of the
schooner, and struck her about midship, and, therefore, to
have avoided her, the schooner must have sheered over 82
feet, 'which was impossible, and so the master testifies.
Nor could the cables have been slipped by a single watchman. The necessity for so slipping the cable did not arise
until the boat was coming down upon the schooner, when it
would have been too late to call all hands from below.
4. The ground chiefly relied on by opposing counsel is as
little to be maintained as any one of the others. Whoever
attempted the removal of the burning boat was bound to
use precautions to prevent her from being carried by wind
and tide against other vessels lying at anchor in the harbor,
corresponding to the danger and consequences of such a
result. The danger was extraordinary, and more than usual
precautions to secure and retain control of the burning mass
were, therefore, required by ordinary prudence. Reasonable care in such circumstances is not to be determined by
the ordinary usages of tugs engaged in towing when no such
* 13 Stat. at Large, 59, Art. 7.

THE OLARITA AND

THE

CLARA.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

circumstances of peril to others existed. Proofs, therefore,
of the customary practice of tugs engaged in towing vessels
in and about the harbor, to use hempen hawsers only, does
not furnish a satisfactory test of the caution and care due
from a tug-boat professedly engaged in the business of rescuing vessels from conditions of extraordinary peril, including fire on board.
It is obvious that a chain attached to the burning boat
would have prevented the loss of control over her. The use
of such a chain is not proved impracticable, and it is equally
obvious that it was not only practicable but easy.
No heavy anchor-chain extending from one boat to the
other, which the hands of the boat could not manage, was
required. All that was essential was that the attachment to
the burning boat extending a few feet therefrom should be
incombustible. For the rest a rope or hempen hawser was
sufficient. The parties expected the flames to spread through
and over the burning boat. It was this expectation which
induced the attempt to remove her from the slip. In view
of this it was negligence to remove her under no other control than a rope which presumptively would be burned off
so soon as the expected spread of the fire should reach it.
In this respect it was not like a shifting of the location of
the boat with a view to the extinguishment of the fire before it should thus extend. Before any hawser was attached
for the purpose of drawing her from the slip, chains were
to be found both on the ferry-boat and on the tug, and it is
not to be doubted that a chain of suitable length to form a
connection of the hawser to the burning boat might readily
have been elsewhere procured.
5. These views, as we conceive, are so obviously right
that we need say nothing about salvage; that claim falling
to the ground as of course, if the decree of the court below
giving damages against the tug for wrongfully setting the
schooner on fire, is sustained.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the judgments of the
court, giving an opinion in each of the cases. The opinions
were as follows:

Oct. 1874.]

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

11

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the tug for damages.

I
IN

THE CLAIM

FOR

DAMAGES.

(The Clarita.)
I. Vessels engaged in commerce are held liable for damage
occasioned by collision on account of the complicity, direct
or indirect, of their owners, or the negligence, want of care
or skill on the part of those employed in their navigation.
Owners appoint the master and employ the crew, and consequently are held responsible for their conduct in the management of the vessel.*
Whenever, therefore, a fault is committed whereby a collision ensues, that fault is imputed to the owners, and the
vessel is just as much liable for the consequences as if it had
been committed by the owner himself. Consequences of the
kind, however, do not follow when the person committing
the fault does not in fhct or by implication of law stand in
the relation of agent to the owners. Unless the owner and
the person or persons in charge of the vessel sustain in some
way towards each other the relation of principal and agent
the injured party cannot have his remedy against the colliding vessel.
By employing a tug to transport their vessel from one
place to another the owners of the tow do not necessarily
constitute the master and crew of the tug their agents in
performing the service, as they neither appoint the master
of the tug nor employ the crew, nor can they displace either
one or the other. Their contract for the service, even though
it was negotiated with the master of the tug, is, in legal
contemplation, made with the owners of the vessel employed, and the master of the tug continues to be the agent
of the owners of his own vessel, and they are responsible
for his acts in her navigation and management.
Apply those rules to the case before the court, and it is
clear that the owners of the burning ferry-boat are not liable
* Sturgis v. Boyer, 24 Howard, 123.

12

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the tug for damages.

for the consequences of the collision, as the evidence shows
to a demonstration that the steam-tug was in the charge of
her own master and crew, and that those in charge of her
undertook, in the usual and ordinary course of her employment, to transport the burning ferry-boat from one place to
another over waters where such accessory motive power is
usually employed, and consequently that the steam-tug, in
the absence of the officers and crew of the tow, must be
held responsible for the proper navigation of both vessels,
and that third persons suffering damage through the fault
of those in charge of such motive power must, under such
circumstances, look to the steam-tug, her master or owners,
for the recompense which they are entitled to claim on account of any injuries that their vessel or cargo may receive
by such means.
Whether the party charged ought to be held liable is
made to depend, in all cases of the kind, upon his relation
to the wrong-doer. Where the wrongful act is done by
the party charged, or was occasioned by his negligence, of
course he is liable, and he is equally so if it was done by one
towards whom he bears the relation of principal, but the
liability ceases, in such a case, where the relation of principal and agent entirely ceases to exist, unless the wrongful act
was performed or occasioned by the party charged. Grant
that and it follows, beyond peradventure, that the owners of
the ferry-boat are not responsible for the consequences of the
collision, as it is clear that the officers and crew of the steam-

tug were the agents of the owners of their own vessel and
not of the burning ferry-boat.
H. Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the respondents
that those in charge of the steam-tug were without fault; that
the collision, as far as they are concerned, was the result of
inevitable accident, though they insist that it might have
been prevented by proper care on the part of those in charge
of the schooner.
Obviously the defence of inevitable accident finds no support in the evidence, even upon the theory assumed by the
respondents, as they insist that the collision was occasioned

Oct. 1874.]

THE OLARITA AND THE OLARA.

13

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the tug for damages.

by the fault of the schooner. Such a defence can never be
sustained where it appears that the disaster was caused by
negligence, for if the fault was committed by the respondent
alone then the libellant is entitled to recover, or if by the
libellant then the libel must be dismissed, or if both parties
were in fault then the damages must be apportioned equally
between the offending vessels.* Unless it appears that both
parties have endeavored by all means in their power, with
due care and a proper display of nautical skill, to prevent
the collision, the defence of inevitable accident is inapplicable to the case. None of the circumstances given in evidence favor such a theory, as the collision occurred on a fhir,
clear evening and in the open harbor, and inasmuch as the
primary cause that led to it was one which ought to have
been foreseen and removed by the employment of other
means to attach the two vessels together it is plain that the
case is one of fault.t
III. Two faults are imputed to the schooner: (1.) That
she was anchored in an improper place. (2.) That she had
no watch on deck.
1. Argument to show that the collision occurred is unnecessary, as the fact is admitted, and it is equally clear that
the schooner was lying at anchor with the signal light displayed required by the act of Oongress, and under those circumstances the rule is well settled that the burden of proof
is upon the respondents to show either that the steam-tug
was without fault or that the collision was occasioned by the
fault of the schooner, or that it was the result of inevitable
accident.1
Neither rain nor the darkness of the night nor even the
absence of a light from a vessel at anchor, said this court,
nor the fact that the moving vessel was well manned and
furnished and conducted with caution will excuse such mov* Morning Light, 8 Wallace, 557; Steamship Company v. Steamship
Company, 24 Howard, 313.
f- The Erskine, 6 Notes of Cases, 633.

1 The John Adams, 1 Clifford, 413; The Lochlibo, 3 W. Robinson, 310;
1 Parsons on Shipping, 573.

THE CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the tug for damages.

ing vessel for coming in collision with the vessel at anchor
in a thoroughfare out of the usual track of navigation.*
Mr. Parsons lays down the rule that if a ship at anchor
and one in motion come into collision, the presumption is
that it is the fault of the ship in motion, unless the anchored
vessel was where she should not have been.t
Undoubtedly if a vessel anchors in an. improper place she
must take the consequences of her own improper act.1 But
whether she be in a proper place or not, and whether properly or improperly anchored, the other vessel must avoid
her if it be reasonably practicable and consistent with her
own safety.ยง
Attempt is made in argument to show that the schooner
was anchored in an improper place, but both the subordinate
courts were of a different opiiiion, and the court here, in
view of the whole evidence, concurs in the conclusion that
that defence is not sustained.
2. Concede all that, and still it is contended by the respondents that the schooner was in fault because she did
not have a sufficient watch, but the act of Congress contains
no such requirement, and inasmuch as the evidence shows
that the schooner was anchored in a proper place and that
one of her crew was on deck, the court is of the opinion
that the charge of fault made against the schooner in the
answer is not sustained.
IV. Plenary evidence is exhibited that all the parties
present on the occasion expected that the flames would
presently burst through the decks of the ferry-boat at the
time the steam-tug made fast to her in order to drag her
from the slip where she lay, and to move the vessel into the
stream, and both parties agree that it was in view of that
expectation that the decision was made to move the ferryboat from her resting-place, nor is it questioned by either
* Steamship Co. v. Calderwood, 19 Howard, 246.

t 1 Parsons on Shipping, 573; The Granite State, 3 Wallace, 310.
1 Strout v. Foster, 1 Howard, 89.
Knowlton v. Sanford, 32 Maine, 148; The Batavier, 40 English Law
and Equity, 20; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 574.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

.

15

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the schooner for salvage.

party that if those in charge of the steam-tug had used a
chain instead of a manilla hawser, the object contemplated
might have been safely and successfully carried into efect.
Even ordinary experience and prudence would have suggested that the part of the hawser made fast to the burning
ferry-boat should be chain, and that it would be unsafe to
use a hawser made of manilla. Where the danger is great
the greater should be the precaution, as prudent men in
great emergencies employ their best exertions to ward off
the danger. Whether they had a chain hawser on board or
not does not appear, but sufficient does appear to satisfy the
court that one of sufficient length to have prevented the disaster might easily have been procured, even if they were not
supplied with such an appliance.
All of these matters were fully considered by the district
judge, and the same conclusions at which he arrived were
reached by the Circuit Court. In those conclusions the
court here concurs.
II.
IN

THE CLAIM FOR SALVAGE.

(The Clara.)
In this case the owners of the schooner admit that the
steam-tug ultimately succeeded in dragging the ferry-boat
clear of the schooner, and that she returned to the schooner
after the ferry-boat sank, and that she rendered service in
subduing the flames and saving the schooner from complete
destruction, but they deny, in the most positive form, that
the libellants are entitled to salvage, or to any compensation
by the way of salvage on account of the services rendered,
for the following reasons: (1.) Because the schooner would
not have caught fire if those in charge of the steam-tug had
exercised due and proper care in their attempts to tow the
burning ferry-boat from her slip up the river. (2.) Because
the schooner was run into and set on fire by the carelessness, negligence, and inattention of those who rendered the
alleged salvage service, and not foom any accident, nor from
any fault or neglect of duty on the part of the schooner.

THE OLARITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the schooner for salvage.

Further discussion of the matters of fact involved in those
propositions is unnecessary, as they have all been conclusively determined in favor of the owners of the schooner
in what precedes, which leaves nothing for decision in the
case before the court, except the question whether the claim
for salvage compensation can be sustained in view of the
facts set forth in the propositions submitted by the respondents.
Salvage is well defined as the compensation allowed to
persons by whose assistance a ship or vessel, or the cargo of
the same, or the lives of the persons belonging to the ship
or vessel, are saved from danger or loss in cases of shipwreck, derelict capture, or other marine misadventures.*
Other jurists define it as the service which volunteer adventurers spontaneously render to the owners, in the recovery of property from loss or damage at sea under the responsibility of making restitution and with a lien for their
reward.t
Persons who render such service are called salvors, and a
salvor is defined to be a person who, without any particular
relation to the ship in distress, proffers useful service and
gives it as a volunteer adventurer without any pre-existing
contract that connected him with the duty of employing
himself for the preservation of the vessel.
Enough appears in those definitions to show that the elements necessary to constitute a valid salvage claim are as
follows: (L) A marine peril to the property to be rescued.
(2.) Voluntary service not owed to the property as matter
of duty. (3.) Success in saving the property or some portion of it from the impending peril.
Public policy encourages the hardy and industrious mariner to engage in these laborious and sometimes dangerous
enterprises, and with a view to withdraw from him every
temptation to dishonesty the law allows him, in case he is
* Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 419.

t Mahlachlan on Shipping, 569; The Neptune, 1 Haggard's Admiralty,
236; The Thetis, 3 Id. 48.

Oct. 1874.]

THE OLARITA AND

THE CLARA.

17

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the schooner for salvage.

successful, a liberal compensation. Those liberal rules as
to remuneration were adopted and are administered not
only as an inducement to the daring to embark in such enterprises, but to withdraw from the salvors as far as possible
every motive to depredate upon the property of the unfortunate owner.'*
Such compensation, however, is not claimable in every
case in which work and labor are done for the preservation
of a ship and cargo. Suitors, in order to support such a
claim, must be prepared to show that the property was exposed to peril and that the undertaking involved risk and
enterprise, and that they were successful in securing the
property and saving it to the owner, and that the service
was voluntary and that it was not rendered in pursuance of
any duty owed to the owner or to the property. Conditions
of the kind are inherent in the very nature of the undertaking, and salvors, in consideration of the large reward
allowed to them for their services, are required to be vigilant
in preventing, detecting, and exposing every act of plunder
upon the property saved, for the reason that the right to salvage compensation presupposes good faith, meritorious service, complete restoration, and incorruptible vigilance, so
far as the property is within the reach or under the control
of the salvors.
Seamen belonging to the ship in peril cannot, as a general rule, claim a salvage compensation, not only because
it is their duty to save both ship and cargo, if it is in their
power, but because it would be unwise to tempt them to
let the ship and cargo get into a position of danger in order
that by extreme exertion they might claim salvage compensation.t
Pilots, also, are excluded from such compensation for any
exertions or services rendered while acting within the line
of their duty, but like other persons they may become sal* The Island City, 1 Clifford, 228.

M"
Miller v. Kelley, Abbott's Admiralty, 564; The Perkins, 21 Law Reporter, 87; The Speedwell, Ib. 99.
VOL. XXIII.

2

is

TiE

CLARITA AND THE CLARA.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the schooner for salvage. '

vors in legal contemplation, if they perform extraordinary
services outside of the line of their duty.*
Neither can passengers claim salvage unless they perform
extraordinary service.t
Persons otherwise entitled as salvors cannot be defeated
in making their claim because the vessel was fraudulently
imperilled by the master, unless it appears that they were
parties to the fraud, or were cognizant of it while it was
going on and did not interfere to prevent it as far as they
could, or unless they endeavored fo conceal the master's
misconduct and screen him from detection.1
Where two vessels come in collision, if one is not disabled
she is bound to render all possible assistance to the other,
even though the other may be wholly in fault.ยง
Authorities to support that proposition are quite numerous, and it is very clear that if the vessel in fault renders
assistance to the one not in fault, the former cannot make
any claim for salvage either from the other vessel or the
cargo on board, as it is her duty to render every assistance

in her power.11
Services of the kind, when required by duty, do not constitute a claim for salvage, and it is expressly decided that
salvors are not entitled to reward for saving property which
they had by their own wrongful acts contributed to place in
jeopardy, and the court here fully concurs in that proposition.
Text writers, also, of high repute adopt the rule that
"persons who have contributed to place property in danger
cannot be allowed to claim reward for rescuing it from the
.* The Andries, 1 Swabey, 226; Same Case, 11 Moore Privy Council, 318.
t The Branston, 2 Haggard's Admiralty, 3, note; The Vrede, Lushington's Admiralty, 822; The Two Friends, 1 Robinson, 285; Maude & Pollock
on Shipping, 485; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 268.
The Fair American, 1 Peters's Admiralty, 95; Parsons on Shipping, 285.
. The Celt, 3 Haggard's Admiralty, 328; The Ericsson, Swabey, 40; The
Dispatch, Ib. 140; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 529.
The Iola, 4 Blatehford, 31; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 289.
The Capella, Law Reports, 1 Admiralty and Ecclesiastical, 356; The
Queen, Law Reports, 2 Id. 565.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

OLARITA AND

THE

CLARA.

19

Opinion of the court.-The claim on the schooner for salvage.

consequences of their own wrongful acts," which is a principle applicable in all respects to the case before the court.*
Cases may be found in which it is held that when one
ship has rendered assistance to another ship belonging to
the same owner that the ship rendering such assistance cannot claim a salvage reward, but the better opinion is that
the rule laid down in those cases admits of exceptions, as
where the services rendered were of an extraordinary character and were entirely outside of the contract duties of those
by whom they were rendered.t
Exceptions also exist to the rule that a steam-tug engaged
in towing may not, in case she performs extraordinary services outside of her contract, be entitled to salvage compensation, if it appears that the services were meritorious and
saved the property from an impending peril which supervened subsequent to the original undertaking.T
None of these exceptional cases, however, can benefit the
libellants in this case, for the reason that the insuperable
objection to their right of recovery is that the peril to which
the schooner was exposed was caused by those who rendered
the alleged salvage service, and to the rule that such libelIants are not entitled to recover there are no exceptions
when it appears that the suit is prosecuted in behalf of the
wrongdoers.
DECREE AFFIRMED IN BOTH CASES.

* 'Williams & Bruce's Practice, 123; Benedict's Admiralty (2d ed.), 180.
t The Sappho, Law Reports, 3 Privy Council Appeals, 690; Same Case,
8 Lore Privy Council, N. S. 70.
+ The Potter, Law Reports, 3 Admiralty and Ecclesiastical, 296; The
M innehaha, 1 Lusbington's Admiralty, 335; Same Case, 15 Moore Privy
Council, 133; Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 479.

