Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.
Syllabus.

not even entertain a motion for leave to proceed. A judgment has been rendered by the highest court of the State in
which a decision can be had. The Court of Appeals has
never, in fact, had jurisdiction. A suit cannot be taken
there, except upon leave, and that leave has, in the regular
order of proceeding, been refused in this case. From this
refusal there can be no appeal. Everything has been done
that can be to effect the transfer of the cause. The rejection
of a petition by one judge does not prevent its presentation
to another. Here the petition has been presented to each
and every one of the judges, and they have all rejected it because the judgment was "plainly right." Thus the doors
of the Court of Appeals have been forever closed against the
suit; not through neglect, but in the regular order of proceeding under the law governing the practice.
We think, therefore, that the judgment of .the Corporation Court of the city of Alexandria is the judgment of
'the highest court of the State in which a decision of the
suit could be had, and that we may re-examine it upon
error.
Without stopping to discuss the other question presented
by the motion, it is sufficient to say that we think the case
involves the consideration of a Federal question. The proceeding in the District Court was under the authority of the
United States, and its validity is drawn in question.
MOTION DENIED.

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.

1. 'Under the Internal Revenue Act of July, 1870, which enacts that "there
shall be levied and collected for and during the year 1871, a tax of 2J
per cent. on the amount of all interest paid by corporations, and on the
amount of dividends of earnings hereafterdeclared by them," and which
directs that such interest and dividends shall not after the 1st of August,
1870, be taxed under prior acts; interest paid and dividends declared
during the last five months of the year 1870, are taxable, as well is
those declared during the year 1871, it appearing that income of other

BLAKE

v.

NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup, ot.

Statement of the case.-Statutory history and enactments.
sorts was meant to be so taxed, and there being no apparent reason why
income derived through corporations should not be taxed like income
generally.
2. A badly expressed and apparently contradictory enactment (such as the
one above mentioned) interpreted by a reference to the Journals of Con
gress, where it appeared that the peculiar phraseology was the result of
an amendment introduced without due reference to language in the
original bill.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, in which court several National banks sued
Blake, a collector of internal revenue, to recover certain
taxes of 2L per cent., upon dividends which had been de
clared and made payable by the banks, during the last five
months of the year 1870; which taxes Blake as collector
had demanded, and which the banks had paid on compulsion
and under protest.
There'were other cases from other circuits, including one
from the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, heard with these,
involving the same question, and also the question whether
additions to surplus and payments of interest made by corporations during the five months above mentioned, that is
to say, during the months of August, September, October,
November, or December, 1870, were liable to be charged
with the said tax.
The case depended upon certain statutes, and was thus:
The 118th, 119th, 120th, 121st, and 122d sections of an act
of June 30th, 1864, laid a tax of 5 per cent. on income; the
tax commonly known as the "income tax."*
So ftr as the income which was enjoyed by any one was
not obtained from dividends made by corporations, or from
interest on their bonds or other securities, or from additions to the surplus, contingent, or other funds of such corporations, individuals, by the 118th and 119th sections of the
act, were to make it known by return to the assessor, and
were themselves to pay it directly to the collector. The tax
thus payable directly by individuals was to be levied on the
13 Stat. at Large, 283.

Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.

Statement of the case.-Statutory history and enactments.

first day of May in each year (on the gains, of course, of the
preceding year), and be payable on or before the 30th of
June following; and it was enacted that it should be levied
until the year 1870 and no longer than until that year; that
is to say, that this tax of 5 per cent. should end with and
in the year 1869.
So far as income came from dividends made by corporations or additions by the corporations to the surplus, contingent or other fund of undistributed earnings, or by the interest payable on bonds, &c., of corporations, the matter was
regulated by the 120th, 121st, 122d, and 123d sections.
The 122d section-which imposed a duty of 5 per cent.
upon interest on bonds issued, on dividends declared, and
on undistributed profits earned by railroad and other corporations-made it the duty of the officers of said corporations
to return to the assessor and pay to the commissioner the
tax within thirty days after the said interest and dividends
became due and payable, and they were authorized to retain
the tax so paid, out of the interest and' dividends due to
bond and stockholders.
This act of June 30th, 1864, was the only act, prior to
July, 1870, which imposed a tax on interest and dividends
payable by railroad companies.
In this condition of things--that is to say, with an income
tax law in 1864, which extended to and included the year
1869, but no later years-Congress, on the 14th July, 1870,
passed a new act. This new act of July 14th, 1870, was entitled " An act to reduce internal taxes, and for other purposes;" and in certain sections not now under consideration,
taxation was reduced.
The sections with which the present case was immediately concerned, were the sixth, the seventh, the fifteenth,
and the seventeenth; and they were in substance as follows:
"SECTION 6. There shall be levied and collected annually, as
hereinafter provided, for the years 1870 and 1871, and no longer,
a tax of 2j per centum upon the gains, profits, and income of
every person residing in the United States, and of every citizen
of the United States residing abroad, derived from any source

BLAKE V.

'ATIONAL

BANKS.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.-Statutory history and enactments.

whatever, whether within or without the United States, except
as hereinafter provided."*
"SECTION 7. In estimating the gains, profits, and income of
any person, there shall be included all income derived from ...
the gains, profits, and income of any business, profession, trade,
employment, office, or vocation, including any amount received
as salary or pay for services in the civil, military, naval, or other
service of the United States, or as senator, representative, or
delegate in Congress, except that portion thereof from which,
under authority of acts of Congress previous hereto, a tax of 5
per centum shall have been withheld."
"SECTION 15. There shall be levied and collected for and during
the year 1871,'a tax of 2j per centum on the amount of all interest or coupons paid on bonds or other evidences of debt issued
and payable in one or more years after date, by any of the corporations in this section hereinafter enumerated, and on the
amount of all dividends of earnings, income, or gains hereafter
declared by any bank, ... railroad company, &c., whenever and
wherever the same shall be payable, and to whatsoever person
the same may be due; and on all undivided profits of any such
corporation, which have accrued and been earned and added to
any surplus, contingent, or other fund. And every such corporation having paid the tax as aforesaid is hereby authorized to
deduct and withhold from any payment on account of interest,
coupons, and dividends, an amount equal to the tax of 2 per
centum on the same."
The sixteenth section provided that an account should be
rendered by the corporation making a dividend, &c., to the
assessor on or before the tenth day of the month following
the dividend of the amount of income and of profits and of
taxes as aforesaid, and that the amount payable as tax should
be paid within thirty days after it -became due.
The next section was thus:
" SECTION 17. Sections 120, 121, 122, and 123 of the act of June
30th, 1864, &c., shall be construed to impose the taxes therein
mentioned to the 1st day of August, 1870; but after that date
no further taxes shall be levied or assessed under said sections," &c.
* 16 Stat. at Large, 257.

Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE V. IATIONAL BANKS.

311

Statement of the case.-Statutory history and enactments.

The difficulty now arose upon the peculiar phraseology
of the above-quoted fifteenth section as indicated by the
italicized words: "There shall be levied and collected for
and daring the year 1871, a tax of 2 per centum, on the
amount of all . . . dividends hereafter declared." The act
was passed July 14th, 1870. Suppose now that a dividend
was made between that date and January 1st, 1871. It was
declared "after" the passage of the act, and the act enacted
that the tax was to be on all dividends "thereafter declared."
But it also enacted that the tax was to be levied for and
during the year 1871, and the dividend was not made for
that year.
And the seventeenth section of the act enacted that no
tax should be levied longer under the sections 120, 121, 122,
or 123 (the sections affecting corporations) of the act of 1864.
Only two constructions seemed possible:
One of them would hold that the thing to be done in 1871
was the "levying and collecting." This would make the
meaning thus: "A tax of 21 per cent. on the amount of all
dividends'hereafter declared shall be levied and collected in
the year 1871." This was the view of the meaning of the
act taken by the government. It asserted that the limitation to the year 1871 did not apply to the accruing or
to the declaring of the dividend to be taxed, but only to
the time when the tax was to be levied and collected, and
that the words "hereafter declared" showed that the tax
was to be levied on all dividends declared after the passage
of the act, and therefore that a dividend declared in December, 1870, being "hereafter declared," must pay the
tax, though the levying and collecting was to be postponed
till 1871.
The other construction was that the words-" for and
during the year 1871" apply to, and limited, and were intended to describe, the time of the earning of the money
out of which the dividends were declared, and also the time
of the declaration of the dividends; that is to say, that dividends were not to be taxed unless they were either declared
in 1871, or the moneys from which they were declared were

BLAKE V. INATIONAL

BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Statutory history ana enactments.

earned in that year, and that the object of the section was
to tax only dividends declared or earned therein.
On the part of the government it was said, "Income is
equally income,.and, in practical view, identically the same
thing, whether it be interest coming from. an individual
debtor or interest coming from a railroad company; whether
it be a dividend of profits declared to one of a mercantile
firm having several partners, or a like dividend declared to
one of several stockholders of a bank or railroad or other corporation specified in the fifteenth section of the act of 1870.
Why would you seek to tax the income from the first source
and not to tax that from the second? In so acting you
would make us give up and abandon for five months the less
odious form of taxation, since it is less odious to let the cor
poration retain the tax and pay it for the citizen-in which
case vast numbers of persons never so much as know that
they have been taxed-and you would make us retain and
enforce the more odious form, since it is more odious to
make the citizen report, by an inquisitorial process, what
gain has come directly into his hands, and then hiake him
unclench his hand and give up what, from his mere possession of it, he had almost felt was his own. In so acting you
would make us do worse, for you would make us put the
burden of taxes on the poorer sorts of persons in every
class (since the gains of these are generally made directly
by themselves); and you would make us absolve, for five
months, those whose gains come from the bonds and stocks
of corporations, that is to say, the rich alone or chiefly."
To all this the reply of the banks, railroad, and other corporations was: We do not presume to be wiser than Congress, or to speculate upon the reasons for what it has done.
Command being plain, our duty is obedience. And when
in regard to income paid directly Congress says"There shall be levied and collected annually .
for the
years 1870 AND 1871, and no longer, a tax of 2-1 per centam," &c.;
and in regard to income retained by and paid through corporations, says:

Oct. 1874.3

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.

813

Statement of the case.-View of the courts below.

"There shall be levied and collected for and during the year
1871, a tax of 21 per centum," &c.;
We think it plain that Congress did not mean to lay a tax
in the two cases for the same term of time.
This was the view taken by the banks, and in accordance
with it they construed the section as though it read "a tax
of 21 per cent. shall be levied and collected on the amount
of all dividends hereafter declared for and during the year
1871."
The Circuit Courts, where the question arose, sustained
the position taken by the banks. That position was thus
forcibly defended by McKennan, J., in the Pennsylvania
Circuit:
"The seventeenth section of the act of July 14th, 1870, repeals
the 122d and other sections of the act of 1864, by providing that,
after the first day of August, 1870, no further taxes shall be
levied or assessed under them. It is plain, therefore, that the
tax complained of by the banks could not be assessed and collected under the act of 1864, and that unless it was authorized
by the act of 1870, there is no warrant anywhere for its assessment. The fifteenth section of the latter act is the only part
of it for which this effect can be asserted.
"The word 'levied' in the beginning of the section, is evidently employed as convertible with assessed or imposed, so
that the import of the enactment is, that interest, dividends,
and surplus earnings shall be subjected to a tax of 24 per cent.
for and during the year 1871. The plainly expressed 'meaning
of the section would, therefore, seem to be, that the tax to be
levied was a tax for the year 1871, and not for the whole or any
part of any previous year, and that it was to be imposed upon
the enumerated subjects during and within the year 1871, and
not during or within any other year. Interpreting the words
of the section then, according to their ordinary sense, interest
falling due and dividends declared and payable within the last
five months of 1870, were excluded from the operation of the
tax.
" But it is urged that the phrase ' hereafter declared,' applied
to dividends subject to the tax, dividends declared and payable
before 1871. There is certainly no ground, either in the import

BLAKE

v.

NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.-View of the courts below.
of these words or in their collocation in the law, for extending
their qualifying effect to interest or undivided profits. Only
dividends are properly spoken of as 'declared;' not so either
interest or undivided earnings, and to apply the term to them
would be both inappropriate and unmeaning. It must be taken
as referring exclusively to dividends; and interest and undivided earnings must be considered as affected by the unqualified
import of the clause which makes them taxable for and during
the year 1871.
"Nor is there any better reason for interpreting this phrase to
describe only dividends declared after August 1st, 1870. It is not
found in the same section with that date, and while, ex vi termini,
it applies to the date of the passage of the act, this obvious
reference cannot be changed by the exigencies of a mere arbitrary construction.
"But were these words used in any other sense than as referring to a period occurring after the passage of the act, and for
and during the year 1871, as they naturally import, and not
with intent to impose a tax upon dividends exceptionally? To
preserve the congruity of legislative action and to harmonize
the several sections of the act of 1870 itself, they must be thus
interpreted.
"From the origin of the system of internal revenue taxation,
through the whole course of legislation on the subject, interest
on corporate indebtedness, dividends of profits, and undivided
earnings were treated as closely related if not inseparable subjects of taxation. They were associated in the same section,
the same tax was imposed upon them, and the same mode provided for its return and collection; and this relation was preserved in their relief together from the 5 per cent. tax, by the
repeal of the 122d section of the act of 1864. They are, indeed, but a single subject, because they are the product of the
inseparable exercise of corporate franchises, and are only nominally distinguishable by being set apart for different classes of
recipients. They were, therefore, uniformly dealt with as cognate subjects of taxation. Now, to hold that dividends were
intended to be taxed, and that interest and undivided profits
were not, ought to be the result of an unequivocal declaration
of Congress to that effect. Aside from this there is no reason
for such a conclusion by construction. But if anything in the
act is plain, it is that the tax upon interest and undivided profits

Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.

Statement of the case.-View of the courts below.

was limited in its operation to the 1st of August, 1870, and that
the new tax was not to be imposed upon them during the remainder of that year or until the year 1871. Now the same
limitation is expressly applicable to the taxation of dividends,
and the new tax to be levied upon them is also declared to be
for the year 1871. A discriminating construction, by which
they would be subjected to the new tax before 1871, would then
not only disregard the analogies of former legislation, but it
would necessarily characterize a tax, expressly declared to be
'for and during the year 1871,' as a tax for and during five
months of the year 1870.
"The sixteenth section of the act of 1870 directs the mode
and time of making a return of the income and profits subject
to taxation under the fifteenth section. It requires a return to
be made to the assessor of the district or his assistant, ' of the
amount of income, and profits, and taxes as aforesaid . . . on
or before the tenth day of the month following that in which
any dividends or sums of money became due or payable as aforesaid,' and the act of July 13th, 1866, section eleven, requires the
payment of the tax on or before the last day of the month.
Under these provisions it is the obvious duty of corporations to
return the di'idends and sums of money due by them, and to
pay the tax to which they are liable within the periods designated. If they are not bound to do so, it can only be for the
reason that the dividends declared and the sums due by them
are not subject to taxation. Now the tax imposed by the fifteenth section was not to be ' levied or collected' until the year
1871. If no tax was to be levied or demandable until the year
1871, it is plain that the provisions in relation to the return and
payment of the tax imposed are inapplicable to dividends declared and payable in 1870; and if no provision is made for the
return and assessment of dividends then declared, as in other
cases, is not the conclusion irresistible that they were not intended to be placed in the category of subjects upon which a
tax was imposed?
"Whatever signification, then, the words ' hereafter declared,'
as applied to dividends, may have, they cannot be interpreted to
subject dividends to a discriminating tax against the uniform
course of previous legislation and the clear meaning of the preceding words, which limit the tax imposed to the year 1871, and
to subjects properly classified as belonging to that period.

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"Even if they can be regarded as casting doubt upon the
meaning of the law, that doubt must be resolved in favor of the
citizen. The exercise of the power of taxation is not to be
affirmed upon conjectural or arbitrary inferences. No burden
is to be taken as imposed upon the citizen which the government has not clearly made it his duty to assume. Nor can any
portion of his property be exacted for any purpose, except in
pursuance of an unambiguous mandate.
"Whatever degree of liberality, therefore, may be allowable
in the construction of statutes relating to the revenue of the
government, there is neither reason nor justice in expanding
them by a strain ulpon the ordinary import of their words, to
give effect to a hypothetical legislative intention.
"It results, then, that dividends declared and payable by railroad companies during the last five months of 1870 were not
subject to taxation; and that the tax described in the plea was
assessed without authority of law."
Judgments were accordingly entered for the plaintiffs;
that is to say, for the corporations; and to bring them here
these writs of error were taken.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. S. F Phillips, Solicitor-General,for the collector, plaintiff in error; Mr.F.
C. Barlow and 31r. J. .E.Gowan, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The language of the act of July 14th, 1870, is too manifest to admit of a doubt that Congress intended to extend
for two years the tax upon the incomes of individuals.
Without further legislation the power to levy that tax expired with the year 1870. A tax for the year 1869 had been
levied in March, 1870, under the authority of the laws referred to. No further levy could be made. It is then provided by section six that there shall be levied for the years
1870 and 1871 a tax upon individual incomes.
By the statute of 1864 that portion of the income of an
individual derived from dividends on stocks, interest on corporate bonds, and the like, was directed not to be included
in his return of gains and profits, and no tax was assessed

Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE v. N ATIONAL BANKS.
Opinion of the court.

to him directly for that portion of his income.

Another

section of the same statute provided that dividends of earnings, interest on corporate bonds, and the like should be
taxed to the corporation directly and in its naine. While
these items were passed over in the individual account, they
were rigidly and searchingly sought out and taxed in the
name of the corporation. We here find the explanation of
that portion of the seventh section of the act of 1870, whichexcepts from individual income as a subject of taxation
"that portion thereof from which, under authority of acts
of Congress previous hereto, a tax of 5 per centum shall
have been withheld."
Intending and expecting that this source of taxation would
continue to be reached by the taxation upon corporations, it
was intended that the individual should be relieved from the
imposition.
From the examination of the Globe CongressionalJournal
of the 41st Congress,* and of the original Journal of the
House of IRepresentatives, we learn that as originally reported and passing the House the words "for and during
the year 1871," now making a part of the fifteenth section,
were not in the bill; nor were there any corresponding
words. The bill read:
"That there shall be levied and collected a tax of two and
one-half per centum on the amount of' all interest or coupons,
&e., . . . and on the amount of all dividends of earnings or
gains . . . hereafter declared, whenever and wherever the . . .
same shall be payable, and to whatsoever person the same may
be due."
As it thus stood the imposition of the tax upon the dividends of corporations was unlimited as to time.
The same record shows that the Senate amended the
fifteenth section by inserting after the word collected as
follows:
"During the years 1871 and 1872."
* Page 5516.

BLAR.E V. NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

So that it would read"Be it enacted that there shall be levied and collected during
the years 1871 and 1872 a tax of two and one-half per centum
on the amodnt of all interest, &c."
Up to this point it stands that the House proposed to tax
the corporations upon their dividends and coupons without
limit as to time, while the Senate desired to fix their liability to the taxes to be levied and assessed during the years
1871 and 1872.
The record further shows that the House disagreed to this
and to other amendments of the Senate. There were many
points of difference. A committee of conference was appointed, the chairman of which, Mr. Schenck, reported to
the House on the 18th day of July, among other things,
"that the House receded from their disagreement to the
twentieth amendment of the Senate [the one ahbove quoted],
and agree to the same with the following amendment:
"Strike out said Senate amendment and insert in lieu thereof
the following: 'for and during the year 1871."'
This was agreed to, and the section which we are now
considering became a law in its present form.
Connected directly with this point is the provision of section seventeen of the same act, viz., that sections 120, 121,
122, and 123 of the act of June, 1864, as amended, shall be
construed to impose the taxes therein mentioned to the 1st
day of August, 1870, but after that date no further taxes
shall be levied or assessed under the said sections.
These sections are the ones imposing the imeome tax of
five per cent. upon corporations, and that tax is thus continued upon corporations until August, 1870, and no longer.
The journal and record show two other facts:
1st. That the words "hereafter declared," in the fifteenth
section of the act of 1870, immediately following the words
"dividends of earnings, income, or gains," formed a part of
the origin l bill as it passed the House and was sent to the
Senate.

Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE V.

NATIONAL BANKS.

Opinion of the court.

2d. That the seventeenth section, by which it was enacted
that the sections of the statute of 1864 imposing the income
tax of five per cent. upon corporations, should be construed
to impose the taxes therein mentioned to the 1st day of August, 1870, but that after that date no further tax shall be
levied or assessed under those sections, formed no part of
the original House bill. It was an amendment proposed on
the part of the Senate, and agreed to by the House.
By section fifteen it is declared that this tax of two and
one-half per cent. shall be imposed "on the amount of all
dividends of earnings, income, or gain hereafter declared"
by any batik, railroad company, trust company, &c. All the
dividends which shall be thereafter declared by any bank or
railroad company shall be taxed. No time is limited within
which the dividend is to be declared. No restriction is
made except that it shall be "hereafter" declared, i. e., after
the 17th of July, 1870, the date of the passage of the act.
The dividends in question were all declared after this date,
and they fall within the general language made use of.
The first branch of the section directs the levying and
collection of taxes on dividends for and during the year
1871; the latter branch imposes the tax upon all dividends
thereafter declared.
Under these circumstances, we are compelled to ascertain
the legislative intention by a recurrence to the mode in
which the embarrassing words were introduced, as shown by
the journals and records, and by giving such construction
to the statute as we believe will carry out the intentions of
Congress.
The intention of the House upon the record we have
quoted is plain. That body proposed to tax all dividends
thereafter declared by corporations, but yielded to the indisposition of the Senate to assent to that principle.
The Senate proposed to amend this principle, first, by the
limitation of the tax of five per cent. to August, 1870; and,
slcond, by inserting the words "there shall be levied and
collected during the years 1871 and 1872," which gave a tax
of two and a half per cent. for those two years. The order

BLAKE V. NATI0NAL BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in which these amendments were agreed to in the Senate is
not easily ascertained. The record does not show the time
of the adoption of the second amendment by the Senate.
The Senate consented to say that the tax should be levied
and assessed "during the years 1871 and 1872." The House
agreed to the amendment by making it to read not only
"during" but also "for" the year 1871, and omitting the
year 1872, and the result appears in the act we are considering.
This action does not correctly indicate the feeling of either
body, as the House evidently wished to impose an extended
tax, while the record shows that in several of its votes the
Senate voted to abolish entirely the income tax, both as to
individuals and as to corporations.
The defendant's construction of the fifteenth section assumes that Congress imposed the tax upon corporations,
until August 1st, 1870; that from that date till January 1st,
1871, no tax was imposed, and that after that period the tax
was again imposed; that there was a hiatus for five months.
The tax upon individuals meanwhile was imposed during
the whole of the years 1870 and 1871. It is impossible to
believe Congress intended to make this discrimination. It
is entirely unreasonable, and is not in harmony with the wellknown views of Congress on the subject.
The rate of taxation to August 1st, 1870, was five per
centum. Accordingly section seventeen enacts that the taxation under sections 120, 121, 122, 123, of the act of 1864,
which would be at and after that rate, shall be paid by the
corporations until August 1st, 1870, but after that time no
further taxes shall be levied or assessed under those sections.
There is no enactment that the corporations shall not be
taxed on dividends after August 1st, 1870, but that the force
of those sections shall extend no farther. Subsequent taxes
are by virtue of other authority. Each rate was intended to
be provided for in this statute, as we find that the five per
cent. may be collected by virtue of the seventeenth sectiod,
and the fifteenth section may be construed as saying that
the tax shall be extended through the year 1871, and that

Oct. 1874.]

SLACK v. TUCKER & Co.
Syllabus.

the dividends thereafter declared during the year 1870 shall
be subject to the tax of two and a half per cent.
The ambiguous terms of the statute prevent the possibility
of a satisfactory solution of the question presented. We are
inclined to adopt the construction practically placed upon it
by the administrative department of the government, which
is this:'that effect is to be given to the words " hereafter
declared," by holding that they cover all the dividends and
additions of the year 1870, after the passage of the act; and
that the words "levied and collected during the year 1871"
relate to the time when the tax is to be enforced rather than
as a limitation to the tax itself. Congress may have assumed
that the dividends after August would not be declared until
the end of the year should be nearly reached, and that they
would be properly levied and collected in the year following.
The statute hereinbefore quoted, showing that the tax upon
individual incomes is to be levied and collected in the year
following the period for which they are imposed by the
statute, is an illustration of what these words may mean.
The words in question do not necessarily limit the kind of
property to be taxed or the period of time for which the tax
is laid. The tax cannot be levied or collected until 1871,
but it may be imposed upon all dividends, additions, or payments of interest made or declared after the passage of the
act of July 17th, 1870.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

Dissenting, Justices DAVIS, STRONG, and BRADLEY.

SLACK V. TUCKER & Co.
1. Under the seventy-ninth section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, as

amended by the act of July 13th, 1836 (14 Statutes at Large), persons
who sell goods in their own name, at their own store, on commission,

and have possession of the goods as soon as the sales are made, and who
deliver or send them off to their customers-such sales being to an ex21
VOL. XXlI.

