Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES V. VILLALONGA.

85

Syllabus.

enough has been said to condemn the Republic, and there
is nothing in the record to excuse her.
As we have seen, she could have avoided this collision,
even after danger was imminent. If she had stopped, or
ported her wheel a second or two before the collision occurred, she would have gone clear of the Cleona. On the
contrary the Oleona's course after she saw the Republic following her, was to try and get out of her way. This course
she pursued diligently, for she packed on all the steam possible, and succeeded so far as to save her hull, and came
near escaping altogether. On a full and fair consideration
of the whole evidence, we are satisfied the officers of the
Oleona, when the boat was turned to the right shore, had
no ground to fear a collision, and that the boat itself was far
enough ahead to cross with safety, if the Republic, instead
of following after her, had pursued her course on the left side
of the river. It is pretty clear that the Cleona did not blow
her whistle for each boat to keep to the right, as soon as she
started for the opposite shore. This omission was a fault,
but this fault bears so little proportion to the many faults of
the Republic, that we do not think, under the circumstances,
the Oleona should share the consequences of this collision
with the Republic.
DECREE of the Circuit Court REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a decree for the libellant
and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
REVERSAL AND

UNITED S-rATES V.

REMAND

ACCORDINGLY.

VILLALONGA.

Under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, which gives to "the
owner" of any such property a right, after it has been sold by the government, to recover the proceeds of it in the Treasury of the United
States, a factor who has merely made advances on the property-there

UNITED STATES V. VILLALONGA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
being another person who has the legal interest in the proceeds-is not
to be regarded as "1the owner ;" at least not to be so regarded beyond
the extent of his lien.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
The third section of the act of Congress of March 12th,
1863,* which authorizes a suit against the United States for
the recovery of the proceeds of sale of captured or abandoned property, enacts thatAPPEAL

"Any person claiming to have been the owner of any such
abandoned or captured property, may at any time within two
years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to
the proceeds thereof in the Court of Claims, and on proof to the
satisfaction of the court of his ownership of said property, of
his right to the proceeds thereof, and that he has never given
any aid or comfort to the present rebellion, receive the residue of
said proceeds after the deduction of any purchase-money which
may have been paid, together with the expense of transportation and sale of said property, and any other lawful expense
attending the disposition thereof."
Under this enactment one Villalonga filed a petition in
the court below to recover the proceeds of four hundred and
ninety-three bales of cotton which were seized by the army
of the United States at Savannah, in December, 1864. After
its seizure the cotton was turned over to the agents of the
Treasury Department and sold, and the proceeds of the sale
were paid into the treasury. Of the whole number of bales
captured, one hundred and ninety-six belonged to Villalonga, but the remainder he had received as a cotton factor
from various persons, and had made advances thereon in
money of the Confederate States. The aggregate of these
advances was $51,153. It did not appear from the case as
found who these different owners were, how much had been
advanced to each, or what was the value of the advances in
money of the United States. Upon this state of facts the
Court of Claims gave judgment in favor of Villalonga, not
* 12 Stat. at Large, 820.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES V. VILLALONGA.

Statement of the case.

only for the proceeds of sale of the cotton which belonged
to him in his own right, but also for the entire proceeds of
that which he had received as a factor, and upon which he
had made advances.
The court rested its judgment upon the case of Carrollv.
United States;* a case in which property owned by a disloyal
person, had after his death, and when in the hands of the
administrator of his estate, who was loyal, been seized by
the government under the above-quoted Abandoned and
Captured Property Act, and sold. This court then adjudged,
that on a claim by the loyal administrator, the disloyalty of
the decedent did not bar a recovery; that the administrator,
who, said the court, "had a title on which she could maintain trespass or trover," was- to be considered "owner,"
within the meaning of the Abandoned and Captured Property Act.
The Court of Claims, in support of its judgment, said:
"The Supreme Court of the United States decided in Carroll
v. United States, that a suit may be maintained under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act by one who was not the
owner in his own right, but who, at the time of seizure, was
possessed of the property under a title upon which he could
maintain an action of trover or trespass, and who, at the time
of bringing suit, was entitled to receive the proceeds as the
trustee or representative of parties not before the court. -We
perceive no difference in principle between the case of an administrator and of a factor in possession with a lien upon the
property for advances made. The factor is entitled to hold the
property. He may sell it to repay his advances, or maintain an
action of trover or replevin, to the exclusion of any action by
his principal, and on recovering its value he becomes a trustee
of the original owner to the extent of his residuary interest. It
may be doubted whether the original owner, not in possession,
not entitled to possession, and not primarily entitled to the proceeds, could maintain a suit here under the statute; and it is
tolerably certain that he and the factor c'r)ld not have brought
several and conflicting suits for their respective interests, and
13 Wallace, 151.

UNITED STATES V. VILLALONGA.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
compelled this court to settle disputed accounts between them.
Therefore it seems tolerably clear that this suit is properly
brought by the factor, who, on recovering, will be liable to his
principal for the surplus after repaying his own advances, as if
this suit were an action of trover brought in a court of the
common law."
Whether the judgment of the Court of Claims, given on
this view of the case, of Carroll v. United States, was correct
on such a state of facts as existed in the present case, was the
question now presented, and the answer to it depended, of
course, upon the answer to the antecedent inquiry whether,
as to the cotton upon which the claimant had made partial
advances as a factor, he could be considered the owner
thereof, and as having a right to its proceeds, within the
meaning of the act of Congress.
Certain laws of Georgia, which the claimant relied on as
bearing on his case, were as follows:
"SECTION 1987. The lien given by the common law to attorneys, factors, . . . pawnees, and others, under special circumstances (except the vendor's lien), are recognized by and may be
enforced under the law of Georgia.*
"SECTION 2090. A factor's lien extends to all balances on general account, and attaches to the proceeds of the sale of the goods
consigned as well as to the goods themselves.
"SECTION 2965. The owner of personalty is entitled to the
possession thereof. Any deprivation of such possession is a tort
for which an action lies.
"' SECTION 2966. Mere possession of a chattel, if without title
or wrongfully, will give a right of action for any interference
therewith, except as against the true owner or the person wrongfully deprived of possession.
"SECTION 2967. Trover may be used as a form of action to recover the possession of chattels, an alternative verdict in dam.
ages, to be discharged on delivery of the property that has been
taken; but it shall not be necessary to prove any conversion
of the property where the defendant is in possession when the
action is brought.
Code of Georgia, 1861, pp. 393, 410, 651, 652.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES

V. -VILLALONGA.

Argument in support of the factor's C ownership."

"SECTON 2969. In cases of bailments, where the possession is
in the bailee, a trespass committed during the existence of the
bailment will give a right, of action to the bailee for the interference with his special property, and a concurrent right of action
to the bailor for the interference with his generalproperty."

M2A-.G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. John Goforth, Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States, plaintiff
in error:

The right of the factor to the possession of this property
was limited by the amount of his advances. This would be
true putting the case on general principles. And there is
nothing in the Code of Georgia which changes these general
principles. To the extent of the interference with his "special" property, that code, by its section 2969, gave him an
action of trespass, while a concurrent right of action is given
to the bailor for interference with the general property. Nqo
right is given to the bailee or tenant in possession to recover,
in an action in his own name, for the injury done to the
rights of the general owner.
The cotton having been taken under authority of law, by
a force which the factor could not resist, he has incurred
no personal responsibility from its seizure.
The personal loss or damage suffered by claimant, of
course, is measured by the value of the advances. He had
no interest in the cotton beyond these.
Carroll's case does not sustain the judgment of the court
below.
Messrs. J. W. Denvers and C. .F. Peck, contra:
It is objected, as respects the cotton not, in fact, owned
out and out by Villalonga, that if he was entitled to judgment at all, his recovery should have been limited to his own
interest as factor. But a factor who sues, sues in his own
right. He is owner of the property for the purposes of the
suit. In Carrollv. United States, the administratrix was not
more the representative of the testator than the factor here

UNITED STATES V. VILLALONGA.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the factor's "ownership."

was of the owner of the reversionary interest. But this
court held the adiinistratrix to be owner.
If this position be true in cases generally, as this court declared it in Carroll's case to be, much more is it true in this
particular case. By the law of Georgia, from which State
this case comes, the factor is regarded as the owner of the
property held by him, as against those taking it from his possession. The code (section 2996) gives an action of "trover"
in a suit like this, to one who is merely possessed of chattels. Now the action of trover is founded on property; and
property must be alleged in the narr. Without property so
alleged the action cannot be maintained. The code, therefore, for the purposes of a suit like this one, makes mere
possession evidence of property, in other words, declares
that the possessor is to be regarded as owner.*
The theory of the Captured and Abandoned Property
Act, as explained by this court in United States v. Klein,t is
that property found by armies in the South was gathered
and preserved from destruction for the purpose of awaiting
such action as the political department of the government
might see fit to take; that no title or right was divested by
the seizure, but that this was an incipient step by which the
United States might afterwards acquire title through appropriate confiscatiou proceedings in the courts. But where, as
in this case, no offence had been committed fall restitution
should be made. The United States, therefore, in this case
became bound to make restitution. Is there any violence
done to the course of law, or to the cause of justice, because
in a court not governed by common law forms,t the factor,
from whose possession the cotton was taken, obtains a decree that restitution be made to him? The justice and
equity of the case is that the fhctor should recover the entire
proceeds, and make his own settlement with his principals,
otherwise the Court of Claims would be compelled to decide
between them the questions of commission, storage, amount
* See Note of Sergeant Williams, 2 Saunders, 47 a, n. 1.
- 13 Wallace, 128
$ United States v. Burns, 12 Wallace, 254.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. VILLALONGA.

41

Opinion of the court.

of advances, rate of interest, &c.; and that court was never
intended to adjust controversies between individuals, in
which the government has no interest.
The principals in this case having clothed the factor with
a special ownership in the property, have left him to assert
the title for their use and benefit. They have seen fit to
continue him as their representative, and are now awaiting
a settlement at his hands, as soon as he shall receive the
proceeds of the property intrusted to him.
The appellant assumes that if the principals could maintain their action here, then the factor cannot recover for
their interests. This is a mistake. There are many cases
in which an election is given either party may bring the
action, but one only can recover.
"In the case of a general as well as special property, the
action may in most cases be brought either by the general or
special owner, afid judgment obtained by one is a bar to an
action by the other."*
And this principle is applicable to actions ex contractu, as
well as to actions founded in tort.t
Reply:
Though the action of trover is undoubtedly founded on
property as distinguished from possession, a special property
is sufficient to maintain it, and is just as good for that purpose as a general property.4 Such special property we admit the factor to have, but the general property being still
in his principal, our argument remains unanswered. The
distinction between the tvo sorts of property is strongly
recognized in section 2969 of the code.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
No doubt a factor who has made advances upon goods
consigned to him, may be regarded, in a limited sense, and
10hitty on Pleading, 140, 9th American edition, by Perkins, note 4,
citing Smith v. James, 7 Cowan, 328.

t I Parsons on Contracts, ch. 3, P 6.
[ See note of Sergeant Williams cited supra, p. 40.

TTNLITED STATES V.

VILLALONGA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to the extent of his advances, as an owner. Yet, in reality,
he has but a lieu with a right of possession of the goods for
its security. ' He may protect that possession by suit against
a trespasser upon it, and he may sell the property to reimburse advances; remaining, however, accountable to his consignor for any surplus. But after all he is not the real owner.
He is only an agent of the owner for certain purposes. The
owner may, at any time before his factor has sold the goods,
reclaim the possession upon paying the advances made, with
interest and expenses. He has not lost his ownership by
committing the custody of the goods to a factor and by receiving advances upon them. He is still entitled to the proceeds of any sale which may be made, even by his agent,
the factor, subject only to a charge of the advances and expenses. A factor, therefore, notwithstanding he may have
made advances upon the property consigned to him, has but
a limited right. That right is sometimes called a special
property, but it is never regarded as a general ownership.
At most, it is no more than ownership of a lien or charge
upon the property. Such is unquestionably the doctrine of
the common law. And there is nothing in any statute
affecting this case that changes the doctrine. Certainly the
statutes of Georgia, whence this case comes, have no such
effect. In the code of that State of 1861, while a factor's
lien is recognized and declared to extend to all balances on
general account, and to attach to the proceeds of sale of
goods consigned as well as to the goods themselves, there is
nothing that declares he has anything more than a lien protected by his possession. Injuries to that possession may
indeed be redressed by action in his name, and it may be
assumed that upon contracts of sale made by him he may
sue, but all this is perfectly consistent with the continuance
of the general ownership in his consignors until he has made
a sale. And there is a very significant clause in the statutes
of the State which shows that a factor there has not the
general property. In section 2969, of the article respecting
injuries to personalty generally, it is enacted that "iin cases
of bailments, where the possession is in the bailee, a tres-

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES V. VILLALONGA.

43

Opinion of the court.

pass committed during the existence of the bailment will
give a right of action to the bailee for the interference with
his special property, and a concurrent right of action to the
bailor for interference with his general property." If this
applies to the case of bailment to a factor, as is supposed by
the defendant in error, it is a clear declaration that the
factor's right does not extend beyond a special property, a
mere right to hold for a particular purpose, and that it does
not amount to ownership of the property consigned to him.
And there is nothing in the new code of Georgia, or in any
of the decisions of the Supreme Court, that is variant from
this. Admit that a factor may maintain an action when his
possession is disturbed, still it is a question what may he recover? Under the statutes of Georgia he can recover only
for the injury which his special property, namely, his lien,
has sustained. For all beyond that, the general owner may
sue. The property of that owner is not vested in his factor.
If, then, it be, as was said by the Chief Justice in Klein's
case, that the government constituted itself the trustee of
-captured or abandoned property for the original owners
thereof, it is hard to see how the trust can exist for the benefit of the owner of a special property therein beyond the
extent of his interest, which, as we have seen, in case of a
factor, is measured by the amount of his advances and expenses.
For all beyond that, by the law of Georgia, the original
owner who consigned the goods to the factor might sue, and
for that original owner the government became a trustee of
all beyond the factor's interest, according to the doctrine of
Klein's case.
In this view of the case in hand it is clear that the claimant is not the "1owner of the" captured "property," "having
a right to the proceeds thereof," within the meaning of the
Captured or Abandoned Property Act. He owns of the
cotton consigned to him nothing but a lien for his advances
and expenses, and he is, therefore, not entitled to the entire
proceeds of the sale of the property.
There are other considerations that support this conclu-

UTNITED

STATES V. VILLALONGA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sion.

Plainly it was the intention of Congress, manifested

in the statute, that no person should be permitted to recover
out of the teasury any of the proceeds of sale of the property captured or abandoned, except those who had given no
aid or comfort to the rebellion. But if a factor who has
made advances, no matter how small, may recover the entire
proceeds of a consignment made to him, not only what he
has advanced, but the share of his principal, the intention
of the law may be wholly defeated. He may have received
consignments from persons most active in promoting the
rebellion, and lie may have advanced only one dollar on each
bale of cotton consigned. If, now, he can recover the entire
net proceeds of the sale of such cotton paid into the treasury, his consignors, through him, using him as a cover,
escape entirely from the operation of the provision of the
statute-that no one shall have a standing in the Court of
Claims who has given aid and comfort to the rebellion. A
construction of the law which admits of such a consequence
cannot be correct. The intention of Congress is not thus to
be evaded.
There is yet another consideration not to be overlooked.
Under the act of March 3d, 1863,* amending the act to establish the Court of Claims, that court has power to consider
and determine all set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages, whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other claims
which the government may have against any claimant in the
court, and render judgment against such claimant if he be
found indebted to the government. Can a debtor to the
United States evade his liability to a judgment against him
by consigning his property to a factor and obtaining some
advances? May the factor recover all that is in the treasury,
though the government may have large claims against his
principals, who are the real parties in interest? We cannot
think the acts of Congress admit of such an interpretation.
These considerations show that the "owner," spoken of in
the third section of the Captured and Abandoned Property
* 12 Stat. at Large, 765.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES

V. VILLALONGA.

Opinion of the court.

Act, "having a right to the proceeds thereof," is he who has
the legal interest in those proceeds, and that a factor who
made advances before the capture can, at most, recover only
to the extent of his lien.
The court below rested their judgment upon Carroll's
case, but that case, in our opinion, has. little analogy to this.
There, an administratrix of a deceased person was the claimant, and it was held to be no bar to the suit that the decedent gave aid and comfort to the rebellion, the property
having been taken after his death from the administratrix,
and not from him, and the administratrix was declared to be
the owner within the meaning of the statute. Undoubtedly
she was the full legal owner, entitled both in law and in
equity to the entire property. Hers was the only title which
existed at the time of the capture. Through whom she acquired it was deemed immaterial. It was sufficient that no
other person had a definite right. This is no such case.
Here there are owners, both in law and in equity, other than
the claimant, and the statute has opened the Court of Claims
for them, if they have never given aid or comfort to the
rebellion. The present claimant, at most, is entitled to no
more than the net proceeds of sale of his own cotton, one
hundred and ninety-six bales, and the amount of his advances on the other cotton, reducing those advances to their
worth in the money of the United States at the time the
advances were made.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause

REMITTED

with instruc-

tions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

