SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

assent must be the work of the parties themselves. The
law cannot supply it for them. That is a function wholly
beyond the sphere of judicial authority. As the applicant
was never bound, the company was never bound. The
policy was, therefore, no more a contract than the receipt.
Both had the same fatal defect, the want of the assent of
one of the parties.
Even where the parties supposed they had agreed and it
turned out there was a misunderstanding as to a material
point, the requisite mutual assent as to that point being
wanting, it was held that neither was bound.*
The deceased paid nothing. The contest is an effort on
that side to gather where he had not sown. The law involved is expressed by the phrase "it takes two to make a
bargain."
In this view of the case, irrespective of the other considerations which have been urged upon our attention, we hold
that the facts found do not warrant the conclusion reached.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case

REMANDED,

with direc-

tions to enter a judgment
IN FAVOR OF THE PLAINTIFF IN ERROR.

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. When the question is whether, under the constitution and laws of a particular State, a company professing to be a corporation, is legally so, this
court will receive as conclusive of the question, the decision of the highest
court of the State deciding, in a case identical in principle, in favor of
the corporate existence.
2. The taking of private property in order that a railroad may be made, belongs to the class of things which in proper cases are to be regarded as
public necessities.
* Baldwin & Forbes v. Mildeberger, 2 Hall, 176, a case at law; Coles v.
Browne, 10 Paige, 526, a case in equity; see also Calverley v. Williams, 1
Vesey, Jr., 210, and Crane v. Partland, 9 Michigan, 493

Oct. 1874.]

SECOMBE

v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

109

Statement of the case.
3. The mode of exercising the right of eminent domain, in the absence of
any provision of organic law prescribing a contrary course, is within
the discretion of the legislature. There is no limitation upon the power
of the legislature in this respect if the purpose be a public one and just
compensation be paid or tendered to the owner for the property taken.
4. A judgment of condemnation rendered by a competent court, charged
with a special statutory jurisdiction, and when all the facts necessary to
the exercise of the jurisdiction are shown to exist, is no more subject to
impeachment in a collateral proceeding than the judgment of any other
court of exclusive jurisdiction.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota;
in which court Secombe brought ejectment against the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, to recover a lot in
Minneapolis used by the company for a station.
The cause was heard by the court without the intervention of a jury.
It was admitted that Hiram Osborne and Ovid Pinney,
under whom Secombe, by deeds of quitclaim made in 1870,
claimed, had once been owners of the lot. But the railway
company was now in possession of it, claiming under an act
of condemnation made in 1867-three years before the deeds
of quitclaim-in favor of the Minnesota Central Railway
Company, in the alleged exercise of the right of eminent
domain. The company defendant had succeeded to that
company's rights.
Against the right of the Minnesota Central Railway Company, in whose favor the judgment of condemnation was
entered, Secombe alleged:
1st. That under the constitution and laws of Minnesota
the company was not a corporation, and, therefore, under
the said laws not authorized to procure a condemnation in
any form.
2d. That whether it was a corporation or not, all of the
proceedings taken to obtain title to the lot were, under the
said constitution and laws, void.

The case was thus:
In 1856, the territorial legislature of Minnesota incorpo.
rated a certain railroad company under a name then given
to it.

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In 1858, the Territory became a State and made a constitution.
This constitution prohibited the "formation" of corporations by special act.*
It ordained also that "no person should be deprived of
property without due process of law," and that private property should not be taken for public use without just compensation therefor "first paid or secured."t
About the same time, by a constitutional amendment, the
State authorized the company above mentioned as incorporated by the Territorial legislature in 1856, and to which it
had since made a loan of its credit by the issue of State
bonds, for the payment of whose interest the company was
to provide, to mortgage its roads, franchises, &c., to the State
as security for payment of the principal and interest of the
bonds. The railroad company made the mortgage, but paid
neither principal nor interest on the State bonds; and in
1860, the legislature of the State, by an act declaring that a
default had occurred on the part of the company, in paying
the interest on the bonds, directed the governor to foreclose
the mortgage, and to bid in and purchase the roads and franchises in the name of the State. This the governor did.
In the following year, 1861, the legislature by another
act-a special act-which recited the act authorizing the
foreclosure of the mortgage, and the purchase and acquisition of the road, its franchises, &c., by the State under the
foreclosure-granted the road, its franchises, &c., to certain
persons who had organized themselves into another company; the grant being subject to certain conditions, for the
non-performance of which the grant was to be forfeited.
In 1862, the conditions having been broken, and a forfeiture having occurred, the road was regranted to a yet
third set of persons organized into a new company, and
called the Minnesota Central Railway Company.
It was this company which had caused the lot in question
to be condemned for the purposes of its road; and the corn* Article 10, section 2.

t 1b., section 4.

Oct. 1874.]

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

111

Statement of the case.

pany derived its corporate existence under legislation of the
same character as did the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company, which in the case of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad
Company v. _Parcher,* the Supreme Court of Minnesota held
good and constitutional. That court considered that although corporations could not be formed by special act, yet
that the State could buy the property including the franchise-or right to be a corporation of a corporation already
created-and could hold without a merger, if it was for its
interest and it desired to do so, the franchise which it had
thus bought. It considered further that it was for the interest of the State to do so, because this would better enable
it to secure the successful prosecution of important enterprises which it could not well carry oil itself; while, that it
was the intention of the State to keep alive the purchased
franchise and hold it without merg'er, sufficiently appeared,
the court thought from legisla on subsequent to the foreclosure. The court, in conclusion, said:
"There was no attempt here to create new corporate franchises, and thus to form and to bring into existence for the first
time that which is the very essence of a corporation, and without which a corporation is nothing. But corporate franchises
already in existence and held by the State as property, without
merger in its general sovereignty and without extinguishment,
were transferred to the persons enumerated in the act. This,
we think, was a legitimate and constitutional transaction."
The part of the case relating to the proceeding of condemnation was thus:
An act of 1862 enacted:
"S OTION 10. The said company shall have the right of way
upon any lands, to survey and lay down said road, not exceeding two hundred feet in width, and whenever it is necessary to
have such lands, they shall have -the right to enter upon, take
and hold such lands, and occupy the same. When the same
shall not be granted to said company, the compensation to be
paid therefor shall be thus ascertained. The said company shall
* 14 Minnesota, 297.

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

apply to the Judge of the District Court of the Territory of
Minnesota, for the appointment of three commissioners, whose

duty it shall be, to proceed to assess the damages which may
be sustained by the several owners of the lands through which
the road of said company is located. It shall be the duty of
said company to give thirty days' notice of their application for
the appointment of said commlissioners, in one or more newspapers published in each of the counties through which said
road is laid out; and it shall be the duty of such commissioners
to cause ten days' notice of their meeting to appraise the damages of any land through which said road may run, to be given
to the owner or claimant thereof. Either party feeling aggrieved
by the decision of such commissioners, may appeal to the District Court of the county in which such land may be situated;
and said appeal shall be tried in the same manner as if commenced therein. The notice to be given by the commissioners to
the owners of lands required by the railroad, shall be in writing,
and delivered to said owner or owners, or left at their usual
place of residence; or if non-residents, then said notice shall be
published in the nearest newspaper to where said land is situated, at least four weeks before making such appraisement."
The court below found as facts the following matters; this
finding under the statute authorizing such finding of fact
by the court, being in the nature of a special verdict:
1st. That, on the 26th of September, 1863, the company
petitioned the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District
of Minnesota, for the appointment of three commissioners to
assess the damages which might be sustained by the owners
of the land in question, by reason of the appropriation of it
for railroad purposes.
2d. That the company had, previously to the said time,
given thirty days' notice of their intended application, directed, among other persons, to Hiram Osborne and Ovid
Pinney (the then owners), in the State Atlas, a newspaper
published in the county.
3d. That the court appointed certain persons (named) as
commissioners for the said purpose.
4th. That the commissioners, at least four weeks before
the 2d day of December, 1863, published in the said State

Oct. 1874.]

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

Atlas notice of their meeting to appraise the damages of the
said premises on the said 2d day of December, 1863, which
notice was directed to Osborne and others, naming them.
That Osborne could not be found in Minneapolis, and that
his place of residence was unknown to the commissioners.
5th. That, on the 8th of April, 1864, the commissioners
reported that they had awarded damages for the land entered
upon and taken possession of by the company in the sum
of $40; which report was, on the 16th day of April, 1864,
filed with the clerk of the court.
6th. That, at a general term of the court, on the 20th of
July, 1867, the court majle an order that the award be confirmed, and judgment be entered thereon in conformity with
the award, and that the $40 be paid into court by the company on the judgment to be entered, by leaving the same
with the clerk thereof.
7th. That on the 22d of December, 1868, on motion of the
company, a judgment was entered by the clerk in favor of
the said Minnesota Central Railway Company, confirming
the award, and directing that the said sum of $40 be paid
into court by leaving the same with the clerk; and that the
company at the time of the entry of judgment, paid into
court the sum of $40.
8th. That the said judgment was thereupon docketed and
satisfaction thereof entered by the clerk as against said company; and that a copy of the judgment, certified by the
clerk, with his certificate that the same had been satisfied
as against the said company by the payment of the said sum
of money into c'ourt, was therearter recorded in the office of
the register of deeds of the said county.
No fact material to the issues appeared upon the trial
other than the foregoing.
It was not shown upon the trial in any way or manner
that Osborne or Pinney ever appeared in any of the said
proceedings, or that any personal notice was ever given to
or had by the said Osborne, of any of the said proceedings,
or that any notice other than as aforementioned was given
to or had by either of the said persons; or that the said
VOL.

XXIII.

8

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the validity of the condemnation.

State Atlas was the nearest newspaper to where the premises described in the complaint were situated.
The court below gave judgment for the defendant, and
from that judgment the case now came here.
Mr. Secombe, proprig persons, plaintiff in error:
1. The Minnesota Railway Company, in whose favor the condemnation is alleged to have been made, had no corporate existence.
The constitution of Minnesota ordains, in express terms,
that railroad corporations shall not be formed by special
law. :Now this provision of fundamental law has been violated, if not in letter, certainly in. spirit. No railroad corporation was, indeed, created in the exactly ordinary way,
but there being a railroad corporation already in existence,
with roads, franchises, and all other requisites of a railroad,
under mortgage to the State, the mortgage is foreclosed, and
the mortgaged property, including franchises and all other
requisites, is bought by the State itself, and then, by a special act, it all is granted out to certain individuals, and in
St. Paul and Pacific Railroad v. .Parcher,this is held not to
violate the provision of the constitution against the creation,
by special law, of railroad corporations; but to be, all, "a
legitimate and constitutional transaction !"
It would seem that the problem proposed to the Supreme
Court of Minnesota for solution should be thus stated:
"Given an express constitutional prohibition against the
formation of a corporation by special act, in what way may
that constitutional provision be defeated ?"
The solution given by the court is ingenious, but seems to
us to be in violation of the purpose of the constitutional provision thus avoided. It is a manner of dealing with a constitutional provision which should not, we think, commend
itself to this court.
2. The alleged manner of the attempted exercise of the right of
eminent domain, and consequently the alleged divestiture of the
plaintiff's right of possession was unconstitutional.
There was not provided for by law a judicial trial, in determining the just compensation which should be paid for

Oct. 1874.]

SECOMBE V. RAILR0AD COMPANY.

Argument against the validity of the condemnation.

the taking of the private property in controversy in this
case.
The constitution of Minnesota provides that no person
shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law; and this means a judicial trial. It is not
necessary to assert in this case that a trial by jury is an
essential part of that judicial trial. But it is absolutely necessary that there should be a proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction, and that the party to be affected by the
proceeding should be summoned into that court and have
notice of the object of the proceeding.
The tenth section of the act of March 1st, 1856, which contains all that there is on the subject, provided that the judge
of the District Court may be applied to, to appoint commissioners to assess the damages, and that a notice of this application shall be published in a newspaper. This act of the
judge is purely ministerial, and his functions end with the appointment. This notice, which is only constructive in its nature, has expended its entire force when the appointment has
been made. The commissioners thus appointed are required
to give notice of their meeting to assess damages. The effect
of this notice ends with the meeting which is the sole subject
of the notice. An interested party may have happenedto see
the published notice of the application to the judge, and may
have been present when the judge made the appointment.
He may have had actual notice of the meeting of the commissioners, and have been present and seen them looking at
the premises. But at this point the effect of the notice ends.
There is, it is true, an abortive attempt in the statute to
give a judicial trial upon appeal to the District Court from
the award of the commissioners, but there is an entire absence of any provision for notice to the landowner, which
would reqfire or enable him to take advantage of that opportunity. The commissioners are not required or authorized to make their award to the court, or to file it in the
court or with the judge or clerk; nor are they required to
notify in any way to the landowner the award or the making thereof. So that while there is here provided a proceed-

SECOMBE V.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument against the validity of the condemnation.

ing in court, there is no provision made for any notice by
which the court could acquire jurisdiction of the person of
the landowner in that proceeding.
3. The laws under which the attempted exercise of the right of
eminent domain was made arefurther void, because they authorize
the taking of the property before making payment therefor.
The constitution of Minnesota provides that private property shall not be taken for public use, without just compensation therefor, first paid or secured.
The act of March 1st, 1856, provides that the lands may
be entered upon, taken, held and occupied, before any steps
are taken for paying or securing the just compensation.
This is in direct violation of the constitution of Minnesota.
4. In summary proceedings, under which the rights of parties
are affected and divested, without their consent, a strict compliance
with all the requirements of the statute must be shown by the party
claiming title thereunder.
The only provisions of law by which the rights of Secombe's grantors could be affected are those contained in
the act of March 1st, 1856.
Now, there was a non-compliance with the foregoing provisions of law:
1st. In that the said commissioners did not, at the time
of their meeting, or within a reasonable time thereafter,
assess the damages to the said land. The meeting of the
commissioners was on the 2d day of December, 1863; they
did not make their award until more than four months
thereafter.
2d. In that the commissioners awarded damages for the
land which had been theretofore entered upon and taken
possession of by the company, at the time when the same
was so entered upon and taken possession of as aforesaid.
3d. In that the company did not, within a reasonable time
thereafter, pay or tender to the landowner the damages so
awarded. In order to acquire the right which the company
was seeking under this law, it was the duty of the company
at once to tender the landowner the amount of the award,
to the end that if the landowner was satisfied with the

Oct. 1874.]

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

award he might have his money, and if he was not satisfied
he might have his appeal from the award. Yet no payment
was ever made or tendered to the landowner, nor was any
notice ever given to or had by him, that any award had
been made.
Mr. F. 1?. B. Cornell, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The case was tried by the court without the intervention
of a jury, and the only material point for inquiry is, whether
on the whole case the decision of the court below, which
was adverse to the plaintiff, was correct.
Whether the Minnesota Central Railroad Company, under
whom the defendant claims-and which occupied for railroad purposes the land in question long before the deeds of
quitclaim under which the plaintiff sets up title were madewhether this company had the right to condemn the land
and took the proper steps to condemn it, depends of necessity on the laws of the State; and if these laws have been
construed by the highest court of the State in a case similar
in character to the one before us, the Federal courts are relieved of all difficulty.
We do not feel called upon to enter into an examination
of the several acts on this subject, both public and private,
which are quite numerous, in order to show that the Minnesota Central Company had a corporate existence, and was
therefore capable of performing an act of condemnation. It
is enough to say that the point is settled in favor of the company by the decision and reasoning of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota in St. Paul and Pacic Railroad Company v.
Parcher.
The Minnesota Central Company was authorized by law
to procure the condemnation of land for the use of its road,
and from the findings of fact by the Circuit Court it sufficiently appears that the statutory provisions on the subject
were observed.
It is no longer an open question in this country that the

SECOMBE V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mode of exercising the right of eminent domain, in the absence of any provision in the organic law prescribing a
contrary course, is within the discretion of the legislature.
There is no limitation upon the power of the legislature in
this respect, if the purpose be a public one, and just compensation be paid or tendered to the owner for the property
taken. This general rule has received the sanction of the
Supreme Court of Minnesota in analogous cases to the one
at bar.*
It hardly need be said that the taking of private property
in order that a railroad may be constructed, is a public necessity. It is urged that the property in controversy was
occupied before the proceedings in condemnation were begun, but there is nothing in the findings of fact to show
that this was so. Even if the plaintiff were in a situation to
make the objection it would not avail him, for prior occupation without authority of law would not preclude the company from taking subsequent measures authorized by law
to condemn the land for their use. If the company occupied
the land before condemnation without the consent of the
owners, and without any law authorizing it, they are liable
in trespass to the persons who owned the land at the time,
but not to the present plaintiff.
It is urged, also, against the validity of the award of the
commissioners that it was not made in reasonable time, or
the amount of it ever paid or tendered to the parties in interest. Whether this be so or not does not concern the
plaintiff. It is enough for him to know that a judgment
was entered confirming the award, and the money paid into
the c.ourt for the use of Pinney and Osborne, and is there
now unless they have seen fit to withdraw it. It is a fair
presumption, as both these persons had notice, actual or
constructive, of the proceedings in condemnation, and took
no steps to review them, that they were either satisfied with
the award or concluded they could not make successful opposition to it.
* Weir v. The St. Paul, Stillwater, and Taylor's Falls Railroad Co., 18
Minnesota, 155; Langford v. Commissioners of Ramsey County, 16 Id. 375.

Oct. 1874.]

LEWIS v. HAWKINS.
Syllabus.

This suit is an effort to question the propriety of the condemnation and sale of the property in a collateral proceeding, not by the party even whose land was appropriated, but
by a stranger to the original proceeding, who, whatever his
motive in buying, got no other estate than the original owners could convey-a fee subject to the easement of the railroad company. The judgment of condemnation in this case
was rendered by a competent court, charged with a special
statutory jurisdiction, and all the facts necessary to the exercise of this jurisdiction are shown to exist. A judgment
thus obtained is no more subject to impeachment in a collateral proceeding than the judgment of any other court of
exclusive jurisdiction.*
If it were so, railroad companies would have no assurance
that the steps taken by them to procure the right of way
would conclude any one, and they would be constantly subject to vexatious litigation.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LEWIS v. HAWKINS ET AL.
0

1. Where a party agrees to sell -land to another and as consideration there-.
for the vendee gives his promissory notes payable at a future date
named, and the vendor gives his bond conditioned that on the payment
of the notes he will convey the premises in fee to the vendee, but makes
no deed, the legal estate remains, until the payment of the purchasemoney, in the vendor, and he has, by the law of those States where such
liens are recognized, a "vendor's lien." The vendee has an equitable
title only; one indeed which he can sell or devise, but one which if the
purchase-money is unpaid he cannot sell so as to exclude the vendor's
right to have payment of it. Any purchaser from the vendee who assumes to pay the notes takes the same title that the vendee bad, that is
to say an equitable title, the land being still charged with the payment
of the purchase-money.
2. A discharge of such purchaser from the vendee under the Bankrupt Act,
will relieve such purchaser from paying the notes, but it will not give
* 1 Redfleld on Railways, 5th edition, p. 271.

