AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the case
is remitted with instructions to enter a decree in favor of
the complainants against the defendant for $2877.45, with
costs of suit in the court below. Each party to pay his own
costs in this court.
REVERSAL AND REMAND ACCORDINGLY.

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.
A. rehearing will not be granted on the ground that the record on which the
casewas heard was imperfect, it appearing by an examination of the parts
which on the original hearing were left out, but which were now brought
up, that they presented nothing but matter which did not affect the
merits of the case, or matter which only further established that which
the court in giving its decree considered to be already otherwise abundantly proved.

THIS was a petition for rehearing, made in behalf of
Whipple, the appellee, in an appeal from a chancery decree,
in which a judgment of reversal and remand had been given
in this court against him, at an earlier part of this term.*
The original case was thus:
'Whipple, of the city of Washington, D. C., had formed a
partnership in the year 1869, with a man of the name of
Ambler, the purpose of the partnership being to generate
gas from petroleum by a new process which Ambler pro-fessed to have discovered. Whipple was the man of business of the firm, and the person who furnished the requisite
money to carry p the scheme. Ambler was a man of inventive genius, but of genius disfigured by so many irregularities and vices as to make it somewhat doubtful whether
he was entirely safie. He would get, for example, into
drunken debauches, from time to time, and when in them,
lie, cheat, commit forgery (of which, indeed, he was at the
time actually convict), and go away from Washington as
20 Wallace, 546.

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.

Statement of the case.

if he had no business there at all to attend to. About the
21st of August, 1869, Ambler being sober enough befbre,
and at the time, the parties made an experiment which resulted in a valuable and profitable discovery. Soon after
this, that is to say, about the 1st of September following,.
Ambler having got into one of his drunken fits, went away
from Washington, and was gone for eight or tell days while
Whipple was bringing more nearly to perfection the experiment just mentioned, the success of which, in the main, had
been already established; a success which was largely due
to Ambler.
Having got through his debauch, Ambler returned to
Washington, where he found that Whipple had taken another person into partnership with him, and that the two
had combined to shut hini out of the partnership workshops,
and to treat him as no longer interested in the business of
the firm.
Ambler hereupon filed a bill praying that the new firm
might be enjoined from using the recent discovery, and that
Whipple might account.
Whipple answered, setting forth Ambler's habits of debauchery, of lying, &c., and that he had abandoned the
workshops at Washington-in which point of light the bill
represented Ambler's recent departure.
Neither, however, in this answer nor in a cross-bill which
he filed, did Whipple allege that Ambler's character and
habits were not known to him as to very many other persons
in Washington before the formation of the partnership.
And in point of fact it seemed that they were perfectly well
known to him as to others. INo dissolution of the partnership was prayed for by either party.
This court on appeal from a decree made in the local court
at Washington where the proceedings in the case were originally begun, decreed that though Ambler's bad characterhis drunkenness, dishonesty, &c.-would have been good
ground for dissolving the partnership had the partnership
been entered into in ignorance of them by Whipple, yet that
Whipple having been fully acquainted with them before the

AMBLER

V. WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

partnership was made, he could not now make them the excuse to treat the partnership as ended, and to take to himself
all the benefits of the joint labor of the two partners and
their joint property. And it appearing on the proofs, that
notwithstanding all his foibles and vices, Ambler had greatly
contributed by his inventive genius to the discovery which
had been made on the 21st of August, 1869-contributed
indeed quite as much as Whipple ever had by his money
and his more steady habits-this court charged Whipple
with half the profits made since his exclusion of Ambler
from the workshops.
In narrating the facts of the case, before giving the opinion of the court upon them, the court spoke of Ambler's departure from Washington as having occurred on the 20th of
August* In point of fact, as already said, he actually went
from the city on the 1st of September, he having been lying
about somewhere more or less intoxicated, as was said, for
a day or two before he actually went out of town.
Such was the original case. The petition for rehearing
now set forth that a large part of the matter which was before the court below had been omitted on the hearing before
this court, and that such hearing was, therefore, upon a
defective record. Affidavits accompanied the petition, by
which it was attempted to be shown that owing to the death
of one of the gentlemen employed as counsel, and the substitution of others, there was no laches or neglect in examining and perfecting the record before the hearing, for which
the petitioner, Whipple, the appellee, should be held responsible. A transcript of the parts of the record which were
omitted in the first transcript, now accompanied the petition for rehearing. They consisted of commissions to take
depositions, of orders fixing the time, by extension or other* This slight and wholly unimportant inaccuracy of the court was noted
by the Reporter as he was reporting the case, and in making his "statement
of the case," no exact day in August was given; it being made to appear
only that Ambler's departure was probably after the 21st. The error of the
court, therefore, does not appear in the report with any point. In fact, as
is decided in this case, it had none in any aspect.

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

Opinion of the court.

wise, for taking testimony, of rules upon the parties to do
various things preparatory to a final hearing, which did not
aifect the merits of the case; and of matters showing Ambler to have been drunk, vicious, negligent, and in contempt
of court in the progress of the case.
The petition for rehearing stated the petitioner's case very
fully, fortifying it, so far as it could befortified, by references
and extracts from both the original record and the supplemental one now brought up, and containing the parts which
had been omitted.
As respected one of the points sought to be established
by the affidavits-to wit, that Whipple, or his counsel, were
without fault in not having sought before the hearing of the
original case to perfect the transcript of the record-it appeared by an examination of the records of this court, that
the appeal was docketed and dismissed February 19th, 1872,
because the record had not been filed within the time limited
by the rule of the court; that on the 1st of March, a motion
to set aside that order was made, when the late Mr. Hughes,
counsel for Whipple, the appellee, obtained time for one
week to examine the transcript proposed to be filed, and it
was within the recollection of the court, that this was on
the ground that it was an incomplete record.
It further appeared by the same sort of evidence, that on
the 8th of March, Mr. Hughes had an extension of time for
this examination to the 22d, which made three weeks allowed
for that purpose, and on that day the order of dismissal was
set aside and the case docketed, on the transcript on which
it was finally heard. The case was reached for argument at
the October Term of 1873, and continued without objection,
and on the 15th of October, 1874, was passed until the 13th
of November by consent, and heard on the 16th and 17th
of that month.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is the well-settled rule of this court, to which it has
steadily adhered, that no rehearing is granted unless some
member of the court who concurred in the judgment, ex-

AiMBLER V. WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

presses a desire for it, and not then unless the proposition
receives the support of a majority of the court. For this
reason, and for the better reason that the pressure of business in the court does not permit it, no reply to the petition
whatever is allowed from the other side or given by the
court.
The petition for rehearing in this case presents some features which seem to require a departure from this rule. It
states that the hearing in this court was had on an imperfect
record, that a lar.ge part of the matter which was before the
court below had been omitted in the transcript certified to
this court, and it attempts to show by affidavits that there
was no laches or neglect for which the appellee should be
held responsible in failing to examine and perfect the record
before the hearing.
If this statement be correct, and if the omissions in the
transcript on which the case was heard are material to the
decision of the case, it presents a strong appeal for reargument; and we have, therefore, given a careful consideration
to the very full petition for rehearing, and availed ourselves
of its copious references to the original and supplemental
transcripts.
But an examination of the proceedings in the case in this
.courtsheds much light on a question suggested in the affidavits. The facts which are of record in this court, show
that the sufficiency of the transcript o'n which the case was
heard had been a matter of careful consideration by counsel
for the petitioners, and that it was finally accepted and filed,
and that for two years and a half it remained on the docket
and no attempt to correct it by certiorari or otherVise was
made. It cannot be said, in the face of these facts, even if
the omitted parts of the record were material, that the appellee was without fault in failing to have it brought up.
But we have no doubt that Mr. Hughes, who was an experienced and careful lawyer, was satisfied, as we are, from
an examination of this additional transcript, that it was
wholly immaterial to any issue in the cause.
It consists of commissions, orders, and rules, which do npo

Oct. 1874.]

THOMAS & Co. V. WOOLDRIDGE.

283

Syllabus.

affect the merits of the case. It is filled with matter showing Ambler to have been drunk, vicious, negligent, and in
contempt of the court, in the progress of the case. In short,
if his cause was to be tried on his nmerils instead of the merits
of his case, it shows enough, as the original record did, to
defeat it.
All this is only .in aid of the theory on which Whipple
has rested his case and lost it, namely, that because Ambler
was a very bad man, a drunkard, and a convicted felon, that
he, his trustee and partner, could take to himself all the
benefit of Ambler's skill and labor, disregard his double relation as trustee and partner, and violate every principle
which governs these confidential relations.
The only error of fact pointed out in the opinion of the
court, which is sustained by the record, is that Ambler, instead of leaving Washington about the 20th of August, the
date of the successful experiment, did not leave the city
until September the 1st, a difference wholly without influence on the points decided.
We remain of the opinion that the decree of this court
was right, and the petition for rehearing is
DENIED.

THOMAS & Co. v.

WOOLDRIDGE.

1. The court will not, generally speaking, refuse to hear a motion to dismiss,
before the term to which, in regular order, the recora ought to be returned, if the record be printed and the rules of court about motions of
that sort have been complied with by the party making the motion.
2. Though a failure of the party making a motion to dismiss, to send a copy
of his brief to the counsel of the other side within the time required by
the amendment made at December Term, 1871, to Rule 6, would entitle
such counsel of the other side to ask to postpone the hearing in order to
give time for further preparation, yet if he have himself before the hearing filed a full argument upon the merits of the motion, the failure of
his opposing coumel to have complied with the amendment to the rule
-would hardly warrant an objection that the notice of the motion was
insufficient.

