Oct. 1874.]

MASON V.

GRAHAM.

Syllabus.

parts of acts inconsistent with its provisions.

No resort to

a repeal by implication is necessary.
Of course the act of 1873 does not make foreign coins receivable in cases where they were not receivable before;
but where they are receivable, or where their value is material to be known, the rule for ascertaining that value is
clearly laid down and determined by the law. It is true it
does not itself fix the values of foreign coins except in a
single instance where special reasons require it; and it is
doubtful whether the attempt to do so would have been as
judicious as the method adopted. Those values are now to
be carefully ascertained and publicly announced by the
proper officers of the government. This method will insure
the greatest accuracy, and will be attended with many public benefits. It is just, both to the government and the importer, because it is founded on truth; and it will be a great
convenience to all persons who have any transactions in
which the value of foreign money is in any way involved.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the record remitted, with direc-

tions to the Circuit Court to award
A

VENIRE DE NOVO.

MASON v. GRAHAM.
1. The patent of E. H. Graham, of October 16th, 1860, reissued May 28th,
1867, for "picker staff motion in looms," has no relation to the mere form
of a journal-bearing arm, nor does it consist in arranging a journalbearing arm in a slot in the rocker. It embraces every combination of
a rocker with a bed and loose journal-bearing arms, arranged so as to
produce the result described in the specification as effected by the combination.
2. Inasmuch as the defendant (who was alleged to infringe this invention
of Graham) employed a combination of a rocker with a bed by loose
journals projecting on each side the picker-staff, and the combination
was effected by means of a journal-bearing arm, it was held, to be unimportant that the form of his journal-bearing arm was unlike that of
the complainant's, or that its mode of attachment was different, so long
as it performed the same function in substantially the same way.

MASON V. GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. Where the defendant had been in the habit of selling the infringing
picker-staff motion both separately and in a form where they were attached to looms, regaid should be had, in ascertaining his profits upon
those sold with the looms, to his profits upon those sold separately rather
than to the aggregate profits made by him upon the loom and attachment combined.
4. If a defendant has cheapened the cost of producing the infringing device
by an improvement of his own, he is entitled to a corresponding credit
in the ascertainment of the profits, which a complainant is entitled to
recover.
5. After an interlocutory decree and reference to a master in a suit against
3., a manufacturer and seller of infringing machines, the owners of
the patent commenced proceedings against persons who used machines
made and sold by 31. M. thereupon, to protect his customers, paid the
patentees a sum fixed upon, under a written agreement that the payment
should be " in full satisfaction of our right to collect back damages for
past infringement" by At. 's customers, and a license fee for the future
use of all the machines sold by 31.; but the agreement contained a pro.
viso that this settlement should 1 not affect -inany manner our right to
rec6ver profits or damages" from M1., and that the suit against 31.
11shall proceed precisely as if this settlement had never been made."
Held, that the amount paid to the patentees by 31. was properly excluded
by the master as a credit in computing profits made by M.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, in which court E. H. Graham filed a bill against
one Mason forinjunction and account; the bill beingfounded
upon letters-patent for an "improvement in picker-staff motion for looms," granted to him, October 16th, 1860, and
reissued May 28th, 1867; which pafent and reissue the bill
alleged that a machine of Mason, the defendant, infringed.
The object of the invention patented to the complainant
was to produce an accurate and sure picker-staff motion in
looms by a combination of devices, which, while giving
great accuracy of motion, should so guide and hold the
picker-staff as to enable it to work with the least possible
friction and lateral disarrangement, commonly called "wabbling."
In all picker-staff motions it is desirable, if not essential,
that the end of the staff made to strike the shuttle should
move in a right line, so as to drive the shuttle directly along
the shuttle-race in the line in which it is desired to play.
This has been effected by constructing the lower end of

Oct. 1874.]

MASON V. GRAEAM.

Statement of the case.-Graham's invention.

the staff in the form of a rocker, the exterior curve of which
is an arc of a circle described from a centre corresponding
with that point in the staff that strikes the shuttle. This
rocker is made to roll on a bed, the face of which is extended parallel to the shuttle-race, and which is placed on
the outside of the loom beneath the lay. How to connect
the rocker with the bed, so that the picker-staff may be
maintained in proper position upon the bed, had been a subject of much inquiry. Various modes had been suggested
before the complainant obtained his patent, and several of
these modes had been described in patents for improvements
in looms granted to other inventors.
The invention of Graham, the complainant, is shown in

the following drawings:
FIG. 1.

This figure represents a vertical central longitudinal section through so much of a picker-staff and its appurtenances,
embracing the said improvements, as is necessary to illustrate the invention.
Figure 2, upon the fpllowing page, is a perspective view
of same.

MASON V. GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Graham's invention.
FIG. 2.

Figure 3 represents a central longitudinal horizontal section through the retracting spring of the picker-staff and its
cylinder.
FIG. 3.

Figure 4 is a plan or top view of Figure 1.
FIG. 4.

The description in the reissue was thus:
"In these figures, a a represent a curved rocker, in the socket
b b, of which the picker-staff is to be fastened. The rocker a a
plays upon a horizontal bed, c c, having a socket d, through
which the shaft of the loom passes in the usual way. The shank,
e e, of the rocker, a a, is made hollow, or with a suitable box or
bearing,ff, into which a shaft arm or bar, g g, is inserted, which
arm, by means of journals projecting on each side thereof, has

Oct. 1874.]

MASON v. GRAHAM.

265

Statement of the case.-Graham's invention.

a bearing in the eyes, i i, formed in the bed-piece, c c. By this
arrangement, the rocker (in its reciprocating movement) is kept
perfectly true in its bearings by the arm or bar, g g, which holds
the rocker, a a, truly in position, in consequence of its long bearing therein; and as the arm or bar, g g, also oscillates freely upon
its journals, h h,which further serve to steady the rocker laterally, the rocker moves with the least possible friction, and with
the greatest accuracy, so that the wear and tear is necessarily
but very slight. The eyes or bearings, ii,have inclined slots
(shown in dotted lines in Figure 1) cut in them, so as to form
ears or open boxes in which the journals, h A,are inserted when
the parts of the picker motion are put together. By this means,
the shaft or arm, g, and its journals, A, can readily be removed
and replaced, and are free to play without liability to work out of
their bearings. The rocker, a a, is retracted by means of a spiral
spring, k k, wound loosely around a short shaft, 1, and attached at
one end to a plate, m,which turns freely on the shaft, 1. A strap,
n, attached to the plate, m, fits over a hook, o, on the under side
of the rocker, a a. As the spring, k k, is liable to partially lose
its foree by the motions of the rocker, a a, this contingency is
provided for by forming in the plate, m,a series of holes,p p, into
which successively one end of the spring, k k,is set, as fast as it
loses its elastic force, whereby the spring can be set up at pleasure, and its force graduated without the necessity of frequent
repairings or renewals."
The reader thus sees that the invention described is primarily a combination of a rocker with a bed by means of
loose journals projecting on each side of the picker-staff, and
arranged beneath it substantially as described in the specification. As in other arrangements for picker-staff motions,
the rocker is made to play upon a horizontal bed, parallel to
and below the shuttle-race, and the bed has a socket passing
longitudinally through its base, for the passage of the shaft
of the loom. The shank of the rocker is made hollow, that
is, with a box or bearing extending through its tread iipward, into which a shaft-arm or bar is inserted. This bar
or shaft-arm is fitted with journals projecting on each side
at right angles with the rocker, and resting in eyes formed
in the bed-piece, which constitute the journal bearings. The

MASON V.

GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Graham's invention.

eyes have inclined slots cut in them, so that they form ears,
or open boxes, into which the journals are inserted when the
parts of the picker-stiff motion or the constituents of the
combination are put together. Thus the shaft and the journals can readily be removed and replaced, and the journals
are free to play without working out of their bearings. The
rocker is retracted and caused to move by means of a spiral
spring, wound loosely around a short shaft below the bed,
and attached at one end to a plate which turns freely on the
shaft; and the plate is connected by a 9trap with a hook extending from the under-side of the rocker, or the lower end
of the shaft-arm.
The reissue continued:
"The first part of this invention relates to the position of the
journals. This position is determined by the position of the
socket for the picker-staff, which socket is so placed that the
point of the picker-staff which strikes the shuttle must move in
the required line; and this part of the invention consists in
placing the journal at or near this socket, and as near the level
of,the bed as practicable. In this position there is the least
possible wear, and the journals perform all their functions to the
best possible advantage. - It is obvious that as every point upon
the rocker varies its position in the action of the motion, with
reference to the bed, it is impossible to connect the journal dirQctly with the rocker and its box directly with the bed, or vice
versa. One or the other must be indirectly connected, and it is
for this reason that in the motion described the journals are
placed upon the arm g, upon which the rocker can play up and
down. So far as we know, no rocker has ever been combined
with its bed by.means of journals before this invention."
"The second part of this invention consists in forming the
boxes or bearings for the journals with such an opening that the
journals may be laid in them in putting the motion together,

without liability to work out in the operation of the rocker, as
plainly shown in the drawings.

This method of construction is

much cheaper than making the boxes cylindrical, and is quite
as efficient in every respect."
The claims of the reissue were as follows:
"1st. The combination of a rocker of a picker-staff with its

Oct. 1874.]

MASON V.

GRAHAM.

Statement of the case.-Mason's invention.

bed, by loose journals, projecting on each side of the pickerstaff, and arranged beneath the picker-staff, substantially as described.
"2d. In combination with the rocker, the bed and the journals, the open boxes, substantially as and for the purpose described.
".3d. In combination with the rocker and its bed, the journalbearing arm, operating substantially as and for the purpose specified."
The devices of Mason (the defendant) are shown in perspective in Figure 5; and a vertical section, in central plane,
of the rocker, is shown in Figure 6.
FIG. 5.

FIa. 6.

These drawings were thus described in the defendant's
patent:

MASON

v.

GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"A represents the rocker-bed, cast with a socket, a, at one
end, by which it is attached to the loom. The upper surface on
which the rocker works is, as usual, straight, in the direction
of the length, but in the cross-section it is made concave, of a
V-shape, to within a short distance of the outer end, where it is
formed with a cross semi-cylindrical box, b, to receive one end
of a link, to be presently described; and near the middle of its
length it is formed with a vertical mortise, C, through which
the stem of the rocker passes, and in which it plays freely.
"The rocker, B, longitudinally is, as usual, in the form of a
segment of a circle, but in the cross-section it is of an inverted
V-shape, to fit the concave of the bed. It has a short stem or
arm, d, which extends through the mortise, c, in the bed, and by
which it is, as usual, connected with a spring for drawing back
the picker-staff. The upper part is suitably formed with an
open socket, e, to receive, and in which is secured by a screwbolt, f, the lower end of the staff, g. Back of the socket, e, it is
formed with a cross semi-cylindrical box, h,like the one, b,at
the outer end of the bed, A.
"There is an open link, c, consisting of two cylindrical journals, i i, connected by side-bars, JJ. One of the end journals
fits and works in the semi-cylindrical box, b,at the outer end
of the bed, A, and the other in the semi-cylindrical box, i, of
the rocker. As the tension of the usual spring attached to the
arm, d, of the rocker tends to draw the rocker in the direction
of the arrow, the link, c, keeps it in its right place on the bed,
and by reason of its end journals working in'the semi-cylindrical
boxes, permits the required rocking motion to take place freely,
whilst at the same time the form of the upper surface of the
bed, and of the under surface of the rocker, prevents the pickerstaff from wabbling or moving sidewise.
"By the mode of eonstruction above described, I am enabled
to make the whole structure of three pieces, the bed, A, the
rocker, B, and the open link, c, each of which can be readily
cast, and the three put together and used without any finish
beyond the usual cleaning operation to which castings are subjected."
The claim of Mason was as follows:
"The bed, formed with a V-shaped groove, and the rocker,
with its under surface of the corresponding form, in combination

Oct. 1874.]

MASON

V. GRAHAM.

Statement of the case.-How far Graham was anticipated.

with the open link, by'which the rocker is kept in place on the
bed, substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
It was not disputed that the defendant's machine was the
same as that described in the complainant's patent, in these
respects, viz.:
1. Each consisted of three main parts, the rocker, the bed,
and a third piece whose office it was to hold the rocker properly upon the bed.
2. The rocker and the bed were the same in each.
The principal question for consideration of the court below
was: Whether the device for holding the rocker upon the
bed in the defendant's machine was the substantial equivalent of the corresponding device in the complainant's machine?
These devices in each machine were described as follows:
In the eomplainant's machine the rocker, a, in its reciprocating movement, was kept true in its bearings by the arm
or bar, g, which held the rocker in position; the bar, g, oscillated upon its journals, I h. The eyes or bearings for the
journals had inclined slots, i, cut in them, so as to form open
boxes, in which the journals were inserted.
Iz the defendant's machine there was an open link, c, consisting of two cylindrical journals, ii, connected by side-bars,
J*J. One of the end journals fitted and worked in the semicylindrical box, b, at the oute' end of the bed, A, and the
other in the semicylindrical box, i, of the rocker. As the
tension of the usual spring attached to the arm, d, of the
rocker tended to draw the rocker in the direction of the
arrow, the link, e,kept it in its right place on the bed, and
by reason of its end journals working in the semicylindrical
boxes, permitted the required rocking motion to take place
freely.
One of the defences-one, however, not much pressedwas that the invention of the complainant, Graham, had
been anticipated by prior devices.
Of these four only need be noticed. They were described
in the earlier patents granted to Benjamin Lapham, to David
Barnum, to Renselaer Reynolds, and to William Stearns.

MASON

V. GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Master's report.-Profits.

While each of these had a rocker and a bed, no one connected the rocker with the bed by means of loose journals,
or by loose journal-bearing arms, and no one of them obtained the beneficial results secured by the invention belonging to the complainant. In Lapham's invention there
was one journal on the bed and one on the rocker, both on
the same side of the picker-staff; a device which obviously
could not prevent wabbling, or the sliding of the rocker on
the bed. Barnum's invention had no journals, journalboxes, or journal-bearing arms. Nor had the device of
Stearns. In the Reynolds patent the rocker was described
as held to the bed by means of a strap fastened at one end
to the under face of the rocker, and at the other to a point
in the groove of the bed-piece, in which the rocker rolled.
The defendant referred to the four patents above mentioned as exhibiting the state of the art when the complainant's patent was granted, and as requiring that patent to be
construed to cover only a combination, of which a journalbearing arm sliding vertically in a hollow place or box in
the rocker, and having journals which turn in open boxes
in the bed-piece, is an essential constituent.
The court below held that the invention of Graham had
not been anticipated by any of the devices relied on to show
anticipation; that the patent of the complainant was infringed by the machine of the defendant, and a decree was
entered ordering the defendant to account, and referring the
case to a master to state an account.
This decree and reference was made on the 9th of June,
1869.
The master reported that the defendant had made and
sold 3639 pairs of the infringing motions as a part of looms
manufactured in his establishment, and that the profits resulting from the manufacture and sale of such motions had
mingled with the profits from the manufacture of looms:
That the cost of making the looms, including the motions,
was $59.63:
That the cost of making the motion was 45- cents each,
or 91 cents for each loom:

Oct. 1874.]

MASON V.

GRAHAM.

Statement of the case.- Master's report.-Profits.

That the profits resulting from the manufacture of each
loom, including the pair of motions, was $5.64.
Assuming these to be the facts, the appellant insisted that
he should have been charged with only 8-6 of a cent as the
profit made by him on each pair of motions, that bearing
the same proportion to $5.54, the whole profit on the looms,
which 91 cents, the cost of a pair of motions, bears to $59.63,
the cost of the entire loom with the motions. This view the
master refused to take.
It appeared further, from the master's report, that the defendant sold 414 pairs separately from the looms at $2 per
pair, and 2971 other pairs for $534.75.
It appeared, however, from the report that the defendant
made the infringing motions after a pattern of his own devising; that they cost 50 cents per pair less than the pickerstaff mechanism, which he had immediately before put upon
his looms; that they were made under a patent granted to
him, and that they cost about 50 cents less than the motions
made by the complainant, the difference in the cost being
due to his invention.
It seemed, also, that the cost of making "beds" and
"rockers," which were used in the repair of bridle-motions
previously made, had been reduced by the defendant; the
defendant's bed costing but 27"-2 cents, and his rocker but
12 4 cents, whereas those of the complainant cost, the bed
42 cents and the rocker 1912; the reduction obtained by the
defendant being due in part to the fact that the labor required in putting together the arm and rocker in his motion
was less than in putting them together in the complainant's.
The report charged the complainant with8639 pairs bridle-motions, sold on looms to sundry parties at a
.
$1819 50
profit of 60 cents per pair,
The profit derived from the sale of the 414 pairs of motions, sold separately from the looms, at $2 a pair, . $828 00
376 74
Less cost of producing at 91 cents per pair, .
451 26

It charged him also with the sale of the
297 motions sold separately from the looms,
Less cost of producing at 91 cents per pair,

.

$534 75
271 76
--

263 00

MASON V.

[Sup. Ct.

GRAHAM1.

Statement of the case.-Master's report.-Profits.

The master also charged the defendant as follows:
346 beds (parts of bridle-motions), sold at various prices,
amounting in all to
.$813 00
Deduct cost at 2717V each,
..
94 11
Profit,
.
$218 89
1548 rockers (parts of bridle-motions), sold at various
prices, amounting in all to.
.
$768 70
Deduct cost at 1246 each...
.
191 95
576 75
$3329 40

On the hearing before the master the defendant sought to
reduce the damages found by him by the introduction of a
paper, admitted to be genuine and signed by the complainant. The paper was given under these circumstances:
Graham, the complainant, had obtained injunctions against
certain mill companies who had bought their motion from
Mason, the defendant, he, Mason, having guaranteed them
against disturbance by Graham. Graham, the complainant,
was about to apply for injunctions against other purchasers
from Mason, who had purchased and were holding in the
same way. And Mason, acting really in behalf of the persons using the motions, and in a certain sense as their agents,
rather than as representing himself alone, had paid the $1000
mentioned in the paper to protect them from all claims of
Graham. The bill in the case had been filed in June, 1867,
and as already said, the decree was made June 9th, 1869:
I

"BOSTON,

October 25th, 1869.

"Received of William Mason, of Taunton, $1000 in full satisfaction for our right to collect back damages for the past infringement of reissue letters-patent of May 28th, 1867, for pickerstaff motions, by the individuals and corporations who have used
bridle-motions of Mr. 3ason'smake, and as tariff for the future use
of such motions. lIt is understood and agreed that the number
of these motions does not exceed five thousand four hundred
and fifty-one, and that Mr. Mason is to furnish us with a list of
the names of the users and the number sold by him to each, and
that the bridle-motions enumerated in that list are all hereby
licensed. This bridle-motion is the motion that has been pat-

Oct. 1874.]

MASON V. GRAHAM.

Opinion of the court.-Oharacter of the invention.

ented by Mr. Mason. It is also understood and agreed that this
settlement does not affect in any manner our right to recover
profits or damages from Mr. Mason for his infringement of said
patent, and that the suit of Graham et al. v. Mason shall proceed
precisely as if this settlement never had been made. It is also
understood that this agreement relates simply and solely to the

bridle-motion, and no other, and licenses simply those bridlemotions of Mr. Mason's make not already licensed, and no others.
"E.

"W.

H. GRAHAM,
MASON."

Mason, the defendant, insisted that this $1000 should be
added to the cost of the "bridle-motions," or in some way
applied to reduce the amount of profits which should be
found resulting from the manufacture. But the master refused to allow him any benefit from this payment. The
master said:
"The money was paid by the defendant after the decree was
passed in the case: It forms no part of the cost of manufacturing the 'bridle-motions' and cannot be here considered in reduction of the amount found as profits of manufacture. If this
is a payment on account of the sum to be ultimately adjudged
against the defendant in this case it is not within the matter
submitted to the master by the decretal order."
The court below affirmed the report of the master, and a
final decree being entered this appeal was taken from the
same.
Mr. Benjamin Deane, for the appellant; Mr. J. E. Maynadier, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
By the arrangement described in Graham's reissued patent
of 1867, ahd claimed as his invention, it is manifest that that
part of the device called the rocker is prevented from sliding
perceptibly on its bed and is kept true in, its bearings by
the arm or bar from which the journals are projected, the
arm having also a long bearing in the box of the rocker.
The journals, moreover, having bearings in the ears of the
VOL. XXIII.

18

MASON v. GRAHAM.

[Sup. Cf.

Opinion of the court.-Character of the invention.

bed, steady the rocker, resist any lateral movement, and
prevent what is denominated as wabbling. As the pickerstaff is made to oscillate, its rocker rises and sinks upon the
arm, and thus most of the friction caused by the play of the
staff comes upon the shaft, or journal-bearing arm, and not
upon the tread of the rocker or the bed-plate.
We think the invention has no relation to any mere form
of a journal-bearing arm. Nor do we think it consists in
arranging a journal-bearing arm in a slot in the rocker. In
our opinion it embraces every combination of a rocker with
a bed and loose journal-bearing arms, arranged so as to produce the result described in the specifications as effected by
the combination.
And we have been unable to perceive that the invention
was anticipated by any of those devices which the defendant has given in evidence. We do not propose to go into
any critical examination of them. . The case does not call
for it. Of them all it may be said that while each has a
rocker and a bed, no one connects the rocker with the bed
by means of loose journals, or by loose journal-bearing arms,
and no one of them obtains the beneficial results secured by
the invention belonging to the complainants. It is but
faintly claimed, if at all, that any of these patents describe
the invention of the complainants. The defendant has used
them rather as exhibiting the state of the art when the reissued patent in question was granted, and as requiring that
patent to be construed to cover only a combination, of which
a journal-bearing arm sliding vertically in a hollow place or
box in the rocker, and having journals which turn in open
boxes in the bed-piece, is an essential constituent. We
think, however, they exhibit no such state of the art as requires that construction to be given to the patent, and we
cannot perceive that such a construction is justified by the
language of the specification and claims.
We come, then, to the inquiry whether the devices made
and sold by the defendant are substantially the same as those
patented by the reissued patent; or, in other words, whether
the picker-staff motion made and sold by the defendant is

Oct. 1874.]

MASON

v.

GRAHAm.

Opinion of the court.-True principles of accounting.

an infringement upon the complainants' right. Upon this
question the opinions of the experts examined are in direct
conflict, and we are, therefore, under the necessity of comparing for ourselves the two devices. We have already said
that the object sought to be accomplished by the complainants' invention was the prevention of wabbling of the
picker-staff, and compelling it to move steadily, without
lateral deflection, in the required plane. It is not denied
that exactly this is the object at which the defendant's motion is aimed. It remains, then, only to determine whether
the means by which the intended result is obtained are substantially the same. That both the combinations connect a
rocker to its bed by journals indirectly, employing an arm
to effect such indirect connection, is made clear by inspection. In Mason's motion the arm is attached by a second
journal, in the complainants' by a slot in the rocker. It is
true the form and the location of the arms differ, but they
perform the same functions, and in substantially the same
manner. Both are journal-bearing arms. Both connect
the journals, whether they are on the rocker or on the bed,
indirectly with the bed in the one case, or with the rocker
in the other. Each, then, is a combination of a rockerwith
a bed, by loose journals projecting on each side of the pickerstaff, and the combination is effected by means of a journalbearing arm. That the form of the journal-bearing arm of
the defendant's motion is unlike that of the complainants',
or that its mode of attachment is different, is immaterial so
long as it performs the same function in substantially the
same way. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the defendant's picker-staff motion must be considered as practically the same as that patented to the complainants, and,
therefore, that the charge of infringement is sustained.
The Circuit Court then correctly ordered that the defendant
should account.
But we think there was error in the ascertainment of the
profits with which he was charged. The master to whom
the statement of the account was referred reported that the

MASON V. GRAHAM.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.-True principles of accounting.

defendant had made and sold 8639 pairs of the infringing
motions as a part of looms manufactured in his establishment, and that the profits resulting from the manufacture
and sale of such motions had mingled with the profits from
the manufacture of looms. He further reported that the
cost of making the looms, including the motions, was $59.63;
that the cost of making the motion was 45 cents each, or
91 cents for each loom; and that the profits resulting from
the manufacture of each loom, including the pair of motions,
was $5.64. Assuming these to be the facts the appellant
insists that he should have been charged with only 8.66ths of
a cent as the profit made by him on each pair of motions,
that bearing the same proportion to $5.54, the whole profit
on the looms, which 91 cents, the cost of a pair of motions,
bears to $59.63, the cost of the entire loom with the motions. To this we cannot assent. It appears from the
master's report that the defendant sold 414 pairs, separately
from the looms, at $2 per pair, and 297k other pairs for
$584.75. These sales furnish a much better measure of
profits than is a ratable proportion of the profits on an entire
loom. It may fairly be presumed from thein that the profits
on the sale of looms, with the motion attached, were increased by the infringing device quite as much as was the
profit on the motions sold separately. It does not appear
at what profit, if any, the looms could have been sold without the picker-staff motion attached.
But the master further reported that the defendant made
the infringing motions after a pattern of his own devising;
that they cost per pair 50 cents less than the picker-staff
mechanism which he had immediately before put upon his
looms; that they were made under a patent granted to him,
and that they cost about 50 cents less than the motions
made by the plaintiffs, the difference in the cost being due
to his invention. If this is so, it is clear that the 50 cents
saved on each pair, equivalent to 50 cents profit, is not due
to the complainants' invention. Were it not for the defendant's improvement the cost of making a pair of motions
would have been, not 91 cents, but 91 plus 50 cents, or

Oct. 1874.]

MASON V.

GRAHAM.

Opinion of the court.-True principles of accounting.

$1.41, and the profits on each pair would have been 59
cents, instead of $1.09 charged to the defendant. Manifestly the complainants are not entitled to the savings or
profits resulting from the defendant's own invention.
The defendant, therefore, has been charged by the
master's report, confirmed by the court, too much for the
profit derived from the sale of 414 pairs of motions sold
separately from the looms, and from the sale of 297 motions also sold separately from the looms. For the former
he should have been charged $243.26, instead of $451.26,
and for the latter $175.52, instead of $268.
We think, also, that the defendant has been excessively
charged for the profits made by him on the 846 beds, and the
1548 rockers sold by him at various times for the repair of
bridle motions previously made. He has been credited
with the cost only, without reference to the fact that the
cost was reduced by his own invention. The complainants
have not shown how much the cost would have been had
the defendant made them without employing his own improvements. Under such circumstances it appears just to
assume that but for the improvement of the defendant the
cost of making the bed would have been 42 cents instead of
27:1, and the cost of making the rockers would have been
192 cents instead of 12 cents and 4 mills, as reported by
the master. The consequence of this is that the profit on
the 346 beds sold was only $167.68, and the profit on the
1548 rockers sold was only $471.49.
The decree, therefore, should have been in favor of the
complainants for
1st.
2d.
3d.
4th.
5th.

Profits on
Profits on
Profits on
Profits on
Profits on

50
26
52
68
49

bridle motions sold on looms,
414 pairs sold separately,
2971 pairs sold separately,
the beds sold,
the rockers sold separately,

.

$1819
243
175
167
471

Total,.

.

$2877 45

A majority of the court is of opinion that the appellant is
not entitled to a credit for the $1000 paid on the 25th of
October, 1869, for which a receipt was then given.

AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the case
is remitted with instructions to enter a decree in favor of
the complainants against the defendant for $2877.45, with
costs of suit in the court below. Each party to pay his own
costs in this court.
REVERSAL AND REMAND ACCORDINGLY.

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.
A. rehearing will not be granted on the ground that the record on which the
casewas heard was imperfect, it appearing by an examination of the parts
which on the original hearing were left out, but which were now brought
up, that they presented nothing but matter which did not affect the
merits of the case, or matter which only further established that which
the court in giving its decree considered to be already otherwise abundantly proved.

THIS was a petition for rehearing, made in behalf of
Whipple, the appellee, in an appeal from a chancery decree,
in which a judgment of reversal and remand had been given
in this court against him, at an earlier part of this term.*
The original case was thus:
'Whipple, of the city of Washington, D. C., had formed a
partnership in the year 1869, with a man of the name of
Ambler, the purpose of the partnership being to generate
gas from petroleum by a new process which Ambler pro-fessed to have discovered. Whipple was the man of business of the firm, and the person who furnished the requisite
money to carry p the scheme. Ambler was a man of inventive genius, but of genius disfigured by so many irregularities and vices as to make it somewhat doubtful whether
he was entirely safie. He would get, for example, into
drunken debauches, from time to time, and when in them,
lie, cheat, commit forgery (of which, indeed, he was at the
time actually convict), and go away from Washington as
20 Wallace, 546.

