OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Syllabus

438 U. S.

SWISHER, STATE'S ATTORNEY FOR BALTIMORE
CITY, ET A. v. BRADY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND

No. 77-653.

Argued March 29, 1978-Decided June 28, 1978

Appellee minors brought a class action under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 seeking, on
the basis of the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment as
applied to the States by the Fourteenth, to prevent the State of
Maryland from filing exceptions with the Juvenile Court to proposed
nondelinquency findings made by masters of that court pursuant to a
rule of procedure (Rule 911) permitting the State to file such exceptions
but further providing that the Juvenile Court judge, who is empowered
to accept, modify, or reject, the master's proposals, can act on the
exceptions only on the basis of the record made before the master, except
that he may receive additional evidence to which the parties do not
object. The District Court held that a juvenile subjected to a hearing
before the master is placed in jeopardy, even though the master has no
power to enter a final order, and that the Juvenile Court judge's review
placed the juvenile in jeopardy a second time, and accordingly enjoined
the appellant state officials from taking exceptions to either a master's
proposed finding of nondelinquency or his proposed disposition. Held:
The Double Jeopardy Clause does not prohibit Maryland officials, acting
in accordance with Rule 911, from taking exceptions to a master's
proposed findings. Breed v. Jones, 421 U. S. 519, distinguished. Pp.
214-219.
(a) The State by filing such exceptions does not require an accused
to stand trial a second time, but rather the State has created a system
with Rule 911 in which an accused juvenile is subjected to a single
proceeding which begins with a master's hearing and culminates with an
adjudication by a judge. P. 215.
(b) A Rule 911 proceeding does not provide the prosecution the
forbidden "second crack" at the accused, since under the Rule the State
presents its evidence once before the master, and the record is then closed
unless the minor consents to the presentation of additional evidence
before the judge. Pp. 215-216.
(c) Nor does Rule 911, on the alleged ground that it gives the State
a chance to persuade two factfinders-the master and the judge-violate
the Double Jeopardy Clause's prohibition against the prosecutor's

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Syllabus

enhancing the risk that an innocent defendant may be convicted, since
the Rule confers the role of factfinder and adjudicator only on the judge,
who is empowered to accept, modify, or reject the master's proposals.
P. 216.
(d) There is nothing in the record to indicate that the Rule 911
procedure unfairly subjects the defendant to the embarrassment, expense,
and ordeal of a second trial proscribed in Green v. United States, 355
U. S. 184, since even if the juvenile participates and his attorney appears
in the Juvenile Court proceeding (and it does not appear that this is the
practice), the burdens are more akin to those resulting from a judge's
permissible request for post-trial briefing or argument following a bench
trial than to the "expense" of a full-blown second trial. Pp. 216-217.
(e) To the extent the Juvenile Court judge makes supplemental findings in a manner permitted by Rule 911-either sua sponte, or in response
to the State's or juvenile's exceptions, and either on the record before the
master or on a record supplemented by evidence to which the parties
do not object--he does so without violating the Double Jeopardy
Clause's constraints. United States v. Jenkins, 420 U. S. 358, distinguished; cf. United States v. Scott, 437 U. S. 82. Pp. 217-219.
436 F. Supp. 1361, reversed and remanded.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which SmwART,

WHrrE, BLAcKmUN, REHNQUIST, and STsvENS, JJ., joined. MnsHALL, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which BRENNAN and POwELL, JJ., joined,
post, p. 219.

George A. Nilson, Deputy Attorney General of Maryland,
argued the cause for appellants. With him on the brief were
Francis B. Burch, Attorney General, and Clarence W. Sharp

and Alexander L. Cummings, Assistant Attorneys General.
Peter S. Smith, by appointment of the Court, 434 U. S.
1007, argued the cause for appellees. With him on the brief
were Adrienne E.

Volenik, Phillip G. Dantes, and Bruce A.

Gilmore.*

*David C. Howard fied a brief for the National Juvenile Law Center as
amicus curiae urging affirmance.
Paul Halvonik, pro se, and Laurance S. Smith filed a brief for the State
Public Defender of California as amicus curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a three-judge District Court for the
District of Maryland. Nine minors, appellees here, brought
an action under 42 U. S. C. § 1983, seeking a declaratory judgment and injunctive relief to prevent the State from filing
exceptions with the Juvenile Court to proposed findings and
recommendations made by masters of that court. The
minors' claim was based on an alleged violation of the Double
Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment, as applied to the
States through the Fourteenth Amendment. The District
Court's jurisdiction was invoked under 28 U. S. C. §§ 1343,
2281, and 2284 (as then written); this Court's jurisdiction,
under 28 U. S. C. § 1253.
I
In order to understand the present Maryland scheme for
the use of masters in juvenile court proceedings, it is necessary to trace briefly the history both of antecedent schemes
and of this and related litigation.
Prior to July 1975, the use of masters in Maryland juvenile
proceedings was governed by Rule 908 (e), Maryland Rules of
Procedure. It provided that a master "shall hear such cases
as may be assigned to him by the court." The Rule further
directed that, at the conclusion of the hearing, the master
transmit the case file and his "findings and recommendations"
to the Juvenile Court. If no party filed exceptions to these
findings and recommendations, they were to be "promptly...
confirmed, modified or remanded by the judge." If, however,
a party filed exceptions-and in delinquency hearings, only
the State had the authority to do so-then, after notice, the
Juvenile Court judge would "hear the entire matter or such
specific matters as set forth in the exceptions de novo."'
1

Rule 908 (e) was the sole authority for the use of masters in juvenile

causes.

The practice was not treated in Maryland statutes.

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Opinion of the Court

In the city of Baltimore, after the State filed a petition
alleging that a minor had committed a delinquent act,' the
clerk of the Juvenile Court - generally would assign the case
to one of seven masters? In the ensuing unrecorded hearing,
the State would call its witnesses and present its evidence in
accordance with the rules of evidence applicable in criminal
cases. The minor could offer evidence in defense. At the
conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the master usually
would announce his findings and contemplated recommendations. In a minority of those cases where the recommendations favored the minor's position, the State would file exceptions, whereupon the Juvenile Court judge would try the case
de novo.5
In 1972, a Baltimore City Master concluded, after a hearing, that the State had failed to show beyond a reasonable
doubt that a minor, William Anderson, had assaulted and
robbed a woman. His recommendation to the Juvenile Court
judge reflected that conclusion. The State fied exceptions.
Anderson responded with a motion to dismiss the notice of
exceptions, contending that Rule 908 (e), with its provision for
a de novo hearing, violated the Double Jeopardy Clause. The
Juvenile Court judge ruled that juvenile proceedings as such
were not outside the scope of the Double Jeopardy Clause.
2 Maryland,

like 39 other States, defines a delinquent act as one that, if

committed by an adult, would violate a criminal statute. See statutes
collected at McCarthy, Delinquency Dispositions Under the Juvenile Justice Standards: The Consequences of a Change of Rationale, 52 N. Y. U. L.

Rev. 1093 n. 2 (1977).
3 The official name of the court is Circuit Court of Baltimore City, Division for Juvenile Causes.
4In 1974, of 5,345 delinquency hearings conducted in the Juvenile
Court, 5,098 were held before masters. The remaining 247 were assigned
in the first instance to the judge.
5In 1974, the Juvenile Court judge conducted 80 de novo, or "exceptions," hearings in delinquency matters. All hearings before the judge
were recorded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

He then held that the proceeding before him on the State's
exceptions would violate Anderson's right not to be twice put
in jeopardy and, on that basis, granted the motion to dismiss.
The judge granted the same relief to similarly situated minors,
including several who later initiated the present litigation.
The State appealed and the Court of Special Appeals reversed. In re Anderson, 20 Md. App. 31, 315 A. 2d 540
(1974). That court assumed, for purposes of its decision,
that jeopardy attached at the commencement of the initial
hearing before the master. It held, however:
"[T] here is no adjudicationby reason of the master's findings and recommendations. The proceedings before the
master and his findings and recommendations are simply
the first phase of the hearing which continues with the
consideration by the juvenile judge. Whether the juvenile judge, in the absence of exceptions, accepts the
master's findings or recommendations, modifies them or
remands them, or whether, when exceptions are filed, he
hears the matter himself de novo, there is merely a continuance of the hearing and the initial jeopardy. In
other words, the hearing,and the jeopardy thereto attaching, terminate only upon a valid adjudication by the
juvenile judge, not upon the findings and recommendations of the master." Id., at 47, 315 A. 2d, at 549
(footnotes omitted; emphasis added).
On this basis, the court concluded that the de novo hearing
was not a second exposure to jeopardy.
On appeal by the minors, the Court of Appeals affirmed,
although on a rationale different from that of the intermediate
appellate court. In re Anderson, 272 Md. 85, 321 A. 2d 516
(1974). It held that "a hearing before a master is not such
a hearing as places a juvenile in jeopardy." Central to this
holding was the court's conclusion that masters in Maryland
serve only as ministerial assistants to judges; although author-

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Opinion of the Court

ized to hear evidence, report findings, and make recommendations to the judge, masters are entrusted with none of the
judicial power of the State, including the sine qua non of
judicial office-the power to enter a binding judgment.'
In November 1974, five months after the Court of Appeals'
decision, nine juveniles sought federal habeas corpus relief,
contending that by taking exceptions to masters' recommendations favorable to them the State was violating their rights
under the Double Jeopardy Clause. These same nine minors
also initiated a class action under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 in which
they sought a declaratory judgment and injunctive relief
against the future operation of Rule 908 (e). The sole constitutional basis for their complaint was, again, the Double Jeopardy Clause. A three-judge court was convened to hear this
matter, and it is the judgment of that court we now review.
Before either the three-judge District Court or the single
judge reviewing the habeas corpus petitions could act, the
Maryland Legislature enacted legislation which, for the first
time, provided a statutory basis for the use of masters in juvenile court proceedings. In doing so, it modified slightly the
scheme previously operative under Rule 908 (e). The new
legislation required that hearings before a master be recorded
and that, at their conclusion, the master submit to the Juvenile
Court judge written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
recommendations. Either party was authorized to file exceptions and could elect a hearing on the record or a de novo
hearing before the judge. The legislature specified that the
master's "proposals and recommendations . . . for juvenile
causes do not constitute orders or final action of the court."
Accordingly, the judge could, even in the absence of exceptions, reject a master's recommendations and conduct a de
0When the minors appealed here from this decision, we dismissed for

want of a substantial federal question, Epps v. Maryland, 419 U. S. 809
(1974), and also denied certiorari, Anderson v. Maryland, 421 U. S. 1000
(1975).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

novo hearing or, if the parties agreed, a hearing on the record.
Md. Cts. & Jud. Proc. Code Ann. § 3-813 (Supp. 1977).
In June 1975, within two months of the enactment of
§ 3-813 and before its July 1, 1975, effective date, the singlejudge United States District Court held that the Rule 908 (e)
provision for a de novo hearing on the State's exceptions
violated the Double Jeopardy Clause. Aldridge v. Dean, 395
F. Supp. 1161 (Md. 1975). In that court's view, a juvenile
was placed in jeopardy as soon as the State offered evidence
in the hearing before a master. The court also concluded that
to subject a juvenile to a de nova hearing before the Juvenile
Court judge was to place him in jeopardy a second time.
Accordingly, it granted habeas corpus relief to the six petitioners already subjected by the State to a de novo hearing.
The petitions of the remaining three, who had not yet been
brought before the Juvenile Court judge, were dismissed without prejudice as being premature.
In response to both the enactment of § 3-813 and the decision in Aldridge v. Dean, supra, the Maryland Court of Appeals, in the exercise of its rulemaking power, promulgated a
new rule, and the one currently in force, Rule 911, to govern
the use of masters in juvenile proceedings.' Rule 911 differs
from the statute in significant aspects. First, in order to emphasize the nonfinal nature of a master's conclusions, it
stresses that all of his "findings, conclusions, recommendations or ...orders" are only proposed. Second, the State no
longer has power to secure a de novo hearing before the Juvenile Court judge after unfavorable proposals by the master.
The State still may file exceptions, but the judge can act on
them only on the basis of the record made before the master
and "such additional [relevant] evidence . . . to which the
'At the time of its promulgation, the new Rule was numbered 910.
As a result of recent nonsubstantive amendments and recodification, it
received the 911 designation, by which it is referred to throughout this
opinion.

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Opinion of the Court

parties raise no objection."8 The judge retains his power to
accept, reject, or modify the master's proposals, to remand to
the master for further hearings, and to supplement the record
for his own review with additional evidence to which the parties do not object
8

The juvenile, after filing exceptions, can still elect either a de novo
hearing or a hearing on the record.
9 Rule 911, in its entirety, provides:
"a. Authority.
"1. Detention or Shelter Care.
"A master is authorized to order detention or shelter care in accordance
with Rule 912 (Detention or Shelter Care) subject to an immediate review
by a judge if requested by any party.
"2. Other Matters.
"A master is authorized to hear any cases and matters assigned to
him by the court, except a hearing on a waiver petition. The findings,
conclusions and recommendations of a master do not constitute orders or
final action of the court.
"b. Report to the Court.
"Within ten days following the conclusion of a disposition hearing by
a master, he shall transmit to the judge the entire file in the case, together
with a written report of his proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law,
recommendations and proposed orders with respect to adjudication and
disposition. A copy of his report and proposed order shall be served upon
each party as provided by Rule 306 (Service of Pleadings and Other
Papers).
"c. Review by Court if Exceptions Filed.
"Any party may file exceptions to the master's proposed findings, conclusions, recommendations or proposed orders. Exceptions shall be in
writing, filed with the clerk within five days after the master's report is
served upon the party, and shall specify those items to which the party
excepts, and whether the hearing is to be de novo or on the record.
A copy shall be served upon all other parties pursuant to Rule 306 (Service of Pleadings and Other Papers).
"Upon the filing of exceptions, a prompt hearing shall be scheduled on
the exceptions. An excepting party other than the State may elect a
hearing de novo or a hearing on the record. If the State is the excepting
party, the hearing shall be on the record, supplemented by such additional
evidence as the judge considers relevant and to which the parties raise

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

Thus, Rule 911 is a direct product of the desire of the State
to continue using masters to meet the heavy burden of juvenile court caseloads while at the same time assuring that their
use not violate the constitutional guarantee against double
jeopardy. To this end, the Rule permits the presentation and
recording of evidence in the absence of the only officer authorized by the state constitution, see In re Anderson, 272 Md., at
104-105, 321 A. 2d, at 526-527, and by statute, § 3-813, to
serve as the factfinder and judge.
After the effective date of Rule 911, July 1, 1975, the plaintiffs in the § 1983 action amended their complaint to bring
Rule 911 within its scope. They continued to challenge the
state procedure, however, only on the basis of the Double
Jeopardy Clause. Other juveniles intervened as the ongoing
work of the juvenile court brought them within the definition
of the proposed class. Their complaints in intervention likewise rested only on the Double Jeopardy Clause.
The three-judge District Court certified the proposed class
under Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 23 (b) (2) to consist of all juveniles involved in proceedings where the State had filed exceptions to a master's proposed findings of nondelinquency.
That court then held that a juvenile subjected to a hearing
before a master is placed in jeopardy, even though the master
has no power to enter a final order. It also held that the
no objection. In either case the hearing shall be limited to those matters
to which exceptions have been taken.
"d. Review by Court in Absence of Exceptions.
"In the absence of timely and proper exceptions, the master's proposed
findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendations may be adopted
by the court and the proposed or other appropriate orders may be entered
based on them. The court may remand the case to the master for further
hearings, or may, on its own motion, schedule and conduct a further hearing supplemented by such additional evidence as the court considers
relevant and to which the parties raise no objection. Action by the court
under this section shall be taken within two days after the expiration of the
time for filing exceptions."

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Opinion of the Court

Juvenile Court judge's review of the record constitutes a "second proceeding at which [the juvenile] must once again
marshal whatever resources he can against the State's and at

which the State is given a second opportunity to obtain a
conviction." 436 F. Supp. 1361, 1369 (Md. 1977). Accordingly, the three-judge District Court enjoined the defend-

ant state officials 10 from taking exceptions to either a
master's proposed finding of nondelinquency or his proposed
disposition.
We noted probable jurisdiction solely to determine whether
the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits state officials, acting in
accordance with Rule 911, from taking exceptions to a master's proposed findings." 434 U. S. 963 (1977).
10 Defendants, appellants here. are the State's Attorney for Baltimore
City, the operations chief of the State's Attorney's Office for Baltimore
City, the Chief State Attorney assigned to the Baltimore City Juvenile
Court, and the Clerk of that court.
1" The State did not contend, either in the District Court or here,
that appellees' suit for injunctive relief should be dismissed under the
abstention doctrine of Younger v Harris, 401 U. S. 37 (1971). In these
circumstances, we are not inclined to examine the application of the doctrine sua sponte. See Ohio Bureau of Employment Services v. Hodory,
431 U. S. 471, 477-480 (1977) ("If the State voluntarily chooses to submit
to a federal forum, principles of comity do not demand that the federal
court force the case back into the State's own system").
There is also a mootness question in this case. At the time of final
argument before the District Court, Fields, the last in a series of intervening plaintiffs, was the only named plaintiff with a live controversy against
the State. By that time, the State had either withdrawn its exceptions
against the other named plaintiffs or completed the adjudicatory process
by securing a ruling, one way or the other, from the Juvenile Court judge.
After final argument, but before the District Court announced its decision, the State withdrew its exceptions to the master's proposals respecting Fields. Nevertheless, the District Court, at the outset of its decision,
granted Fields' motion to intervene and certified the class. 436 F. Supp.,
at 1362.
We conclude that under the principles announced in Sosna v. Iowa, 419
U. S. 393 (1975), the State's action, with respect to the original named

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

II
principles governing

The general
this case are well
established.
"A State may not put a defendant in jeopardy twice for
the same offense. Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S. 784.
The constitutional protection against double jeopardy
unequivocally prohibits a second trial following an acquittal. The public interest in the finality of criminal
judgments is so strong that an acquitted defendant may
not be retried even though 'the acquittal was based upon
an egregiously erroneous foundation.' . . . If the innocence of the accused has been confirmed by a final judgment, the Constitution conclusively presumes that a second trial would be unfair.
"Because jeopardy attaches before the judgment becomes final, the constitutional protection also embraces
plaintiffs and the intervenors, did not deprive the District Court of the
power to certify the class action when it did and that, accordingly, a live
controversy presently exists between the unnamed class members and the
State. In Sosna, we observed:
"[T]here may be cases in which the controversy involving the named
plaintiffs is such that it becomes moot as to them before the district
court can reasonably be expected to rule on a certification motion. In
such instances, whether the certification can be said to 'relate back' to
the filing of the complaint may depend upon the circumstances of the
particular case and especially the reality of the claim that otherwise the
issue would evade review." Id., at 402 n. 11.
Here the rapidity of judicial review of exceptions to masters' proposals
creates mootness questions with respect to named plaintiffs, and even
perhaps with respect to a series of intervening plaintiffs appearing thereafter, "before the district court can reasonably be expected to rule on a
certification motion." Ibid.
In cases such as this one where mootness problems are likely to arise,
district courts should heed strictly the requirement of Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
23 (c) (1) that "[a]s soon as practicable after the commencement of an
action brought as a class action, the court shall determine by order
whether it is to be so maintained." (Emphasis added.)

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Opinion of the Court

the defendant's 'valued right to have his trial completed
by a particular tribunal.'. . . Consequently, as a general
rule, the prosecutor is entitled to one, and only one, opportunity to require an accused to stand trial." Arizona
v. Washington, 434 U. S. 497, 503-505 (1978) (footnotes
omitted).
In the application of these general principles, the narrow
question here ' 2 is whether the State in filing exceptions to a
master's proposals, pursuant to Rule 911,13 thereby "require [s]
an accused to stand trial" a second time. We hold that it
does not. Maryland has created a system with Rule 911 in
which an accused juvenile is subjected to a single proceeding
which begins with a master's hearing and culminates with an
adjudication by a judge.
Importantly, a Rule 911 proceeding does not impinge on the
purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause. A central purpose
"of the prohibition against successive trials" is to bar "the
12 The State contends that jeopardy does not attach at the hearing
before the master. Our decision in Breed v. Jones, 421 U. S. 519 (1975),
however, suggests the contrary conclusion. "We believe it is simply too
late in the day to conclude . . . that a juvenile is not put in jeopardy
at a proceeding whose object is to determine whether he has committed
acts that violate a criminal law and whose potential consequences include
both the stigma inherent in such a determination and the deprivation of
liberty for many years." Id., at 529. The California juvenile proceeding
reviewed in Breed involved the use of a referee, or master, and was not
materially different-for purposes of analysis of attachment of jeopardyfrom a Rule 911 proceeding. See generally In re Edgar M., 14 Cal. 3d

727, 537 P. 2d 406 (1975); cf. Jesse W. v. Superior Court, 20 Cal. 3d 893,
576 P. 2d 963 (1978).
It is not essential to decision in this case, however, to fix the precise
time when jeopardy attaches.
'13 The District Court noted that Rule 911 differs from § 3-813, see
supra, at 210-211, but concluded that under Maryland decisional law the
Rule governs. 436 F. Supp., at 1365. The parties do not dispute the
District Court's reading of state law. Accordingly, like the District Court,
we consider only Rule 911 in resolving the constitutional challenge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

prosecution [from] another opportunity to supply evidence
which it failed to muster in the first proceeding." Burks v.
United States, 437 U. S. 1, 11 (1978). A Rule 911 proceeding
does not provide the prosecution that forbidden "second
crack." The State presents its evidence once before the master. The record is then closed, and additional evidence can
be received by the Juvenile Court judge only with the consent
of the minor.
The Double Jeopardy Clause also precludes the prosecutor
from "enhanc[ing] the risk that an innocent defendant may
be convicted," Arizona v. Washington, supra, at 504, by taking
the question of guilt to a series of persons or groups empowered to make binding determinations. Appellees contend that
in its operation Rule 911 gives the State the chance to persuade two such factfinders: first the master, then the Juvenile
Court judge. In support of this contention they point to
evidence that juveniles and their parents sometimes consider
the master "the judge" and his recommendations "the verdict." Within the limits of jury trial rights, see McKeiver v.
Pennsylvania,403 U. S.528 (1971), and other constitutional
constraints, it is for the State, not the parties, to designate
and empower the factfinder and adjudicator. And here Maryland has conferred those roles only on the Juvenile Court
judge. Thus, regardless of which party is initially favored by
the master's proposals, and regardless of the presence or
absence of exceptions, the judge is empowered to accept,
modify, or reject those proposals.1 4
Finally, there is nothing in the record to indicate that
the procedure authorized under Rule 911 unfairly subjects the

defendant to the embarrassment, expense, and ordeal of a
second trial proscribed in Green v. United States, 355 U. S.
14

It

is not usual in a criminal proceeding for the evidence to be

presented and recorded in the absence of the one authorized to determine
guilt. But if there are any objections to such a system, they do not arise
from the guarantees of the Double Jeopardy Clause.

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

Opinion of the Court

184 (1957). Indeed, there is nothing to indicate that the
juvenile is even brought before the judge while he conducts
the "hearing on the record," or that the juvenile's attorney
appears at the "hearing" and presents oral argument or written briefs. But even if there were such participation or appearance, the burdens are more akin to those resulting from
a judge's permissible request for post-trial briefing or argument following a bench trial than to the "expense" of a full-

blown second trial contemplated by the Court in Green.
In their effort to characterize a Rule 911 proceeding as two
trials for double jeopardy purposes, appellees rely on two decisions of this Court, Breed v. Jones, 421 U. S. 519 (1975), and
United States v. Jenkins, 420 U. S. 358 (1975) .' 5
In Breed, we held that a juvenile was placed twice in jeopardy when, after an adjudicatory hearing in Juvenile Court
on a charge of delinquent conduct, he was transferred to adult
criminal court, tried, and convicted for the same conduct. All
parties conceded that jeopardy attached at the second pro15 Appellees also rely on Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100 (1904).
There a Manila lawyer was charged with embezzling the funds of his
client. He was tried before the judge of a "court of first instance" and
acquitted. The United States took an appeal to the Philippine Supreme
Court, which, after reviewing the record, entered a judgment of guilty
and imposed sentence. This Court held that an Act of Congress, which
extended double jeopardy guarantees to the Philippines, required reversal
of the conviction.
The differences between the present case and Kepner are material.
There the trial judge was authorized to try serious criminal cases and to
enter judgment, either of acquittal or conviction. The Philippine trial
judge did not serve as an "assistant" or master of the Philippine Supreme
Court for the purpose of making proposed findings to the appellate judges.
Id., at 115, 121, 133. Mr. Justice Brown in dissent accurately characterized the Philippine trial judge's role as embracing "the great and dangerous power of finally acquitting the most notorious criminals." Id., at
137. The Philippine Supreme Court's role was appellate, and its jurisdiction was invoked by the Government's decision to appeal an otherwise
binding judgment.
See also Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521 (1905).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

438 U. S.

ceeding in criminal court. The State contended, however,
that jeopardy did not attach in the Juvenile Court proceeding,
although that proceeding could have culminated in a deprivation of the juvenile's liberty. We rejected this contention and
also the contention that. somehow jeopardy "continued" from
the first to the second trial. Breed is therefore inapplicable
to the Maryland scheme, where juveniles are subjected to only
one proceeding, or "trial."
Appellees also stress this language from Jenkins:
"[I]t is enough for purposes of the Double Jeopardy
Clause . . that further proceedings of some sort, devoted
to the resolution of factual issues going to the elements
of the offense charged, would have been required upon
reversal and remand. Even if the District Court were to
receive no additional evidence, it would still be necessary
for it to make supplemental findings ....
[To do so]
would violate the Double Jeopardy Clause." 420 U. S.,
at 370 (emphasis added).
Although we doubt that the Court's decision in a case can
be correctly identified by reference to three isolated sentences,
any language in Jenkins must now be read in light of our
subsequent decision in United States v. Scott, 437 U. S. 82
(1978). In Scott we held that it is not all proceedings requiring the making of supplemental findings that are barred
by the Double Jeopardy Clause, but only those that follow a
previous trial ending in an acquittal; in a conviction either
not reversed on appeal or reversed because of insufficient evidence, see Burks v. United States, supra; or in a mistrial
ruling not prompted by "manifest necessity," see Arizona v.
Washington, 434 U. S. 497 (1978). A Juvenile Court judge's
decision terminating a Rule 911 proceeding follows none of
those occurrences. Furthermore, Jenkins involved appellate
review of the final judgment of a trial court fully empowered
to enter that judgment. Nothing comparable occurs in a
Rule 911 proceeding. See n. 15, supra.

SWISHER v. BRADY

204

MARSHALL, J., dissenting

To the extent the Juvenile Court judge makes supplemental
findings in a manner permitted by Rule 911-either sua
sponte, in response to the State's exceptions, or in response to
the juvenile's exceptions, and either on the record or on a record supplemented by evidence to which the parties raise no
objection-he does so without violating the constraints of the
Double Jeopardy Clause.
Accordingly, we reverse and remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN
and MR. JUSTICE PoWELL join, dissenting.
Appellees are a class of juveniles who, following adjudicatory

hearings on charges of criminal conduct, were found nondelinquent by a "master." Because the State has labeled the
master's findings as "proposed," the Court today allows the
State in effect to appeal those findings to a "judge," who is
empowered to reverse the master's findings and convict the
juvenile. The Court's holding is at odds with the constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy, made applicable
to the States by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S.784 (1969), and
specifically held to apply to juvenile proceedings in Breed v.
Jones, 421 U. S.519 (1975).
The majority does not purport to retreat from our holding
in Breed. Yet the Court reaches a result that it would not
countenance were this a criminal prosecution against an
adult, for the juvenile defendants here are placed twice in
jeopardy just as surely as if an adult defendant, after acquittal
in a trial court, were convicted on appeal. In addition to
violating the Double Jeopardy Clause, Maryland's scheme
raises serious due process questions because the judge making
the final adjudication of guilt has not heard the evidence and
may reverse the master's findings of nonde]inquency based on

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MArsHALL,

J., dissenting

the judge's review of a cold record.
dissent.

438 U. S.

For these reasons, I

I

While the first inquiry in any double jeopardy case must
be whether jeopardy has attached, see Crist v. Bretz, 437 U. S.
28, 32-33 (1978); Serfass v. United States, 420 U. S. 377, 388
(1975), I agree with the Court that jeopardy does attach at
the master's hearing, ante, at 215 n. 12. In Breed v. Jones,
supra, we held that jeopardy attaches "at a proceeding whose
object is to determine whether [a juvenile] has committed
acts that violate a criminal law." 421 U. S., at 529. The
master's hearing clearly has this as an object. Under Maryland law, the master is empowered to conduct a full "adjudicatory hearing," in order "to determine whether the allegations in the petition ..

.

are true."

Rule 914 (a); Md. Cts. &

Jud. Proc. Code Ann. § 3-801 (b) (Supp. 1977); see Rules
911, 914 (f).1 And it is at this hearing that the State intro-

I Thus, unlike a preliminary hearing (to which the State analogizes a
master's hearing), where the inquiry is one of probable cause, the adjudicatory hearing conducted by the master is the beginning of the unitary
process designated by the State of Maryland to determine the truth of
the charges. The Maryland Court of Special Appeals has rejected the
State's argument that masters' hearings are not adjudicatory:
"We think it within the clear contemplation of the Maryland law that the
'adjudicatory hearing' is that phase of the total proceeding whereto witnesses are summonsed [sic]; whereat they are sworn, confronted with the
alleged delinquent, examined and cross-examined; whereat their demeanor is
observed, their credibility assessed and their testimony . . . transcribed

by a court reporter; whereat the alleged delinquent is represented by
counsel and where he enjoys the right to remain silent . . . ; whereat the
State's Attorney marshals and presents the [State's] evidence . . . ; and

whereat the presiding judge or master makes and announces his finding ....
"Conversely, we think it . ..equally clear . . .that the 'adjudicatory

hearing' is not that phase of the proceeding, frequently conducted ex parte
and . . . in camera, whereat the supervising judge ratifies, modifies or

rejects the finding and recommendations of the master." In re Brown,
13 Md. App. 625, 632-633, 284 A. 2d 441, 444-445 (1971).
Although the Brown opinion was rendered prior to Maryland's revision of

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

MARSHALL, J., dissenting

duces the evidence on which it seeks to have the determination
of guilt or innocence rest. See Serfass v. United States, supra,
at 389. See also Grist v. Bretz, supra, at 51-52 (PowELL, J.,
dissenting).
My disagreement with the Court lies in its misapplication
of well-settled double jeopardy rules applicable once jeopardy
has attached. As the Court itself recognizes, ante, at 214,
the Double Jeopardy Clause "unequivocally prohibits a second
trial following an acquittal," Arizona v. Washington, 434 U. S.
Just as unequivocally, it prevents the
497, 503 (1978).
prosecution from seeking review or reversal of a judgment of
acquittal on appeal. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100
(1904). And even where the first trial does not end in a final
judgment, the "defendant's valued right to have his trial completed by a particular tribunal," absent a "'manifest necessity'" for terminating the first proceedings, is protected by
this Clause. Wade v. Hunter, 336 U. S. 684, 689-690 (1949),
quoting United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579, 580 (1824) ; see
ante, at 214-215.
These rules are designed to serve the underlying purposes
of the Double Jeopardy Clause, the most fundamental of
which is to protect an accused from the governmental harassment and oppression that can so easily arise from the massed
power of the State in confrontation with an individual. See
Green v. United States, 355 U. S. 184, 187 (1957). As the
Court recognizes, the Double Jeopardy Clause serves to preclude the State from having "'another opportunity to supply
evidence which it failed to muster in the first proceeding' ";
to avoid the risk that a defendant, though in fact innocent,
may be convicted by a successive decisionmaker; and to prevent the State from unfairly subjecting a defendant "to the
embarrassment, expense, and ordeal of a second trial." Ante,
its rules relating to the use of masters, see ante, at 209-210, the record
before us indicates that the character of the hearing has not materially
changed since that decision.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

at 216. It is against these touchstones of law that the Maryland scheme must be evaluated.
A
After rejecting the State's chief argument-that jeopardy
does not attach in hearings before a master-the Court reaches
its result primarily by ignoring the undisputed fact that state
law commits to the master a factfinding function. Admittedly, the Maryland proceedings are somewhat difficult to
classify into the customary pigeonholes of double jeopardy
analysis, but that is precisely because the State has engaged
in a novel redefinition of trial and appellate functions in a
quasi-criminal proceeding, intentionally designed to avoid the
constraints of the Double Jeopardy Clause.2 While a State
is, of course, free to designate a "master," a "judge," or some
other officer to conduct juvenile adjudicatory hearings, our
Constitution is not so fragile an instrument that its substantive prohibitions may be evaded by formal designations that
fail to correspond with the actual functions performed.
Viewing the master and judge in terms of their relative
functions, I think the appropriate analogy is between a trial
judge and an appellate court with unusually broad powers of
review. In the cases before us, the masters had made unequivocal findings, on the facts, that the State had not proved
its case, and the State sought to have the judge overturn
these findings.2 By ignoring these functional considerations,
2 In response to an earlier decision holding that a second hearing before
the judge, when the State excepted to the master's findings of nondelinquency, violated the Double Jeopardy Chluse, Aldridge v. Dean, 395
F. Supp. 1161 (Md. 1975), the State of Maryland modified its procedures
to preclude a new hearing before the juvenile judge on the State's exceptions, unless both "parties" consent. See ante, at 210-211, 212. Following
passage of these amended rules, the State moved to dismiss the instant
proceeding as moot; the motion was denied.
3 For example, in one instance, the State's case rested on the identification testimony of the victim of a bicycle theft. At the close of the

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

M sRSHALL, J., dissenting

the Court permits the State to circumvent the protections of
the Double Jeopardy Clause by a mere change in the formal
definitions of finality. The Court thus makes the linchpin
of its holding a formalism that belies our insistence that
"courts eschew . . . 'label [s] -of-convenience . . .attached to
juvenile proceedings,' In re Gault, [387 U. S. 1,] 50 [(1967)],
and that 'the juvenile process . . . be candidly appraised,'
[id.,] at 21." Breed v. Jones, 421 U. S., at 529.

(1)
The Court describes the Maryland system as one permitting
"the presentation and recording of evidence in the absence of
the only officer authorized by the state constitution . . .and
by statute... to serve as the factflnder and judge." Ante, at
212. It is inaccurate, however, to say that only the judge is
"authorized" under Maryland law to act as a factfindern The
master does not simply act as a referee at the hearing, deciding evidentiary questions and creating a record placed before
the judge. Rather, Rule 911 directs that, at the end of the
disposition hearing (which follows the adjudicatory hearing),
the master "transmit to the judge the entire file in the case,
together with a written report of his proposed findings of
fact, conclusions of law, recommendations and proposed orders
with respect to adjudication and disposition." Rule 911 (b).'
evidence, the master announced that, because he was not persuaded beyond
a reasonable doubt of the accuracy of the witness' identification, especially
since it was uncorroborated, he found the defendant not guilty. In re
McLean, summarized in 8 Record, Petitioner's Exhibit No. 49, p. 16. On
the State's exception, the juvenile judge convicted the defendant.
4 It is not disputed here that, under the Maryland State Constitution,
the State may validly delegate to masters authority to make proposed
findings of fact under Rule 911.
5 We therefore need not rely on appellees' statistical proof, convincing
as it may be, to conclude that in Maryland masters are supposed to
find facts. Appellees' evidence, however, supports this interpretation of
Maryland law.
In Baltimore City in 1975 and 1976, there were seven masters and one

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

That Maryland contemplates an actual factfinding function
for the master is emphasized by the fact that neither the Rule
nor the statute requires the "judge" to read the entire record,
listen to the tape recording of the adjudicatory hearing, or
otherwise expose himself to the full factual record as it was
presented to the master. Indeed, the Rule expressly recognizes that the judge may enter his order "based on" the
master's findings. Rule 911 (d). The master himself thus
serves as a factfinder of first instance; while his findings are
only "proposed," they may be accepted by the judge without
an independent review of the entire record.
Juvenile Court Judge. The District Court found that, except when the
State filed an exception, all of the masters' recommended findings of nondelinquency had been approved by the judge. 436 F. Supp. 1361, 1364
(Md. 1977) (three-judge court).
Moreover, the first judge presented with appellees' double jeopardy
claim-the state trial judge serving as the only Juvenile Court Judge in
Baltimore from 1967-1975--agreed with the juveniles that permitting the
State to take exceptions violated the Double Jeopardy Clause. His conclusion rested in part on his perception that
"it is impossible for the Judge . . ., who also carries a full docket of cases
himself, to exercise any independent, meaningful judgment in the overwhelming majority of the many thousands of [masters'] orders put before
him each year . . . . With this being the case it is difficult to see how
realistically a Master can be called only an adviser . . . . [T] he Master
conducts, for all intents and purposes, full blown and complete proceedings
through the adjudicatory and dispositional phases and . . . as a practical
matter he imposes sanctions and can effectively deprive youngsters of their
freedom." In re Anderson, No. 158187 (Cir. Ct. Bait. City, Juv. Div.,
Aug. 1, 1973), p. 39.
The Juvenile Court Judge's decision was ultimately reversed on appeal.
In re Anderson, 272 Md. 85, 321 A. 2d 516 (1974).
A report of the State Commission on Juvenile Justice in January 1977,
after spending 18 months studying the Maryland juvenile courts, reached
the same conclusion: "[W]ithout bearing legal responsibility for his decisions, the Master's recommended decisions become, in effect, final orders
of the Court." Final Report of the Commission on Juvenile Justice to
the Governor and General Assembly of Maryland 13 (1977).

SWISHER v. BRADY

204

MIARsHALL,

J., dissenting

(2)
In Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100 (1904), we held
that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibited an appellate court
in the Philippines from reversing a verdict of acquittal
rendered by the trial court in a bench trial and entering a
verdict of guilty.6 The Government had argued that, under
controlling Spanish law, "[t]he original trial is a unitary and
continuous thing, and is not complete until the appellate court
has pronounced judgment." Brief for United States, 0. T.
1903, No. 244, p. 39. This Court, however, held that American constitutional law governed and that the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibited the Government from appealing a
judgment of acquittal entered by the first trier of facts. In
so holding, the Court rejected Mr. Justice Holmes' "continuing
jeopardy" argument, 195 U. S., at 134-137 (dissenting opinion), an argument that we have consistently refused to adopt,
see, e. g., United States v. Wilson, 420 U. S. 332, 352 (1975),
and to which the State's position here bears an uncomfortable
resemblance!
6

1n Kepner, the Court was technically construing an Act of Congress

extending certain procedural protections to criminal trials conducted in the
Philippines, which was a United States possession. However, the Court
made clear that it construed the statutory language to incorporate the
constitutional principles of double jeopardy, see 195 U. S., at 124, and its
decision is thus properly regarded by the Court today as a constitutional
one, see ante, at 217 n. 15.
The Court explained the Spanish system of jeopardy, which the Government urged as applicable, as follows:
"Under that system of law ... a person was not . . . in jeopardy in the
legal sense until there had been a final judgment in the court of last resort.
The lower courts were deemed examining courts, having preliminary
jurisdiction, and the accused was not finally convicted or acquitted until
the case had been passed upon in the . . . Supreme Court . . . . The
trial was regarded as one continuous proceeding, and the protection given
was against a second conviction after this final trial had been concluded
in due form of law." 195 U. S., at 121.
The Court went on to make plain that this definition of finality of judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MAR SHALL,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

There are, of course, differences between Kepner and the
instant case. In Kepner the court of first instance apparently
had authority to enter an adjudication that would be final
absent an appeal by either party, whereas here the masters do
not have power to enter a final order of acquittal. But as we
have repeatedly emphasized, an "acquittal" is not necessarily
determined by the form of the order. United States v. Martin
Linen Supply Co., 430 U. S. 564, 571 (1977); see United
States v. Wilson, supra, at 336; United States v. Sisson, 399
U. S. 267, 270 (1970). As the Kepner Court noted in support
of its holding that a bench acquittal could not be appealed,
a jury verdict of acquittal, even when not followed by a formal
judgment of the trial court, bars further proceedings under
the Double Jeopardy Clause. 195 U. S., at 130. Here, while
the master does not formally make a final adjudication, in all
other respects his proposed finding of nondelinquency is fully
equivalent to an acquittal: after a plenary adjudicatory hearing, he makes "a resolution, correct or not, of some or all of
the factual elements of the offense charged." United States v.
Martin Linen Supply Co., supra, at 571. And the State's
exception to the master's finding of nondelinquency engenders
the same anxiety and burden as would a State's appeal from
an adult court's verdict of acquittal.
The Court's rationale allows States to avoid the Kepner
holding by the simple expedient of changing the definitions of
finality without changing the functions performed by judges
at different levels of decision. The decision today might well
be read to hold that the Double Jeopardy Clause is no bar
to structuring a juvenile justice system or, for that matter, an
ments of acquittal was inconsistent with our Double Jeopardy Clause.
Thus it wrote that "[t]he court of first instance, having jurisdiction to
try the question of the guilt or innocence of the accused, found Kepner not
guilty; to try him again upon the merits, even in an appellate court, is
to put him a second time in jeopardy for the same offense, if Congress
used the terms as construed by this court in passing upon their meaning."
Id., at 133.

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

adult criminal justice system so as to have several layers of
adjudication, none of which is final until the State has exhausted its last appeal.8 This proliferation of levels at which
a defendant-juvenile or adult-must defend himself against
an adjudication of guilt is precisely the kind of evil that the
Double Jeopardy Clause was designed to forbid. Yet under
the Court's rationale, this is seemingly permissible so long
as the State takes care to define the lower levels of decisionmaking as only "proposed" or "tentative" in nature, thereby
commingling traditional trial and appellate functions.
B
Even if the master's findings are not regarded as an acquittal, the Double Jeopardy Clause does more than simply protect
acquittals from review on direct appeal. It also protects the
defendant's right to go to judgment before a "particular
tribunal" once jeopardy has attached, absent a "'manifest
necessity'" justifying termination of the first proceeding.
Wade v. Hunter, 336 U. S., at 689-690. This rule is designed
in part to ensure that the government not be able to bolster
its case by additional evidence or arguments, once it believes
that its evidence has not persuaded the first tribunal. See
Arizona v. Washington, 434 U. S., at 503-505, and n. 14. But
8

Thus, for example, a State might provide that in all bench trials, a
judgment of acquittal does not become "final" for a certain amount of
time in which an appellate court may review it. While this is ani unlikely
eventuality, it points up the fallacy in the Court's reasoning.
Fortunately, the damage done by the Court's holding today is limited
in its application by the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial. Not only
would it offend the Double Jeopardy Clause for a jury's verdict of acquittal

to be set aside (whether or not a judgment were entered on the verdict),
see United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310 (1892), cited in Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S., at 130, but it would also dilute the constitutional
right to a jury trial in criminal cases. The jury trial right has been held
inapplicable to juvenile proceedings, however. See McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U. S. 528 (1971).

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

the Maryland system is structured so as to give the State
precisely this type of proscribed opportunity, where it disagrees with the favorable rulings of the first trier of fact.
As recognized by the Court, jeopardy attaches at the
master's hearing. This hearing is a formal, adjudicatory proceeding at which the State's witnesses testify and are crossexamined; the juvenile may present evidence in his own
defense; and the juvenile is entitled to counsel and to remain
silent. Presentation of evidence at that proceeding is keyed
to the reactions and attitudes of the presiding master, who
acts, for purposes of the adjudicatory hearing, as the "particular tribunal." A juvenile who has had such a hearing may
justifiably expect that, when the master who has heard all this
evidence announces a finding in his favor, it will be final.
But a juvenile tried before a master in Maryland is never, as
a matter of law, entitled to have his trial "completed" before
the master, since his recommendations must be confirmed by
the judge and may be ignored by him.
Thus, endemic to the Maryland system is a kind of interrupted proceeding which ensures that the defendant cannot
get the benefit of the first trier of fact's reaction to the
evidence. The system thereby poses a substantial risk that
innocent defendants may be found guilty, since it allows the
State a second opportunity to persuade a decisionmaker of the
juvenile's guilt, after the first trier of fact has concluded that
the State has not proved its case. See Ashe v. Swenson, 397
U. S. 436, 446 (1970). Unless justified by a "manifest
necessity"-not present here-the Double Jeopardy Clause
condemns such a system. As we wrote in Green v. United
States, 355 U. S., at 187-188, the "underlying idea" of the
Double Jeopardy Clause
"is that the State with all its resources and power should
not be allowed to make repeated attempts to convict an
individual for an alleged offense, thereby subjecting him
to embarrassment, expense and ordeal and compelling him

SWISHER v. BRADY

204

MARSnALL,

J., dissenting

to live in a continuing state of anxiety and insecurity, as
well as enhancing the possibility that even though innocent he may be found guilty."
For these reasons, I conclude that the Maryland Rule,
insofar as it permits a judge to review and set aside a master's
findings favorable to the defendant on the facts of the case,
violates the Double Jeopardy Clause.
II
As the majority accurately states, the only issue raised in
the complaints or focused upon in the parties' briefs was that
of double jeopardy. It is argued by amicus, however, that the
Maryland system, even if it were found to avoid double
jeopardy problems, violates the Due Process Clause by permitting ultimate factfnding by a judge who did not actually
conduct the trial
The Court does not reach this issue,
apparently believing that it is not properly presented here."
9

Brief of State Public Defender of California as Amicus Curiae.

Although the Court does not reach this issue, cf. Dandridge v.
Williams, 397 U. S.471, 475-476, n. 6 (1970) (when "attention has been
10

focused on other issues," remand may be appropriate), I believe it would
be within its power to do so. See Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U. S.238,
245 (1937) (Brandeis, J.). Affirming the judgment below on this ground
would not have the effect of expanding the relief granted: an injunction
against the State's taking of exceptions. See United States v. New York
Telephone Co., 434 U. S.159, 166 n. 8 (1977). While the due process
claim was not raised in appellees' complaints, it was argued in substance
to the District Court in opposition to appellants' motion to dismiss
the complaint. See Plaintiffs' Memorandum in Response to Motion to
Dismiss 9 n. 29, 2 Record Exhibit 19; Plaintiffs' Memorandum in Opposition to Motion to Dismiss, 2 Record Exhibit 29. Moreover, appellees' brief
here makes the following argument: "It is only logical to assume that if
a case is tried before enough judicial officers, one of them will eventually
conclude that the defendant is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. ...
[S]uch a process would emasculate this Court's decision in In re Winship,

397 U. S.358 (1970)." Brief for Appellees 86. While this is not identical
to the due process argument urged by amicus, it illustrates the intimate

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MARSHALL, J., dissenting

438 U. S.

See ante, at 212, 213, 216 n. 14, 219. It is thus important to
emphasize that the Maryland system and ones like it have not
been held constitutional today; the Court's only holding is
that such systems are not unconstitutional under the Double
Jeopardy Clause. It is entirely open to this Court, and lower
courts, to find in another case that a system like that in Maryland violates the Due Process Clause.
In In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358 (1970), we held that a
juvenile accused of a crime may be convicted only upon proof
beyond a reasonable doubt, even if he is prosecuted in a
juvenile court. The rationale of Winship suggests that the
Due Process Clause requires the most reliable procedures to
be used in making the reasonable-doubt determination in
juvenile proceedings. As we have repeatedly emphasized:
"'To experienced lawyers it is commonplace that the
outcome of a lawsuit-and hence the vindication of legal
rights-depends more often on how the factfinder appraises the facts than on a disputed construction of a
statute . . . Thus the procedures by which the facts of
the case are determined assume an importance fully as
great as the validity of the substantive rule of law to be
applied.'" Wingo v. Wedding, 418 U. S. 461,474 (1974),
quoting Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 520 (1958).
Over 30 years ago, in Holiday v. Johnston, 313 U. S. 342
(1941), we recognized the importance to a reliable factfinding
process of hearing live witnesses. The issue there was whether,
on a federal habeas corpus petition, a District Judge could
utilize a United States Commissioner to hold the evidentiary
hearing and make recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law. Although our holding that the prisoner had a
right to testify and present his evidence before a judge was a
statutory one, our reasoning went to the fundamental nature
relationship between the double jeopardy and due process problems inherent in the Maryland scheme.

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

of the kind of factfinding on which many judicial determinations must rest:.
"One of the essential elements of the determination of
the crucial facts is the weighing and appraising of the
testimony. . . . We cannot say that an appraisal of the
truth of the prisoner's oral testimony by a master or
commissioner is, in the light of the purpose and object of
the proceeding, the equivalent of the judge's own exercise
of the function of the trier of the facts." Id., at 352.
Four Terms ago, in Wingo v. Wedding, supra, we adhered to
this view, holding that the successor habeas corpus statute also
required the district judge personally to conduct evidentiary
hearings in habeas corpus cases. We not only disapproved the
practice of referring evidentiary hearings to masters, but also
held that the judge's listening to an electronic recording of the
testimony was no substitute for his personally hearing and
observing the witnesses to evaluate their credibility.
These decisions arose in the context of habeas corpus proceedings, where the prisoner has the burden of demonstrating
that he is being held in violation of the Constitution. In a
criminal proceeding, where the issue posed is the threshold one
of whether a defendant has been proved guilty of a crime
beyond a reasonable doubt, the same considerations surely
have at least as much force. Indeed, the need for achieving
the most reliable determinations of evidentiary facts, and
particularly of credibility, exists a fortiori where the factual
determinations must be made beyond a reasonable doubt.
As the Maryland courts have held, In re Brown, 13 Md.
App. 625, 632-633, 284 A. 2d 441, 444-445 (1971), and as is
self-evident from the structure of Rule 911, the master's function at the hearing is, in large part, to assess the credibility of
the witnesses. That function simply cannot be replicated by
the "judge," acting in his essentially appellate capacity reviewing the record; as amicus cogently notes, "[t]rials-bytranscript can never be more than trials by substantial evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

438 U. S.

dence." " It would thus appear that the Maryland system
of splitting the hearing of evidence from the final adjudication
violates the Due Process Clause.
It is no answer to this problem that the juvenile defendant
may elect to submit additional material to the judge when the
State takes an exception to the master's finding. In the first
place, the State apparently must agree to the supplementation
of the record, and can thus stymie a defendant's efforts to
persuade the judge that he is not guilty. See Rule 911 (c).
But more importantly, when a juvenile seeks to reopen the
proceeding before the judge-in order to avoid having a case
decided against him on the basis of a cold record in violation
of the Due Process Clause-he is being subjected to a second
trial of the sort clearly prohibited by the Double Jeopardy
Clause. The constitutionality of forcing a juvenile to such a
choice between fundamental rights is questionable at best.
Cf. United States v. Jackson, 390 U. S. 570 (1968); North
Carolinav.Pearce, 395 U. S.711 (1969).
III
That the current Maryland scheme cannot pass constitutional muster does not necessarily mean that the idea of using
masters, or some other class of specially trained or selected
personnel for juvenile court adjudications, is either unconstitutional or unwise. Using masters to adjudicate the more
common charges may save scarce judicial resources for the
more difficult cases. It may also aid the ultimate goals of a
juvenile justice system by ensuring that the decisionmakers
have some familiarity with the special problems of juvenile
dispositions. But the State must find a way of implementing
this concept without jeopardizing the constitutional rights of
juveniles. Whether it does so by endowing masters with the
power to make final adjudications or by some other means,
1Brief for State Public Defender of California as Amicus Curiae 26.

SWISHER v. BRADY
204

MARSHALL,

233

J., dissenting

matters not. What does matter is that, absent compelling
circumstances not present here, the system of juvenile justice
in this country must not be permitted to fall below the
minimum constitutional standards set for adult criminal
proceedings.
Accordingly, I dissent.

