OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Sheppard v. Steele, 43 N. Y. 52. To determine the settlement
of paupers: Shirley v. Lunenlurg, 11 Mass. 379. For the
assessment and collection of taxes: Crandallv. James, 6 IR. I.
144. But it is needless to multiply instances.
In conclusion, it may be observed that courts of equity
have, in the exercise of their inherent powers, been in the
habit of ordering inspections of property, as of requiring the
production of books and papers; that this power on the part
of such courts has never been denied, and if it exists, a fortiori, the State has power to provide a statutory proceeding
to accomplish the same result; that the proceeding provided
by this statute requires notice to the defendant, a hearing and
an adjudication before the court or judge; that it permits no
removal or appropriation: of any property, nor any permanent
dispossession of its use, but is limited to such temporary and
partial occupation as is necessary for a mere inspection; that
there is a necessity for such proceeding in order that justice
may be exactly administered; that this statute provides all
reasonable protection to the party against whom the inspec"tion is ordered; that the failure to require a bond, or to provide an appeal, or to have the question of title settled before a
jury, is not the omission of matters essential to due process of
law. It follows, therefore, that there is no conflict between
this statute and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Montana is
.Affirmed.

MILLER v. COURTNAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 157. Submitted December 11, 1893.- Decided March 5,1894.

In an action of ejectment, in a Federal court, the legal title prevails.
The legal title to the premises in dispute passed to the grantor of the defendant by sale under execution and the sheriff's deed, and was not
diverted by the subsequent decree set forth in the statement of facts.

MILLER v. COURTNAY.
Statement of the Case.

Tins was an action of ejectment commenced by Jason G.
-Millerin the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, on February 21, 1887, to recover of the defendant the possession of certain real estate situate in an
addition to the city of Lincoln, in that State. After answer
and reply, the case on November 15, 1887, came on for trial
before a jury, which returned a special verdict finding the
facts. Upon such special verdict judgment was, on motion,
entered in favor of the defendant. The plaintiff thereupon
sued out a writ of error from this court. Since the filing of
the record Jason G. Miller has died, knd the action been revived in the name of Mary P. Miller, his devisee.
The testimony given on the trial was not preserved by any
bill of exceptions, and the questions which arise are upon the
sufficiency of the facts found to sustain the judgment. It appears from these findings that on August 21, 1867, the title to
the land passed to Luke Lavender, the common source of title
of plaintiff and defendant. On November 4, 1873, Henry
Atkins obtained a judgment against Luke Lavender in the district court of Lancaster County, the county in which the land
is situated. Executions were issued from time to time on this
judgment and levied on the property in controversy. •Finally,
on March 22, 1879, the sheriff sold the property to Martha I.
Courtnay, wife of the defendant. This sale was confirmed
by the court and the sheriff's deed duly executed. Lavender
was personally served with process, and the proceedings from
the commencement of the action to the execution of the
sheriff's deed were regular in form. The title thus acquired
she subsequently conveyed to the defendant, though not till
after the commencement of the present action. On April 11,
1884, Lavender filed his petition in the same court against
Henry Atkins, Martha I. Courtnay, and D. G. Courtnay, this
defendant, in which he alleged his ownership, in 1873, of the
property in controversy, as well as other real estate, the rendition of several judgments against him during the years 1873
and 1874, among others that in favor of Atkins; that the
property then belonging to him was worth $75,000 over and
above any homestead exemption; that all the judgments

OCTOBER TERi, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

against him amounted in the aggregate to less than $10,000;
that, notwithstanding this, through the wrongful conduct of
said Atkins, John S. Gregory, the defendant in this case, (who
was a son-in-law of said Atkins,) and James E. Philpott, who
was acting as his (Lavender's) attorney, his entire property was
sold on executions issued on these judgments, and still leaving a balance unsatisfied. The various steps by which this
result was accomplished, such as having irresponsible parties
present at the sales and bidding on the property offered far
above its real value, and thus preventing sales to bona fide
bidders, circulating reports as to incumbrances upon the property, inducing the plaintiff Lavender to file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy in the United States District Court, and
then to abandon it, are all stated at length in the petition.
The prayer was that the sales made on the judgments owned or
controlled by Atkins, Courtnay, or Gregory be set aside; that
an account be stated of the amounts due under such judgments,
and that plaintiff be allowed time in which to pay such amounts,
executions and sales be ordered.
vew
or in lieu thereof that
The defendants appeared and answered, and on November
5, 1885, a decree was entered finding the issues as to this
land in favor of the plaintiff, the language of the finding and
decree being as follows:
"That the plaintiff is entitled to redeem the same and to
be restored to the possession thereof upon the payment within
six months next ensuing of the sum of two hundred and thirtyfour dollars, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per centurn per annum from March 22, 1879, until the same is paid
into court for said defendants; to which defendants except.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed that upon the
payment by the plaintiff of said sum into court for the defendants within the time aforesaid, the sheriff's sale of March
22, 1879, and deed to said lands, to wit, the southwest quarter
of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section
twenty-five, township ten north, of range six east, in Lancaster County, Nebraska, be set aside, annulled, and held for
naught, and the title to said lands be quieted in the plaintiff
as against all claims or title that said defendants or either of

MILLER v. COURTNAY.
Statement of the Case.

them and all persons holding or claiming to hold under them
or either of them may have or claim to have under and by
virtue of said sale and deed, and that the defendants and each
of them convey to plaintiff all right, title, and interest by
them or either of them held or claimed in and to said lands
by virtue of said sale and deed, and that plaintiff have possession of said lands and execution therefor, and that in default
of the plaintiff making such payment within the time aforesaid it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the title in and
to the said lands, to wit, the southwest quarter (1) of the
northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section twentyfive, township ten, range six east, in Lancaster County, Nebraska, be quieted in the defendant, Martha I. Courtnay; to
which defendants except. This decree, however, is not to
affect any judgment or execution lien or liens which said
defendants or either of them may have or hold on said lands;
and plaintiff excepts thereto and prays an appeal therefrom,
which is allowed; and the court further finds as to the rest
and residue of said lands in the petition described the issues
joined in favor of the defendants and against the plaintiff;
and it is further ordered and decreed that the title in and to
all the rest and residue of said lands in the petition described
be quieted in the defendants."
Subsequently this stipulation was filed:
"This cause is settled and the judgment and decree rendered in the District Court of Lancaster County is in all things
affirmed, and all errors are waived by the plaintiff, and the
said plaintiff waives that part of the decree in this case which
gives said plaintiff the right to redeem certain parts of said
premises mentioned in said decree, and the said Luke Lavender and wife deed all of said premises mentioned in the said
decree to D. G. Courtnay, and defendants herein agree to pay
all the costs, and judgment is rendered for the same in favor
of the plaintiff.
"D. G. CourTNAY,
" Att'y for .Def'ts.
"1LUKE

"This 18th day of December, 1885."

LAVEN'DER.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
And on the 28th of December, 1885, the decree was modified in accordance therewith. On the day of the signing of
this stipulation Lavender and wife executed and delivered to
the defendant a warranty deed which included, with other
real estate, the premises in controversy. Further findings
were as follows:
"That the consideration received by the said Luke Lavender
and paid and given by the said Dominic G. Courtnay for the
settlement of the said suit under the said stipulation and the
delivery of the said deed of conveyance to him by the said
Luke Lavender and Julia A. Lavender, his wife, as above
found, was the sum of five hundred dollars, cash paid to Lavender by said Courtuay, and the discharge and release by
said Courtnay and Martha I. Courtnay and Henry Atkins
of all the judgments held by them or any of them against the
said Luke Lavender, amounting in the aggregate to about the
sum of fourteen thousand dollars."
"And we further find and say that Luke Lavender did not
pay within six months next accruing of the said decree the sum
of $234, with interest thereon, at the rate of 7% per annum,
from iarch 22, 1879, neither did any person pay or offer to
pay the same, and no sum of money whatever has ever been
paid as required by the terms of said decree."
It also appears that, on February 21, 1883, Lavender and
his wife by two deeds quit-claimed the premises to the plaintiff, the granting clause in each reading as follows:
"Have remised, released, and quit-claimed, and by these
presents, do for themselves, their heirs, executors, and administrators remise, release, and forever quit-claim and convey unto
the said party of the second part and to his heirs and assigns
forever all their right, title, interest, estate, claim, and demand, both at law and in equity," etc.
Mr. Walter J. Lamb, _Mr. A. C. Ricketts, and .Xr. Benry 1.
Wilson for plaintiff in error.
.'r.
Iz.

D. G. Courtnay in person for defendant in error.
JUSTiCE

BREWE. delivered the opinion of the court.

M1ILLER v. COURTNAY.
Opinion of the Court.

This was an action of ejeetment, and in su~ch an action in a
Federal court the legal title prevails. As the proceedings in the
action in the Lancaster County District Court, from the service
of the summons upon Luke Lavender to the confirmation of the
sale to Martha I. Courtnay and the execution of the sheriff's
deed, were confessedly regular in form, the legal title passed
thereby to her. If it be true, as claimed by plaintiff's counsel,
that the quit-claim deeds to Miller in 1883 conveyed "every
equitable and legal right held by Lavender in this land at the
time," it is difficult to perceive how Lavender, in 1884, could
maintain any suit to set aside such sale and deed. But, beyond this, there was nothing in the proceedings, including the
decree in the case of Lavender against Atkins, Martha I.
Courtnay, and this defendant, which ever, even for a single
moment, operated to transfer the legal title back from Mrs.
Courtnay to Lavender. The petition in that case admitted
the regularity of the proceedings in the prior action as to
matter of form, did not question the fact that the legal title
had thereby passed to her, and only insisted on the equitable
right to redeem by virtue of the alleged misconduct. The
decree gave a right to redeem, but provided that if no redemption was made the title of Mrs. Courtnay should be quieted.
The conditions of redemption prescribed in the decree were
never performed, and under an agreement involving other
matters, and upon a consideration paid by a party other than
the then owner, Mrs. Courtnay, the decree was, by consent of
the parties, modified, and even the conditional right to redeem
denied. Surely it needs no argument to show that the legal
title, once vested in Mrs. Courtnay, is not shifted backwards
and forwards by the changing terms of a decree which gave
and then denied the right to redeem.
It is unnecessary to go into any further consideration of
this case. The legal title which passed to Mrs. Courtnay by
the said sale and sheriff's deed was not divested by the subsequent decree, or any action taken thereunder, and the plaintiff
never acquired the legal title by his quit-claim deeds. The
judgment is
Affirmed.
VOL. CLII-12

