OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Wheeler, president of the defendant corporation, in February,
1885, and before the first patent was issued, bought one of the
plaintiff's fixtures, known as the Oval King fixture, together
with some of its paper, and despatched them to England with
instructions to his agents to file an application for a patent
there, which patent was subsequently issued. That, before a
patent was issued, Hicks himself applied for protection in England, and learning of the filing of the application there by
Wheeler, filed a protest against the'issuance of a patent to the
latter, who thereupon to thwart his obtaining a patent, made
an affidavit that he did not obtain the knowledge of the invention from Hicks or any other person, but by seeing it in
public use in the United States. Wheeler's own testimony in
this case indicates that this affidavit contained a suppressioyeri
if not a suggestio falsi. But, however reprehensible his conduct may have been in this connection, it does not affect the
issue between the parties here. It does not show that the Hicks
patent upon the roll is a validpatent, or that the conduct of
the defendants in making and selling such roll is an infringement upon the combination patents.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

UNITED STATES v. BASHAW.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 770.

Submitted January 8, 1894. - Decided March 19, 1894.

An action cannot be maintained against the United States by a District
Attorney, to recover for services rendered and expenses incurred in
prosecuting for fines, penalties, and forfeitures, under Rev. Stat. §§ 838

UNITED STATES v. BASHAW.
Statement of the Case.
and 3085, for violations of the Customs laws or the Internal Revenue
laws, unless the Secretary of the Treasury first determines what sum he
deems just and reasonable therefor.

THOmAS P. BASHAw brought an action against the United
States in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri
to recover compensation for certain services rendered by him
during the years 1887 and 1888 in the capacity of District
Attorney for the United States in that district. The petition
contained five counts, of which the second and third were
based upon services for investigating certain alleged violations
of the internal revenue laws of the United States, which had
been referred to him for examination by the collector for the
district, under section 838 of the Revised Statutes. The claim
under the second count was for $825, being for the examination of 165 cases at $5 for each case, in which the District
Attorney had decided that proceedings could not probably be
sustained, or that the ends of justice did not require them
to be instituted. The claim under the third count was for
$235 for similar services in respect of 47 cases. In each count
it was alleged that plaintiff had made out and submitted his
claim to the District Judge of the Eastern District of Missouri,
and that the same had been duly allowed and certified by him,
and that afterwards plaintiff presented the claim for payment
"to defendant in its Department of the Treasury, to the
accounting officers of the Treasury, whereupon said defendant,
by its said Department, wrongfully neglected and refused to
pay the same."
The Circuit Court found in favor of the United States as to
the first and third counts, and in favor of plaintiff on the
second, third, and fifth counts, and gave judgment for $1070,
which included the sum of ten dollars under the fifth count, as
to which no question is raised. The court made certain findings of fact and conclusions of law.
The second finding of fact was as follows:
"2. The court further finds the facts to be as stated in the
second and third counts of the petition, that is to say, the
court finds that between the 28th day of January, 1887, and
first day of July, 1888, the collector of internal revenue for

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the first collection district of Missouri reported to the plaintiff
herein (who was then United States District Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri) divers and sundry cases of alleged
violations of the internal revenue laws of the United States,
to the number of 165; that the plaintiff inquired into and
examined each of said cases, and that upon such inquiry and
examination decided that proceedings therein could not probably be sustained, and that the ends of justice did not require
that such proceedings should be prosecuted, and that he thereupon made a report of the facts in such cases to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for his direction. The court finds
that the plaintiff's services were reasonably worth the sum of
five dollars in each of said cases, to wit, total sum of eight
hundred and twenty-five ($825.00) dollars.
"That between the first day of July, 1888, and the 31st day
of December, 1888, he made like examination and report in
forty-seven other cases of alleged violations of the internal
revenue laws which were reported to him by said collector of
internal revenue; that the plaintiff's services in each of the said
forty-seven cases was likewise reasonably worth the sum of
$5.00 per case, or the total sum of two hundred and thirty-five
($235.00) dollars."
The record did not show that the accounts were allowed
and certified by any Judge, but it appeared from letters of the
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, in evidence, that the
claim for $825 was rejected in these terms: "In accordance
with the rulings of this department and the opinion of the
Attorney-General, this account cannot be allowed because the
cases were not tried or disposed of before a Judge;" and that
for $235, in the same language, with these words added: "And
consequently no Judge can give the certificate which the law
requires and which is necessary as the basis of the Secretary's
allowance."
Judgment having been rendered, the case was carried by
appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, and the judgment was by that court affirmed.
The opinion is reported in 4 U. S. App. 360. An appeal was
then taken to this court.

UITTED STATES v. BASHAW.
Statement of the Case.

By the seventh section of the act of Congress of July 18,
1866, c. 201, entitled "An act further to prevent smuggling
and for other purposes," 14 Stat. 178, 179, it was made the
duty of the District Attorney, upon the report of the collector
of customs thereby required, to "cause suit and prosecution to
be commenced and prosecuted without delay for the fines and
personal penalties by law in such cases provided, unless upon
inquiry and examination he shall decide that a conviction
cannot probably be obtained, or that the ends of public justice
do not require that a suit or prosecution should be instituted,
in which case he shall report the facts to the Secretary of the
Treasury for his direction; and for expenses incurred and
services rendered in prosecutions for such fines and personal
penalties, the District Attorney shall receive such allowance as
the Secretary of the Treasury shall deem just and reasonable,
upon the certificate of the judge before whoin such prosecution was had;" etc.
By act of Congress of March 3, 1873, c. 244, 17 Stat. 580, the
seventh section of the former act was amended and the same
provisions in substance extended to internal revenue cases;
and it was made the duty of the District Attorney on report of
the collector of customs or the collector of internal revenue,
as the case might be, "to cause the proper proceedings to be
commenced and prosecuted without delay for the fines, penalties, and forfeitures by law in such case provided, unless, upon
inquiry and examination he shall decide that such proceedings
cannot probably be sustained, or that the ends of public justice do not require that proceedings should be instituted, in
which case he shall report the facts in customs cases to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and in internal revenue cases to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, for their direction;
and for the expenses incurred and services rendered in all such
cases the District Attorney shall receive and be paid from the
Treasury such sum as the Secretary of the Treasury shall deem
just and reasonable upon the certificate of the judge before
whom such cases are tried or disposed of: P'ovided, That
the annual compensation of such District Attorney shall not
exceed the maximum amount now prescribed by law;" etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

These provisions were carried forward into the Revised
Statutes as section 838, under Title 13, "The Judiciary," and
section 3085, under Title 31, "Collection of Duties." These
sections are as follows:
"SEC. 838. It shall be [the] duty of every district attorney
to whom any collector of customs, or of internal revenue, shall
report, according to law, any case in which any fine, penalty,
or forfeiture has been incurred in the district of such attorney
for the violation of any law of the 'United States relating to
the revenue, to cause the proper proceedings to be commenced
and prosecuted without delay, for the fines, penalties, and
forfeitures in such case provided, unless, upon inquiry and
examination, he shall decide that such proceedings cannot
probably be sustained, or that the ends of public justice do
not require that such proceedings should be instituted; in
which case he shall report the facts in customs cases to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and in internal revenue cases to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, for their direction. And
for the expenses incurred and services rendered in all such cases,
the district attorney shall receive and be paid from the Treasury such sum as the Secretary of the Treasury shall deem just
and reasbnable, upon the certificate of the judge before whom
such cases are tried or disposed of : Provided,That the annual
compensation of such district attorney shall not exceed the
maximum amount prescribed by law, by reason of such allowance and payment."
"SEc. 3085. District attorneys, upon receiving the report
of a collector, shall cause -suit and prosecution to be commenced and prosecuted without delay for the fines and personal penalties by law in such case provided, unless upon
inquiry and examination they shall decide that a conviction
cannot probably be obtained, or that the ends of public justice do not require that a suit or prosecution shall be instituted, in which case they shall report the facts to the Secretary of the Treasury for his direction. For expenses incurred
and services rendered in prosecutions for such fines and personal penalties, they shall receive such allowance as the
Secretary of the Treasury shall deem just and reasonable, upon

UNITED STATES v. BASHAW.
Opinion of the Court.

the certificate of the judge before whom such prosecution
was had."
1 r. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and -Yr. fames H.
Nixon for appellants.
-Mr. Lewis E. Stanton,
Emerson for appellee.
Mr. CHIEF JusTIo

rf. 0. C. 1ancamster, and Mrb.. J. W.

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the words, in respect
of payment for expenses and services, "in all such cases," in
section 838, referred to the cases previously mentioned in the
section, namely, the cases reported by the collector to the
district attorney for examination; that, therefore, the attorney would be entitled to be paid for expenses and services in
all cases reported to him and examined, regardless of the
results of such examination; that it ought not to be supposed
that Congress, while intending to protect the individual citizen, as well as the United States, against the institution of
proceedings not called for in the furtherance of justice, at the
same time placed the government in the attitude of making
the question of compensation depend upon a conclusion reached
in its favor; that as the phraseology of the seventh section
of the act of July 18, 1866, was changed by the act of March
3, 1873, by striking out the words "in prosecutions for such
fines and personal penalties," and inserting "in all such
cases," the presumption was that a change of meaning was
intended; and that section 838, embodying the act of 1873,
should not be narrowed to conform to the act of 1866; but
no reference was made to the carrying forward of the latter
into section 3085. It was conceded that the basis for the
action of the Secretary of the Treasury was the certificate of
the proper judge, but considered that the giving of such certificate was not necessarily limited to the judge before whom
the cases were "tried and disposed of," and that where, on
examination, no prosecution was had, the judge who was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court

competent to try "such cases" was competent to grant the,
certificate. The court held that the question of payment or
no payment was not left to the discretion of the Secretary,
and that: "The right to compensation is acquired by the
rendition of services in the examination of cases reported to,
the attorney for examination by the collectors of customs and
of revenue. The amount to be paid is to be ascertained by
proving the facts before the proper judge, obtaining his certificate, and the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury."
Certain considerations, however, confront us at the threshold, which are fatal to the judgment, and render any deterniination of the principal question discussed uncalled for.
The findings of the Circuit Court do not show, nor is it anywhere disclosed by the record, that, prior to the presentation
of the claims to the Secretary, the facts were proven before
any judge and the amounts claimed certified by him; and it.
affirmatively appeared that the Secretary had not determined
what sum he deemed just and reasonable to be paid.
The rejection of the claims was placed, it is true, upon the
ground that they could not be allowed for want of certificate,
in accordance with the rulings of the department and theopinion of the Attorney General; but the facts remain that
the Secretary had made no allowance, and that this record,
fails to show that the exercise of his discretion in that regard,
even from plaintiff's standpoint, had been properly invoked.
And in this connection it is proper to observe that our attention is called, by the brief of counsel for the government, to
rulings of Secretary Bristow, August 29 and December 9, 1874 ;
of Secretary Folger, February 26 and 28, 1884; and of Secretary Fairchild, of December 18, 1886 ; that the Secretary of the
Treasury can make no allowance for services where legal proceedings were not commenced, because he could not do so unless
there was a judge's certificate, and such certificate could not be
given except in cases that were tried or disposed of before the
judge so certifying, and the practice under the act of 1873 and
the Revised Statutes seems to have been uniformly in accordance with these rulings. The department held, in short, that the
statute did not apply to cases not tried and disposed of. The

UNITED STATES v. BASHAW.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion of Attorney General Brewster, of March 2, 1885, (18
Opins. 126,) and of Attorney General Garland, in a letter tothe Secretary of the Treasury, of November 17, 1885, (31
Internal Revenue Record, 382,) are to the same effect. The
latter was of opinion that sections 838 and 3085 should be
read together, and that so construed the established practice
of the department was maintained. This was the view taken
by Judge Shipman in Stanton v. United States, 37 Fed. Rep.
252, who held that it was not the intention of Congress to
authorize payment for such services, "unless prosecutions had
been commenced." It was otherwise ruled by Judge Treat,
in In re Account of District Attorney,*23 Fed. Rep. 26,
followed by his successor, Judge Thayer, in this case, 47 Fed.
Rep. 40 ; and a like opinion was expressed by the Solicitor of
the Treasury on April 30, 1885.
But, without further remark on this branch of the case, it
must be admitted that, even if the rulings of the Department
were erroneous and its practice not controlling, upon which
we express no opinion, whatever sum was to be paid was left
to be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury as he
should deem reasonable and just, and this involved the exercise of judgment and discretion on his part. The courts
cannot control, though in proper cases they may direct, the
exercise of judgment or discretion in an executive officer. In
this case, as we have said, the exercise of discretion was not
properly invoked, and the party had no right to ask the court
to substitute its judgment for the judgment of the Secretary.
The judgment of the Circuit Courtof Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit is reversed; the judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United Statesfor the Eastern District of .Missouri is
also reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Mr. JusIoiE WurrE was not a member of the court when
this case was considered, and took no part in its decision.

