OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

This case differs from the one just decided, ante, 301, only in
the fact that this is a bill in equity, filed by the corporation
whose property is sought to be taxed, to restrain the defendants
from levying or collecting any taxes for the years 1883 to
1887, inclusive, upon the ground that the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Missouri in the Secor case, and also
the Supreme Court of the State, had held the property of the
company not to be subject to taxation.
As the questions involved in the two cases are precisely the
same, the decree of the court below dismissing the bill was
correct, and the same is, therefore,
AfimeZ.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAiN and MR. JUSTICE BREwER dissented.

KEOKUK AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v.
SCOTLAND COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TIE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 414. Argued December 21, 22, 1893.-Decided March 12,1894.

A railroad company which derives its title to its road from a foreclosure of
a mortgage, given before the commencement of a suit by stockholders
to enjoin the collection of taxes upon the property so sold and conveyed,
does not occupy a relation to the plaintiffs in that suit, which entitles it
to file a bill of revivor, or to invoke the decree in the suit as an estoppel.
The purchaser under a mortgage is not entitled to the benefit of an estoppel
under a decree obtained in a suit begun after the execution of the mortgage.

THIs was a bill in equity filed by the Keokuk and Western
Railroad Company to revive a suit begun August 6, 1879, by
Charles A. Secor and other stockholders of the Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railway Company against the judges of the
county courts of Scotland, Schuyler, and Clarke Counties, the
object of which suit was to enjoin the collection of taxes

KEOKUK RAILROAD v. SCOTLAND COUNTY.

319

Statement of the Case.

upon such railway company for the year 1879 and several
years prior thereto.
The bill of revivor, which was filed February 17, 1890, set
forth the commencement of the suit by Secor against the
county courts above named, and the rendition of a decree
May 10, 1882, by which the defendants were enjoined from
levying or collecting taxes of the railway company "until the
expiration of the exemption limited in the charter of said
railway company, to wit, December 1, 1892," and that the
same was in full force and effect. The bill further alleged
the execution of a mortgage in 1870 by the railway company
to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, the
foreclosure of the same, the purchase of the road in 1886 by
Morris K. Jesup and Henry 0. Thatcher, a purchasing committee of the bondholders, and the conveyance of the same
to the plaintiff, the Keokuk and Western Railroad Company,
in December, 1886, whereby the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railroad Company became dissolved, and Secor and the other
stockholders ceased to have any interest therein, and "that
by virtue of said mortgage, decree, and foreclosure sale all of
the title in and to said property has become vested in your
orator." The bill further alleged a change in the officers of
the respective defendant counties, the beginning of three suits
by the collector of revenue of Scotland County, to enforce, as
a lien upon plaintiff's property, the taxes levied upon the
Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railroad Company for the years
1872 to 1878, 1880, 1881, 1882, and 1887, and that the same
were in violation and contempt of the injunction issued in the
Secor ease. The bill prayed that such suit might be revived
against the counties and their officers in the name of the
plaintiff, as the same was at the dissolution of the Missouri,
Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, and that the collector
of revenue of Scotland County be punished for contempt in
instituting the suits for the collection of the taxes in violation
of the decree upon the original bill.
On March 3, 1890, defendants interposed a demurrer to the
bill for the county of Scotland, which was sustained on -March
25, upon the ground that the plaintiff did not occupy such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

relation to the parties to the original suit as to entitle it to
file a bill of revivor, and that the decree in such original suit
could not be invoked as an estoppel between the Keokuk and
Western Railroad Company and the several counties which
were made defendants to the bill. The court put its decision
upon the ground that the plaintiff acquired its title by the
foreclosure of a mortgage executed in 1870, and that it did
not appear that the mortgagee or any representative of the
mortgagee was made a party to the suit of Secor et al. against
the railway company and the several counties. Coupled with
the order sustaining the demurrer was a general order granting plaintiff leave to amend its bill.
Plaintiff thereupon, and on April 28, 1890, filed an amended
bill, setting up that in September, 1880, the Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railroad Company leased its road for a term
of years to the Wabash Railway Company, the lease containing an agreement that the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Company should execute a mortgage to the Mercantile Trust
Company of New York to secure certain bonds which were to
be guaranteed by the Wabash Company, and covenanting
that it would cause the holders of the bonds of 1870 to accept
the bonds so guaranteed by the Wabash Company in lieu of
the prior bonds, and averring that the decree of foreclosure
of the bonds of 1870 was not executed or the railroad property
sold thereunder. That in pursuance of such lease the mortgage
to the Mercantile Trust Company was executed March 1, 1881,
and 2269 bonds were issued and guaranteed by the Wabash
Company; that all of the 1870 bonds were exchanged for the
guaranteed bonds, with the exception of 17; that the Wabash
Company paid interest upon the same until June, 1884, the
decree of foreclosure remaining unexecuted, when the Wabash
Company became insolvent; that in 1886 the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company filed a supplemental bill of foreclosure
against the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railroad Company,
the Mercantile Trust Company, the Wabash Company, and
the ilumeston and Shenandoah Railway Company, upon
which a final decree of foreclosure was entered and the property ordered to be sold; that upon the confirmation of such

KEOKUK RAILROAD v. SCOTLAND COUNTY.

321

Statement of the Case.

sale the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Company, the Humeston and Shenandoah Company, and the Mercantile Trust
Company were each ordered to execute and deliver to the
purchaser deeds of the property; that in pursuance of such
decree the property was sold in 1886, and Jesup and Thatcher
became the purchasers; that these purchasers having conveyed
the property to the plaintiff the same was turned over to it in
December, 1886; that subsequently., in pursuance of such
decree, the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Company and the
M,ercantile Trust C&npany executed to Jesup and Thatcher
their respective deeds of conveyance of all their interest in the
railway property, and that Jesup and Thatcher afterwards,
for a valuable consideration, and in further execution of their
said trust, conveyed the same to the plaintiff. Plaintiff further
averred that the mortgage of the Mercantile Trust Company
was made after the original injunction proceedings were commenced; that by the title acquired through the foreclosure
of the same, and the several deeds of conveyance to it, plaintiff became entitled to all the rights and privileges of the
injunction decree in the original suit, and to have the same
revived against the defendants. To this amended bill the
officers of Scotland County filed an answer, denying that any
title was acquired by the plaintiff through the lease of 1880,
or the mortgage of 1881, but that all such title was acquired
through the foreclosure of the mortgage of 1870, and the
sale thereunder in 1886. The answer further averred that
the whole of the contract, lease, and mortgage of 1880
and 1881 was an abortive attempt to provide against a foreclosure and sale under the mortgage of 1870, and having
failed, the whole of said proceedings were practically rescinded by order of the court in which the foreclosure proceedings were carried on.
On' January 10, 1891, upon the supplemental bill, the
answers, replication, and proofs, a final decree was entered
dismissing the bill of revivor upon the ground that plaintiff's
title to the property related back to the mortgage of 1870, and
that it acquired no title under the mortgage of 1881.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court.
VOL. cLm-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Felix T. Hughes and Mr. John F. Dillon, (with whom
was Air. Thomas De Witt Cuyler on the brief,) for appellant.
-Mr. F. L. Schofeld, (with whom were Mr. Johnb A. Whiteside and Mr. T. L. Mtontgomery on the brief,) for appellees.
MR. JUSTmE BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case raises the question whether the Keokuk and
Western Railroad Company, which is n6w the owner of the
property and franchises of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railroad Company, is entitled to revive a suit originally begun
by Secor and other stockholders of the last-named company,
against the officers of three counties in Missouri, to enjoin the
collection of taxes upon property formerly belonging to the
Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railroad Company and now
owned by the plaintiff.
(1) Upon demurrer to the original bill, the court held that
the plaintiff, deriving its title from the foreclosure of a mortgage given before the suit which it sought to revive had been
begun, did not occupy such a relation to Secor and the other
stockholders, plaintiffs in the original suit, as entitled it to file
the bill or invoke the decree in that court as an estoppel. In
the case just decided of the Keokuk and W'estern Railroad
Company v. State of Afissouri, ante, 301, we held the principle
of that ruling to be correct. Upon the same day that the
order sustaining the demurrer was entered, viz., March 25,
1890, leave was granted to amend the bill, whereupon, and
obviously for the purpose of meeting the objection raised by
the court that the only title to the property claimed by the
plaintiff was one derived from the foreclosure of the mortgage
of 1870, plaintiff, on April 18, 1890, procured a deed from
Jesup and Thatcher of their interest under the foreclosure of
the mortgage of 1881 to the Mercantile Trust Company, and,
on April 28, filed an amendment to its bill of revivor, setting
up thisand other deeds as evidence of title through the mortgage of 1881, which was given after the original injunction
proceedings were commenced by Secor, and claiming that, by

KEOKUK RAILROAD v. SCOTLAND COUNTY.

323

Opinion of the Court.

its title through the foreclosure of this mortgage, and through
the various deeds of conveyance following the same, plaintiff
was entitled to the benefit of the injunction decreed in the
Secor suit, and to have the same revived and enforced against
the defendants.
The court, however, found from the record evidence that
the plaintiff derived its title to the property in controversy
through the mortgage of June 1, 1870; that its title to the
property in question related back to that mortgage, and hence
the complainant was not entitled to the benefit of the original
decree. In this conclusion we also concur. The facts in this
connection, so far as we gather them from the pleadings, appear to have been that a bill to foreclose the mortgage of
June 1, 1870, was filed December 30, 1879, a decree of foreclosure rendered thereon October 22, 1880, and the property
ordered to be sold. Pending this foreclosure, and on February 12, 1880, the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway
Company, the mortgagor, with the consent of a majority of'
the bondholders under the mortgage of June 1, 1870, entered
into the contract with the Wabash Company to lease its road,
and to induce the bondholders to surrender their bonds, and
take in exchange therefor bonds of the Wabash Company
which were to be secured by a new mortgage upon the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Company. Pursuant to such contract, the lease was executed on September 3, 1880, for a term
of ninety-nine years, and the Wabash Company entered into
possession of the road. On March 1, 1881, in pursuance of
the contract and lease, a mortgage was executed to the Mercantile Trust Company to secure the payment of 2269 bonds
made by the Wabash Company, with a provision that all the
bonds that should be received by the trustee in the course of
the exchange for the bonds secured by the mortgage of 1870
should be retained by the trustee for the protection of the
bondholders.
The Wabash Company, having become insolvent in 1885,
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, for the purpose of
enforcing their decree of foreclosure of October 22, 1880,
filed a supplemental bill setting forth the proceedings sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sequent to the decree, and the failure of the lessee company
to pay the rental, alleging that it never was the intention of the
bondholders under the first mortgage that their bonds should
be cancelled, or the decree of October 22, 1880, vacated or
annulled, or the right to execute the same be in any way
abrogated or impaired; but that it was the design that the
old bonds, having been exchanged, should remain in the
hands of the Mercantile Trust Company, to be used in pursuance of the trust. The bill further charged that the decree
of October, 1880, was still in full force, and that the rights
of the parties interested could not be fully protected otherwise than by a judicial sale of the road and other property
covered by the first mortgage. The bill prayed for the enforcement of the decree of October 22, 1880, and for the
same relief that the plaintiff might have had in case the
matters subsequent to the decree had not occurred, and that
the former decree might be promptly and immediately
executed.
-A decree upon this supplemental bill was entered on July
8, 1886. The decree adjudged that the facts set forth in the
supplemental bill of complaint were true; that the decree of
October, 1880, was still in full force, and was not reversed, vacated, or discharged. After setting forth the subsequent proceedings connected with the Wabash lease, the exchange of
the bonds, etc., the failure of the mortgagor to pay the bonds
.and mortgages mentioned in the decree, it ordered the mortgaged premises described in the decree of October, 1880, to be
sold. The sale was made August 19, 1886, and was subsequently, confirmed, and a deed executed by the master to Jesup
and Thatcher, purchasers, who subsequently, and on November
26, 1886, executed a deed to the Keokuk and Western Railroad Company.
From the maze of bills, supplemental bills, bills of revivor,
decrees, and deeds involved in this case we think the following facts clearly appear - (1) That the decree of October
22, 1880, was a decree for the foreclosure of the mortgage of
1870, and of that alone; (2) that the supplemental bill of
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was filed to enforce

KEOKUK RAILROAD v. SCOTLAND COUNTY.

325

Opinion of the Court.

that decree; (3) that, in the decree of July 8, 1886, rendered
upon such supplemental bill, 17 bonds issued under the
mortgage of 1870, which had never been exchanged, were
provided for as valid liens under that mortgage, and under
that alone; (4) that the bonds held by the Mercantile Trust
Company, as trustee, which had been exchanged for the prior
bonds, were also recognized as claims secured by such mortgage; (5) that in such decree no mention was made of the
mortgage of 1881, except by way of recital, and as part of
the history of the case; (6) that the sale ordered was a sale
in pursuance of the prior decree; (7) that in the master's
deed to Jesup and Thatcher, and in their deed to the Keokuk
and Western Railroad Company, no allusion whatever was
made to the mortgage of 1881.
There was, it is true, a proviso in the last decree that, by
way of a more ample protection to the purchasers, the defendants, the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, the Humeston and Shenandoah Railway Company,
and the Mercantile Trust Company should execute deeds
of the property to the purchasers, and that in pursuance of such order the deeds of 1890 were executed. But
it is clear that nothing in fact passed by such deeds, since the
deeds of the master to Jesup and Thatcher, and their deed to
the Keokuk and Western Railroad Company had, already
conveyed all the interests of the defendants to the property
in question.
The truth is that in these proceedings the mortgage of 1881
was treated as an abandoned security, and was practically
ignored in the foreclosure proceedings which culminated in
the sale of the road. The deeds of 1890 were evidently an
afterthought for the purpose of procuring some kind of title
under the mortgage of 1881, and of meeting the decision of
the court sustaining the demurrer to the original bill of revivor.
(2) Plaintiff, however, makes a further claim that, under
the law of Missouri for the taxation of railroads, the property
and all interests therein are taxed as a whole to the company
and no one else, and that proceedings against the company
by suit or otherwise will divest the mortgagees of their rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as well as the company itself, notwithstanding they are not
made parties to the proceedings; that the bondholders or their
trustees are privies to such tax proceedings at law, and that
inasmuch as the Secor suit was a bill in equity to prevent a
multiplicity of tax suits, which would become necessary in the
various years in which the tax was to be collected, during the
limited exemption, it follows that if the railroad company
becomes the legal representative of the bondholders, or their
trustee in the tax suit at law, the same would be true in a
proceeding in equity to enjoin such taxes.
Granting the general principles above stated to be correct,
that a lien for taxes upon the property is a lien upon all the
interests in such property, and that proceedings to enforce
such lien will oust the mortgagees of their lien, we do not
think the latter part of the proposition follows, that these
bondholders or their trustees were privies to the suit in equity
to enjoin such taxes. Indeed, it is difficult to see how the
fact that the mortgagees would be bound in a proceeding by
the State to enforce its lien for taxes would have any bearing
upon the point in controversy. The bill sought to be revived
is a bill to enjoin the taxes for 1879 and prior years, and the
question was whether the plaintiff was entitled to the benefit
of the decree in that case. This depended, not upon the
question whether the lien of the State for taxes overrode the
mortgagees' lien, but whether under the settled principles of
law the purchaser under the mortgage is entitled to the benefit of an estoppel under a decree obtained in a suit begun after
the execution of his mortgage. We hold that it would not
have been estopped by that decree, if such decree had been
adverse to Secor in that suit, and henee as estoppels must be
mutual, it cannot claim the benefit of an estoppel in this case.
The Secor bill was a bill to enjoin the collection of taxes for
certain years; if the court had decided that the plaintiffs were
not entitled to such injunction, but that the taxes were valid,
we know of no reason why the Keokuk and Western Railroad
Company would thereby be estopped to maintain a bill of its
own for the same purpose, as it derived its title to the property
in qifestion from a mortgage long antecedent to the con-

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
Opinion of the Court.

mencement of the suit by Secor. This seems to have been
the view taken by the Supreme Court of Missouri in Staford
v. Fizer, 82 Missouri, 393, in which that court held that
although the lien of the State for taxes ranks all other liens
whether prior or subsequent, yet in a suit to enforce such lien,
the holder of a junior incumbrance must be made a party, if
it is desired to divest him of his rights; otherwise he will be
entitled to redeem from the purchaser under the tax lien.
See also Gitchell v. -KHeidler, 84 Missouri, 472.
The decree of the court below was correct, and it is, therefore,

Afinmed.

DOWELL v. APPLEGATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 209. Argued January 18, 1894.-Decided March 5, 1894.

A final decree of a Federal court, being unmodified and unreversed, cannot
be treated as a nullity when assailed collaterally by one who was a party
to the suit in which it was rendered.
In a suit by A to subject lands of B to sale in satisfaction of his claims, a
decree in the complainant's favor is final, if not appealed from, and B
cannot have the same issue retried in an independent suit, based upon
a title which he might have set up in the first suit, but did not.
When the Supreme Court of a State fails to give proper effect to a decree
of a Circuit Court of the United States, this court has jurisdiction over
its judgment to correct the error.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. B. F. Dowell and -Y. John H...Mitckell for plaintiff in
error.
.11r.J. N. Do1 h for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE HAMLAx delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the title to a tract of land in Douglas
County, Oregon, containing forty acres, part of what is known

