ROWE v. PHELPS.
Statement of the Case.

same were not leased by the defendant or held by him as tenant
of the plaintiff. The testimony further showed that, from the
time defendant obtained the lease of the State until the dite
of the trial, the stock owned or controlled by him was more
than sufficient to consume the grass on the plaintiff's lands,
and the sections alternating therewith leased by the defendant
from the public school fund. Defendant not only pastured
his own stock upon these lands, but 3500 head of cattle owned
by one Evans, for which he received $5000 the first year, and
for the remaining period up to the year 1889, when he purchased them, $1.65 per head, as well as $2500 for the pasturage of 3000 calves belonging to another party.
These facts certainly showed an intent on the part of the defendant to avail himself of the pasturage of plaintiff's lands,
and fully authorized the instruction of the court to the jury
that, if the defendant overstocked the enclosure, he should be
held liable to the plaintiff for the rental value of the lands.
In such case the law raises an implied promise to pay a reasonable sum for the use and occupation of the lands, even though
negotiations for a new lease had proven unsuccessful. Schuyler
v. S'ith, 51 N. Y. 309.
There was no error in the action of the court below, and its
Alffrmed.
judgment is, therefore,

ROWE v. PHELPS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
.
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 237. Argued and submitted February1, 1894.-

Decided March 5, 181L

There being no assignment of errors, as required by Rev. Stat. ยง 997, and
no specification of errors required by Rule 21, this case is dismissed.

Tmis was, as in the preceding case, an action by the defendant in error to recover the rental value of certain sections of
land alleged to have been depastured by the plaintiffs in error,
constituting the firm of Rowe Bros.

OCTOBER TERM/, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Upon the trial of the case the jury returned a verdict for
the plaintiff in the sum of $7739, for which judgynent was

entered, and defendant sued out this writ of error.
3r. l. L. Crawford, for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief.
.Mr. Leigh Robinson for defendant in error.
M . JusTICE Buowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
There is no assignment of errors sent up with the record in
this case, as required by Rev. Stat. ยง 997, and no "specification
of the errors relied upon," as required by Rule 21 of this court.
This rule requires that the specification "shall set out separately and particularly each error assigned and intended to be
urged," and there is no such "plain error not assigned or
specified," as calls upon the court to exercise its option to
review the questions involved. It would seem that unless the
statute and rule are to be entirely disregarded, this writ of
error must be
-Dismissed.

GUMAER v. COLORADO OIL COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 50. Argued October 24, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

The court being unable, in any view that it can take of the evidence, to
reconcile the conflicting testimony of the witnesses respectively examined in behalf of the parties, holds that the evidence fails to show
that the complainant is entitled to the relief prayed for.

THE Colorado Oil Company, describing itself as a corporation organized and existing under the laws of New York,
brought its bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United

