OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

legislation of Congress and of Kansas, and the accepted conditions upon which that State was admitted into the Union,
that her original claim to the school sections in townships sixteen and thirty-six of the State was rejected by Congress, and
abandoned by the State, and the right of Congress was conceded to the absolute control of the lands thus embraced and
of lands set apart for the use of the, Indians until such right
should be extinguished by appropriate legislation. This rejection by Congress of the original claim of Kansas to the school
lands in townships sixteen (16) and thirty-six (36), and its subsequent abandonment by the State itself, and the concession
to Congress of the right of absolute control of the lands until
such right should be extinguished by appropriate legislation,
distinguishes the case materially from that of Wisconsin, which
was considered in Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S.517, and upon
which the defendant in error principally relies. No such right
was relinquished until after the grant of the right of way
under the act of Congress of July 26, 1866, to the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway, and the title of the lands composing that right of way had become vested in that company.
It follows, therefore, that the Supreme Court of the State,
the court below, erred in sustaining the judgment of the inferior court of the State, in favor of the plaintiff in that court,
the defendant in error here, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court must therefore be
Rever'sed, and the cause rnemanded with dir'ections to take
further proceedings in accordance with this qoinion.
THE MAIN v. WILLIAMS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
No. 233. Argued January 30, 31, 1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

Under Rev. Stat. § 4283, the liability of a ship owner for the "freight then
pending" extends, (1), to passage money, and, (2), to freight prepaid at
the port of departure.

THE MAIN v. WILLIAMS.
Argument for Appellant.

THis was an appeal from a decree entered in a proceeding
taken to limit the liability of the owners of the steamship
Main for a collision with the steamship Montana, in respect
to her "freight pending."
The proceedings were begun by a petition filed by the iNord
Deutscher Lloyd, owner "f the Mfain, setting forth the filing
of a libel against the steamship for a collision with the steamship Montana, which occurred in the Patapsco River on
January 5,1889, wherein was claimed a sum largely in excess
of the value of the Main and her freight then pending, and
praying for the appointment of appraisers of the interest of
petitioner in the ship and her freight for the voyage. The
value of the vessel was subsequently fixed by stipulation at
$70,000. The appraisers returned the amount of freight pending at $1577.38, which was disputed. The decree of the District Court subsequently fixed the gross amount of freight
upon the cargo on board at the time of the collision, prepaid
at Bremen, as well as collectable at Baltimore, at $1870.10,
and added thereto $5200 gross passage money prepaid at
Bremen for the transportation of emigrant passengers for
Baltimore, making in all $7070.10.
On appeal to the Circuit Court this decree was affirmed,
and the owners of the Mlain appealed to this court.
. r. Thomas IF Ball for appellant.
The word "freight" has, at most, in the English language,
two acceptations. It is used as signifying: ftrst, the burden
or thing carried, whether by land or sea; secondly, the hire,
price, or compensation paid for the carriage or transportation
of goods or merchandise. Worcester's Dictionary; Webster's
Dictionary; Eirchner v. 7enus, 12 Moore, P. C. 390; Scrutton on Charter Parties, Art. 136; Nelson's Shipping, Art. 74;
Maclachlan's Shipping, (4th ed.,) 474; Brittan v. Barnaby,
21 How. 527, 533.
Not only do the definitions given of the word "freight,"
whether by lexicographers or by the courts, negative and
exclude any idea that the money, commonly called "fares,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

paid for the transportation of passengers, is included in or
covered by the term "freight," but the courts, when asked,
have expressly refused so to extend the meaning of the word.
In an action by a broker to recover commissions upon his contract to obtain freight for a ship on a voyage from London to
Ntew South Wales, it was held that the passage money of
steerage passengers procured by him could not be included
in the estimate of the amount of freight, the words "cargo"
and "freight" being terms applicable to goods only. Lewis
v. .Marshall,7 Mlan. & Gr. 729.
So, in a suit brought to recover on a policy of insurance
valued on freight, where the ship had been lost with a cargo
of rice and coolies on board for Mauritius, it was held that the
word "freight" in the policy did not include the passage
money of the coolies. Denoon v. Home & Colonial Ass. Co.,
L. R. 7 0. P. 341.
The Limited Liability Act was principally taken from the
act 26 Geo. 3, and from the Revised Statutes of Maine.
While these statutes are in pari materi, it is evident that
they are very far from being in totidemn verbis. Not only is
there a complete departure in the act of Congress from the
language of the British statute, but the addition to the simple
word "freight" found in the Maine and Massachusetts statutes, of the words "then pending," cannot be supposed to be
without significance and intention. It is not necessary to
quote lexicographers for the meaning of the word "pending."
The words "then pending" not only limit the owner's liability
on account of "freight" to the amount of freight pending at
the time of the collision, but also to the amount of freight
depending and contingent upon the termination of the voyage
and the delivery of the goods. Otherwise, these words are
utterly without meaning and mere surplusage. In its opinion in the case of The City of .Yorwich, 118 U. S. 468, 491,
construing this very statute and section, this court has said:
"Pending freight is of no value to the ship owner until it is
earned, and it is not earned, if earned at all, until the conclusion of the voyage."
The rule of statutory construction, applicable to this case,

THE MAIN v. WILLIAMS.
Counsel for Appellees.

is well settled. Congress must be presumed to have understood the meaning of the words employed in the statute, and
to have employed those words in their usual and ordinary
sense. It is in this spirit that this court has already construed
this section of the Revised Statutes, (§ 4283,) in The City of
lNorwich, 118 _U. S. 468; The Scotland, 118 U. S.507; and
The Great Western, 118 U. S. 520. In these cases the court
was pressed to extend the meaning of the word "interest" so
as to include any insurance which the owner might have on
the ship or freight, in the amount for which he should be held
liable. But the court refused to enlarge by construction the
meaning of the word "interest." In the opinion in the first
of the cases referred to, that of The City of Norwich, at page
495, after fully stating the contention in the case, it is said,
"The truth is that the whole question after all comes back to
this: whether a limited liability of ship owners is consonant
to public policy or not. Congress has declared that it is, and
they, and not we, are the judges of that question. Having,
as we think, ascertained the true construction of the statute,
the point in dispute is really settled. It is a question of construction, and does not require an examination of the general
maritime law to determine it. If the rule of the maritime law
is different, the statute must prevail."
The appellant submits, with great respect, that the Circuit
Court erred accordingly in including in the amount of its
decree against the appellant on account of its liability for
"freight then pending" at the time of the collision: (1) The
sum of S847.23, freight on goods, prepaid at the port of Bremen "under an express stipulation and agreement that said
freight money so prepaid was not to be returned, goods lost
or not lost;" (2) the sum of $5200, also prepaid at Bremen
for the passage money of immigrants who were on board of
said ship at the time of the collision.
Afr. J Wilson Leakin and Mr. John E1. Thomas, (with
whom was -Mr. George Leiper Thomas on the brief,) for
appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. JUSTicE BrowNr, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case raises two questions: (1) as to whether, under
Revised Statutes, § 4283, the liability of a ship owner for the
"freight then pending" extends to passage money; and, (2),
whether it extends to freight prepaid at the port of departure.
1. By the common law, as administered both in England
and America, the personal liability of the owner of a vessel
for damages by collision is the same as in other cases of negligence, and is limited only by the amount of the loss and by
his ability to respond. Wilson, v. Dickson, 2 B. & Ald. 2;
The Dundee, 1 Hagg. 109, 120; The Aline, 1 W. Rob. 111;
The .Mellona, 3 W. Rob. 16, 20; The Wild Range', Lush.
553, 564; CoTe v. Doherty, 4 K. & J.367, 378. The civil law,
too, as well as the general law maritime, made no distinction
in this particular in favor of ship owners. (Emerigon, Contrats , la grosse, c. 4, § 11.) Nor did the ancient laws of
Oleron or Wisby or the Hanse towns suggest any restriction
upon such liability. Indeed, it is difficult, if not impossible, to
say when and where the restrictions of the modern law originated. They are found in the Consolato del Mare, which, in
two separate chapters, expressly limits the liability of the part
owner to the value of his share in the ship. Vinnius, an early
Continental writer, states that by the law of the land the
owners were not chargeable beyond the value of the ship and
the things that were in it. The Hanseatic Ordinance of 1644
also pronounced the goods of the owner discharged from
claims for damages by the sale of the ship to pay them. But
however the practice originated, it appears, by the end of the
seventeenth century, to have become firmly established among
the leading maritime nations of Europe, since the French
Ordinance of 1681, which has served as a model for most of
the modern maritime codes, declares that the owners of the
ship shall be answerable for'the acts of the master, but shall
be discharged therefrom upon relinquishing the ship and
freight. (Bk. II, Tit. VIII, Art. 2.) A similar provision in

THE MAIN v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

the Ordinance of Rotterdam of 1721 declared that the owners
should not be answerable for any act of the master done
without their order, any further than their part of the ship
amounted to; and by other articles of the same ordinance it
was provided that each part-owner should be liable for the
value of his own share. The French Ordinance of 1681 was
carried, with slight change of phraseology, into the commercial code of France, and all the other maritime nations whose
jurisprudence is founded upon the civil law. (Code de Commerce (French) Art. 216; German Mar. Code, Art. 452; Code
of the Netherlands, Art. 321; Belgian Code, Art. 216; Italian
Code, Art. '311; Russian Code, Art. 649; Spanish Code, Art.
621, 622; Portuguese Code, Art. 1345; Brazilian Code, Art.
494; Argentine Code, Art. 1039 ; Chilian Code, Art. 879.)
The earliest legislation in England upon the subject is found
in the act of 7 Geo. 2, c. 15, passed in 1734, which'enacted
that no ship owner should be responsible for loss or damage
to goods on board the ship by embezzlement of the master
or mariners, or for any damage occasioned by them without
the privity or knowledge of such owner, further than the
value of the ship and her appurtenances, and the freight due
or to grow due for the voyage, and if greater damage occurred
it should be averaged among those who sustained it. By
subsequent acts this limitation of liability was extended to
losses in which the master and mariners had no part, to losses
by their negligence, and to damage done by collision, while
there was an entire exemption of liability for loss or damage by
fire or for loss of gold and jewelry, unless its nature and value
were disclosed. In all these statutes the liability of the owner
was limited to his interest in the ship and freight for the voyage.
By section 505 of the Merchants' Shipping Act of 1854, 16
and 17 Vict. c. 131, freight was deemed to include the value
of the carriage of goods, andpassagemoney. Owing, probably,
to some difficulties encountered in determining at what point
of time the value of the ship should be taken, and to establish
a more uniform and equitable method of limiting the liability
of the owner, the Merchant Shipping Act Amendment Act
of 1862, extended the provisions of the prior acts to foreign

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as well as British ships, and to cases of loss of life or personal
injury, as well as damage or loss to the cargo, and provided
that the owners should not be liable in damages in respect of
loss of life or personal injury, "to an aggregate amount exceeding fifteen pounds for each ton of their ship's tonnage,"
nor in respect of loss or damage to ships or their cargoes to
an amount exceeding eight pounds per ton.
The earliest American legislation upon this subject is found
in a statute of Massachusetts passed in 1818, and revised in
1836. This was taken substantially from the statute of
George II. It was followed by an act of the legislature of
Maine in 1831, copied from the statute of Massachusetts.
The attention of Congress does not seem to have been
called to the necessity for similar legislation until 1848, when
the case of The -Lexington, reported under the name of the
-Yew Jersey Steam ]AYavigationr Co. v. .lerchants' Bank, 6
How. 344, was decided by this court. In this case the owners
of a steamboat, which was burnt on Long Island Sound, were
held liable for about $18,000 in coin, which had been shipped
upon the steamer and lost. In consequence of the uneasiness
produced among ship owners by this decision, and for the
purpose of putting American shipping upon an equality with
that of other maritime nations, Congress, in 1851, enacted
what is commonly known as the Limited Liability Act, which
has been incorporated into the Revised Statutes, sections 4282
to 4290, and amended in certain particulars not material to
this case, in two subsequent acts. Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121,
§ 18, 23 Stat. 53, 57; Act of June 19, 1886, c. 421, § 4, 24 Stat.
79, 80.
By section 4283, upon the construction of which this case
depends, "the liability of the owner of any vessel, for any
embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any
property, goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board of
such vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision,
or for any act, matter, or thing lost, damage, or forfeiture
done, occasioned, or incurred, without the privity, or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed the
amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel,
and her freight then pending."

THE ]MAIN v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of"the Court.

By the, law maritinie the word "freight" is used to denote
not the thing carried, but the compensation for the carriage
of it. Prior to the era of steam navigation, travel by sea was
comparatively of such little magnitude that "freight" was
commonly used to denote compensation for the carriage of
goods; yet, in Les Bones Costumes de la Mar, (Black Book, 3
Twiss' ed. 50, App. Pt. III,) it is said "the term passenger includes all those who ought to pay freight for their persons apart
from their merchandise," and "every man is called a passenger who pays freight for his own person, and for goods which
are not merchandise. And every person who carries less than
two quintals ought to pay freight for his own person;" and in
this, one of the most ancient books upon the maritime law,
(at least as old as the fourteenth century,) it is also said: "And
in this same manner with regard to any person who may come
on board the ship without the consent of the managing owner
or of the ship's clerk, it is in the power of the managing owner
to take what freight he pleases." (Ibid. pp. 173-5.) That
passengers' fares were regarded as the substantial equivalent
of freight is evident from the case of 2ulloy v. Backer, 5 East,
316, 321, in which Lawrence, Judge, remarks that "foreign
writers consider passage money the same as freight;" and
Lord Ellenborough adds, "except for the purposes of lien, it
seems the same thing." In this country, as early as 1801, it
was said by Judge Peters in the case of the Brig Cynthia, 1
Pet. Adm. 203, 206: "I think the force and true meaning of
'freight' has been misconceived. It is a technical expression.
It does not always imply that it is the naulur, merees, or
fare, for the transportation of goods. It is applied to all rewards, hire, or compensation, paid for the use of ships ; either
for an entire voyage, one divided into sections, or engaged by
the month, or any period. It is also called freight (and it
is to be determined on the like legal principles) in the case
of passengers, transported in vessels, for compensation. In
Saxon, from which much of the English language is derived,
it is called frarcht, whether it be a compensation for transportation in ships by sea, or carriage by land, either of goods or
persons, in gross, or detail."
VOL. CLx-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

With the introduction of steam vessels, however, the carriage of passengers became at once a most important branch
of maritime industry, and modern authorities have generally
placed the fare or compensation for the carriage of such passengers upon the same footing as freight for the transportation of goods. While many of the lexicographers, such as
Webster, Worcester, and the Imperial Dictionary, still define
freight as the sum paid by a party hiring a ship or part of
a ship, or for the carriage of goods, in the Century Dictionary
it is said to be, in a more general sense, the price paid for the
use of a 'ship, including the transportation of passengers.
Similar definitions are given in the law dictionaries of Burrill,
Bouvier, and Anderson. See also Benedict's Admiralty, sections 283, 286, and 288.
Our attention has not been called to any express adjudications upon the question involved here, but, so far as the courts
have been called upon to consider the subject, they have usually
given to the word freight the same definition. Thus in Flint
v. Rlemyng, 1 B. & Ad. 45, which was an action upon an
insurance policy upon freight, it was held that plaintiff could
recover freight upon his own goods, Lord Tenterden holding
that the word "freight," as used in policies of insurance,
imported the benefit derived from the employment of a ship.
So, in Brown v. Har'is,2 Gray, 359, the Supreme Court of
Iassachusetts, holding that passage money, paid in advance,
might be recovered back, upon the breaking up of the voyage,
observed that the rule was well settled as to freight for the
carriage of goods; that if freight be paid in advance, and the
goods not carried for any event, not imputable to the shipper,
it is to be repaid, unless there be a special agreement to the
contrary. The court further observed: "Passage money and
freight are governed by the same rules. Indeed, freight, in
its more extensive sense, is applied to all compensation for the
use of ships, including transportation of passengers." See
also 3 Kent Com. 219.
It is true that in the case of lewis v. Marshall,7 Man. &
Gr. 729, it was said that freight was a term applicable to
goods only, but this was said with reference to a contract

THE MAIN{ v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

which made a distinction between freight upon a cargo and
the fare of steerage passengers. The same remark may be
made of the case of Denoon v. Home and Colonial ITnsurance
Co., L. R. 7 C. P. 341, in which it was held that the question
whether the term "freight" in a marine policy includes passage money, must depend upon the circumstances of each particular case, and the context of the particular policy; and, in
that case, under the particular terms of the policy, which
made a different rate of insurance upon freight and the transportation of coolies, it was held that the insurance did not
cover the price to be paid for their transportation.
The real object of the act in question was to limit the liability of vessel owners to their interest in the adventure; hence,
in assessing the value of the ship, the custom has been to include all that belongs to the ship, and may be presumed to be
the property of the owner, not merely the hull, together with
the boats, tackle, apparel, and furniture, but all the appurtenances, comprising whatever is on board for the object of the
voyage, belonging to the owners, whether such object be warfare, the conveyance of passengers, goods, or the fisheries.
The Dundee, 1 Hagg. 109 ; Gale v. Laurie, 5 B. & C. 156, 164.
It does not, however, include the cargo, which, presumptively
at least, does not belong to the owner of the ship.
There is no reason, however, for giving to the word
"freight" a narrow or technical definition. The fares of the
passengers are as much within the reason of the rule as the
freight upon the cargo. It would be creating a distinction
without a real difference to say that a transatlantic steamer
laden with passengers should be wholly exempt from the payment of freight, while another, solely engaged in the carriage
of merchandise, should be obliged to pay the entire proceeds of
her voyage. The words "freight pending," in section 4283, or
"freight for the voyage," section 4284, were copied from the
English statute of George II, which, in turn, had taken them
from the Mlarine Ordinance of 1681, and the prior Continental
codes; but in both cases they were evidently intended to
represent the earnings of the voyage, whether from the carriage of passengers or merchandise. If these words were used

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

instead of the words "freight for the voyage," it would probably more accurately express the intent of the legislature.
2. Nor by the use of the word "pending" was it intended
to limit the recovery to the uncollected freight, or such as had
not been completely earned at the time of the disaster. As
the object of the statute was to curtail the amount that would
otherwise be recoverable, it should not be construed to abridge
the rights of the owner of the injured vessel to a greater extent than its language will fairly warrant. This is the view
taken in Wilson v. Dickeson, 2 B. & Ald. 2, 10, in which the
court held the words "freight due or to grow due" included
all the freight for the voyage, whether paid in advance or not.
It is worthy of remark in this connection that the codes of
the Netherlands, of Chili, and of the Argentine Republic, in
the sections above quoted, extend the liability for freight to
such as is earned and yet to be earned.
The English courts have held, very properly we think, that
these statutes should be strictly construed. As observed by
Abbott, C. J., in Gale v. Laurie, 5 B. & C. 156, 164: "Their
effect, however, is to take away or abridge the right of recovering damages, enjoyed by the subjects of this country at the
common law, and there is nothing to require a construction
more favorable to the ship owner than the plain meaning of
the word imports." To the same effect are the remarks of
Sir Robert Phillimore in The Andalusian, 3 P. D. 182, 190,
and in The fHorthumbria, L. R. 3 Ad. & Ec. 6, 13. Speaking of this statute, Lord Justice Brett, in Chkpman v. Royal
N etherlands2Tav. Co., 4 P. D. 151, 184, remarked: "A statute for the purposes of public policy, derogating to the extent
of injustice, from the legal rights of individual parties, should
be so construed as to do the least possible injustice. This statute, whenever applied, must derogate from the direct right of
the ship owner against the other ship owner.

.

.

It

should be so construed as to derogate as little as is possible
consistently with its phraseology, from the otherwise legal
rights of the parties."
While, from the universal habit of insuring vessels, the
application of the statute probably results but rarely in an

LAWTON v. STEELE.
Statement of the Case.

actual injustice to the owner of the injured vessel, yet, being
in derogation of the common law, we think the court should
not limit the right of the injured party to a recovery beyond
what is necessary to effectuate the purposes of Congress.
We are satisfied with the conclusions of the court below
upon both of the points involved, and its decree is, therefore,
A4ffiormed.

LAWTON v. STEELE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 203. Submitted January 17, 1894.-Decded March 5,1894.

It is within the power of a State to preserve from extinction fisheries in
waters within its jurisdiction, by prohibiting exhaustive methods of fishing, or the use of such destructive instruments as are likely to result in
the extermination of the young as well as the mature fish.
The provision in the statutes of New York. c. 591 of the Laws of 1880, as
amended by c. 317 of the Laws of 1883, that nets set or maintained upon
waters of the State, or on the shores of or islands in such waters,
in violation of the statutes of the State enacted for the protection of
fish, may be summarily destroyed by any person, and that it shall be the
duty of certain officers to abate, remove, and forthwith destroy them, and
that no action for damages shall lie or be maintained against any person
for or on account of such seizure or destruction, is a lawful exercise of
the police power of the State, and does not deprive the citizen of his
property without due process of law, in violation of the provision of the
Constitution of the United States.

THIs was an action at law instituted in th&Supreme Court
for the county of Jefferson by the plaintiffs in error against
the defendant in error, together with Edward L. Sargent and
Richard U. Sherman, for the conversion of fifteen hoop and
fyke nets of the alleged value of $525. Defendants Steele
and Sargent interposed a general denial. Defendant Sherman
pleaded that he, with three others, constituted the "1Commissioners of Fisheries" of the State of New York, with. power
to give directions to game and fish protectors with regard to
the enforcement of the game law; that defendant Steele was

