OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

SCHLESINGER v. KANSAS CITY AND SOUTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 243. Argued and submitted February 1, 1894.- Decided March 5, 1894.

A condition in a grant of land to a railway company that the company shall
construct a certain length of road within a given time, and on its failure
to dQ so, that the granted estate shall revert to the grantor, is a condition
subsequent, for breach of which the grantor may enter upon the land
and repossess himself of it; and, in case of his doing so, the land is not
subject to attachment thereafter for debts of the company, contracted
while the land was in its possession.

THIS was an appeal from a decree dismissing, for want of
equity, a bill brought by the appellants to subject, in satisfaction of their demand against the Kansas City and Southern
Construction Company, certain railroad property in the possession of and claimed by the Kansas City and Southern Railway Company.
The facts, so far as it is necessary to state them, were as
follows: On the 11th day of January, 1877, the roadbed,
masonry, rights of way, and appurtenances of the Kansas
City, Memphis and Mobile Railroad Company, a Missouri
corporation, were sold at public auction under the order of
the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Missouri, sitting in bankruptcy - John D. Bancroft, of
Kansas City, becoming the purchaser at the price of $15,025
in cash paid. And a deed was made to the purchaser on the
25th day of April, 1877.
Bancroft, by deed of April 27, 1877, conveyed to Thomas
K. Hanna, Benjamin McLean, and himself, as trustees for
sundry residents of Kansas City who had contributed the
purchase money, and in whose behalf the property was
purchased.
By deed executed January 13, 1880, Hanna, McLean, and
Bancroft, trustees, in consideration of $19,156.87, cash in hand

SCHLESINGER v. KANSAS CITY &c. RAILWAY CO. 445
Statement of the Case.
paid, conveyed to James I. Brooks all the property and rights
so purchased, upon the following terms and conditions:
"Said party of the second part is to build said railroad from
Kansas City to Harrisonville or Belton, as said second party
may elect, on or before January 1, 1881, so as to be ready for
use as a railroad, and also to build said railroad to the coal
fields of Bates County to a point south of Butler, on or before
July 1, 1881, so as to be ready for like use as aforesaid; and if
said second party shall fail to build said railroad to said coal
fields as aforesaid, then the property hereby sold as aforesaid
shall revert to said first party and reinvest in them the same as
they now hold the same: P'ovided, however, That as soon as
said second party shall expend the sum of fifty thousand dollars
in the construction of a roadbed for said railroad, commencing
at Kansas City and running southwardly, then the said provision shall become null and void and of no effect whatever,
and upon said expenditure being made in the building of said
railroad as aforesaid, by said second party, of said sum of fifty
thousand dollars, then said trustees are to execute to said second
party or his assigns an instrument in writing acknowledging
the waiver and extinguishment of said forfeiture. In the event
of a disagreement between the said trustees and said second
party as to the expenditure in fact by said second party of
said fifty thousand dollars, as aforesaid, as said second party
may hereafter claim, said trustees and said second party
shall each select an arbitrator, and they, in case of disagreement between them, shall select a third arbitrator, and in case
either party refuses to select an arbitrator, then the arbitrator
chosen by the other party shall select two additional arbitrators, and the arbitrators selected in any of the above-mentioned
modes shall determine whether such expenditure has been made
by said second party, and such determination of said arbitrators shall be binding on both parties and may be enforced by
judgment as provided by the laws of this State. Said first
party covenants and warrants to and with said second party
that they, the said trustees, have not in anywise encumbered
the said property, and that the same is free from all encumbrances done or suffered by them."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

By a declaration in writing, executed February 27, 1880,
Brooks acknowledged that the property conveyed to him was
held in trust for the benefit of the Kansas City and Southern
-Construction Company, and covenanted that he would, by a
-sufficient quit-claim deed, transfer it to that company or their
-assigns, as they might direct and require. And by deed of
April 1, 1880, he conveyed the property by quit-claim deed to
the Construction Company.
On the 2d day of March, 1880, the Construction Company
made a written contract with the appellants, under the name
-of Naylor & Co., for the furnishing of steel rails to be used
in completing the railroad. But, on the 18th of May, "1880,
Naylor & Co. were notified by the Construction Company
that it was unable to carry out its contract with them, and
they were authorized to sell the rails for account of that
.company, but without prejudice to any rights or claims of
iNaylor & Co. for damages.
The Construction Company, by deed of May 21, 1880, conveyed the property to the Kansas City and Southern Railroad
Company, the consideration recited being $300,000 of the
.capital stock of the railroad company, for which certificates
were to be issued, and $300,000 of its first mortgage bonds to
be secured by mortgage upon the property. But, in fact,
there was at that time no such corporation. Brooks, the
president of the Construction Company, contemplated the
.organization of a railroad company to be named the Kansas
City and Southern Railroad Company, but he failed to effect
-such an organization.
By deed of September 18, 1880, the Construction Company
conveyed to the Kansas City and Southern Railway Company.,
a corporation of Missouri, the Kansas City, Memphis and
Mobile Railroad, running from Kansas City in the direction
of Memphis and Mobile, together with all its rights of way,
roadbed, masonry, property, rights of property, and appurtenances, etc. This deed was executed in the name of the
grantor company by Henry Ashley, agent, and is attested by
its corporate seal, which, the acknowledgment of Ashley states,
was affixed thereto by order of the board of directors. The
.consideration recited was $250,000 cash in hand paid.

'SCHLESINGER v. KANSAS

CITY &c. RAILWAY 00. 447

Statement of the Case.

Hanna, McLean, and Bancroft as trustees, made, December
15, 1880, a written contract with the Kansas City and SouthTern Railway Company, as follows: "Whereas the Kansas
City, Memphis and Mobile Railroad Company, with all its
roadbed, rights of way, and appurtenances and property and
rights of property whatsoever connected with the said railroad,
with all the franchises of the Kansas City, Memphis and
Mobile Railroad Company, were, by deed dated January
13, A.D. 1880, sold and conveyed by the undersigned trustees
to one James I. Brooks on certain conditions contained and
specified in said deed, and whereas the title to said property
.subject to the conditions has by sundry mesne conveyances
passed to and vested in and is now owned and held by the
Kansas City and Southern Railway Company; and whereas
,said last-named company has not been able to comply with
and perform said conditions within the time specified in said
first-named deed for their performance, but is now willing to
deposit and has deposited with the said trustees the sum of
$25,000 as a guaranty by said last-named company of the good
faith of its purpose to build a railroad southeasterly from
Kansas City, Missouri, through the coal fields of Henry County,
Missouri, and the iron fields of St. Clair County, Missouri, the
*receiptof which sum of twenty-five thousand dollars by said
trustees is hereby acknowledged; and whereas, since the
making of said deed to said James I. Brooks, various sums
,of money have been expended for rights of way, for engineering, and other necessary expenses connected with the enteriprise of building said railroad, in addition to the purchase
)price paid to said trustees on the execution of the said firstnamed deed by them; and whereas the owners of more than
two-thirds of the money and shares furnished by the persons
and firms in the deed of said property to said trustees, dated
April 27, 1877, have directed the undersigned trustees to
execute and deliver this instrument to said Kansas City and
Southern Railway Company: Now, therefore, in consideration
of the premises and the sum of one dollar in hand paid, the
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, it is agreed, stipulated,
.and covenanted by and between said trustees, for themselves

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and their said beneficiaries and said Kansas City and Southern
Railway Company, as follows: 1st. The conditions provided
and expressed in said deed of said trustees to said James I.
Brooks are hereby annulled, extinguished, and the said Kansas
City and Southern Railway Company are hereby forever
released and discharged from the performance of the same or
any part thereof, and in lieu the following conditions are
hereby provided, that is to say, said trustees or a majority of
them shall, as said railroad from Kansas City, Missouri, southeasterly through the coal fields of Henry County, Missouri,
and the coal fields of St. Clair County, Missouri, shall be constructed, pay out said $25,000 on the estimates and orders
made and given in the building of said road by the chief
engineer of said K. 0. and S. R. W. Co., and as soon as said
$25,000 is so paid out and the additional sum of fifteen
thousand dollars is expended by said last-named company in
the building of said road, the last-named company shall hold
said property so conveyed free from any and all claims of
whatsoever kind on the part of said trustees or their beneficiaries, or any of them. 2d. It isfurther provided and covenanted that if said last-named company shall not expend the
full sum of $25,000 in the building of said railroad before
July 1, 1881, then so much of said $25,000 so deposited as
shall on the last day aforesaid be unexpended shall be forfeited
to and become the money and property of said trustees for the
benefit of their beneficiaries. 3d. It is further provided and
covenanted that as soon as said $25,000 so deposited shall be
paid out, and as soon as the chief engineer of said last-named
company shall make the certificate of expenditure by said
last-named company of said $15,000 shall be expended before
October 1, 1881, then said trustees shall deliver to said lastnamed company an instrument in writing, duly executed and
acknowledged, evincing the full compliance with and performance of all the conditions herein contained by said last-named
company, and if the sum of forty thousand (40 M) dollars
shall not as above provided be expended by said company
before October 1, 1881, then said property shall revert to said
trustees as by said deed to said Brooks is provided."

SCHLESINGER v. KANSAS CITY &c. RAILWAY CO. 449
Statement of the Case.

This agreement was executed by the trustees Hanna, McLean,
and Bancroft, with the consent in writing of the requisite
number of those whom they represented.
On the 11th day of May, 1881, the Construction Company,
by James I. Brooks, its president, in consideration of one
dollar and other good and valuable considerations, and "by
virtue of a vote of the directors of said corporation," conveyed
this property to said Brooks, in trust to secure "the payment
to him of all indebtedness of whatsoever nature, whether in
cash or stock or bonds due said Brooks under the vote whereby
the property herein conveyed was deeded by said Brooks to
th6 Kansas City and Southern Construction Company to the
date of this conveyance," and after the execution of these
trusts to hold the same for the benefit of whom it might
concern.
On the 7th day of October, 1881, the present appellants claiming that the Construction Company was largely indebted
to them on the contract of March 2, 1880, for steel rails instituted an action at law in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Missouri, against that company, on said alleged liability. Upon affidavit and bond for attachments, writs of
attachment and summons issued to the counties of Jackson,
Cass, Henry, and St. Clair, Missouri, and were levied by the
sheriffs of those counties, respectively, on the 7th, lth, and
12th days of October, 1881, upon all the right, title, interest,
and property of the Construction Company, in the Kansas
City, Memphis and Mobile Railroad, in such counties, with its
right of way, roadbed, masonry, property, rights of property,
and appurtenances-the same property described in the deeds
of May 24, 1880, and September 18, 1880-to the Kansas City
and Southern Railway Company. The Construction Company
answered, and denied all the material allegations of the petition. In that action, which was removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Missouri in
April, 1882, the Kansas City and Southern Railway Company,
after such removal, filed their interplea asserting their ownership, prior and subsequent to the attachment suit, of all the
property attempted to be levied on as the property of the
VOL. CLU-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Construction Company. In that action, a verdict was returned
against the Construction Company for $49,448.11, for which
a judgment was rendered October 20, 1885, on which execution was allowed "to be levied on the property and effects
attached, and other property of the defendant." Subsequently
(a motion for a new trial having been made) the plaintiffs
remitted $13,546.72 of the verdict. Thereupon the former
judgment was set aside, and it was adjudged, February 1,
1886, that the plaintiffs recover of the Construction Company
$35,901.39 and their costs, "and that they have thereof execution, and that the judgment, and execution thereon hold not
only the property attached heretofore in this case, but the
othei property of the defendant; but execution shall not
issue, without special leave of court, until after final decree
in chancery in case No. 401, in the case of Barthold Schlesinger et al. v. The Zain.as City and Southern Railway Company et al."
The equity case thus referred to was the present suit which
was brought, November 10, 1881, by Barthold Schlesinger
and Sebastian B. Schlesinger, doing business as Naylor & Co.,
against the Kansas City and Southern Railway Company, the
Kansas City and Southern Construction Company, the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, and James I. Brooks. The Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company was made a defendant because it
was the trustee in a mortgage, given by the railway company,
January 1, 1883, to secure $6,500,000 of its first mortgage
bonds, which mortgage covered all of the property and income
of the mortgagor, and warranted the title to the property.
The relief sought was a decree adjudging the deeds of May
24, 1880, and September 18, 1880, to the Kansas City and
Southern Railway Company, and the deed to the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, to be voluntary, fraudulent, and
void as against the demands of the plaintiffs, and that the
property and rights of the Construction Company, attempted
to be conveyed by said deeds, and levied upon and attached
as aforesaid, be subjected, charged, and sold for those demands
and the costs of the attachment proceedings; and that, in the
meantime, a receiver be appointed to take charge of the prop-

SCHLESINGER v. KANSAS CITY &c. RAILWAY CO. 451
Opinion of the Court.

erty, receiving the profits thereof, and paying all taxes and
assessments against it.
Some time after the institution of this suit, and before it
was determined in the court below, the appellants sold their
claim to one Sargent of Boston for $4000.
.r. Frank Hagerman, (with whom were .Mr. Jeferson
.Brumbaekand Xr. Wallace Pratton the brief,) for appellants.
-Mr. Charles 0. Tchenor, for appellee, submitted on his brief.

M.

JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating

the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
No question is made as to the validity of Bancroft's purchase of the property in dispute at the sale made under the
order of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Missouri, sitting in bankruptcy. Indeed, all
parties to the present controversy claim title under him.
We have seen that the title passed from him to Hanna,
McLean, and himself, as trustees for those furnishing the
money used in the purchase at the bankruptcy sale, and that
those trustees conveyed to Brooks, January 13, 1880, upon
certain express conditions. One of those conditions was that
Brooks should build the railroad from Kansas City to
Harrisonville or Bolton, on or before January 1, 1881, and
also to the coal fields of Bates County, to a point south of
Butler, on or before July 1, 1881. Another condition was
that, if Broos failed to build the railroad to the coal fields
mentioned, as stipulated in the deed to him, then the property
should revert to the trustees, and reinvest in them, "the same
as they now hold the same." This condition of forfeiture
was, by the terms of the conveyance to Brooks, to become
void and extinguished only in the event Brooks expended
$50,000 in the construction of a roadbed for said railroad,
commencing at Kansas City and running southwardly.
The Kansas City and Southern Construction Company took
the property under the two deeds to it from Brooks, dated,
respectively, February 27, 1880, and April 1, 1880. But, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

course, it took subject to the conditions upon which he
received the property from the trustees. Neither of those
conditions was performed. The road was not built from
Kansas City to Harrisonville by the 1st day of January, nor
to the coal fields of Bates County by July 1, 1881. Nor was
$50,000 or any sum expended by Brooks or by his grantee in
the construction of a roadbed for the railroad. Indeed, as
early as the 18th of May, 1880, the Construction Company
gave formal notice to Naylor & Co. that they were unable to
comply with their contract relating to steel rails; and, consequently, the enterprise was abandoned by it.
It results that when the 1st of July, 1881, came, the property
had reverted to the trustees under their agreement with
Brooks, subject to which agreement the Construction Company took the title. But, on that day, the Kansas City and
Southern Railway Company were in possession under the
agreement between it and the trustees of December 15, 1880,
to say nothing of the deed of the Construction Company to
the railway company of September 18, 1880. If it be said
that the trustees had no right, under their agreement with
Brooks, to treat the property as having reverted to them until
after the expiration of the time limited for the building of
the railroad to the coal fields, namely, until after July 1, 1881,
the answer is: 1, that the Construction Company had by its
formal notice to Naylor & Co. of May 18, 1880, indicated that
it had no purpose, as the grantee of Brooks, to meet the conditions upon which he was to hold the property; 2, if the provision in the agreement of December 15, 1880,,between the
trustees and the railway company, annulling and rescinding
the conditions imposed by the deed to Brooks, and prescribing
other conditions as between the trustees and the railway company, was, at that time, of no effect, in law, as against Brooks
or the Construction Company, it became valid and binding
after July 1, 1881, when, beyond all question, the trustees
were entitled to treat the property as having reverted to them,
to do with it as to them seemed best. So that if we disregard
altogether the deed of May 24, 1880, from the Construction
Company to the Kansas City and Southern Railroad Coin-

SCHLESINGER v. KANSAS OITY &c. RAILWAY CO. 453
Opinion of the Court.

pany as a nullity, no such corporation or company being in
existence, and if we disregard, also, the deed of September 15,
1881, to the railway company, because it was not executed by
any officer of the Construction Company, the fact appears
that on and after July 1, 1881, the railway company were in
actual possession of the property, under their contract with
the trustees lanna, c~;eULean, and Bancroft, who had elected,
as they had the clear right to do, to treat it as having reverted
to them. This was before Naylor & Co. had instituted their
action at law and sued out their attachments against the Construction Company. When that attachment issued the Construction Company had no interest whatever in the property
attached. The interest it originally had was acquired subject
to certain conditions, upon the non-performance of which the
property, at the election of Hanna, McLean, and Bancroft,
trustees, reinvested in them.
It was not necessary to the reacquisition of title by the trustees that they should invoke the aid of the courts. In the case
of a public grant, the right of the government to repossess itself
of the estate granted may be asserted through judicial proceedings, or by some legislative act showing an assertion of ownership on account of the breach of the condition upon which the
original grant was made. But judicial proceedings to that end
are not absolutely necessary, unless they are prescribed by the
grant itself; for where land and franchises are held upon conditions to be subsequently performed, "any public assertion
by legislative act of the ownership of the estate after default
of the grantee -such as an act resuming control of them and
appropriating them to particular uses or granting them to
others to carry out the original object - will be equally effectual and operative." Farnsworthv. .Xinnesota & Pacific Railroad, 92 U. S. 49, 66, 67; Paific Railroadv. United States,
124 U. S. 124, 130. In the case of a private grant, an entry
by the grantor, or any act equivalent thereto, showing a purpose to take advantage of the breach of condition subsequent,
and to reclaim the estate forfeited by such breach, is all that is
required. What was done by the trustees Hanna, McLean,
and Bancroft evinced, in the clearest possible manner, their

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

purpose to reclaim the property and rights granted to Brooks,
because of the failure to perform the condition upon which
he, or any one claiming under him, was entitled to hold the
property.
Under the view we have expressed, it becomes unnecessary
to consider other questions discussed by counsel; and it results,
and we so adjudge, that the plaintiffs are not entitled to have
the property in question or any part thereof sold in satisfaction
of their judgment for $35,901.30 against the Kansas City and
Southern Construction Company.
The decree below is affirmed.

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.
TENNESSEE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
TENNESSEE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Nos. 1020, 1021, 761.

Argued January 12, 15, 1894.-Decided March 19, 1894.

Under the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, the Circuit Court of the United
States has no jurisdiction, either original, or by removal from a state
court, of a suit as one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's statement of his
own claim.

THE.first case was a bill in equity, filed Tanuary 26, 1893, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee, by the State of Tennessee, and the county of
Shelby in that State, against the Union and Planters' Bank
of Memphis, a corporation organized under the laws of Tennessee, and having its place of business at Memphis in Shelby
county, and against S. P. Read and W. A. Williamson, citizens
of the State of Tennessee, to recover taxes alleged to be due to

