BOGLE v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.

any balance due the complainant from the St. Louis Company,
a personal decree should have been rendered therefor.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly r'eversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to roceed therein in
conformity with this opinion.
having been of counsel, and MR.
not having been a member of the court when
the case was argued, took no part in its consideration and
decision.
Mr. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER

JUSTICE WHITE

BOGLE v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 291. Argued March 15, 1894.- Decided April 9, 1894.

Anchovy paste and bloater paste, made of anchovies or bloaters ground up
fine and spiced, used as food or as an appetizer, in sandwiches or with
a cracker, and not used as a condiment, nor known in trade and commerce as sauces, may be found by a jury to come within the description
of "fish prepared or preserved," and not within the description of
"sauces of all kinds," in the tariff act of 1883.

THIS was an action, brought May 23, 1888, against the collector of the port of New York, after due protest and appeal,
to recover back an excess of duties exacted and paid upon goods
imported and invoiced by the plaintiffs in 1886 and 1887 as
"fish pastes," and which they contended should have been
assessed as "fish, prepared or preserved," twenty-five per cent
ad valorem, but which the defendant assessed as "sauces,"
thirty-five per cent ad valorem, under the tariff act of March
3, 1883, c. 121, Schedule G of which imposes the following rates
of duty:
"Anchovies and sardines, packed in oil or otherwise," in
small tin boxes, certain rates varying from ten to two and a
half cents per box, according to its size; "when imported in
any other form, forty per centum ad valorem.
"Fish preserved in oil, except anchovies and sardines, thirty
per centum ad valorem.

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

"Salmon, and all other fish, prepared or preserved, and prepared meats of all kinds, not specially enumerated or provided
for in this act, twenty-five per centum ad valorem.
"Pickles and sauces, of all kinds, not otherwise specially
enumerated or provided for in this act, thirty-five per centum
ad valorem." 22 Stat. 503, 504.
At the trial, one of the plaintiffs, who were importers of
fancy groceries at New York, testified that the goods in question (samples of which were produced in court) were imported
as "anchovy paste" and "bloater paste." The definition in
"
Webster's Unabridged Dictionary of "sauce, as "a mixture
or composition to be eaten with food for improving its relish;
a relishing condiment; appetizing addition to the principal
material of a dish;" being read to him, he testified that the
word had a significance in the wholesale commerce of this
country in 1883 and theretofore, differing from the definition
read; that the commercial meaning of a sauce was a liquid,
and that was the only particular in which it varied from the
definition read; and that anchovy paste or bloater paste, such
as represented by the samples, was not recognized in trade
and commerce in 1883 and prior thereto as a sauce. On crossexamination, he testified that he understood the sense of the
dictionary definition of sauce to be "anything used as a relish,
either liquid or solid, as an addition to the food;" that these
articles were used as food, principally in sandwiches, or like
potted meats or devilled meats; that "anchovy paste" was
manufactured but of anchovies, and "bloater paste" out of
bloaters; that these were the only names by which they were
known in trade and commerce in and before 1883, as well as
since; that they had a fish taste; and that no part of each
fish could be distinguished, but all was ground up fine, and
spiced.
Three other importers and sellers of fancy groceries at New
York, called as witnesses for the plaintiffs, testified that the
term "sauces," as used in trade in and before 1883, had reference to liquids only, and did not include solids; and that the
goods in question were not commonly known as sauces. One
of them testified that each of these pastes was used as a direct

BOGLE v. MIAGOIE.
Opinion of the Court.

;article of food, and not as an addition to anything to give zest
to it, and was used only in a distinct form, as in a sandwich
or the like; and on cross-examination testified that "he had
often eaten the same articles as those in suit with a cracker or
cake, eating the paste alone first and the cracker afterwardsprobably within thirty seconds after - as soon as he was able
to swallow." The two other witnesses testified that it had a
spicy flavor, and would induce hunger and-thirst, and was used
as an appetizer before a meal. The witnesses also testified
that they dealt in the article known as "anchovy sauce" or
"essence of anchovies," which was a liquid, and altogether
different from these pastes, and never eaten alone or as an
addition to bread, but as a condiment.
At the close of the plaintiffs' evidence, the court, upon
motion of the defendant, directed a verdict for him, upon the
grounds that "the plaintiffs had not proved facts sufficient
to entitle them to recover;" that "the term ' sauces of all kinds,'
in the tariff act, was a descriptixe term of ordinary use, to be
taken in its ordinary meaning, and not in any restrictive or
trade meaning," and that "the ordinary use of the term ' sauces'
included the articles in suit." 40 Fed. Rep. 226.
A verdict was returned accordingly, and judgment entered
thereon; and the plaintiffs tendered a bill of exceptions, and
sued out this writ of error.
3 P. Eve'i Brown for plaintiffs in error.
rL
. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
error.
Mr.

JusTiE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The word "sauce," as commonly used, designates a con.diment, generally but not always of liquid form, eaten as an
addition to and together with a dish of food, to give it flavor
and make it more palatable; and is not applied to anything
which is eaten, alone or with a bit of bread, either for its own
VOL. CLII-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sake only, or to stimulate the appetite for other food to be
eaten afterwards. For instance, cheese eaten with bread, or
ham or chicken eaten in a sandwich, or anchovies or herrings,
caviare or shreds of salt fish, eaten, whether with or without
bread, as an appetizer before a meal, would hardly be called
a sauce.
In the dictionary of Webster, referred to at the trial, the
primary definition of "sauce" is accordingly given as "A
mixture or composition to be eaten with food for improving
its relish; a relishing condiment; appetizing addition to the
principal material of a dish." In a later edition, there is given,
by way of additional definition, "Stewed or preserved fruit,
eaten with other food as a relish; as apple sauce, cranberry
sauce, etc."
In the tariff act of 1883, the clause relating to "sauces of
all kinds," (unless affected by other clauses in the act, or by
commercial usage,) may well be held to include all substances,
whether solid or liquid, fairly coming within either of these
two definitions. But the second definition has no application
to the present case.
The three clauses, mentioned in argument as possibly applicable to the goods in question, are arranged in the act in
a natural order, beginning with the most specific and restrictive, and ending with the most general; first, "anchovies,"
"imported in any other form" than "packed in oil or otherwise" in small tin boxes, forty per cent ad valorem; then,
"all other fish, prepared or preserved," "not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," twenty-five per cent ad
valorem; and lastly, "sauces, of all kinds, not otherwise
specially enumerated or provided for in this act," thirty-five
per cent ad valorem. 22 Stat. 503, 504. Any article which
comes within two or more of these descriptions must therefore
be assigned to the earlier one. Uomer v. The Collector, 1
Wall. 486; Reiche v. Smythe, 13 Wall. 162; Seeberger,v. Caln,
137 U. S. 95; American ffet & Twine 0o. v. W~orthington,
141 U. S.468.
At the trial, the plaintiffs introduced evidence that the
goods in question were manufactured out of anchovies or

BOGLE v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

bloaters, ground up and spiced; were used as food, in a distinct form, or as an appetizer, principally in a sandwich, or
sometimes with a cracker, and not as a condiment; and were
specifically known as "anchovy paste" and "bloater paste;"
and that, in trade and commerce in 1883 and previously, the
word "sauces" was applied to liquids only, and not to these
pastes.
The Circuit Court, in directing a verdict for the defendant,
ruled, in substance, that as matter of law, and without regard
to commercial usage, these articles came within the words
"sauces of all kinds" in the tariff act., We are unable to
concur in that view; or to say, either of our judicial knowledge, or in view of the evidence introduced, that these articles
are necessarily "sauces " of any kind; still less, that this is so
clear as to exclude the usual test of commercial designation.
Cadwalade' v. Zel, 151 U. S. 171, 176.
On the contrary, we are of opinion that the evidence of the
nature and the use of these articles, and of their commercial
designation, would have warranted a jury in finding that they
were not "sauces," and were "fish, preserved or prepared."
If that fact were proved, it would follow that, as such, the
bloater paste, at least, was subject to the duty of only twentyfive per cent ad valorem; but a question might arise, which
does not appear to have been considered at the trial, whether
the anchovy paste was not subject to a duty of forty per cent
ad valorem, under the earlier and more specific clause of the
act, as "anchovies" "imported in any other form" than
packed, in oil or otherwise, in small tin boxes.
Ju dgment i'eversed, and ease remnanded to the CO
it Cour't
with directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new
tr'il.
AIR. JUSTICE JACKSON

did not hear the argument, and took

no part in the decision of this case.

