OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

consequently, that the title acquired by Dowell, under that
decree, cannot be here questioned by Applegate.
Under this view, it is immaterial that Dowell did not, in
the present case, offer evidence in support of the allegations,
of fraud against Jesse Applegate in respect to the various.
deeds made by him, and to which reference was made in the,
suit and decree in the Federal court. That decree being conclusive, as between Dowell and Daniel W. Applegate, of the
question now presented, it was not incumbent upon Dowell to,
introduce any evidence in this case beyond the record of the
former suit.
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Oregon failed
to give proper effect to the decree and proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Oregon,
and erred in not reversing the final judgment of the Circuit
Court of Douglas County, with directions to dismiss the complaint of Applegate.
The decree is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remandd
for further jroceedings in conformity with this opiniom.
Mi. JUSTICE FIELD dissented from the judgment in this case

WESTERN NATIONAL BANK v. ARMSTRONG.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOER

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 251. Argued February 2,1893.-Decided Mareh 12, 1893.

The borrowing of money, by a bank, though not illegal, is so much out of
the course of ordinary and legitimate banking business as to require
those making the loan to see to it that the officer or agent acting for the
bank had special authority to borrow money.
Whether a vice-president of a national bank who had, without authority
from the board of directors, paid into the bank a large sum of money
and received certificates of paid-up stock for a still larger amount could,
on the subsequent insolvency of the bank without ratification of such

WESTERN NATIONAL BANK v. ARMSTRONG.

34:7

Statement of the Case.
increase, recover back his subscription money, or was to be treated
as a general creditor, is a question which a court cannot settle in an
action to which he is not a party.

IN December, 1888, the Western National Bank of New
York, organized under the laws of the United States, and
having its place of business in the city of New York, filed a
bill of complaint, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Ohio, against David Armstrong,
as receiver of the Fidelity National Bank of Cincinnati, Ohio.
The bill alleged that the Fidelity National Bank was indebted
to the complainant bank in the sum of $207,290, on account
of a loan made on May 28, 1887, by the New York bank to
the Ohio bank, "at the special instance and request of E. L.
Harper, who was then the vice-president and general manager
of the said Fidelity National Bank, with full authority to
make said loan on its behalf." The bill further alleged that
said loan was secured by collateral notes, signed by one
A. P. Gahr, and endorsed by said E. L. Harper, and by the
endorsement and delivery to the complainant by E. L. Harper
of certificates for 1600 shares of the capital stock of the said
Fidelity National Bank; that said notes were, when they fell
due and still are, entirely worthless by reason of the insolvency
of said Gahr and Harper; that said stock certificates did not
and do not represent stock of the Fidelity National Bank, but
were wholly invalid and void, because they did not constitute
a part of the original and authorized stock of said bank, but
were a part of a proposed increase of the capital stock of said
bank, on account of which E. L. Harper had paid into the
bank upwards of $180,000, but which increase had never been
voted for by the stockholders of said bank, nor had notice of
said intended increase of said capital, with a certificate that
the full amount of the same had been fully paid in, ever been
sent to the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States,
nor had the Comptroller ever assented to such increas6 of
capital, as required by law; but that, nevertheless, said
Harper had procured from the president and cashier of said
bank the certificates of stock so as aforesaid pledged with the
complainant; that when said certificates were so issued to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Harper the stock of the Fidelity National Bank had an
established market value of $153 per share, and that the
complainant bank relied on said certificates as one of the
securities for said loan when it made the same; that said
money, so paid in by Harper on account of proposed stock,
was held by said Fidelity National Bank on special deposit
and in trust for said Harper until such increase of stock should
be duly authorized. The relief prayed for was that David
Armstrong, receiver of the Fidelity National Bank, which
had become insolvent, should allow the claim for said loan,
and pay, out of the assets in his hands, dividends, the same
as to other creditors of said bank, and that the complainant
bank should be subrogated to the rights of Harper on account
of the moneys so paid in for stock proposed to be issued,
and which the complainant alleged to constitute a preferred
claim.
Armstrong, receiver, entered an appearance, and demurred
to those portions of the bill in which were alleged the facts
respecting the proposed issue of additional stock, and in which
the complainant prayed to be subrogated to Harper's supposed
rights in respect to the same. The alleged grounds of the
demurrer were a want of necessary parties, in that the Fidelity
National Bank and E. L. Harper were not made parties to
said bill, and for multifariousness.
Subsequently, in November, 1889, the court below sustained
the demurrer to so much of said bill as was recited therein being the said allegations seeking subrogations - and gave
leave to answer the remainder of said bill.
An answer was duly filed, denying that the Fidelity company
was indebted to the complainant bank; that the complainant
had, on May 28, 1887, or at any time, loaned the Fidelity
National Bank the sum of two hundred thousand dollars or
any other sum, and alleging that the notes mentioned in the
bil, made by A. P. Gahr and endorsed by E. L. Harper, were
discounted by the complainant bank for said Harper, and that
the proceeds of such discount were received by said Harper;
that the said notes were at no time the property of the
Fidelity National Bank, and that the Fidelity National Bank

WESTERN NATIONAL BANK v. ARMSTRONG.

349

Opinion of the Court.

never had any interest in said transaction, and was in no way
responsible therefor.
The cause was put at issue, evidence taken, and, on April 8,
1890, a final decree was entered dismissing the bill at the cost
of the complainant. The case comes to this court on appeal
from said decree.
.Mr. Edliard Golston, (with whom were -lr. Judson ttar2non and /7r. George boadly, J., on the brief,) for appellant.
-M. John W. Herron for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE SHIEAS delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether the transaction of May, 1887, was a discount by
the Western National Bank of New York in favor of E. L.
Harper of the four notes made by A. P. Gahr and endorsed
by Harper, or was a loan by said bank to the Fidelity National Bank, is the question principally discussed in the briefs
and oral arguments of the respective parties.
In disposing of the case we are not assisted by any findings
or opinion by the court below, and we are left to conjecture
the grounds upon which that court proceeded in dismissing
the bill of complaint.
The theory that the case was that of a simple discount by
the New York bank of four promissory notes, made by Gahr
and endorsed by Harper, and secured by the assignment by
Harper of certificates of 1600 shares of the stock of the Fidelity National Bank, comports with the form of the notes themselves. Such a transaction would have been an ordinary one,
and in the course of the usual business of such a bank. The
letter of May 16, 1887, in which the proposition was made to
the New York bank to make the loan, was signed by E. L.
Harper in his own name, without any official designation.
That the $200,000 were placed on the books of the New York
bank to the credit of the Ohio bank was not inconsistent with
this version of the case, because it appears that this was done
at the request of Harper.

=30

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

On the other hand, it is claimed that because the letter of
May 16, 1887, was written on the letter paper of the Fidelity
National Bank, and because the proceeds of the discount were
placed to the credit of the Ohio bank, and were drawn out by
-drafts of that bank, the transaction was thereby shown to
have been made on behalf of the Ohio bank. And 0. N. Jor.dan, vice-president of the New York bank, testified that he
-understood the proposition to come from the Ohio bank for
a loan to it, and that he would not have submitted the matter
for approval to the board of the New York bank had he not
so understood it.
There are other features of the correspondence that are
pointed to by the parties as making for their respective contentions. It may be conceded that the New York bank acted
-upon the theory that the loan was to the Ohio bank, and took
the notes and certificates of stock as collateral. But the liability of the Ohio bank is not a necessary consequence of such
a concession. It has further to be shown that the Ohio bank
was really a party to the transaction, either by having authorized Harper to effect the loan on its behalf, or by having
'ratified his action and having accepted and enjoyed the pro'ceeds of the discount.
There is no evidence whatever that the board of directors
.of the Fidelity National Bank gave any authority to Harper
to borrow money on behalf of the bank, much less to borrow
so enormous a sum on so long a time. In this respect the
.complainant's case stands barely on the assertion in the bill
that "Harper was the vice-president and general manager of
'the Fidelity National Bank, with full authority to make said
loan on its 'behalf." The only evidence we find in the record
tending to support such averment is found in the answer by
J. Harvey Waters, the general book-keeper of the Fidelity
National Bank, on cross-examination, wherein he stated that
E. L. Harper was the vice-president and managing officer,
.and that by "managing officer" he meant that Harper was
"the general manager of the business of the bank." No such
-office as that of "general manager" is known or named in
-the National Bank Acts, nor does any such office exist by

WESTERN NATIONAL BANK v. ARMSTRONG.

351

Opinion of the Court.

usage. The most that can be claimed in this case is that
Harper acted as the principal executive officer of the bank.
It cannot be pretended that, as such, he had power, without
authority from the board, to bind the bank by borrowing
$200,000 at four months' time.
It might even be questioned whether such a transaction
would be within the power of the board of directors. The
powers expressly granted are stated in the eighth section of
the National Bank Act (Rev. Stat. ยง 5136, par. 7): A national
bank can "exercise by its board of directors, or duly authorized officers or agents, subject to law, all such incidental
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking, by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts,
bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt; by receiving
deposits; by buying and selling exchange, coin, and bullion;
by loaning money on personal security; and by obtaining,
issuing, and circulating notes."
The power to borrow money or to give notes is not expressly given by the act. The business of the bank is to lend,
not to borrow, money; to discount the notes of others, not to
get its own notes discounted. Still, as was said by this court,
in the case of .First .Stt. .Bank v. .Nat.Ewrchange Bank, 92
U. S. 122, 127, "authority is thus given in the act to transact
such a banking business as is specified, and all incidental
powers necessary to carry it on axe granted. These powers
are such as are required to meet all the legitimate demands
of the authorized business, and to enable a bank to conduct
its affairs, within the general scope of its charter, safely and
prudently. This necessarily implies the right of a bank to
incur liabilities in the regular course of its business, as well as
to become the creditor of others."
Nor do we doubt that a bank, in certain circumstances,
may become a temporary borrower of money. Yet such
transactions would be so much out of the course of ordinary
and legitimate banking as to require those making the loan to
see to it that the officer or agent acting for the bank had
special authority to borrow money.
Even, therefore, if it be conceded that it was within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

power of the board of directors of the Fidelity National Bank
to borrow $200,000 on time, it is yet obvious that the vicepresident, however general his powers, could not exercise
such a power unless specially authorized so to do, and it is
equally obvious that persons dealing with the bank are presumed to know the extent of the general powers of the
officers.
Without pursuing this part of the subject further, we think
it evident that Harper had no authority to borrow this money,
and that the bank cannot be held for his engagements, even
if made in behalf of the bank, unless ratification on the part
of the bank be shown. It is scarcely necessary to say that a
ratification, to be efficacious, must be made by a party who
had power to do the act in the first place; that is, in the
present case, the board of directors; and that it must be
made with knowledge of the material facts. There is not the
slightest evidence shown in this record that the board of the
Fidelity National Bank, by any act, formal or informal,
undertook to ratify Harper's action in the premises, or that
they ever had any knowledge of the transaction.
It is true that a corporation may become liable upon
contracts assumed to have been made in its behalf by an
unauthorized agent by appropriating and retaining, with
knowledge of the facts, the benefits of the contracts so made
on its behalf. But there is no room for such a contention in
the present case. The money advanced by the New York
bank was, indeed, at Harper's request, placed to the credit of
the Ohio bank, but it was shown that it was withdrawn partly
by Hopkins, the assistant cashier, and partly by Harper himself,
by drafts in the name of the bank, but that the moneys thus
drawn never came into the actual possession or use of the
bank. The moneys were appropriated by Harper to his own
use, or, at all events, it does not appear that the bank ever
got a penny of the borrowed money or any benefit or advantage whatever by reason of the transaction. The mere
placing of the money in the name of the Ohio bank involved
no ratification by the bank unless it was so placed with their
knowledge and assent, nor did the withdrawal of the money

WESTERN NATIONAL BANK v. ARMSTRONG.

353

Opinion of the Court.

by drafts drawn by Harper or by his direction in the name of
the bank constitute a receipt by the bank of such money,
unless it was, in point of fact, received and used by the bank
or for its benefit. Not this, but the contrary was shown.
So far, then, as the case of the plaintiff in error depends on
the alleged loan of money to the Fidelity National Bank, we
find no error in the decree of the court below in dismissing
the bill.
This brings us to the consideration of the other phase of
the case, namely, that which arose on the claim of the New
York bank as the holder of 1600 shares of the stock of the
Fidelity National Bank, transferred to it as security by
Harper, to be subrogated to the supposed right of Harper to
be repaid the moneys paid in by him on account of his subscription for an increase of stock, not voted for by the stockholders, and not approved by the Comptroller of the Currency.
The court below sustained the demurrer to this portion of
the bill. Two grounds were asserted in the demurrer -one,
the insufficiency of parties, in that neither the Fidelity
National Bank nor Harper were made parties; the other, that
of multifariousness. It is now contended before us that Harper
was not a necessary party because, as is averred in the bill and
admitted by the demurrer, he had pledged and assigned this
stock to the complainant bank, and it is argued that the bank
thereby became vested with whatever rights Harper had to
have his money returned to him as a special deposit. It is
also contended that asserting such a right of subrogation is so
far within the equities of the bill, and so necessary an incident
of the transaction, as to relieve the bill of the charge of being
multifarious.
It is not easy to see why, if the complainant were really
entitled to be subrogated to the rights of Harper in respect
to the hypothecated stock, such a claim might not be set up
in the same bill in which it seeks to be allowed, as a lender of
money to the Fidelity National Bank, to participate in the
payments made by the receiver.
But, however that may be, it seems to us that Harper, having
procured an issue to himself of certificates of paid-up stock,
VOL. cm-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

was in no position, when the bank became insolvent, before
the necessary steps to legitimate the increase of stock had
been taken, to demand back his money, as if it were trust
money, or constituted a preferred claim against the assets of
the bank in the hands of the receiver. The utmost that he
could claim would be to be treated as a general creditor, and
entitled as such to participate in the payments made by the
receiver.
In the case of Winters v. Armstrong, Amstrong v. Stanage,
37 Fed. Rep. 508, which was the case of a suit by the receiver
of the Fidelity National Bank to recover, from a subscriber to
the preferred increase of stock of that bank, the amount of a
promissory note given in payment of such subscription, it was
held by Mr. Justice Jackson, then Circuit Judge, that, as the
necessary steps had not been taken to legitimate such increase
of stock before the bank became insolvent, there was a failure
of consideration, and the receiver could not enforce payment of
the note. We, however, agree with the court below in thinking that such a question could not be raised in the present
case, to which Harper was not a party. Harper had paid in
the full amount of his subscription, and had procured the issue
to himself of certificates for his stock, and had parted with the
legal title to the stock by transferring the certificates to the
New York bank. In such circumstances it might be claimed,
with some appearance of justice, that Harper and his transferee
were precluded from opening up the transaction and procuring
a rescission of the subscription. If that were so, the holder
of such stock, whether Harper or the New York bank, might
have been compelled to contribute to the payment of the indebtedness of the insolvent bank. .NationalBank v. Case, 99
U. S. 628.
So, too, even if it were held that Harper was not precluded
from surrendering his stock and recovering back the money
paid on account of it, it might yet be made to appear that
Harper, if he were answerable "forthe mismanagement which
resulted in the bank's insolvency, could not, in a court of
equity, and as against the creditors of the bank, recover back
his subscription money. But it is plain that such questions as

ISRAEL v. ARTHUR.
Statement of the Case.

these could not be adjudicated in the absence of Harper as a
party, and we therefore think the court below did not err in
sustaining the demurrer for that reason.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of the
court below, in sustaining the demurrer, and in dismissing the
bill, should be
_______Afa-med.

ISRAEL v. ARTHUR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 903.

Submitted January 29, 1894.-Decided Muarch 12,1894.

This court has no jurisdiction to revise the decision of the highest court of
a State, in an action at law, upon a pure question of fact, although a
Federal question might arise if the question of fact were decided in a
particular way.
The decision by the highest court of a State that a woman divorced from
her husband in a proceeding instituted by him and by a decree which
does not bind her, who marries another husband, and lives with him as
his wife, is thereby estopped, after the death of the first husband, from
setting up a claim to a widow's share in the distribution of his estate,
presents no Federal question for revision by this court.

MOTION to dismiss. Abbie A. Israel, under the name of Abbie
A. Arthur, filed her petition in the county court of Laramie
County, Colorado, in the matter of the estate of John Arthur,
deceased, May 17, 1881, alleging that John Arthur died intestate and without children; that she was his widow; that
James B. Arthur had been appointed administrator and was
in possession of decedent's property, and committing breaches
of his duty as such; that he, as a brother of John Arthur, and
certain other brothers and sisters, and descendants of a deceased sister, claimed to be entitled to the estate as heirs at
law; and that the relationship of petitioner to the decedent
and her rights in his estate were ignored; and she prayed that
she might be declared the sole distributee of said estate, and
heir at law of John Arthur, deceased, and that the administrator be required to account accordingly. The defendant an-

