BERBECKER v. IOBERTSON.
Statement of the Case.

general verdict, and no exception to the direction was preserved, there is nothing open to our review on this branch
Judgment aflirmed.
of the case.
Mm. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and

took no part in the decision of this case.

BERBECKER v.ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 245.

Argued February 1,1894.-Decided Ufarch 12,1894.

arch 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, brass upholstering nails
Under the act of Mf
were subject to the duty of 45 per cent ad valorem imposed upon manufactures, articles, or wares, not specially enumerated or provided for in
the act, composed wholly or in part of iron, steel, copper, lead, nickel,
pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or any other metal.

Tins was an action to recover duties paid under protest
upon inportations of nails, described in the bill of particulars
as "upholstering nails," between September 21, 1883, and
January 22, 1884:.
Schedule C of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, contained
the following provisions, 22 Stat. 488, 498, 501:
"Horse-shoe nails, hob nails, and wire nails, and all other
wrought iron or steel nails, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, four cents per pound."
"Britannia ware, and plated and gilt articles and wares of
all kinds, thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
"Manufactures, articles, or wares, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, composed wholly or in part of iron,
steel, copper, lead, nickel, pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or any other metal, and whether partly or wholly manufactured, forty-five per centum ad valorem."
These paragraphs are numbered in the tariff index as 168,
210, and 216.
The collector applied the last paragraph to these nails and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the plaintiffs protested that one or the other of the preceding
clauses gave the applicable rate. At the trial a verdict was
found, under the direction of the court, for a portion of the
duties collected, and plaintiffs consequently recovered a judgment, but a judgment for less than the amount they claimed.
The only witness was one of the plaintiffs, and the bill of
exceptions, containing his testimony and the subsequent rulings, is as follows:
"I am interested in manufacturing. I have been in manufactories abroad, and have seen these goods made, and know
how it is done. The heads of the nails are tumbled in barrels
of water and chemicals to give them a nice gold color. Before
they go into the barrels they are the natural color of brass.
These samples are known in trade and commerce as gilt nails
and are bought and sold as such.
"Being cross-examined by counsel for defendant:
"I cannot describe the exact color of brass except I went
into a brass mill and showed you a piece of brass. (Referring
to a nail in a board:) If I saw it at a distance I should
probably say it was brass, but still it does not look like the
nails before they go into the barrel. Before they go into the
barrel there is no lustre on them, or very little. I do not see
anything here that looks like the sheet brass of which the
nails are made. With regard to the contents of the barrel
referred to by me in my direct examination as ' water and
chemicals,' I do not care to state what the chemicals are,
because it is a trade secret, but I am willing to state it to the
judge alone, so that nobody else hears it. It is a liquid substance of the color of water. It looks like water and nothing
else. The process through which these exhibits are put is
called by some polishing; not polishing by means of rubbing,
but it is done by friction, by the shaking of them up, by the
rolling of the nails in the barrel. The length of time they
are rolled depends upon what color you want to get on them;
sometimes an hour, sometimes two hours, and sometimes it
takes longer. I roll them until I get the color I want. Increased rolling tends to darken the color sometimes and sometimes to lighten it.

BERBECKER v. ROBERTSON.
Counsel for Plaintif in Error.

"These nails are bought and sold in this country under the
name of gilt nails. That is the proper name for these. They
may be sometimes sold under another name, but meaning a
gilt nail of first and second quality. We do not sell them
as upholstery nails. I cannot tell what other parties do. I
cannot swear to that. I know only how they are labelled,
and if by accident they should be billed as upholstery nails, I
should consider it a mistake. I cannot swear that they are
not bought and sold in trade and commerce of this country
as upholstery nails, because I do not know what other parties
do. I can only speak for myself and at the same time as to
what is the general usage in the trade. The general usage
has been, I know, as long as I have been in the business,
whenever a person asked me what was the price of nails, of
gilt nails, or they might have asked for upholstery nails, I
knew that they meant gilt nails. They are bought and sold
in this country under the name of gilt nails. They may
possibly have been ordered from a large dealer by a dealer
in this country under the name of ' upholstery nails.' They
are sometimes bought and sold in trade and commerce of this
country as ' French nails,' ' chair nails,' and as ' furniture nails.'
"Defendant's counsel then moved to strike out the testimony as to the fact that they were called 'gilt nails.' The
court granted the motion, and plaintiffs' counsel duly excepted, and the exception was duly allowed.
"Plaintiffs thereupon rested, and counsel for the defendant
moved the court for the direction of a verdict for the defendant upon so much as was sought to be recovered upon the
nails which did not appear to be actually gilt or not to have
gold upon them, which motion the court then and there
granted and directed the jury to find a verdict for the defendant; to which ruling and direction the counsel for the plaintiffs
then and there duly excepted, and the exception was allowed,
and the jury thereupon found a verdict for the defendant."
Judgment having been entered on the verdict, a writ of
error was duly taken out.
-M..Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mtr. Assistant Attorney General Wh7itney for defendants in
error.
M

. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Upon this record, it is apparent that these nails did not fall
within the first of the three paragraphs, as they are referred
to in the evidence as made of sheet brass. Counsel produced
in argument some nails with wrought iron shanks and brass
heads, which he claimed were the same as those in question,
but they were not before us as exhibits, and, moreover, appeared to be in the nature of brass ornamentation.
Nor did the nails come within the second of the paragraphs,
"Britannia ware, and plated and gilt articles and wares of all
kinds," unless the principle of commercial designation could
be properly applied and such designation was made out, for
we concur in the view that gilt articles and wares taken in
connection with Britannia and plated ware mean articles
actually gilded by overlaying, and not merely made to look
gilt by rolling them in a secret chemical solution. We are
not prepared to hold that, under such circumstances, this
paragraph would be applicable, even if nails thus manipulated
were commercially designated as "gilt nails;" but, if applicable, we are still of opinion that the judgment must be
affirmed.
It has just been held that the usage from which it may be
inferred that Congress intended to use particular words in a
particular sense in a tariff act, must be definite, uniform, and
general, and that such designation is to be determined as of
the date of the act. .Maddockv. .fagone, ante, 368.
Tested by this rule, the evidence was entirely insufficient
to show such a usage in respect of denominating this class of
nails, "gilt nails," contemporaneous with the tariff act of
March 3, 1883, or otherwise.
True, plaintiff testified that the articles "are known in
trade and commerce as gilt nails and are bought and sold as
such," but his testimony on cross-examination practically

DUNCAN v. MISSOURI.
Syllabus.

limited his personal knowledge of usage in the trade to his
own practice; he could not say that they were not bought
and sold in trade and commerce as upholstery nails; and he admitted that they were sometimes so bought and sold as French,
chair, and furniture nails. The evidence of a definite, general,
and uniform usage was so slight, if any at all, that a verdict
based upon it would be set aside, and the Circuit Court committed no error in striking it out and in directing a verdict for
defendant as to these particular nails.
Something was said about the lack of precision in the
motion "to strike out the testimony as to the fact that they
were called ' gilt nails,'" and the effect of not making it until
the conclusion of the testimony of the witness; but as no
further evidence was offered, the motion practically amounted
to a demurrer to evidence, and if it was not sufficiently comprehensive, that was cured by the direction of the verdict.
The Circuit Court was right, and the judgment is
A firmed.

M . JusTicE GRAY was not present at the argument, and

took no part in the decision of this case.

DUNCAN v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
INo. 1038. Submitted January12, 1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, protected
by the Fourteenth Amendment, are privileges and immunities arising out
of the nature and essential character of the Federal government, and
granted or secured by the Constitution.
Due process of law, and the equal protection of the laws are secured if the
laws operate on all alike, and do not subject the individual to an arbitrary
exercise of the powers of government.
An expost facto law is one which imposes a punishment for an act which
was not punishable at the time it was committed; or an additional
punishment to that then prescribed; or changes the rules of evidence by

