OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

tendered by the purchasers upon application for confirmation
of sale, and while he claims to be the owner of $1,500,000
of the stock, it appears that the total amount thereof was
$12,200,000; so that in fact he was the owner of less than
one-eleventh of the bonds and one-eighth of the stock. No
authority from these other bondholders or stockholders to him
to act for them is shown, so that neither in fact nor in law
was he representing the corporation mortgagor in this litigation; and as that mortgagor was interested in and affected by
the decree of foreclosure and sale, it should have been made a
party to this appeal and brought into this court, and because
of the failure so to do, the appeal cannot be maintained.
For the reasons above given both appeals are

.Dismissed.

AIR. JUSTICE JACKSON did not hear the argument or take any
part in the decision of this case.

NORTH CHICAGO ROLLING MILL COMPANY v.
ST. LOUIS ORE AND STEEL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 197. Argued January 11, 1894. - Decided April 9, 1894.

A garnishee, who occupies the double position of debtor to the principal
defendant in a definite or ascertained amount, and also that of a creditor
of such principal debtor by way of unliquidated damages arising out of
the breach of a contract in existence when the garnishment proceedings
were instituted, can, after an order at law subjecting the defined indebtedness to the payment of the garnishor, invoke the aid of a court
of equity to restrain the garnisheeing creditor from enforcing the payment of the amount due until the unliquidated damages can be ascertained, and set off against such indebtedness, on the ground that the
principal debtor is insolvent and a non-resident of the State in which
the garnishee resides, and in which the garnishment proceedings are
had.
Equity will entertain jurisdiction and afford relief against the collection of

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

597

Statement of the Case.
a
a judgment where there is a meritorious, equitable defence thereto, which
could not have been set up at law, or which the party was, without fault
or negligence, prevented from interposing.
The adjustment of demands by counter-claim or set-off rather than by
independent suit is favored and encouraged by the law, to avoid circuity
of action and injustice.
The insolvency of the party against whom a set-off is claimed is a sufficient
ground for equitable interference; and in Illinois and some other States
the non-residence of the party against whom the set-off is asserted, is
also held to be sufficient ground therefor.
It is settled in England, where the law differs 'in no material respect from
that of Illinois, that a garnishee order does not effect a transfer of the
debt to the garnishor, or create the relation of- creditor and debtor between him and the garnishee.
It is a recognized principle that the rights of the garnishor do not rise
above or extend beyond those of his debtor; that the garnishee shall
not, by operation of the proceedings against him, be placed in any worse
condition than he would have been in had the principal debtor's claim
been enforced against him directly; that the liability, legal and equitable,
of the garnishee to the principal debtor is a measure of his liability to
the attaching creditor, who takes the shoes of the principal debtor and
can assert only the rights of the latter.

THE court stated the case as follows:
The principal question presented by the record in this case
is whether a garnishee, who occupies the double position of
debtor to the principal defendant in a definite or ascertained
amount, and also that of a creditor of such principal debtor
by way of unliquidated Aamages arising out of the breach of
contract in existence when the garnishment proceedings were
instituted, can, after an order at law subjecting the defined
indebtedness to the payment of the garnishor, invoke the aid
of a court of equity to restrain the garnisheeing creditor from
enforcing the payment of the amount due until the unliquidated damages can be ascertained, and set off against such
indebtedness, on the ground that the principal debtor is insolvent and a non-resident of the State in which the garnishee
resides, and in which the garnishment proceedings are had?
In other words, is the insolvency and non-residence of the
principal debtor, to whom the garnishee is indebted in a
certain, definite amount, and against whom he has a valid

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of -the Case.
0

claim for unliquidated damages growing out of a breach of
contract between them-in existence at the commencement
of the garnishment proceedings-a good ground for the
exercise of equitable jurisdiction after an order, or judgment
at law, declaring the sum due the principal debtor applicable
to the payment of the garnishor, to stay the enforcement of
such order or judgment until the unliquidated damages due
the garnishee can be ascertained and set off against the amount
certain owing by him to the principal debtor?
The material facts and proceedings out of which this question arises are as follows: In November, 1883, the St. Louis
Ore and Steel Company, of St. Louis, Missouri, (hereafter
styled the St. Louis Company,) and the North Chicago Rolling Mill Company, of Chicago, Illinois, (hereafter called the
Chicago Company,) were each engaged in the manufacture
of steel rails for railroads. The St. Louis Company was also
a miner of iron ore and the maker of pig metal. On November
6, 1883, the St. Louis Company entered into a contract with
the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company for the sale and
delivery to the railroad company of 24,000 tons of steel rails,
in quantities of 2000 tons per month from January to December, 1884, inclusive, for which the railroad company agreed
to pay for each monthly delivery of rails on receipt of bills
of lading and invoice, at the rate of $18 a ton cash, and one
ton of old rails for each ton delivered.
On November 19, 1883, the St. Louis Company entered into
another contract with the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company,
by which it agreed to sell to the railroad company the further
quantity of 18,000 tons of steel rails to be delivered at the rate
of about 1500 tons per month, commencing January 1 and
ending in December, 1884, for which the purchaser was to pay
for each delivery of 1500 tons at the rate of $37.50 a ton in
cash, on the twentieth day of the month succeeding the delivery.
Having these engagements on its hands, the St. Louis Company on December 1, 1883, entered into a written contract
with the Chicago Company, by which the latter agreed to
furnish the former company 18,000 tons of No. 1, Bessemer

ROLLIIG KILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

599

Statement of the Case.

steel rails, to be delivered free on board the cars at Chicago
in about equal amounts, (1500 tons,) during each month of the
year 1884, at the rate of $35 per gross ton, (2240 pounds,) to
be paid by the St. Louis Company on the tenth day of each
month for all rails delivered during the previous month. The
contract specified that the rails to be*furnished by the Chicago
Company should weigh 52, 56, 59, or 63 pounds per lineal
yard, as per templet to be furnished by the St. Louis Company, and were to be drilled for bolts at certain distances from
the ends of the rails according to their weight.
The rails were to be consigned as directed by the St. Louis
Company, which was to furnish the cars for the prompt shipment thereof from Chicago, "and in the absence of the furnishing of cars upon which to load said rails, enabling the said
first party (the Chicago Company) to make their deliveries as
herein specified, then the said second party (the St. Louis
Company) shall make their settlements and pay for said rails
on the tenth day of the month, the same as though said rails
had been delivered, and the non-delivery of cars shall in no
way relieve the said second party from the prompt payment
for the rails on the tenth day of the month as specified herein."
The rails, so far as delivered, were manufactured in varying
weights, upon orders given by the St. Louis Company.
On December 22, 1883, the Chicago Company entered into
a contract with R. IM. Cherrie & Company, of Chicago, for
the purchase of 50,000 tons of iron ore, to be mined and
shipped, during the year 1884, from the Pilot Knob Mine in
the State of Missouri, owned and operated by the St. Louis
Company. This ore was to be delivered at the Chicago Company's works in quantities of from one to seven thousand tons
per month, as required by the Chicago Company, and payment therefor was to be made on the fifteenth day of each
month for ore delivered during the previous month. This
contract, if not made by Cherrie & Company, as agents of the
St. Louis Company, was guaranteed by the latter so far as the
quality of the ore and its delivery were concerned.
Cherrie & Company became financially involved, and on
July 3-, 1884, made an assignment to one Jenkins for the ben-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

efit of their creditors, of whom the St. Louis Company was a
large one. Upon the failure of Cherrie & Company the St.
Louis Company assumed the former's ore contract with the
Chicago Company, and thereafter, between the 4th and 21st
days of July, 1884, delivered to the Chicago Company iron
ore and pig metal to the amount or value of $4.916.82, for
which payment was to be made by the Chicago Company on
August 15, 1884.
On July 10, 1884, the St. Louis Company, being indebted
to the Chicago Company in the sum of $21,536.56 for steel
rails delivered during the previous month, (June,) made default
in paying the same, and the next day (July 11, 1884) informed
the Chicago Company by letter of its inability to pay for the
June delivery of rails, and asked as a special favor to let the
matter rest for a little while, as the Chicago Company had in
its possession funds arising from the sale of ore and pig metal
which were being delivered during the month of July. To
this request no reply appears to have been made.
On July 12, 1884, the St. Louis Company again wrote the
Chicago Company, expressing a doubt as to its ability to pay
its debts promptly, and suggesting an arrangement by which
the receivers of the Wabash Railroad Company should take
certain rails and settle directly with the Chicago Company.
This arrangement was not, however, consummated.
The St. Louis Company being embarrassed, and having
made default in paying the interest on its several issues of
bonds, secured by mortgages, was, on July 21, 1884, placed in
the hands of a receiver, upon a bill filed against it in the
United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri by Robert M. Olyphant, as trustee, a citizen of New
York, for the foreclosure of a second mortgage upon its
property. The bill alleged the insolvency of the St. Louis
Company, and upon the day of its filing, E. A. Hitchcock, the
president of the company, was appointed provisional receiver
of its property and assets, with instructions "to carry out and
perform the contracts of the company for the purchase and
sale of steel rails, and to preserve and protect all its property."
This receivership was made permanent on August 7, 1884,

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

601

Statement of the Case.

and the provisional instructions were renewed. Hitchcock
promptly qualified both as provisional and permanent receiver.
The receiver subsequently, on August 25, 1884, made a
report to the court, in which, after referring to the several
contracts of the St. Louis Company with the Missouri Pacific
Railroad Company for the sale of steel rails, and with the
Chicago Company and others for the purchase of such rails,
together with what had been done thereunder, stated that on
July 30, 1884, he had received from the railroad company an

order for 2045 tons of rails to be delivered in August; that he
thereupon had placed with the Chicago Company an order
for 1500 tons of the rails required, the price of which, under
the contract between the St. Louis Company and the Chicago
Company, would amount to about the sum of $52,000, and if
the rails were delivered in August, that sum would have to
be paid on September 10, 1884; that he had not in hand, and
was not likely to have, any funds with which to meet such
payment; that he had, after negotiations, failed to induce the
railroad company to agree to make payment for the rails on
September 10, 1884; that the railroad company had, furthermore, notified him that it was ready to carry out its contract
with the St. Louis Company according to the terms thereof,
but would no longer accept steel rails from other makers in
the performance of that contract; that he had Without success
made overtures to be released from the contract of the St.
Louis Company for the sale and purchase of steel rails, on the
basis of the difference between the then market price of such
rails, estimated at $31 per ton, and the contract prices, which
terms he regarded as just tq all parties, but that these overtures were not accepted. The receiver further reported that
the Chicago Company had notified him by letter under date
of August 6, 1884, that it was ready and willing to carry out
its contract of December 1, 1883, for the manufacture and
delivery of steel rails upon the terms of payment therein mentioned, and that for the failure of the St. Louis Company to
carry out the said contract it would claim damages; that the
Chicago Company requested an explicit statement from him,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

as receiver, whether he would be prepared to pay in cash on
the tenth of each month following the delivery of rails
ordered by him under said contract, to which he had replied
that he was not in possession of money sufficient to pay cash
for such rails, but that the court under whose orders he was
acting had power to make provision therefor; that to this the
Chicago Company had replied that it was ready and willing to
furnish the rails as ordered upon being notified that he was
prepared to pay therefor on the tenth of the month following
delivery.
The correspondence fully established the facts thus reported
by the receiver. It is further shown in the correspondence
between the receiver and the Chicago Company that the
receiver proposed to pay for the rails which might be ordered
and delivered under the contract with the St. Louis Company
in receiver's certificates, which the Chicago Company declined
to receive. The receiver admitting that he could not pay for
the 1500 tons ordered for the next month, those rails were, for
that reason, not manufactured by the Chicago Company.
The Chicago Company received no orders for rails from the
St. Louis Company, or its receiver, for the month of July, or
for any subsequent month during the year 1884. Nor did the
receiver ever notify the Chicago Company that he was prepared to pay for the rails according to the terms of the contract betweenthe two companies.
On the day of the receiver's appointment, (July 21, 1884,)
the Joliet Steel Company, an Illinois corporation, commenced
two attachment suits in the Superior Court of Cook County,
Illinois, against the St. Louis Company, one for $7777.07, the
other for $10,051.78, and on the same day and in the same
court the Iron Mountain Company, a Missouri corporation,
commenced an attachment suit against the St. Louis Company
upon a claim for $19,782.60. No property of the St. Louis
Company was attached under the writs issued in these suits,
which were thereupon, and in conformity with the statutes of
Illinois, served upon the Chicago Company, and R. E. Jenkins,
as assignee of R. M. Cherrie & Company, as garnishees, and
interrogatories were filed for each of them to answer, touching

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

603

Statement of the Case.
their indebtedness to the St. Louis Company. The two suits
of the Joliet Company were removed in September, 1881, to
the law side of the United States Circuit Court for the INorthern District of Illinois. The Chicago Company made answer
in November, 1884, and a supplemental and amended answer
on February 25, 1885, setting forth the transactions and matters of account between itself and the St. Louis Company,
admitting an indebtedness to the latter for ore and pig iron
amounting to $44,916.82, and setting up counter-claims to the
amount of $56,807.50, which included the sum of $28,390.16 as
damages for the failure of the St. Louis Company to carry out
the steel rail contract by receiving and paying for the rails in
compliance with the terms of that contract.
To this answer replication was made, and, upon the issues
formed, the cause was tried before a jury. The Chicago Company introduced proof tending to establish its claim for the
$28,390.16, as damages; but upon motion of the plaintiff this
evidence was stricken out, and the claim for damages was disallowed by the court on the ground that, being unliquidated,
it could not properly be set off at law. The disallowance of
the claim for damages left a balance of $16,473.28 due by the
Chicago Company to the St. Louis Company. A verdict was
directed for the plaintiff for that amount, and judgment was
rendered against the Chicago Company, January 13, 1886, for
the sum of $16,473.28.
This garnishment proceeding was, under the Illinois statutes,
in the name of the St. Louis Company, and judgment was rendered in its favor against the Chicago Company for the amount
of the verdict for the use of the Joliet Company and others
entitled to share therein.
In the garnishment proceedings under the attachment suit
of the Iron Mountain Company in the Superior Court of Cook
County a similar judgment was rendered against the Chicago
Company as garnishee. By the laws of Illinois the sum adjudged against the Chicago Company as garnishee was a quasi
trust fund for the use of both attaching creditors- the Joliet
Company and the Iron Mountain Company.
Pending the garnishment proceedings, on September 26,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

1884, Robert l. Olyphant, as trustee, filed what is called an
ancillary bill in the United States Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Illinois against the St. Louis Company,
for the purpose of reaching the assets of the company in that
jurisdiction. This bill recited the proceedings had, and the
orders made, in the original suit, and asked the court to
administer the assets of the company in that jurisdiction.
The Chicago Company having secured a stay of proceedings in both of the garnishment cases, thereupon filed its bill,
or petition, on January 18, 1886, against the St. Louis Company, the Joliet Company, and the Iron Mountain Company,
on the equity side of the United States Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, in the ancillary suit of Olyphant
v. St. Louis Company. This bill or petition of the Chicago
Company, after setting out the rail and ore contracts, the
default of the St. Louis Company in failing to perform the
rail contract, and the resulting damages to the Chicago Company, the garnishment proceedings at la-w in the state and
Federal courts, and the denial of its right therein to set off its
claim for damages against the St. Louis Company, alleged
that the St. Louis Company was insolvent, and that, being
both insolvent and a non-resident, the Chicago Company was
entitled to relief in equity by having its damages liquidated,
and then set off against the judgments in the attachment suits.
The prayer was for an injunction and relief by way of
equitable set-off, and for judgment over for any balance due
it by the St. Louis Company.
The Iron Mountain Company filed its answer in March, 1887,
admitting that the claim on which its attachment suit was
brought against the St. Louis Company had been settled, and
disclaimed any further interest in the proceedings.
The answer of the other defendants, while admitting most
of the allegations of the bill, denied that the St. Louis Company had violated or failed to perform the rail contract, or
that the complainant had any valid claim for damages against
it; that if there had been any breach of the rail contract, the
claim for unliquidated damages could not be the subject of
set-off in equity any more than in law; that if the claim were

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

605

Statement of the Case.

valid, it arose out of transactions distinct from the subjectmatter of the suit in which such set-off was claimed; that it
did not exist on July 21, 1884, when the garnishment process
was served ; that from that date the garnishor acquired a lien
upon and a right to the fund, due from the garnishee, in the
nature of an equitable assignment, which could not be disturbed or affected by any subsequent breach of the rail contract by the St. Louis Company. A general replication was
filed by the Chicago Company.
While this suit of the Chicago Company for equitable relief
was pending, the St. Louis Company effected a compromise
with its bond creditors by issuing new mortgage securities in
lieu of the old bonds, and thereupon the Olyphant suits against
the St. Louis Company in the United States Circuit Courts
for the Eastern District of Missouri and for the :Northern
District of Illinois were dismissed. The decree of dismissal of
the Illinois suit provided, however, that the petition of the
Chicago Company should stand and be proceeded in as an
original bill.
On April 9, 1887, the Joliet Steel Company assigned and
transferred its two judgments for $9101.85 and for $1b,760.41,
respectively, against the St. Louis Company to David K.
Ferguson, who, as such assignee, thereafter, in May, 1888,
applied to be made, and was made, a party to the suit of the
Chicago Company.
The cause came on for hearing in May, 1889, upon evidence
as to the breach of the rail contract by the St. Louis Company.
and the damages thence resulting to the Chicago Company,
which was substantially the same as that introduced at law
in the garnishment proceedings. The Circuit Court held that
the equitable set-off sought by the bill could not be allowed
for the reasons that the judgment against the Chicago Company as garnishee was for money due for pig iron and ore
bought from the St. Louis Company, while the claim for
unliquidated damages grew out of the failure of the St. Louis
Company to receive rails under the contract of December,
1883, which had no connection with the one upon which the
Chicago Company was held as garnishee; that when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

Chicago Company was served as garnishee no part of the claim
urged as a set-off had accrued; that the Chicago Company
then had no right of action for the recovery of that claim;
that it was then uncertain whether that company would make
or lose money by the further performance of the rail contract.
The opinion of the court concluded by saying: "Without
ruling upon other questions discussed by counsel, it is sufficient
to say that the claim for unliquidated damages growing out
of the failure of the St. Louis Company to receive rails under
the rail contract after the failure of that company and after
the commencement of the suit in attachment and the service
of the writ of garnishment upon the Chicago Company was
properly rejected by the court in the trial of the action at law,
and cannot now be set off against the judgment rendered
against the garnishee. The intervening petition is dismissed
without prejudice to the right of the Chicago Company to
prosecute an action against the St. Louis Company." 39 Fed.
Rep. 308.
Mr. . ParmaleePrentice,(with whom was .Mr.Citarles S.
Holt on the brief,) for appellant.
.Mr. Henry Hitchcock for appellees.
0

I. The Circuit Court, at law, properly refused to allow
appellant, as garnishee, to set off its claim for unliquidated
damages.
It is not necessary to argue this proposition. The correctness of that ruling depended altogether upon the proper construction of the Illinois statute; and the cases cited under this
head are conclusive on the point. The rail contract, for
alleged breach of which said damages are claimed, being
wholly independent of the verbal agreements under which
appellant purchased and was indebted for ore and pig metal,
and the damages claimed for breach of the former being
unliquidated, the case fell directly within the ruling in De
Forrest v. Oder, 42 Illinois, 500; Robison v. Hibbs, 48
Illinois, 408; Hawks v. Sands, 3 Gilman, 227; Clause v.

IOLLING MILL CO. v. O E AND STEEL CO.

607

Argument for Appellees.

Bullock Printing Press Co., 118 Illinois, 612; Capes v. Burgess, 135 Illinois, 61; Evans v. Hughey, 76 Illinois, 115;
S'argeant v. Kellogg, 5 Gilman, 273; Ellis v. Cothran, 117
Illinois, 458; Ryan v. Barger, 16 Illinois, 28, 30; -Ayres v.
.AlcConnel, 15 Illinois, 230; .Kelly v. Garrett, 1 Gilman, 649;
M3Iartin, v. Junzruller, 37 N. Y. 396; .Xyers v. Davis, 22
N. Y. 489; Duncan, v. Lyon, 3 Johns. Oh. 351; S. C. 8 Am.
Dec. 513; Mohawk Bank v. Burrows, 6 Johns. Ch. 317.
II. Courts of law and of equity follow the same general
doctrine on the subject of set-off. A set-off will be allowed in
equity only on some special equitable ground : the mere existence of cross demands is not sufficient. No set-off will be
allowed in equity in respect of a demand not mutual, or to
arise in future, nor in respect of mutual unconnected debts in
the absence of an agreement for mutual credit, nor in respect
of a demand for uncertain damages arising on a breach of
contract.
It will probably be conceded, certainly it will be assumed,
for the purpose of this argument, that the claim for damages
made by appellant for alleged non-performance by the Ore
and Steel Company of the rail contract, is a claim for uncertain
and unliquidated damages.
In the important case of Duncan v. Lyon, 3 Johns. Ch. 351,
S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 513, plaintiff sought an injunction to stay
proceedings at law to enforce an award made by referees under
an order of the Supreme Court, and for an accounting in respect
of certain partnership dealings, for a decree for his share of the
proceeds of lumber sold, and to have that share set off against
the damages found by the referees. On this bill a temporary
injunction was allowed, which the defendant sought to have
dissolved. Chancellor Kent sustained that motion, on the
express ground that equity would not allow such a claim to be
set off, nor would enjoin proceedings at law for that purpose
pending the taking of the account.
In Mlohawk Bank-v. Burrows,6 Johns. Ch. 317, there came
before the same chancellor a petition for leave to set off certain claims against a judgment upon which an attorney
had a lien. The defendant was insolvent, and the claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

sought to be set off was a claim for contribution, which was
quite unsettled. The petition was denied, the chancellor
affirming the decision in Duncan v. Lyon, and repeating the
statement that "there is no case to warrant the delay of satisfaction of a judgment debt on one side until an unsettled
demand on the other is reduced to certainty and in a condition
to be set off."
In Haokdtt v. Connett, 2 Edwards Oh. 73, decided by ViceChancellor IMcCoun, it was said that there is no such thing
as an inherent quality or right of set-off in the creation or
origin of a debt or demand. It can only arise or attach where
there is a mutuality of debts of such a certain and ascertained
character as to be capable of set-off or of being applied in
compensation of each other. Hence, there was no equity of
this sort to which the assignment in question could be subjected. The whole doctrine of set-off was critically examined
by Judge Story in G-eene v. Darling,5 Mason, 202.
Eight years later, the doctrine of equitable set-off was again
thoroughly considered by Mr. Justice Story in Howe v. Sheppard, 2 Sumner, 409. It was held, affirming Greene v. Darling, and citing approvingly Chancellor Kent's decisions in
Duncan v. lyon, 3 Johns. Oh. 358, and Dale v. Cooke, 4 Johns.
Oh. 11, that the known rule in courts of equity is that they
follow the law in regard to matters of set-off, unless there is
some intervening natural equity going beyond the statutes of
-set-off which constitutes the general basis of set-off at law but the only case of natural equity mentioned is that of mutual
credits given or agreed for.
In this case also the fact of insolvency was urged as a ground
of relief. The equitable set-off prayed for was denied on other
grounds, but the court plainly intimated that insolvency would
not have sufficed, referring to the case of Sirnson, v. Hart, 14
Johns. 63. See also Scammon, v. firmball, 92 U. S. 362;
Wade v. Wade, 12 Illinois, 89; Buckmaster v. Grundy, 3
Gilman, 626; Raleig v. Raleigh, 35 Illinois, 512; Gay v. Gay,
10 Paige, 369.
III. Appellant's contention as to insolvency and non-residence is not valid under the facts in proof in this case.

ROLLING HILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

609

Argument for Appellees.

The sole ground upon which it is now sought to reverse the
decree below is that the St. Louis Ore and Steel Company
was insolvent and a non-resident; and that since this made it
impossible for appellant to recover the damages claimed by it
unless by means of the equitable set-off prayed for, that is a
sufficient ground of equity for such relief.
The case of Schulr v. Irarel,120 U. S. 506, 510, seems to
be the authority most relied on for appellant. But the passage
quoted from Mr. Justice Miller's opinion is admitted to have
been merely "incidental to the point decided in that court,"
-that is, as the opinion shows, simply a dictumn, couched in
the most general terms. Giving to that general statement
all weight to which it may be entitled, it is inapplicable on its
face to any case in which the complainant should fail to allege
and prove, not merely that the demand sought to be set off
was at some former time in danger of being lost, but that it
had become and continued to be in fact irrecoverable unless
the set-off were allowed, because the judgment creditor was
in fact insolvent at the time when the relief prayed for was to
be made effectual.
A fortiori must this be true, when a court of equity must,
if the set-off be allowed, thereby deprive the opposing claimant
of all benefit from a judgment recovered by him in the exercise of superior diligence. In such case Zogba-m v. Parker,
55 N. Y. 120, is directly in point.
IV. Appellant's claim for unliquidated damages cannot be
set off against the judgment recovered by the Joliet Steel
Company against appellant as garnishee. Said claim is based
upon alleged violations by the St. Louis Company of the rail
contract of December 1, 1883, which occurred, if at all, after
July 21, 1884, on which day appellant was summoned as
garnishee. At that date no right of action for damages for
breach of said rail contract existed in favor of appellant. No
such claim or right of action arising after that date can be
set off by appellant against said judgment, the lien of which
relates back to July 21, 1884, the date of said attachment, and
is prior and superior to any supposed equity here alleged in
favor of appellant.
VOL. cLm--39

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The question whether, at the date of the attachment, July
21, 1884, appellant's claim for unliquidated damages for breach
of the rail contract, was an existing right of action, lies at the
very threshold of this controversy. Oar contention is:
1. That on July 21, 1884, when appellant was summoned
as garnishee of the St. Louis Company in the attachment suit
brought by the Joliet Steel Company, a lien upon its then
existing and admitted indebtedness to the St. Louis Company
was created, which became complete and was merged in the
judgment rendered against said garnishee in favor of the
Joliet Steel Company on January 13, 1886.
2. That said judgment, when rendered, related back to the
date of the attachment, the lien of which became consummated
as of that date in favor of the Joliet Steel Company, not only
as against the defendant in attachment, but as against all third
persons not having valid prior claims to the fund attached.
3. That, except in failing to pay, on July 10, 1884, for the
rails delivered in June, the St. Louis Company had not, on or
before July 21, 1884, in any respect failed to comply with its
rail contract of December 1, 1883.
4. That if such non-payment on July 10, 1884, was a violation of said contract, appellant could recover no damages
therefor except by way of interest at six per cent per annum
on the amount due and unpaid; and that such interest, if
recoverable at all, should have been claimed, and if claimed
would have been allowed to the garnishee, in the garnishment
suit, and not having been claimed therein, cannot now be
claimed by way of equitable set-off against said judgment.
5. That, without conceding that any cause of action for
damages for breach of said rail contract arose in favor of
appellant and against the St. Louis Company after July 21,
1884, certainly no such cause of action existed in appellant's
favor at that date, under the facts in proof.
6. That the judgment in favor of the Joliet Steel Company
against appellant as garnishee, rendered on January 13, 1886,
for an admitted debt arising from transactions wholly distinct
from the rail contract, is a valid and meritorious claim, the
right to enforce which, by execution against the garnishee,

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

611

Opinion of the Court.

relates back to the date of the attachment and is prior and
superior to any right of action or supposed equity subsequently
arising, if any, as between the garnishee and the defendant in
attachment.
7. That, even if a valid claim for unliquidated damages in
favor of appellant against the St. Louis Company, for breach
of the rail contract, were conceded to have arisen after July
21, 1884, under circumstances such that equity would permit
appellant to set off such claim against a judgment previously
recovered against appellant by the St. Louis Company for its
own benefit, yet, under the facts above stated equity will
not allow such claim for damages to be set off against this
judgment, because the right of the Joliet Steel Company and
its assignee to enforce such judgment was, and is, a prior and
superior equity to any which, on the facts in proof, could arise
in favor of appellant after that date. See Drake on Attachment, §§ 223, 224, 453, 542, 615 a; Ball v. JKimball, 77 Illinois,
161; Chicago, Danville &c. Railroad v. Field,86 Illinois, 270;
Reeve v. Smith, 113 Illinois, 47; Bank of America v. Indiana
Banking Co., 114 Illinois, 483.
Xrh.

JusTic

JAcKsoN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
From the decree dismissing this bill the present appeal is
prosecuted, and the errors assigned by the appellant may be
embraced in the general proposition that the court below erred
in declining to adjudicate and determine the amount of the
damages sustained by the Chicago Company from the breach
of the rail contract and set off the same against the judgment
at law, and in dismissing the bill, even though such dismissal
was without prejudice to the right of the Chicago Company
to bring suit for the recovery of such damages.
In addition to the reasons on which the court below denied
relief and dismissed the bill, it is urged by the appellee that
the equitable ground for relief, viz., the insolvency of the St.
Louis Company, ceased to exist before the final decree was
rendered. It is urged that its solvency was shown by the

OCTOBER. TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

settlement of its debts and the dismissal of the foreclosure
suits against it and the discharge of the receiver. There are
several answers to this suggestion. First, the fact relied upon
to establish such restored solvency, viz., the compromise of the
company's bonded indebtedness by issuing new obligations
secured by mortgage on all its tangible property, fails to show
any actual improved financial condition, such as would be
available to the Chicago Company in enforcing its claim for
damages; Second, as appears in the record, there were other
claims against the St. Louis Company which were not settled by the compromise which terminated the foreclosure
suits; Thi'd, the alleged restored solvency of the St. Louis
Company was not set up by supplemental pleading of any
kind in this suit, although there was ample time and opportunity to do so between March, 1887, and May, 1889, when this
cause was finally heard; as a matter of defence, arising after
the case was at issue, the restored solvency of the St. Louis
Company must have been set up by supplemental answer or
other appropriate pleadings, (Story's Equity Pleading, §
393;) Fourth, equitable jurisdiction having once rightfully
attached, cannot be defeated by matter subsequently arising
which does not go to the merits of the complainant's case. The
state of facts existing when the bill was filed must be looked
to in determining the question of equitable jurisdiction, which
in this case is rested on the ground of insolvency and non-residence. The latter fact is not questioned; as to the former,
the Joliet Steel Company, by its petition, filed May 1, 1886,
in the Olyphant foreclosure suit in the INorthern District of
Illinois, asking that the receiver be required to give bond as
such in the sum of $50,000, to account for the assets received
in that jurisdiction, distinctly alleged that the St. Louis Company was an insolvent, non-resident corporation, and on the
strength of its petition the receiver gave bond to cover the
assets within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, and the receiver
thereafter, with the consent of the Joliet Company, compromised the claim of the St. Louis Company against Cherrie &
Company, and obtained securities and assets thereunder, which

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL 00.

613

Opinion of the Court.

were allowed to be removed from the jurisdiction of the court,
or applied otherwise than to the debt of the Joliet Company.
It is not shown by the record that the St. Louis Company
was restored to a state of solvency before the final decree;
but if that fact had been properly shown, it was not set up as
a defence in the present suit, and it cannot now be invoked on
behalf of the Joliet Company or its assignee.
It admits of no question that the St. Louis Company made
default in the performance of the rail contract. It failed in
the payment of the sum of $21,536.56 on July 10, 1884, for
steel rails delivered in June. This default continued throughout the year 1884. Neither the St. Louis Company nor its
receiver gave any order or orders for the manufacture of rails
for July delivery. On the order for 1500 tons of rails, given
for August delivery, the receiver was confessedly not prepared
to pay, nor was any provision made by which the Chicago
Company could reasonably expect payment therefor on September 10, 1884. The receiver had made every possible effort
to raise funds by the sale of receiver's certificates, and had
failed. He had nothing to pay with except "certificates,"
and the Chicago Company had declined to take them. It
was certainly not bound to proceed with the manufacture and
delivery of rails under the.August order, after being notified
in advance that the receiver was not prepared, and did not
expect to be in fundg to pay for the same unless certificates
were accepted. For the reason that he had nothing to pay
with, except "certificates," the receiver considered, as he
stated to the president of the Chicago Company, in a
letter dated September 26, 1884, that it would have been
wrong to have asked the Chicago Company to make and forward rails without immediate or prospective means of paying
for the same.
So no further orders were given for rails,
although the Chicago Company repeatedly, during August,
September, and October, expressed its. readiness and ability to
fill all orders when the receiver was prepared to pay therefor
according to the terms of the contract. The Chicago Company, early in October, indicated its willingness to reduce
the price of the undelivered rails to $30 per ton, upon prompt

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

settlement in cash, according to the contract, but this proposition was not accepted.
Under these circumstances there was a clear breach of the
rail contract on the part of the St. Louis Company. The first
default occurred on July 10, 1884, in failing to pay the amount
then due the Chicago Company. It was further in default in
not giving an order to manufacture rails for July, which was
continued daring the succeeding months of the year 1884; so
that at the close of December, 1884, when the time for the
final performance of the contract expired, there were about
10,618 tons of rails that the St. Louis Company had failed to
order, receive, and pay for at the contract price of $35 per
ton. Steel rails continued to decline from July, 1884, to January, 1885, the price running down to $29.50 a ton between
those dates.
It is claimed for the appellee that as the Chicago Company
had not rescinded and terminated the rail contract for the
July breaches thereof -if

entitled so to do -it

was not in a

position to bring suit for damages when the garnishor's right
became fixed. This, however, does not affect the merits of
this case. The Chicago Company was not bound to treat the
contract as at an end upon the first breach thereof by the St.
Louis Company. It had a right to await the expiration of
the time for its final performance, and then make its claim
for the entire breach. In the view we thke of the question it
is not material to determine at what precise date there was
such a breach as would entitle the Chicago Company to
damages upon the entire contract. The material thing is that
the contract (for the breach of which the claim for damages
arises) was in existence when the garnishment process was
served. It had then been broken in one particular, if not in
more, and from the situation and embarrassed condition of the
St. Louis Company there was almost a certainty that it would
fail to perform the contract in the future. The Chicago Company gave repeated notices to the receiver of its readiness and
willingness to fulfil the contract on its part. It could only
manufacture rails as they were ordered, and their weights
specified. It notified the receiver time and again that it

ROLLING -MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

615

Opinion of the Court.

would claim damages. That it sustained damages to the extent of the difference between the contract and the market
price of steel rails is clear beyond all controversy. The liability of the St. Louis Company for these damages is equally
clear, but the amount thereof being unliquidated could not
properly be set off in the attachment proceeding at law.
Under these circumstances and conditions, has the Chicago
Company any right to relief in equity by way of equitable
set-off ? Would it be just and equitable to compel the garnishee
to pay its indebtedness to the St. Louis Company for the
benefit of a stranger, and then be left to either lose its valid
claim for damages, or follow its non-resident insolvent debtor
into another jurisdiction in the effort, more or less experimental and expensive, to collect such claim? If the St. Louis
Company was the beneficial plaintiff in the judgment at law,
dr the case stood alone between it and the Chicago Company,
there could be little or no doubt that a court of equity would,
under the facts stated, afford the latter relief by way of
equitable set-off.
Cross-demands and counter-claims, whether arising out of
the same or wholly disconnected transactions, and whether
liquidated or unliquidated, may be enforced by way of set-off
whenever the circumstances are such as to warrant the interference of equity to prevent wrong and injustice.
Again, it is well established that equity will entertain jurisdiction and afford relief against the collection of a judgment
where in justice and good conscience it ought not to be
enforced, as where there is a meritorious, equitable defence
thereto, which could not have been set up at law, or which
the party was, without fault or negligence, prevented from
interposing. Illustrations of these general principles are
found in the cases of Leeds v. frarine Ins. Co., 6 Wheat. 565;
Scatumnon, v. Kirnball, 92 U. S. 362; Crim v. -Handley, 94
U. S. 652; Emnbry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3; Knox County v.
ffarshman, 133 U. S. 152; fVarshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S.
589.
The adjustment of demands by counter-claim or set-off
rather than by independent suit is favored and encouraged by

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the law, to avoid circuity of action and injustice. Railway
Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255.
By the decided weight of authority it is settled that the
insolvency of the party against whom the set-off is claimed
is a sufficient ground for equitable interference. Leeds v.
Marine Ins. Co., 6 Wheat. 565; Lindsay v. Jackson, 2 Paige,
581; Gay v. Gay, 10 Paige, 369; Pond v. Smith, 4 Connecticut, 297, 302; Robb ins v. Holley, 1 T. B. Mon. 194;
Hinrichsen v. Reinback, 27 Illinois, 295; Raleigh v. Raleigh,
35 Illinois, 512; Hall v. Kimball, 77 Illinois, 161; Chicago,
Danville &c. Railroad v. Field, 86 Illinois, 270; Doane v.
Walker, 101 Illinois, 628; Davis v. Milburn, 3 Iowa, 163;
Tuscumbia &c. Railroad v. Rhodes, 8 Alabama, 206; Wray
v. Furniss, 27 Alabama, 471; IZeightley v. Walls, 27 Indiana,
384; lulschner v. Sells, 87 Indiana,-71; Laybourn v. Seymour, (Minn.,) 54 N. W. Rep. 941; Rothschild v. Zfack, 115
N. Y. 1; Richards v. La Tourete, 119 N. Y. 54; Schuler v.
Israel, 120 U. S. 506.
In Schuler v. Israel, 120 U. S. 506, 510, it was said by Mr.
Justice Miller, speaking for the court, that, "While it may be
true that in a suit brought by Israel against the bank it could
in an ordinary action at law only make plea of set-off of so
much of Israel's debt to the bank as was then due, it could,
by filing a bill in chancery in such case, alleging Israel's insolvency, and that, if it was compelled to pay its own debt to
Israel, the debt which Israel owed it but which was not due
would be lost, be relieved by a proper decree in equity; and
as a garnishee is only compelled to be responsible for that
which, both in law and equity, ought to have gone to pay the
principal defendant in the main suit, he can set up all the
defences in this proceeding which he would have in either
a court of law or a court of equity."
It is suggested by the appellee that this was merely
"incidental to the point decided in that case," but the proposition it announces is supported by sound principle and
authority, and the Illinois decisions are in full accord therewith.
In addition to insolvency, it is held by many well-considered

ROLLING HIILL 00. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

617

Opinion of the Court.

decisions, including those of Illinois, that the non-residence
of the party against whom the set-off is asserted is good
ground for equitable relief. Quick v. lemon, 105 Illinois,
578; Taylor v. Stowell, 4 Met. (Ky.) 175; -Forbes v. Cooper,
88 Kentucky, 285; Robbins v. Hawley, 1 T. B. Mon. 18;
Edminson v. Baxter, 4 Hayw. (Tenn.) 112; Davis v. .filburn,
3 Iowa, 163.
It is not deemed necessary to review these cases and make
quotations from them. They fully establish the principles for
which they are cited. There is nothing in the Illinois statutes
on the subject of attachment and garnishment inconsistent
with the doctrine of the foregoing decisions. Applying the
principle they announce to the present case, it admits of no
doubt that the Chicago Company is entitled to the relief it
seeks as against the St. Louis Company. The question then
remains whether the attachment proceedings, or the garnishment process thereunder, resulting in the order or judgment
at law declaring the Chicago Company's ascertained indebtedness liable to the payment of the Joliet Company's judgment against the St. Louis Company, in any way changes or
defeats the equity or right of the Chicago Company to the
same relief?
The court below seems to have entertained the theory that
while the St. Louis Company may have failed to perform the
rail contract, the Chicago Company's right to claim damages
for the entire breach thereof had not accrued July 21, 1884,
when the garnishment process was served and the garnishor's
rights attached, and, furthermore, that such claim, however
meritorious as against the St. Louis Company, could not form
the subject of an equitable set-off, especially as against a
demand arising out of a disconnected transaction. This
proceeds upon the assumption, as appellees here contend, that
the garnishor by the service of the garnishment acquired such
a lien upQn or equitable right to the funds due from the garnishee which could not be disturbed or affected by any right or
equity subsequently accruing to the latter as against the principal debtor. The service of garnishment neither changed
nor interrupted the contractual relations existing between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Chicago Company and the St. Louis Company. The rights
and equities existing, and to arise out of those contractual
relations, were in no way terminated or defeated by that
service. The legal operation and the effect of the garnishment
proceedings and of the final order therein made was only to
impound what was legally and equitably due from the garnishee after the adjustment of the claims between the latter
and the principal debtor, and place it beyond the control of
the debtor and subject to collection for the benefit of the
attaching creditor. The claim made by the appellee that the
garnishment service operated as an equitable assignment to
the garnishor of the due indebtedness from the garnishee cannot be sustained either upon reason or authority. The final
order in that proceeding does not have the legal effect and
operation of transferring the Chicago Company's due indebtedness to the St. Louis Company, and from the latter to the
Joliet Company. The Illinois statutes in relation to garnishment are substantially the same as the generality of statutes
on that subject, and contain no provision sustaining the
proposition that either the service of the writ or the order
made in the proceedings operates to transfer the debt, but
only binds it and prevents the principal debtor from receiving
it.
The English law upon the subject of garnishment and its
effect differs in no material respect from that of Illinois, and in
Chatterton v. Watney, 17 Ch. D. 259, it was held that a garnishee order did not have the effect of transferring the debt
from the garnishee.
In the case of Ex~parMt Cinery, 12 Q. B. D. 342, it was held
by Lord Justice Cotton that a garnishee order absolute was
not a final judgment against the garnishee, and did not make
the garnishor a creditor of the garnishee. In the subsequent
case of In re Combined Weighing and Advertising .3iachine
Co., 43 Ch. D. 99, 104, 105, 106, the effect of a garnishee order
was again under consideration, and it was held that the garnishee order did not effect any transfer, legal or equitable, of
the debt owing by the garnishee, or create the relation of
creditor and debtor as between the garnishor and the garnishee.

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

619

Opinion of the Court.

Cotton, L. J., said: "A garnishee order attaching the debt
and enabling the person who has obtained the order to give a
good discharge, does not come within the principle of equitable
assignment," so as to make the garnishor a creditor of the
garnishee. Bowen, L. J., said: "I cannot see that this statutory relation, which was created originally by the Common
aw Procedur"e Act of 1854, and was perpetuated in the rules
under the Judicature Act, is really a relation involving the
creation of a fresh debt. There cannot be said to be any
equitable debt. There is no assignment in equity, and I cannot see that there is any legal debt. There is an order of a
court of common law that a sum equal to the original debt
shall be paid by the garnishee to the judgment creditor, or as
an alternative that execution may issue; but I think that the
relation which is created by that section, and the order made
under it, does not create a debt at all." Fry, L. J., said: "It
is plain to my mind that there is no transfer of the debt. It
is equally plain to my mind that the garnishee order, therefore,
does not make the garnishor a creditor of the garnishee.
What the order does is this, it gives the garnishor certain
statutory rights; it enables the garnishor to say to the garnishee, 'You shall not pay to your creditor the money which
you owe him.' It enables him to give. a valid receipt and
discharge for the money. It enables him in the event of the
money not being paid to obtain execution. He has all those
rights, but there is no transfer of the debt, and he is not
created a creditor."
The proposition here laid down is in harmony with the
generally recognized principle that the rights of the garnishor
do not rise above or extend beyond those of his debtor; that
the garnishee shall not, by operation of the proceedings against
him, be placed in any worse condition than he would have been
in had the principal debtor's claim been enforced against him
directly; that the liability, legal and equitable, of the garnishee
to the principal debtor is a measure of his liability to the
attaching creditor, who takes the shoes of the principal debtor
and can assert only the rights of the latter. Towner v. George,
53 Illinois, 168; Richardson v. Lester. 83 Illinois, 55; Henry

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Wilson, (Iowa,) 51 N. W. Rep. 1157; Huntington v. Risdon,
43 Iowa, 517.
From these propositions and authorities it follows that the
Chicago Company is entitled to assert against the Joliet Company the equitable set-off it could enforce against the St. Louis
Company in respect to its claim for damages.
It is hardly necessary to observe that the appellee Ferguson,
having taken an assignment from the Joliet Companypendenta
lite, occupies the same position as his assignor, and is subject
to the same equity. It is sought to defeat this right of the
Chicago Company by invoking in favor of the Joliet Company
and its assignee, Ferguson, the doctrine of relation so as to
antedate the claim for damages. This cannot be done for two
reasons,: first, because the breach of contract, on which the
claim for damages is based, had in fact commenced before the
garnishment writ was served; second, if that had not been
the case, the contract, for the non-performance of which the
right for damages arises, was in existence when the garnishment proceedings were instituted.
This unquestioned fact is very material, if not controlling of
the case. The court below did not give the fact that the claim
for damages arose under and by virtue of a contract in existence prior to the date of the attachment its due weight and
importance, as will be seen by a brief reference to the authorities bearing upon the question. Thus in Boston Type Co. v.
.Mortimer,7 Pick. 166, 167, the garnishee, when summoned,
was indebted to the defendant, but was at the same time liable
as accommodation endorser of a note of the defendant for a
large amount which became due after the garnishment, and
was protested for non-payment and paid by the garnishee
before he made his answer. The court held that the garnishee
could set off against his indebtedness to the principal defendant the amount of the notes so paid, and in giving its decision
observed: "Under these circumstances we think he cannot be
held as trustee, for it would be against justice that he should
be held to pay a creditor of his debtor the only money by
,which he can partially indemnify himself."
In the recent case of Lannan, v. Walter, 149 Mass. 14, 15,

ROLLING MILL CO. v. ORE AND STEEL CO.

621

Opinion of the Court.

the court said: "The answer of the trustee on which it was
discharged is, in effect, that at the time of the service of process
it had in its deposits, to the credit of. the defendants, $927.10,
and that at the same time it held three promissory notes, which
it had discounted for the benefit of the defendants, and on
which they were endorsers; that since said service these notes
have all matured; that the liability of the endorsers has been
made absolute by due demand and notice. The makers and
endorsers have all become insolvent, and the notes remain in
its hands wholly unpaid, except that a small sum has been
received on one of them. The amount due on each note is
considerably more than $927.10. The counsel for the trustee
contends that it has the right to set off the sum of money due
from the defendants on any one of these notes against the
deposit. We regard it as settled that ' if before final answer
the debtor becomes indebted to the' trustee 'on any contract
entered into before the service of the writ, the latter shall
have a right of set-off,.and be chargeable only with the final
balance, if one should be due.' Boston Type Co. v. JlMoitimer,
7 Pick. 166; Smith v. Stearns, 19 Pick. 20; .Nickerson v.
Chase, 122 Mass. 296; Eddy v. O'Hara, 132 Mass. 56, 61;
Pub. Stat. c. 183, § 27."
So in Farmeres' and Jferchants' Bank v. Franklin Bank,
31 Maryland, 404, 412, the court, allowing a set-off which
matured after action brought, said: "There is nothing in the
attachment law of this State to justify the conclusion that it
was designed, by allowing garnishment to be made, to place
the garnishee in a worse position in reference to the rights and
credits attached than if he had been sued by the defendant.
The attaching creditor seeks to have himself substituted to
the rights of his debtor as against the garnishee, and by
levying his attachment he acquires no superior right to that
of his debtor. The right of condemnation must, therefore,
be subject to any such right of set-off or discharge existing at
the time of garnishment, as would be available to the gairnishee if he were sued by the defendant. Any other rule
would in many cases work gross injustice and might be subject
to great abuse. . . . This right of set-off or discharge, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

as against the attaching creditor, should not, however, extend
to any matter originating by the action of the garnishee
subsequent to garnishment, as otherwise it would be in the
power of the garnishee to defeat the right of condemnation,
which should not by any means be allowed."
In the first of the above cited cases the liability of the garnishee was conditional and undeterminate at the time of the
-service of the garnishment process, and his right to claim
against the principal debtor did not become fixed until long
after the service of process, so that the garnishee had no cause
of action against the principal debtor when the attachment
writ was served. Also in each of the other cases the
set-off allowed matured after the service of garnishment,
but arose under a contract entered into before the service
of the writ. In other words, the principle established by
these cases is that, whatever rights the garnishee may have
under existing contracts with the principal debtor, he is
entitled to have the benefit thereof as against the attaching
creditor.
The latter clause of the quotation from the case of Farmers'
a, lays down
anl Xlerchants' B alk v. Fanklin Bank, .s2y~
the correct rule to be applied in cases of this character, and
that rule is, that, while the garnishee may not, after service
of the writ, by his own action acquire set-offs or counterclaims against the principal debtor to the prejudice of the
attaching creditor, he may properly avail himself of all claims
fairly arising out of contracts with the principal debtor which
were in existence when the attachment was commenced, and
under or out of which his claim against the principal debtor
arises.
From the foregoing considerations we think the court below
should have ascertained the damages growing out of the
failure to perform the rail contract on the part of the St.
Louis Company, and having ascertained the amount of such
damages the same should have been allowed the complainant
as a set-off against the sum of $16,473.28, found to be due
from it to the St. Louis Company, and for which the garnishee
.order or judgment was rendered; and if that adjustment left

BOGLE v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.

any balance due the complainant from the St. Louis Company,
a personal decree should have been rendered therefor.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly r'eversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to roceed therein in
conformity with this opinion.
having been of counsel, and MR.
not having been a member of the court when
the case was argued, took no part in its consideration and
decision.
Mr. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER

JUSTICE WHITE

BOGLE v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 291. Argued March 15, 1894.- Decided April 9, 1894.

Anchovy paste and bloater paste, made of anchovies or bloaters ground up
fine and spiced, used as food or as an appetizer, in sandwiches or with
a cracker, and not used as a condiment, nor known in trade and commerce as sauces, may be found by a jury to come within the description
of "fish prepared or preserved," and not within the description of
"sauces of all kinds," in the tariff act of 1883.

THIS was an action, brought May 23, 1888, against the collector of the port of New York, after due protest and appeal,
to recover back an excess of duties exacted and paid upon goods
imported and invoiced by the plaintiffs in 1886 and 1887 as
"fish pastes," and which they contended should have been
assessed as "fish, prepared or preserved," twenty-five per cent
ad valorem, but which the defendant assessed as "sauces,"
thirty-five per cent ad valorem, under the tariff act of March
3, 1883, c. 121, Schedule G of which imposes the following rates
of duty:
"Anchovies and sardines, packed in oil or otherwise," in
small tin boxes, certain rates varying from ten to two and a
half cents per box, according to its size; "when imported in
any other form, forty per centum ad valorem.
"Fish preserved in oil, except anchovies and sardines, thirty
per centum ad valorem.

