OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

than $5000. The amount in controversy, therefore, is insufficient to support the appellate jurisdiction of this court. Act
of February 16; 1875, c. 77, § 3 ; 18 Stat. 316 ; Peyton v. Robertson, 9 Wheat. 527; -Farmers'Bank of Alexandria v. Hfoof,
7 Pet. 168; -Ross v. Prentiss,3 How. 771; Tintsman v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 6.
A.ppeal dismissed.

JOHNSON COMPANY v. WHARTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT CO RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 114. Argued November 24,1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

A judgment recovered in a Circuit Court of the United States in favor of the
plaintiff by the owner of a patent right in an action against a licensee to
recover royalties on sales of the patented article, where the sole defence
set up was that the articles manufactured and sold by the defendant were
not covered by the patent, in which the amount recovered was not sufficient to permit a review by this court, is a bar to an action in the same
Circuit Court by the same plaintiff against the same defendant, to recover
like royalties on other like sales where the same defence is set up, and no
other, and the amount involved is sufficient to authorize a review here.

BY written agreement executed November 24,1885, between
William Wharton, Jr., & Co., a limited partnership association, and the Johnson Steel Street Rail Company, a corporation -to be hereafter referred to as the Wharton and Johnson
companies -the latter acquired the right to make and sell,
upon certain conditions, guard rails constructed according to
the specifications attached to letters patent granted to William
Wharton, Jr., for an improved guard rail.
The present action was brought upon this agreement of
license to recover the stipulated royalties or fees for guard
rails sold and delivered by the Johnson Company between
January 10, 1888, and June 4, 1889.
In its statement of demand the Wharton Company averred
that the Johnson Company commenced and continued the sale
of guard rails, and voluntarily rendered statements and paid

JOHNISON COMPANTY v. WHARTON.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

the stipulated fees down to January 1, 1887, but refused to
pay those due between January 1, 1887, and January 10,
1888, on the ground that the rails made and sold by it were
not covered by the Wharton patent; that in a suit brought
by the present plaintiff against the Johnson Company in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, it was adjudged that the rails sold by the
defendant were covered by the Wharton patent, and judgment was entered for the amount of royalties to January
10, 1888; that from and after the latter date, down to the
expiration of the patent, June 4, 1889, the defendant continued to sell, under the agreement, rails of the same character as those that had been adjudged to be covered by the
above patent.
The Johnson Company, admitting the manufacture and
sale by it between January 10, 1888, and June 4, 1889, of certain girder guard rails of steel, averred that those manufactured by it were not such rails as were covered by the
Wharton patent. It also admitted that the suit mentioned
in the plaintiff's statement was brought and decided as set
forth, but insisted that the decision was not binding in the
present case, "because the amount involved in the former
suit was so small as not to entitle the defendant to a writ of

error on the said judgment to the Supreme Court of the
United States, whereas the amount involved in this suit is sufficient to so entitle the defendant;" and "that the right of
the defendant to have the issues involved in this case adjudicated by the Supreme Court of the United States, if a decision
adverse to it' is rendered by this [the Circuit] court, cannot
be taken away from it by reason of a former trial and judgment between the same parties, where the amount involved
did not entitle the defendant to a review of the same."
The court below held the affidavit of defence to be insufficient, and, the damages sustained by the defendant having
been assessed at the sum of $6306, judgment was rendered
for that sum.

.Mr. Wayne .McYeagk, (with whom were .Mr. George HZard-

-251-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

,ing and -Mr. George J. Hardingon the brief,) for plaintiff in
,error.
The court below, without giving reasons, directed the entry
.of judgment against the defendant for want of a sufficient
,affidavit of defence, on the ground that the essential question
was res judicata, by a prior judgment of the same court in a
.case between the same parties, where the same legal question
had been raised, upon a claim for a prior instalment of license
fees.
The defendant's claim, as made in its affidavit of defence,
that the prior judgment for a sum below the limit of this
.court's jurisdiction could not lawfully be made effective to
prevent this court from passing upon the essential question on
its merits in a case within its jurisdiction, was negatived.
That the lower court's position is erroneous, it is submitted,
must appear when the intended and actual function of this
.court as a court of last resort is considered. It was intended
that litigants within the limits of the court's jurisdiction might
have the merits of their controversies passed upon by this
.court. There is no room for the theory that the court, with
-acknowledged jurisdiction of any particular case, was intended
to be a mere organ of expression by way of echo of the views
,of
the lower court. And yet this is the practical result of
the conclusion arrived at by the court below, that the prior
judgment against the defendant for an amount below the
limit of this court's jurisdiction was conclusive of the defend.ant's rights.
The plaintiff in error recognizes the full scope and force of
the law of estoppel of a resjudicatc. And it is not contended
here that, generally speaking, the' judgment or decree of a
lower court of record unappealed from, where the right to a
review exists, is not conclusive of the rights of the parties in
respect to the matters in issue. Beloit v. 3uiorgan,7 Wall. 619,
.622; Cromwell v. County of Sa, 941 U. S. 351.
Where, however, under the Federal Statutes, no right to a
writ of error or appeal exists in a particular case, it is respectfully submitted that the plain intent of the'law constituting

JOHNSON COMPANY v. WHARTON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

±his court a court of review of the merits of cases within its
jurisdiction, denies to the conclusion of a lower Federal court
the force of an estoppel in a subsequent case within the limits
of this court's jurisdiction, where the question is distinctly
raised in the court below. The strictness with which this
court maintains the limits of its jurisdiction, based upon the
amount in controversy, is well illustrated by those cases which
hold that nothing collateral to the judgment or decree can be
used to establish jurisdiction where the judgment or decree
itself is below the statutory limit. T'oy v. Evans, 97 'U. S. 1 ;
Elgin v. -Marshall,106 U. S. 578, 581; Opelika.City v. Daniel,
109 U. S. 108; _Yew Jersey Zinc Co. v. Trotter, 108 U. S. 564;
Bruce v. -Manchzester& Keene Railroad,117 U. S. 514; NAew
England .Mortgage Security Co. v. Gay, 145 U. S. 123.
But the same strictness of interpretation clearly requires,
on the other hand, that, jurisdiction being established, it be
made effective to bring within the cognizance of the court all
questions of fact and law properly raised in the court below,
independent of technical rules of estoppel, the operation of
*which, however general in extent, cannot be made to deprive
litigants of substantive rights.
The practical results of such a rule of law as that affirmed
by the court below present a very persuasive argument against
its soundness. In very many cases it is quite competent for
the plaintiff to divide his causes of action and to limit the
amount in his first suit below the sum allowing an appeal.
Securing a judgment in his favor for the amount he has thus
limited, he is then at liberty to abrogate the defendant's right
.of appeal in all subsequent suits, without reference to the
amounts involved.
It may be said that, in pursuing such a course, he incurs the
risk of a final judgment against him, as well as in his favor;
but it must be remembered that as he alone is to exercise the
-option, he will only do so when a previous decision of the
court below, or some other information leading him to suppose he can forecast its decision, causes him to believe that
he is entirely safe in doing so. Meanwhile hi unfortunate
adversary is left absolutely at his mercy; for, if the court below

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

is believed to be the more favorable forum for the plaintiff,
the amount for which suit is brought will of course be limited
so as to prevent an appeal when the controversy is put at issue
in the larger litigation; while, if the plaintiff supposes this
court is the more favorable forum for him, he will, equally,
of course, sue for an amount which will entitle him to its
judgment.
Mr. Frank P. Prichard, (with whom was .31r. John G.
Johnson on. the brief,) for defendant in error.
MRh. JUSTICE HARLAN,

after stating the -facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question, upon the merits, which the defendant's affidavit of defence presented, was whether the girder guard rails
manufactured and sold by it were covered by the Wharton
patent and by the license granted by the agreement of November 24, 1885. But that precise question, it is admitted,
was presented and determined in the former suit between the.
same parties. And we are to inquire, on this writ of error,
whether the court below erred in holding that the judgment
in the former suit concluded that question between the parties.
The learned counsel for the defendant insists that it did not,
and bases his contention solely upon the ground that the
former judgment was not, by reason of the limited amount
involved, subject to review by this court.
Is it true that a defeated suitor in a court of general jurisdiction is at liberty, in a subsequent suit between himself and
his adversary, in the same, or in any other court, to relitigate
a matter directly put in issue and actually determined in the
first suit, upon its appearing that the judgment in the first
suit, by reason of the small amount in dispute, could not be
reviewed by a court of appellate jurisdiction? Does the principle of res judicata, in its application to the judgments of
courts of general jurisdiction, depend, in any degree, upon the
inquiry whether the law subjects such judgments to reexamination by some other court? Upon principle and authority

JOHNSON COMPANY v. WHARTON.
Opinion of the Court.

these questions must be answered in the negative. We have
not been referred to, nor are we aware of, any adjudged case
that would justify a different conclusion.
The object in establishing judicial tribunals is that controversies between parties, which may be the subject of litigation,
shall be finally determined. The peace and order of society
demand that matters distinctly put in issue and determined
by a court of competent jurisdiction as to parties and subjectmatter, shall not be retried between the same parties in any
subsequent suit in any court. The exceptions to this rule that
are recognized in cases of judgments obtained by fraud or
collusion have no application to the present suit.
In Hovkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, 113, it was held that a
fact directly presented and determined by a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be contested again between the same
parties in the same or any other court. "In this," the court
said, "there is and ought to be no difference between a verdict
and judgment in a court of common law and a decree of a
court of equity. They both stand on the same footing and
may be offered in evidence under the same limitations, and it
would be difficult to assign a reason why it should be otherwise. The rule has found its way into every system of jurisprudence, not only from its obvious fitness and propriety, but
because without it an end could never be put to litigation. It
is, therefore, not confined in England or in this country to
judgments of the same court or to the decisions of courts of
concurrent jurisdiction, but extends to matters litigated before
competent tribunals in foreign countries.

.

.

.

On a refer-

ence to the proceedings at law, and in chancery, in the case
now before us, the court is satisfied that the question which
arose on the trial of the action of covenant was precisely the
same, if not exclusively so, (although that was not necessary,)
as the one which had already been directly decided by the
court of chancery." And in Smith v. -Jernochen,I How. 198,
217: "The case, therefore, falls within the general rule, that
a judgment of a court of concurrent jurisdiction directly upon
the point is as a plea, a bar, or as evidence conclusive between
the same parties or privies upon the same matters when
VOL. CLiU-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

directly in question in another court." To the same effect are
Pennington v. Gibson, 16 How. 65, 77; Stockton v. Ford,18
How. 418; and Lessee of Parriskv. Ferris,2 Black, 606, 609.

The whole subject was carefully considered in Cromwell v.
County of Sao, 94 U. S. 351, 352, where it is said: "There is
a difference between the effect of a judgment as a bar or
estoppel against the prosecution of a second action upon the
same claim or demand, and its effect as an estoppel in another
action between the same parties upon a different claim or
cause of action. In the former case, the judgment, if rendered upon the merits, constitutes an absolute bar to a subsequent action. It is a finality as to the claim or demand in
controversy, concluding parties and those in privity with them,
not only as to every matter which was offered and received to
sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other
admissible matter which might have been offered for that
purpose. Thus, for example, a judgment rendered upon a
promissory note is conclusive as to the validity of the instrument and the amount due upon it, although it be subsequently
alleged that perfect defences actually existed, of which no
proof was offered, such as forgery, want of consideration, or
payment. If such defences were not presented in the action,
and established by competent evidence, the subsequent allegation of their existence is of no legal consequence. The
judgment is as conclusive, so far as future proceedings at law
are concerned, as though the defences never existed."
The doctrines of the latter case were applied in Lumber Co.
v. Buchel, 101 U. S. 638, 639, which case is like this in some
respects. That was an action for the recovery of the last
instalments of money due on a contract for the purchase of
timber lands, the plaintiff having in a previous action against
the same defendant obtained a judgment, for the first instalment. In the first action the sole defence was that the defendant had been induced to make the contract of guaranty
by false and fraudulent representations. The same defence
was made in the second action, and an additional one was
interposed to the effect that the representations made as to
the quantity of timber, and which induced the execution of

JOHNSON COMPANY v. WHARTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the contract, amounted to a warranty upon which defendant
could sue for damages. Both grounds of defence, relied on in
the second action, were held to be concluded by the judgment
in the prior action. In respect to the second ground, it was said:
"The finding of the referee, upon which the judgment [in the
first action] was rendered - and this finding, like the verdict
of a jury, constitutes an essential part of the record of a case
- shows that no representations as to the quantity of timber
on the land sold were made to the defendant by the plaintiff,
or in his hearing, to induce the execution of the contract of
guaranty. This finding, having gone into the judgment, is
conclusive as to the facts found in all subsequent controversies between the parties on the contract. Every defence
requiring the negation of this fact is met and overthrown by
that adjudication."
In Stout v. Lye, 103 U. S. 66, 71, in which one of the questions was as to the conclusiveness of a judgment in a state
court upon the same parties to a suit in the Federal court the two suits involving the same subject-matter, and the suit
in the state court having been first commenced -this court,
observing that the parties instituting the suit in the Federal court, being represented in the state suit, could not
deprive the latter court of the jurisdiction it had acquired,
said: "The two suits related to the same subject-matter, and
were in fact pending at the same time in two courts of concurrent jurisdiction. The parties also were, in legal effect,
the same, because in the state court the mortgagor represented all who, pending the suit, acquired any interest through
him in the property about which the controversy arose. By
electing to bring a separate suit the Stouts voluntarily took
the risk of getting a decision in the Circuit Court before the
state court settled the rights of the parties by a judgment in
the suit which was pending there. Failing in this, they nust
submit to the same judgment that has already been rendered
against their representative in the state court. That was a
judgment on the merits of the identical matter now in question, and it concluded the 'parties and those in privity with
them, not only as to every matter which was offered and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to
any other admissible matter which might have been offered
for that purpose.'

Uromwelt v. County of Sao, 94 U. S. 351,

352. It is true the mortgagor did not set up as a defence that
the bank had no right to take the mortgage, or that he was
entitled to certain credits because of payments of usurious
interest, but he was at liberty to do so. Not having done so,
he is now concluded as to all such defences, and so are his
privies."
In all of these cases, it will be observed, the question considered was as to the effect to be given by the court of original jurisdiction to the judgment in a previous case between
the same parties or their representatives, and involving the
same matters brought up in a subsequent suit. In no one of
them is there a suggestion that the determination of that
question by the court to which it was presented should be
controlled by the inquiry whether the judgment in the first
action could be reviewed upon appeal or writ of error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, in support of his position, referred to the clause of the Constitution declaring that
the judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one
Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish, and to the clause
providing that the judicial power of the United States shall
extend to all cases in law or equity mentioned in that instrument. But, except in the cases specially enumerated in the
Constitution and of which this court may take cognizance,
without an enabling act of Congress, the distribution of the
judicial power of the United States among the courts of the
United States is a matter entirely within the control of the legislative branch of the government. And it has never been
supposed that Congress, when making this distribution, intended to change or modify the general rule, having its foundation in a wise public policy, and deeply imbedded in the
jurisprudence of all civilized countries, that the final judgment
of a court - at least, one of superior jurisdiction - competent

under the law of its creation to deal with the parties and the
subject-matter, and having acquired jurisdiction of the par-

JOHNSON COMPANY v. WHARTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ties, concludes those parties and their privies, in respect to
every matter put in issue by the pleadings and determined by
such court. This rule, so essential to an orderly and effective
administration of justice, would lose much of its value if it
were held to be inapplicable to those judgmentA in the Circuit
Courts of the United States which, by reason of the limited
amount involved, could not be reviewed by this court.
The inquiry as to the conclusiveness of a judgment in a
prior suit between the same parties can only be whether the
court rendering such judgment -whatever the nature of the
question decided, or the value of the matter in dispute- had
jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter, and whether
the question, sought to be raised in the subsequent suit, was
covered by the pleadings and actually determined in the
former suit. The existence or non-existence of a right, in
either party, to have the judgment in the prior suit reexamined, upon appeal or writ of error, cannot, in any case, control
this inquiry. Nor can the possibility that a party may legitimately or properly divide his causes of action, so as to have
the matter in dispute between him and his adversary adjudged
in a suit that cannot, after judgment, and by reason of the
limited amount involved, be carried to a higher court, affect
the application of the general rule. Whatever mischiefs or
injustice may result from such a condition of things, must be
remedied by legislation regulating the jurisdiction of the
courts, and prescribing the rules of evidence applicable to
judgments. Looking at the reasons upon which the rule
rests, its operation cannot be restricted to those cases, which,
after final judgment or decree, may be taken by appeal or
writ of error to a court of appellate jurisdiction.
We are of opinion that the question whether the rails manufactured by the Johnson Company were covered by the
Wharton patent, having been made and determined in the
prior action between the same parties- which judgment remains in full force -could not be relitigated in this subsequent action.
There is no error in the judgment, and it is
Aflrmed.

