HUNTLEY v. KINGIIAN.
Statement of the Case.

HUNTLEY v. KINGMAN.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR INDIAN TERRITORY.
No. 256. Argued March 12, 1894.-

Decided April 2, 1891.

An assignment made in Indian Territory on the 29th day of July, 1889, by a
debtor in failing circumstances, of a portion of his property to a trustee
for the benefit of several persons who had become sureties on notes of
the assignor not then due, being made in good faith and for a valuable
consideration, was valid as against attaching creditors of the assignor,
the common law being at that time in force in the Territory, and not the
statutes of Arkansas which were subsequently extended and put in force
in the Territory by the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81.
At common law a debtor in failing circumstances has a right to prefer
creditors, though the fund for the payment of other creditors be lessened
or absorbed thereby.

Tins action was originally begun September 28, 1889, by
Kingman & Co., a corporation organized under the laws of
Illinois, against one Duncan, whose Christian name is not
given, and whose surname is sometimes spelled Duncum and
sometimes Duncan, a white man, a citizen of the United
States, and a resident of the Indian Territory, to recover the
sum of $1994.42 with interest and exchange, being the amount
of two promissory notes made by Duncan, payable to the order
of the plaintiff, but not then due. The complaint contained an
allegation that Duncan, the defendant, had disposed of his property, and had suffered it to be sold, with intent to defraud his
creditors, and to hinder and delay them in the collection of their
debts, and also that he was about to remove his property, or a
material part thereof, out of the Indian Territory, with fraudulent intent, etc., and prayed for an attachment and a judgment. On the same day a formhl affidavit for an attachment
was filed, and a writ issued.
Pursuant to the attachment, the marshal seized a stock of
goods as the property of Duncan, and plaintiffs in error filed
an interplea, setting up that the interpleaders were sureties
for the defendant Duncan, upon certain promissory notes, two

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of which were then overdue, and that on July 27, 1889,
Duncan, for the purpose of saving his sureties harmless, executed and delivered to one Salters, whose Christian name is
not given, as trustee, a deed of trust of his stock of goods.
That immediately after the execution of such deed, Salters, at
the instance of the beneficiaries, took absolute possession of
the property named in the deed of trust, and began the discharge of his duties as trustee, advertised the property for sale,
and had procured a buyer for the same at its full cash value,
at the time the levy was made which stopped the sale; that,
at the time of such levy, the trustee was in actual possession
of the property; that the plaintiffs and the officers making
the levy were notified of the fact; and that the notes, to
secure which the deed of trust was given, were still unpaid
and valid claims against Duncan and his sureties; that the
deed of trust is a valid lien upon the property; that the property is not worth the amount of the lien, nor more than the
sum of $2500; that a sale by the marshal would necessarily
be attended with great loss, and that the trustee could sell the
property at a much better advantage than the marshal.
Wherefore the trustee and sureties prayed for an order restoring the property to the trustee, and for the execution of the
trust.
The so-called deed of trust was as follows:
"STATE

OF TEXAS,

County of Cooke.
"Know all men by these presents, that I, W. H. Duncan, a
resident of the Indian Territory, for and in consideration of
the sum of ten dollars paid by J. J. Salters, the receipt of
which is hereby acknowledged, have sold, and by these presents do sell, transfer, convey, and confirm, unto the said J. J.
Salters and to his successors in this trust the followingdescribed property, to wit: The storehouse now owned and
occupied by the said W. H. Duncan, at Beef Creek, in the
Indian Territory, the fixtures therein, and all goods, wares,
and merchandise contained in said house, and the books, notes,
and accounts of said W. H. Duncan in said business, it being

HUNTLEY o. KINGIAN.
Statement of the Case.

intended hereby to include all stock owned by said W. H.
Duncan in his business as a general merchant at Beef Creek,
I. T.; also all cattle and horses owned by him at said Beef
Creek, together with all and singular the right and appurtenances to the same in any manner belonging or appertaining;
to have and hold all and singular the property above described
unto the said J. J. Salters or substitute forever. This conveyance is, however, intended as a trust for the better securing of
S. M. Huntley, Samuel Paul, S. M. White, and James Rennie
against the payment of three promissory notes on which I
am principal, and which, as hereafter shown, they signed as
sureties; which said notes are as follows."
[Here follow copies of three notes, one by Duncan, White,
and Rennie, for $1550, one by Duncan, Paul, and IRennie for
$2500, and one by Duncan and Huntley for $5165. The first
two were due August 1, 1889, the last June 1, 1890.]
"Upon payment of which said promissory notes according
to their face and tenor, being well and truly made, then in
such case this conveyance is to become null and void, and
shall be released at cost of said W. H. Duncan; but in case
of failure or default of payment of said notes when they shall
respectively become due, or of either of them, then the other
of said notes shall be deemed due and payable; and in such
event the said J. J. Salters is, by these presents, fully authorized and empowered, and it is made his special duty upon
request of either or all the aforesaid beneficiaries herein at
any time made after default as aforesaid, to sell the above
described property to the highest bidder for cash in handselling at public or private sale, in bulk or retail, with or without advertisement as may seem to said trustee or his substitute
best; and after said sale shall make the necessary conveyance
of the property so sold, and the proceeds of said sale shall pay
to the aforesaid beneficiaries herein, in proportion to the respective amounts for which each may be surety at the time
of said sale, as evidenced by the above notes, and the payments
that may be made thereon, in which notes all signing are
sureties, except W. H. Duncan, and shall pay the expenses of
this trust, including a commission of 5% to the trustee acting
voi. cmi-34

OCTOBER%TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

hereunder, holding the remainder subject to the order of the
said W. H. Duncan. It is hereby especially provided that
should the trustee named herein from any cause whatever fail
or refuse to act or become disqualified from acting as such
trustee, then the beneficiaries aforesaid, S. M. Huntley, S. Mt.
White, Samuel Paul, and James IRennie, shall have full power
to appoint a substitute, in writing, who shall have the same
power as trustee hereinbefore named, and I, by these presents,
ratify and confirm any and all acts which said trustee or substitute may do hereunder.
"Witness my hand this 27th of July, 1889.
"W. H. D muoe ."
Kingman & Co. subsequently filed an answer to this interplea, averring that the notes secured by the deed of trust were
void for usury, and for want of consideration; denied that
the interpleaders were accommodation endorsers or sureties,
or that the trust deed was valid, or gave to the interpleaders
any right of property, and alleged that the instrument was
made by Duncan for the purpose of placing his property beyond the reach of his creditors, and for the purpose of hindering and delaying them in the collection of their debts; denied
that Salters was acting for the beneficiaries named, and averred
that he was a clerk of Duncan's and was assisting him in
fraudulently disposing of his property, and that he took possession for the purpose of protecting the property from Duncan's creditors.
The case was tried upon the issue joined between Kingman
& Co. and the interpleaders. Upon the trial, the court instructed the jury that the deed of trust under which the interpleaders claimed the property was fraudulent on its face; that
the same was sufficient for plaintiffs' attachment, and that
the jury should return a verdict in its favor, which was accordingly done. The defendants in the proceeding sued out this
writ of error.
-Mr.John J. Weed for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.

HUNTLEY v. KINGMAN.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JuSTiCE

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the validity of the so-called deed of
trust executed by Duncan to Salters to indemnify the plaintiffs
in error for their signatures upon Duncan's notes.
The property conveyed consisted of a storehouse and its
fixtures, together with all the goods, wares, and merchandise
contained therein, and the books, notes, and accounts of Duncan
in his business as a general merchant, as well as all cattle and
horses owned by him at Beef Creek. The testimony indicated
that the deed did not include all the property of Duncan, but
that he also had a farm near Beef Creek, although the proof
was not clear as to its size or value.
No brief was filed by the defendants in error, but in the court
below the following clauses appear to have been relied upon
as invalidating the deed:
1. The deed was to become null and void upon the payment
of the notes secured by it, and there is an inference, though no
express provision, that Duncan was to remain in possession
until default.
2. Upon default in the payment of either of the notes it was
made the duty of the trustee, upon the request of the beneficiaries, or either of them, to sell the property to the highest
bidder for cash, either at public or private sale, with or without
advertisement.
3. Upon such sale being made, the trustee was to pay to
the beneficiaries in proportion to the amounts for which each
might be surety at the time of the sale, holding the remainder
subject to Duncan's orders.
The court instructed the jury that, by the reservation of the
surplus, the deed was fraudulent upon its face, and was sufficient ground for the plaintiffs' attachment, and the jury were
accordingly instructed to return a verdict for the plaintiffs.
The case must be determined by the application of the general principles of the common law to the questions involved.
It is true, that, by act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26
Stat. 81, certain general laws of the State of Arkansas, among

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

which was a chapter relating to assignments for the benefit of
creditors, were extended and put in force in the Indian Territory, until Congress should further provide. But the instrument in question in this case was made July 27, 1889, before
this statute was enacted, so that neither the statutes of Arkansas, nor the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State, construing those statutes, constituted at the time a rule of decision
of the United States court in the Indian Territory.
There is upon this record but little evidence of actual fraud
in the execution of the instrument in question. The notes
mentioned, the payment of which it was designed to secure,
were given for money borrowed of Stevens & Henning, bankers
of Gainesville, for the purchase of grain to feed certain cattle
in which Stevens & Henning had an interest. The beneficiaries were joint makers with Duncan of the notes so given
to Stevens & Henning. It is entirely well settled, both in
England and America, that at common law a debtor in failing
circumstances has a right to prefer certain creditors to whom
he is under special obligations, though by such preference the
fund for the payment of the other creditors be lessened or even
absorbed. If, as must be conceded, he has the right to pay
one creditor in preference to another, even where he is aware
of his inability to pay all in full -in other words, where he is
insolvent- there is no just reason why, in making provision for
all, by way of assignment, he may not make special provision
for some. .Marbury v. Brooks, 7 Wheat. 556, 577; Brashear
v. lVest, '7 Pet. 608; Clarke v. White, 12 Pet. 178; Tompkins
v. Wheeler, 16 Pet. 106; Grover v. Vakemcwm, 11 Wend. 187,
194; Tillou v. Britton, 4 Halsted, (9 N. J. Law,) 120, 136;
Blakey's Appeal, 7 Penn. St. 449, 451; Burrill on Assignment,
ยง 160; Jones on Chat. Mtges. ยง 356.
The tendency of courts in modern times has been, not to
bold instruments of this character to be fraudulent and void
upon their face, unless they contain provisions plainly inconsistent with an honest purpose, or the instrument indicates
with reasonable certainty that it was executed, not to secure
bona 9ide creditors, but to enable the debtor to continue to
carry on his business under cover of another's name. So early

HUNTLEY v. KINGMAN .
Opinion of the Court.

as 1805, it was held by this court in United States v. Hooe, 3
Oranch, 73, that the mortgage of a part of his property, made
by a collector of revenue to the surety upon his official bond,
to indemnify him for his responsibility, and to secure him for
endorsements at the bank, was valid against the United States,
though it turned out that the mortgagor was unable to pay all
his debts at the time the mortgage was given, and the mortgagee also knew at that time that he was largely indebted to
the United States. It was contended that the mortgage was
fraudulent upon its face, but the case was distinguished from
Twyne' case, 3 Rep. 81, in the fact that in Twynds case the
deed was of all the property; was secret; was of chattels, and
purported to be absolute, yet the vendor remained in possession
and exercised ownership over them; while in the case then
under consideration the deed was of a part of the property;
was of record; was of lands, and purported to be a conveyance
which left the property conveyed in the possession of the
grantor. The case was also distinguished from Hamilton v.
Russell, 1 Cranch, 309, in which this court declared an absolute
bill of sale of a personal chattel, of which the vendor retained
possession, to be a fraud. In Lukins v. Ai2'd, 6 Wall. 78, an
absolute deed of land, with a secret reservation to the grantor
to possess and occupy it for a limited time, was held to lack
the element of good faith, though made upon a valuable consideration; for, while it purported to be an absolute conveyance
on its face, there was a secret agreement between the parties
inconsistent with its terms, securing a benefit to the grantor
at the expense of those he owed. The deed was held to be
void by reason of the trust thus secretly created. So in Robinson v. Eliott, 22 Wall. 513, 524, a chattel mortgage, which
provided that until default was made in the payment of the
notes, the mortgagor might remain in possession of the goods,
sell the same as theretofore and supply their places with other
goods, which should become subjected to the lien of the mortgage, was held to be a fraud upon its face, although the mortgage was recorded according to law. The decision was put
upon the ground that both the possession and the right of
disposition were to remain with the mortgagors; "they are to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

deal with the property as their own; sell it at retail, and use
the money thus obtained to replenish their stock. There is
no covenant to account with the mortgagees, nor any recognition that the property is sold for their benefit. Instead of
the mortgage being directed solely to the bona fzde security of
the debts then existing, and their payment at maturity, it is
based on the idea that they may be indefinitely prolonged.
It is very clear that the instrument was executed upon
the theory that the business could be carried on as formerly
by the continued endorsement of Robinson, and that Mrs.
Sloan was indifferent about prompt payment." There was no
ruling in this case, however, that a mere retention of possession
would have avoided the mortgage. Upon the other hand, it
was held in Stewart v. -Dunham, 115 U. S. 61, that in the
absence of fraud a transfer by a debtor in Mississippi of all his
property to one of his creditors in satisfaction of his debt was
valid. The case was disposed of as one of general law. And
in Estes v. Gunter, 122 U. S.450, a deed by an insolvent debtor
in Mississippi to secure sureties upon his note, though made in
advance of, and in contemplation of, a general assignment for
the benefit of creditors, was held to be valid under the laws of
that State, though containing a provision that the creditor
should remain in possession until the maturity of the note.
In this case, also, the common law did not seem to have been
affected by any local statute.' So, too, in Smith v. Craft, 123
U. S.436, a bill of sale of a stock of goods, by way of preference of a bona jde creditor, was held not to be fraudulent as
matter of law, by reason of a stipulation that the purchaser
should employ the debtor at a reasonable salary to wind up
the business.
The latest expression of this court upon the subject is contained in the case of Etheridge v. Sperry, 139 U. S. 266, in
which certain creditors of one Hamilton were secured by
chattel mortgages upon a stock of goods levied upon by an
execution creditor. There was no reservation of interest to
the mortgagor, but an express provision that if he defaulted in
payment, or attempted to remove from the country any part
of the mortgaged property, the mortgagee might take immedi-

HIUNTLEY v. KINGMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ate possession, and before the maturity of the secured notes.
The question presented was whether, as matter of law, a
mortgage given by a merchant on his stock of goods to secure
debts not yet due, which had no imperfections upon its face,
contained no reservations for the benefit of the mortgagor, was
apparently only for the security of the mortgagee, and gave
him full power to take possession upon default of payment,
was invalidated by a parol understanding at the time of its
execution that the mortgagor might use the proceeds of his
sales to support himself, and to keep up the stock by purchase,
applying only the surplus to the payment of the mortgage
debt; or whether such understanding was simply to be taken
into consideration, with the other circumstances, as bearing
upon the question of good faith. The cases of Bank of Leavenworth v. Hunt, 11 Wall. 391 ; Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall.
513; and Mfeans v. Dowd, 128 U. S. 273, were all reviewed
and distinguished, and it was held that the chattel mortgage
was not necessarily invalidated by the parol agreement that the
mortgagor was to retain possession With the right to sell the
goods at retail, the court placing its opinion largely upon the
Iowa cases, which were regarded as resting upon sound principles. See also People's Savings Bank-v. Bates, 120 U. S. 556.
The principal reliance of the court below in this case was
placed upon .Means v. Dowd, 128 U. S. 273, 283, which was a
conveyance of all the goods and personal property of the
assignor to provide for the payment of certain debts, and to
indemnify the endorsers upon certain notes. The instrument
was variously called a "deed of trust," an "assignment," and
It contained an express provision that the
a "mortgage."
grantors were to remain in possession of the property and continue to sell the goods for cash only, and to collect, under the
direction and control .of the grantees, the proceeds to be deposited in bank weekly, and applied, under the direction of the
grantees, to replenishing the stock by such small bills as might
be agreed upon, and to the payment of the debts of the firm
in a specified order; and in case of failure to make payments,
or if for any other cause the grantees might so elect, it should
be lawful for them to take possession and dispose of the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

at public or private sale. This instrument was held to secure
to the assignor an interest in, or an unlimited control over
the property conveyed, which had the effect of hindering or
delaying creditors, and to be void as being a fraud. "In the
case before us," said Mr. Justice Miller, "the whole face of
the instrument has the obvious purpose of enabling the insolvent debtors who made it to continue in their business unmolested by judicial process, and to withdraw everything they
had from the effect of a judgment against them; for it is
shown that, except the goods in this place of business transferred by the conveyance, they had nothing of value but one
or two pieces of real estate encumbered by mortgage for all
they were worth. It specifically provides that the grantors
shall remain in possession of the said property and choses in
action, with the right to continue to sell the goods and collect
the debts under the control and direction of the grantees."
The instrument was treated as an artful scheme to enable insolvent debtors to continue in business, in connection with the
preferred creditors, at the same time withdrawing their property from the claims of other creditors which might be asserted
according to the usual forms of law; and that by the mere
expedient of paying interest upon the indebtedness, they had
it in their power to continue in business with a large stock
of goods on their shelves, and defy the unprotected creditors.
The authority to take possession was accompanied by no
direction for immediate sale, or winding up the business; but,
on the contrary, their discretion as to taking possession and
selling seemed to be absolute, and intended to be controlled
for their own benefit and that of the debtors, without regard
to the unsecured creditors. While the case bears a strong
analogy to the one under consideration, we think it is distinguishable in the fact that there was an express provision that
the mortgagors should remain in possession and continue
business at the will of the mortgagees, who were given such
powers as would enable the mortgagors to continue in business for their benefit, and at the same time to bid defiance to
the unsecured creditors. In this case there is not only no express reservation of possession to the mortgagor, but even if

HUNTLEY v. KINGMAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

there had been, in view of the fact that such possession ivas
immediately surrendered to the mortgagee, it is difficult to
see how unsecured creditors could have been deceived or prejudiced by such reservation.
In .Means v. Dowd, the mortgage was not recorded, as required by law, for nearly three
months after its execution, and the mortgagors were permitted
for several months to control the goods and to deal with them
as their own. Even when the trustees did in fact take possession, they made no change in the sign nor in the manner of
conducting the business, but kept the same books by the same
bookkeeper, and also employed the mortgagors to conduct the
business upon a salary for them.
There can be no doubt upon this record that the deed of
trust in question was made upon a valuable consideration, and
for the protection of bonafide sureties. The clause most relied
upon by the court below is the one which requires that, after
payment to the beneficiaries and the expenses of the trust,
the remainder should be held subject to the order of Duncan.
But if it were not to be paid to Duncan, to whom should it be
paid? Clearly the trustee was not entitled to retain any more
for himself than was necessary for the payment of the trust
and a reasonable compensation for his own services. If he
had retained more than this, he might have been compelled by
Duncan to account to him for such surplus. Clearly he had
no right to pay it to certain of the creditors in preference to
others. If he had been a general assignee for the benefit of
all the creditors, he would have been obliged to pay them pro
r)ato, but he was not. He was a trustee of a part -not necessarily of the whole of Duncan's property - for the benefit of
certain creditors, and if any surplus were left after the payment
of these creditors, it might properly be paid to the mortgagor
for the benefit of the others.
Whatever may be the rule with regard to general assignments for the benefit of creditors, there can be no doubt that,
in cases of chattel mortgages, (and the instrument in question,
by whatever name it may be called, is in reality a chattel
mortgage,) the reservation of a surplus to the mortgagor is
only an expression of what the law would imply without a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

reservation, and is no evidence of a fraudulent intent. This
was the ruling of the Court of Appeals of New York in Leitch
v. Hollister, 4 N. Y. 211, 216, where the assignment was to
the creditors themselves for the purpose of securing their
demands. "A trust," said the court, "as to the surplus results
from the nature of the security, and is not the object, or one
of the objects, of the assignment. Whether expressed in the
instrument or left to implication, is immaterial. The assignee
does not acquire the entire legal and equitable interest in the
properfy conveyed, subject to the trust, but a specific lien
upon it. The residuary interest of the assignor may, according to its nature, or that of the property, be reached by execution or by bill in equity." Cases in which reservations for
the benefit of the assignor have been held to invalidate the
assignment have usually been those where the reservation was
either secret, or was upon its face detrimental to the interest
of the creditors, and a practical fraud upon them. But if the
reservation be only of any surplus which may chance to remain after the debts are paid, it is difficult to see why it should
invalidate the instrument, as the creditors obtain all they are
entitled to, and the surplus is that which as matter of law
properly belongs to the mortgagor. It so rarely happens that
a surplus is realized after the payment of all the debts, that
courts should not be too technical in holding that the reservation of such surplus invalidates the instrument, unless it appears to have been made with fraudulent intent. If a surplus
had been realized in this case, it is difficult to see what could
have been done with it, except to return it to the mortgagor,
in view of the fact that the trustee was not a general assignee
for the benefit of all the creditors. Dunham v. TF/itehead,21
N. Y. 131; Curtis v. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 9, 204; Beck v. Burdett, 1 Paige, 305; Camp v. Thorapson, 25 Minnesota, 175;
Calloway v. People's Bank, 54 Georgia, 441; Hofman v.
Iackall, 5 Ohio St. 124.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside
the verdict, and grant a new trial.
The CHIEF

JUsTIoE

concurred in the result.

