OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

HALSTEAD v. GRINNAK.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 128. Argued December 4, 5,1893.-Decided March 19, 1894.

The facts admitted or proved in this case show that the plaintiff was guilty
of laches in failing to file his bills for so long a time, and it is held that
they were properly dismissed by the court below.
Laches is an equitable defence, controlled by equitable considerations, and
the lapse of time must be so great, and the relations of the defendant to
the rights such, that it would be inequitable to permit the plaintiff to
assert them, where he has had for a considerable period knowledge of
their existence, or might have acquainted himself with them, by the use
of reasonable diligence.
The length of time during which a party neglects the assertion of his
rights which must pass in order to show laches, varies with the peculiar
circumstances of each case, and is not subject to an arbitrary rule.

ON January 24, 1885, plaintiff filed in the District Court of
the United States for the District of West Virginia his bill
of complaint against A. G. Grinnan, the Forest Hill Mining
and Manufacturing Company, Robert Soutter, trustee; William
Wyant, and the unknown heirs of William K. Smith, deceased.
At that time there was no Circuit Court in the district, the
District Court having the powers of a Circuit Court, but
before the final disposition of this case a Circuit Court was
established by the act of Congress of February 6, 1889, c. 113,
25 Stat. 655, and to it the case was transferred. On November 30, 1887, the plaintiff, by leave of court, filed an amended
and supplemental bill. Intermediate those dates, and on May
4, 1887, there was filed in that court the records of two cases
transferred from the State Circuit Court of Greenbrier County,
entitled, respectively, " A. G. Gr-innan v. S . Long et al.,"
and "F. B. Ckewning v. T F. Cowan et al." The plaintiff
Halstead had been made party defendant in those cases, and
notified by publication, and, after decrees by default against
him, he appeared in each case by petition, praying for an
opening of the decree and a rehearing, and, while those appli-

HALSTEAD v. GRINNAN.
Statement of the Case.

cations were pending, removed the case as above stated to the
United States court. To the original and supplemental bills
in the case commenced in the District Court, Grinnan and
Wyant duly answered. Proofs were taken, and the three
cases being heard together, on May 26, 1888, a final decree
was entered as follows:
"John Halstead
a v.

'

In Equity.

Win. Wyant and Others.J
A. G. Grinnan

1

S. ..

In Equity.

S. C. Long and Others.J
F. B. Chewning
V.
J. F. Cowan and Others.

Heard together.

1
In Equity.

"These causes this day came on to be heard together
and were argued by counsel; whereupon, upon consideration
hereof, it is adjudged, ordered, and decreed that the bill and
amended and supplemental bill in the first above-mentioned
cause be, and the same are hereby, dismissed, and that the
defendants therein recoveP of the complainant, John Halstead,
their costs about their defence in.that behalf expended.
"And it is further adjudged, ordered, and decreed that the
petition for rehearing fied by said Halstead in said second
and third suits above mentioned and the rule awarded said
Halstead in said suits against the defendant, William Wyant,
be each of them, and the same are, hereby dismissed; and it
is further adjudged, ordered, and decreed that the defendants
in said petition and said rule respectively recover their costs
against said Halstead; but in taxing the costs recovered in
this decree but one attorney's fee shall be allowed."
A petition for rehearing having been denied, an appeal was
taken to this court.
The burden of this controversy rests in these facts: On June
15, 1859, A. G. Grinnan, W. K. Smith and A. G. Grinnan as

A1I4

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

-trustee, conveyed to the Forest Hill Mining and Manufacturing
-Company (hereinafter called the Forest Hill Company) a tract
.of land in the county of Fayette, in the then State of Virginia,
,(now West Virginia,) containing 2000 acres, more or less, and
,also another tract and a right of way described in the deed, as
follows:
"Also a certain piece or parcel of a certain tract of land
known as the Huddleston tract, to be surveyed off the western
.side of said tract by a line running from the northeIrly to the
.southerly side of said tract, to be bounded on the south by the
tract hereinabove conveyed, and on the north by the Great
Kanawha River, and containing one hundred acres, more or
less. Also the perpetual right of way to the said party of the
,second part, their successors and assigns, through a tract of
land known as the 'Elk Ridge' tract, lying between the tract
.of 2000 acres, hereinabove conveyed, and Armstrong's Creek,
with the privilege of the said party of the second part of
,entering thereupon by their agents and servants, and con,structing upon and over the same suchi roads or railroads as
they may deem necessary for convenient access to and from
the lands hereby conveyed."
This Huddleston tract was conveyed by Huddleston to
Grinnan by metes and bounds, and in the deed was estimated
to contain 200 acres, though in fact it contained nearer 250
.acres. It was bounded on the north by the Kanawha River,
its west line straight but its east line quite a zigzag, with
.considerable fronutage on the Kanawha, but narrowing towards
the southern end, and for some little distance towards that end
bordering on the ,tract of 2000 acres previously described in
the deed to the Forest Hill Company.
On the same day of the conveyance to it the Forest Hill
Company placed a trust deed upon the property to secure the
payment of sixteen promissory notes and eighty bonds. On
.June 6, 1864, the trustee, in execution of the trust and in con.sideration of the sum of $3500, conveyed the property to plain-tiff. In this truptee's deed the description of the Huddleston
,tract and the right of way is as follows:
"Also ? lot, piqepe, r .parcel of land (containing 100 acres,

HALSTEAD v. GRINNAT.
Statement of the Case.

more or less, provided in said deed to be surveyed off the west
side of the tract of land known as the Huddleston tract, as
the same was ascertained and bounded by the survey made
subsequently to the execution of the said deed and in pursuance thereof) adjoining the above; also the right of way
through and across the Elk Ridge tract, also adjoining the
above, which said lands and right of way are more fully
described in a deed from William K. Smith and wife and
Andrew G. Grinnan and wife and the said Andrew G.
Grinnan, trustee, to the aforesaid Forest Hill Mining and
Manufacturing Company, bearing the same date as the deed
or conveyance in trust first above mentioned."
The survey, thus referred to, was made in the year 1859 by
Thomas S. Robson, the county surveyor of Fayette County.
By this survey a tract of 105 acres was set off to the Forest
Hill Company, on the west side of the Huddleston tract, but
so surveyed that no part of the land given to the company
touched the 2000-acre tract heretofore referred to. The contention of the plaintiff was that such survey was inaccurate in
that the part set off to the Forest Hill Company did not at
any point touch the 2000-acre tract, and, therefore, did not
comply with the terms of the deed; and the prayer was that
he be decreed the owner of an undivided one-half interest in
the Huddleston tract, and that a partition and new survey be
made setting off to him the one-half, so as to connect with the
aforesaid tract of 2000 acres.
The defendant Wyant claimed to have purchased the bal.
ance of the Huddleston tract, not set apart to the Forest Hill
Company, at a judicial sale, in April, 1883, at the price of
$60.50 per acre, amounting to over $9000; that he bought
relying upon a map shown at the sale of the commissioner
which conformed to the survey made by Robson, and in ignorance of any claim of the plaintiff; that he entered into possession and had expended about $7000 in building houses and
opening mines. This commissioner's sale was by virtue of a
decree rendered in the cases heretofore referred to as transferred from the State court and consolidated with the suit in
the District Court, and in which cases prior to the decree
plaintiff had been served by publication.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.r.

A. Burlew for appellant.

-Mr. W. Mollahan for A. G. Grinnan, appellee.
Xr. J F. B own for William Wyant, appellee.
-Mr. ppa Hunton filed a brief for F. B. Chewning's estate
and for A. H. Smith, appellees.
MffR. JUSTicE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, by this suit, invoked the aid of a court of
equity to set aside a survey which had stood unchallenged for
over twenty-five years. Such a long delay suggests laches,
and a careful examination of the testimony satisfies us that
the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining this defence. The
defence itself is one which, wisely administered, is of great
public utility, in that it prevents the breaking up of relations
and situations long acquiesced in, and thus induces confidence
in the stability of what is, and a willingness to improve property in possession; and at the same time it certainly works in
furtherance of justice, for so strong is the desire of every man
to have the full enjoyment of all that is his, that, when a
party comes into court and asserts that he has been for many
years the owner of certain rights, of whose existence he has
had full knowledge and yet has never attempted to enforce
them, there is a strong persuasion that, if all the facts were
known, it would be found that his alleged rights either never
existed, or had long since ceased. We have had before us
lately several cases in which this defence has been presented,
and in which the rules determining it have been fully stated
and its value clearly demonstrated. Hammond v. Hopkins,
113 U. S. 224, and cases cited in the opinion; Felix v. Patrick,
145 U. S. 31'1; Foster v. AMansfield, Coldwater &c. Railroad, 146 U. S. 88; Johnston v. Standard ining Co., 148
U. S. 360. The length of time during which the party neglects
the assertion of his rights, which must pass in order to show

HALSTEAD v. GRINNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

laches, varies with the peculiar circumstances of each case,
and is not, like the matter of limitations, subject to an arbitrary rule. It is an equitable defence, controlled by equitable
considerations, and the lapse of time must be so great, and
the relations of the defendant to the rights such, that it would
be inequitable to permit the plaintiff to now assert them.
There must, of course, have been knowledge on the part of
the plaintiff of the existence of the rights, for there can be no
laches in failing to assert rights of which a party is wholly
ignorant, and whose existence he had no reason to apprehend.
And yet, as said by Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for the court
in Foster v. .3fan.sfleld, Coldwater &c. Railroad, 146 U. S. 88,
99, "The defence of want of knowledge on the part of one
charged with laches is one easily made, easy to prove by his
own oath, and hard to disprove; and hence the tendency of
courts in recent years has been to hold the plaintiff to a rigid
compliance with the law which demands, not only that he
should have been ignorant of the fraud, but that he should
have used reasonable diligence to have informed himself of all
the facts."
In this case there is no question as to plaintiff's knowledge.
In the deeds from Grinnan and Smith to the Forest Hill
Company, and from that company to the trustee, the description is of a piece, or parcel, of a certain tract "to be surveyed
off the western side of said tract by a line running from the
northerly to the southerly side of said tract." And in the
deed from the trustee to plaintiff, which was made on June 6,
1864, the description is of a lot, piece, or parcel of land containing 100 acres, more or less, "as the same was ascertained
and bounded by the survey made subsequently to the execution of the said deed, and in pursuance thereof," so that in
the deed made to the corporation, of which he was a stockholder, twenty-five years before the commencement of this
suit, was a provision for a survey, and in the deed to himself,
made more than twenty years before this suit, was a declaration that the survey called for by the previous deed had been
made. When, therefore, he took title, he took it with notice
that a survey had been made, and would not now be heard to
VOL. c-i-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

say that he had no knowledge of that fact. Further, the survey which was made by the county surveyor, Robson, was
made in 1859. In 1861 the same surveyor made a plat showing the Forest Hill tract of 2000 acres, and the Huddleston
tract, as surveyed, with the adjoining lands, which plat, or so
much of it, at least, as is material, is inserted on the opposite
page.
A mere glance at this plat shows that the Huddleston tract
is so surveyed that the part set off to the Forest Hill Company
at no point touches the 2000-acre tract, but is separated therefrom by a narrow strip -a part of the land reserved to Grinnan and Smith. Now, in reference to this map, the plaintiff
alleges, in his amended and supplemental complaint, as follows:
"The map filed with the deposition of T. S. Robson, marked
'T. S. R. No. 2,' was made from a survey made by said Robson in 1861, and your orator believes that it shows correctly
the location of the Forest Hill tract of 2000 acres and the
Huddleston tract and the division made by him in 1859 and
their relations to each other. Your orator avers that he saw
this map for the first time in about 1861. It will be seen by
this map, which is asked to be read and considered as a part
of this bill, that the division of the Huddleston tract made by
T. S. Robson in 1859 is so made that the part retained by
Grinnan intercepts that part laid off to the Forest Hill Company from the Forest Hill tract of 2000 acres, so that they
do not join each other."
In other words, he admits that eighteen years before he
brings this suit he saw the map which discloses the survey,
and it is apparent at a glance, as he himself alleges, that the
part set off to the Forest Hill Company does not at any point
touch the 2000-acre tract.
But beyond this direct admission there is testimony tending
to show that both he and his grantor had knowledge at a
much earlier date. The Forest Hill Company was organized
in the year 1859. The plaintiff was a stockholder in the company. Dr. Hale was its president, and, after the deed to plaintiff and up to the time of this suit, he continued to reside, as
the agent of the plaintiff, on this 105 acres, set off to the

]TAT STEAD v. GRINNAN.

419

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Forest Hill Company. The northern part of this Huddleston
tract along the Kanawha River was comparatively level, and
it is evident that the Forest Hil Company bought with a view
of putting up buildings on this level ground near the river,
and with the understanding that the grantors should immediately cause the survey to be made. The survey was in fact
made that same fall, and the company entered into possession
of the land surveyed off to it, and erected buildings thereon,
in the course of its improvements placing some fences along
the division line between the two parts of the tract as surveyed by the county surveyor. This is the testimony of the
president of the company in respect to the matter:
"Ans. There were six or seven dwelling-houses, - small cottage houses, - a coal mine and oil factory, and all the necessary machinery and plant, and my own house, some twelve or
fifteen acres enclosed in a fence and cultivated. There was a
blacksmith shop, cooper's shop, barn, and stable. That is all
I think of.
"25th Q. Were not said improvements confined exclusively
to the western side of the division line drawn by Robson as
shown by Exhibit ' B' with this deposition ?
"Ans. Yes.
"26th Q. Were not a part of the fences around the enclosures built on and along said division line ?
"Ans. I believe they were part of the way."
It is probably true, as some of the officers say, that it was
specially interested at the time only in the level ground along
the river, and paid no attention to the lines of the survey
towards the southern end which runs up into steep mountainous land, and yet, according to the testimony of the engineer,
the improvements made by the company extended back between 1500 and 1800 feet from the river. Giving full credence, however, to all this testimony, it remains undisputed
that the company knew that the land had been surveyed;
knew where the division line ran on the northern part of the
tract; accepted that line as correct, and made improvements
with reference to it, and simply did not consider the southern
end of the tract as of sufficient importance to examine and see

HALSTEAD v. GRINNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

where the lines were run. If the company was in fact ignorant of the location of the division line at the southern end of
the tract, it was an ignorance resulting from its own indifference to the matter, and although it knew that the line had
been run.
Still further, we find this in the testimony of the president,
Dr. Hall:
"It was a part of their agreement with the Forest Hill
Company that the survey should be made and that the lines
should be run properly. I was in New York when Grinan
had the lines run by Robson, and when I came back in 1859 I
learned for the first time that the lines had been run and the
division had been made. This survey was made and lines run
in the fall of 1859.

.

.

.

The whole tract of 2000 acres

was surveyed by Robson some time about February, early in
1861, and after that survey was made we had a plat given us
not only showing the 2000 acres, but also the 100 acres of
frontage. It was then for the first time that we knew or
indeed had any suspicion that the Huddleston frontage did
not unite with the Forest Hill tract. This occurred just at
the beginning of the war, in 1861."
There is more testimony to like effect coming from other
officers of the company. The plaintiff also, in his deposition,
testified as follows: "When the Forest Hill Company took
possession, in 1859, I was told that Robson ran the iues for
the purpose of laying off the westerly half of the Huddleston
tract so that they would know where to locate their buildings.
I don't know of anything more being done until fRobson surveyed the entire tract, as is shown by his map, dated 1861."
In the amended bill it is alleged "that said company had no
occasion to examine the lines run by T. S. Robson in 1859,
except to see that they were properly run for a short distance
back from the Kanawha River, about 1000 feet, where it was
interested, and about to locate its buildings for the manufacture of coal oil and erect the necessary dwelling-houses for its
officers and employ~s, and where it did so erect them. It
took no part in running the division lines in 1859 except to
see that they were properly run through the bottom land on

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the Kanawha River, for the reasons above stated, and did not
accompany said surveyor any further on his survey, but said
company supposed, as a matter of course, until the mistakewas discovered by it, that A. G. Grinnan had had the Huddleston tract divided according to the requirements of his,
deed to and agreement with said company."
It also appears from his own testimony that plaintiff's attention was called to the fact that the two tracts did not join,
that he was urged to buy the intervening land but declined on
account of the price, $30 an acre, and also because he supposed
his deed gave him a right of way through the Huddleston
tract to the Kanawha River as through the Elk Ridge tract to
Armstrong Creek. We quote from his deposition as follows:
"For several years A. G. Grinnan had been urging me to.
buy his adjoining tract, and I told him I had already too,
much unproductive property on hand, but in the year 1880 I
wrote him to this effect: That I would like to make the connection between the front and back land more complete, so
that it would show to better advantage on the map, and that
I would give him one hundred dollars for so much of the land
as he owned running back from about where the Wilson line
crosses the tract; that it was part of the frontage intended to
connect the two tracts, and had not the Forest Hill Company
been obliged to suspend their operations on account of the
war, there is no doubt but they would have claimed it as their
right. I had somehow gotten the impression from seeing
Robson's map that I could only claim the right of way, because the survey was not corrected whilst the company held
possession, and that impression was not removed from my
mind until I hunted up the Forest Hill Company's deed after
A. G. Grinnan had sold to 'Wyant what did not belong to him
without giving me any notice, as any fair-minded man would
have done, knowing it would depreciate the value of my
property many thousands of dollars. An examination of the
deed showed, to my surprise, that the right of way did not
apply to the front tract, but that the deed called for a connection of the two tracts."
But. it is unnecessary to multiply these quotations from and

HALSTEAD vo. GRINNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

references to the testimony and pleadings. It will be difficult
to find a clearer case of ample and long-continued knowledge
of the exact situation; and if ever the knowledge of a mistake
created a duty of taking some action to correct it, it surely did
in the present instance.
We have thus far considered this case on the assumption that
the survey made by iRobson in 1859 was erroneous, and failed
to give to the Forest Hill Company that which it claimed
and was entitled to, yet there is testimony casting doubt at,
least upon this matter. That of the surveyor is that both
the grantor and the grantee were represented at the time
of the survey, and that it was made in accordance with
their instructions, those instructions being to give an equal
frontage on the river; that the deed to the Forest Hill Company was not produced, nor his attention called to the particular language of the description in that deed, nor anything
said with reference to forming a connection with the 2000-acre
tract.
Further, while the deed to the Forest Hill Company requires
that this tract be surveyed off the western side of the Huddleston tract "by a line running from northerly to southerly side
of said tract, to be bounded on the south by the tract hereinabove conveyed, and on the north by the Great Kanawha
River," it is apparent from the plat that the 2000-acre tract
referred to does not join the Huddleston tract on its south
line, but only along the irregular east line. Now, if one call
in the deed is explicitly followed, and the partition line run
from the north to the straight line on the south, the land to
the west of that will not connect with the 2000-acre tract,
unless, indeed, the part reserved to Smith and Grinnan is separated into two parcels, the one south and the other north of
the place of such connection. Apparently the exact situation
of these two tracts was not at the time of the deed accurately
known, and it was supposed that the 2000-acre tract ran along
the whole southerly side of the Huddleston tract, and so it
appears on some of the maps which were known to the
parties at the time of the conveyance; and it was in view
of such supposed location that this description was intro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
. Opinion of the Court.

duced.

One call, as we see, was explicitly followed in the

survey, that of a line from the northerly to the southerly side

of the tract. The amount to be set off was exceeded, 105
acres being surveyed off to the Forest Hill Company, and if
that part was not bounded on the south by the 2000-acre
tract, it was because on the south the 2000-acre tract did not
join the Huddleston tract.
Stress is now laid upon the supposed importance of having
access to the 2000-acre tract from the Kanawha River, and the
claim is that such access was one of the main inducements to
the purchase of this 100 acres, but so far as can be judged from
the testimony, the steep, mountainous character of the land
at the southern end of the Huddleston tract would interfere
greatly with easy access from the Kanawha River, and the
bringing of coal or other products of this 2000-acre tract to
the water was apparently provided for by a right of way
through the Elk Ridge tract to Armstrong Creek. In addition, the conduct of the parties at the time indicates that the
main thought in the purchase of this 100 acres was of the level
ground near the Kanawha River, and the desire of the company was to get as large a portion of that as possible, ignoring
wholly the survey in the southern part of the tract. It is,
therefore, to say the least, a doubtful question whether there
was any mistake in the survey as made, and also whether the
surveyor did not, in obeying the immediate directions of the
respective parties, make a survey which conformed as nearly
as was practicable to the calls in the deed. It is unnecessary,
however, to lay stress upon this matter, and we only notice it
to show that there were likelytother reasons, besides those
given by the plaintiff, why no challenge of the survey was
made until this late day.
It only remains to notice the fact that Wyant purchased in
1883, at a judicial sale, the balance of the Huddleston tract;
that at such judicial sale, conducted by a commissioner duly
appointed by the court, a plat and description corresponding
to the survey made by Robson in 1859 were presented as the
basis of the sale, and that, relying upon that survey and description, Wyant made his purchase and paid his money, in

MORGAN ENVELOPE CO. v. ALBANY PAPER CO.

425

Statement of the Case.

ignorance of any claim of plaintiff, or of any question as to
the correctness of the survey; that he entered into possession
and expended several thousand dollars in improvements before
any challenge of his .rights was made by plaintiff. Under
those circumstances injustice would be done to him to disturb
the survey and his possession of the property. As this situation
of affairs was brought about through the negligence of the
plaintiff, the court rightfully held him guilty of laches, and
properly dismissed his bills. The decree is
Afl rrned.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

MORGAN ENVELOPE COMPANY v. ALBANY PERFORATED WRAPPING PAPER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 254. irgued 31arch 8, 9, 1894. -Decided

March 19, 1894.

An inventor who acquiesces in the rejection by the Patent Office of his claim
in one form, and accepts a patent with the claim changed so as to correspond with the views of that office, is estopped to claim the benefit of the
rejected claim.
Letters patent No. 325,410, granted to Oliver H. Hicks September 1, 1885, for
a package of toilet paper known as the oval roll or oval king package, is
void for want of patentable invention.
Letters patent No. 325,174, issued to said Hicks August 25, 1885, for a
toilet-paper fixture, and letters patent No. 357,993, issued to said Hicks
February 15, 1887, for an apparatus for holding toilet paper, are not infringed by selling such fixture or apparatus, bought of the patentee, with
paper manufactured by the seller.
'When a patentee has once received his royalty, he cannot treat the subsequent seller or user as an infringer.

Tins was a bill in equity to recover damages for the infringement of three letters patent issued to Oliver Ht. Hicks of
,Chicago, and assigned to the appellant, viz.: Patent No. 325,410,

