OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

terminated. For their past services they are entitled to recover from the settlers who employed them, but the admitted
facts clearly show that the United States are under no express
or implied obligation to answer for a breach of contract between the appellants and their clients.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. The court
below committed no error in dismissing the claimants' petition, and the decree is
________

fflrmed.

BELDING MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. CHALLENGE CORN PLANTER COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
'o. 235. Argued January 31, February 1,1894. - Decided March 5,1894.

Letters patent No. 204,216, granted May 28, 1878, to Richard T. Harhbrook,
for an improvement in refrigerators, are, in view of the prior state of
the art, void for want of patentable novelty.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Tayor Everett Brown, (with whom was XU. Charles
Clarence Poole on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Edward Taggart and ir. Arthur Stem for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

Letters patent of the United States, No. 204,216, were
granted, on May 28, 18T8, to Richard T. Hambrook, for an
improvement 'in refrigerators, and by various assignments the
ownership thereof became vested, in 1885, in the Belding
Manufacturing Company.
In March, 1889, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western District of Michigan, a bill in equity was filed

BELDING 2'F'G CO. v. CORN PLANTER CO.

101

Opinion of the Court.

by the Belding iManufacturing Company against the Challenge
Corn Planter Company, alleging infringement by the defendant of the complainant's rights, as owner of the Ilambrook
patent, and praying for relief. The Challenge Corn Planter
Company appeared and answered. The cause was put at issue,
a large amount of evidence was put in by the respective parties,
and, after argument, on June 25, 1890, a final decree was
entered dismissing the bill of complaint, from which decree
this appeal was taken.
We have been aided in our consideration and decision of
this case by very full and able arguments, oral and printed, on
behalf of both the parties.
Hambrook's invention was described by himself as follows:
"The nature of my invention consists in the construction of
a refrigerator having the ice chamber constructed in such a
manner that the air will impinge upon the top, bottom, and
sides of the ice, and that the continuous volume of cold air
generated by the melting of the ice will descend, in a dry
state, to the provision chamber without material hindrance,
causing the displaced and less frigid air to ascend to the ice
chamber through open spaces at each side thereof without
meeting the descending current of cold air."
The specification describes the refrigerator as consisting of
a cabinet or outer box, within which is an inner box, lined
with metal throughout, and fastened and retained in its relative position to the outer case by any proper means used by
makers of refrigerators. The inner box is divided into several
compartments - one, occupying the upper part, being the ice
chamber, and a lower one, consisting of two apartments, separated from each other by a partition, which is called the provision chamber.
We accept, as a satisfactory description of the Hambrook
refrigerator, that given by X elville E. Dayton, an expert
examined on behalf of the complainant:
"The patent illustrates and describes a domestic or household refrigerator, containing an ice-box at the top, a lid over
the ice-box, a provision chamber or chambers below the icebox, a partition separating the ice-box from the provision

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

chamber or chambers, a central passage through this passage
for the downflow of cold air from the ice-box to the provision
chamber, side passages rising from the provision chamber outside of the ice chamber to near the top of the latter, overhanging cleats or shields covering these side passages, gutters at the
margins of the central opening in the partition to prevent the
passage of water from the ice chamber into the provision
chamber, a deflecting plate over said central opening, to carry
the water, which would drip directly through said central
opening to the top of the partition at the sides of said opening, so that the gutters shall carry away all water or moisture
falling from the ice or its supporting rack, and a pipe for draining off the water delivered by the gutters. The patent shows
a vertical partition dividing the provision chamber into two
compartments, said partition being extended up through the
central opening in the horizontal partition and into the ice
chamber."
The court below did not deem it necessary to consider and
pass upon the question of infringement, but, being of opinion
that, in view of former inventions and of the state of the art
in reference to the construction of refrigerators, there was no
patentable invention in the Hambrook patent, dismissed complainant's bill; and if we are satisfied to adopt that conclusion
of the court, no other question in the case need be considered.
Quite a number of prior patents were put in evidence by
the defendant, beginning with a patent to Sanford in 1855,
followed by one to Lyman in 1856, to Banta in 1867, to Chase
in 1869, to Hunt in 1870, to Rohrer in 1871, to Butler in 1875,
and to Smith in 1877.
Without going into a minute comparison of the features of
these respective patents, it may be safely said that they
closely resemble each other in the main particulars of their
construction and in the objects sought to be effected. Certain
disadvantages were overcome and improvements added from
time to time.
Litigation took place in which the courts were called upon
to consider conflicting claims under some of these patents.
The most important case, and the only one which we need to

BELDING M'F'G CO. v. CORN PLANTER CO.

103

Opinion of the Court.

notice, involved a contest between the Lyman and Sanford
patents, and came to this court on appeal from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
olerts v. Byer, 91 U. S. 150.
York.
The bill was filed by Roberts, assignee of Sanford, alleging
an infringement of the patent to Sanford for an improvement
in refrigerators. The principal defence relied upon was the
prior invention of Lyman, and this defence was sustained in
the court below, whose decree, dismissing the bill, was affirmed
by this court in an opinion by Chief Justice Waite.
In that opinion the Sanford patent is described to be for a
combination of three elements, to wit: 1, an open-bottom icebox, or its equivalent, so constructed thai the air may pass
freely down through it, while, at the same time, the drip of
the water from the melting ice is prevented by collecting the
water and taking it in an escape-pipe outside of the refrigerator ; 2, a dividing partition, open above and below, separating
the refrigerator into two apartments; and, 3, a chamber
directly under the open-bottom ice-box, in which articles to be
refrigerated may be placed in such manner as to receive the
descending current of air from the ice-box directly upon
them.
The court proceeded to compare these devices with those
found in the Lyman patent, in which were found an openbottom ice-box, and a partition open above and below, dividing the refrigerator into two apartments, in one of which the
air passed downward only, and in the other upward only.
Each called for the circulation of air, and each obtained it
substantially by the same device. They each passed the air
cooled in the ice-box through convenient openings downwards
in one apartment, and upwards through the other. In each
device the cooled air passed through the opening in the
bottom of the partition, and the warm air through that in the
top. All this was done in both cases for the purpose of cooling, desiccating, and purifying the confined air, and to prepare it for the purposes of refrigeration. There was, therefore,
one common object to be accomplished by both inventors;
and they each devised substantially the same plan for that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

purpose. With both of the inventors, the circulation by means
of an ascending and descending current was the principal
object to be obtained. One considered the greatest benefit
for the purposes of refrigeration was to be derived from the
use of the descending current, while the other saw more
particularly the advantage of the ascending current, but they
each had both, and could utilize both. The court, therefore,
concluded that the effort to distinguish the two devices was
futile; that if there was any change of construction suggested,
it was only to increase its capacity for usefulness; that it was
a carrying forward of new or more extended application of
the original thought - a change only in form, proportions, or
degree, doing the same thing in the same way, by substantially the same means, with better results.
Bearing in mind the reasoning and conclusion of the court
in that case, we shall pass by the patents subsequently granted
till we reach that granted to Smith in 1877, reissued in 1878,
and in which the court below found all the essential features
of the Hambrook invention.
Smith described his theory and devices in the following
language:
"1Myinvention relates to that class of refrigerators wherein
a constant circulation of air is maintained through the ice-box
and provision chambers; and its object fs to increase the circulation, reduce the air to a lower temperature than heretofore,
and to deliver such air into the provision chambers deprived
of all odor and free from sweating, preventing the sides of
said provision chambers from sweating, and better preserving
the articles placed therein.
"My invention therein consists in the combination of an icebox of the entire width of the refrigerator, except the air passages at its end, said ice-box having a central air discharge
opening in its bottom, the provision chambers and the air
passages leading out of the same; also, in the combination of
the same elements and an air discharge opening above the
centre of the ice-box; also, in the combination of the ice-box
with the central air discharge opening and a false bottom,
raised above the bottom of the ice-box, having openings near

BELDING M'F'G CO. v. CORN PLANTER CO.

105

Opinion of the Court.

its ends and an air passage under it; also, in the combination
of the various principal operative parts, all constructed and
arranged as more fully hereinafter described."
In this description we recognize the principal features of
those contained in the prior patents to Lyman and Sanford,
and, without pausing to consider whether the art was thereby
advanced within the meaning of the patent law, it is obvious
that the territory for further invention, in this kind of refrigerator, was still further restricted.
The appellant's expert, Dayton, on rebuttal limited the
Hambrook patent as follows:
"The Hambrook patent is not broadly for the idea or discovery that cold air is heavier than warm air, and will fall by
its greater specific gravity, and thus cause the warm air which
it displaces to rise; nor is it for the general location of an ice
chamber above a provision chamber, by which the difference
in specific gravity between the cold and warm air may induce
a circulation; nor is it for a particular form of grate or support on which the ice may rest while allowing air to move
downward in contact with the ice; nor is it for the idea of
inclining a watershed in order to permit water to flow therefrom; nor is it for the provision of an air passage broadly, by
which air may descend from the ice chamber, or ascend from
the provision chamber. All these things, broadly considered,
were well known in variou' forms at the date of the Hambrook invention."
These admissions were plainly constrained by the claims
and descriptions contained in the prior patents.
So, too, the learned counsel for the appellant in his supplemental brief concedes that the Smith patent shows the provision chambers, the ice chamber, an ice-table or rack equivalent
to the rack of Hambrook, the equivalent of the double-inclined
bottom pieces of Hambrook provided with a central openingthat it has also the equivalents of the gutters, and that it has
the waste-water pipe.
But it is claimed that the Smith patent does not contain the
side passages of Hambrook or their equivalents, and that it does
not have the deflector plate or any equivalent, and that these

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

missing elements are material to the combination ; and hence
it is argued that the Smith patent, omitting these two elements ok the Hambrook combination, did not anticipate the
latter.
Yet appellant's expert witness, Dayton, in his analysis of
the Smith patent admits - as of course he had to do - that it
contained an uptake flue or passage at each end of the icebox, though he endeavors to distinguish them from the end
passage ways of Hambrook, in that the former do not discharge into the sides of the ice chamber at the top thereof,
but are continued or prolonged through spaces in the cover,
which meet and open at the middle of the lid, which results,
as he contends, in a retardation of the air currents.
So, too, the same witness admits that the imperforate icerack in the Smith patent operates to prevent the water from
dripping, and thus performs the function of the Hambrook
deflector, though less advantageously, and he argues that an
imperforate ice-rest is an entirely different thing from a separate deflector interposed between such ice-rest and a subjacent opening.
Whether the device in the Smith patent, to prevent the
water from dripping into the provision chamber, by the use of
an imperforate ice-rack can be deemed an equivalent for the
Hambrook deflector, we need not decide, because the evidence
is clear that the refrigerators made by the defendant company
do not have the Hambrook deflector, but the ice is carried on
an imperforate plate of corrugated metal, through which no
water can drip. Either, then, this imperforate ice-rest is an
equivalent of the Hambrook deflector, in which case the
Smith patent was an anticipation, or it is not an equivalent,
in which case the defendant's refrigerator does not infringe in
that particular.
Nor do we think the distinction pointed out between the
uptake flues or side passages in the Smith and Hambrook
patents amounts to a patentable difference. The purpose of
the flues is the same and their mode of operation is the same.
The fact that Hambrook did not prolong these air passages
along the lid or cover might perhaps be a better way of intro-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EVERETT. 107
Syllabus.

ducing the air into the ice chamber, but it does not amount to
a patentable improvement.
As was said in Roberts v. .yer, supra, "it was a mere

carrying forward, a change only in form, proportions, or
degree, doing the same thing, in the same way, by substantially the same means, with better results."

In view, then, of the state of the art as manifested by
numerous prior patents, and particularly by that of Smith, we
conclude that the Hambrook patent is void for want of patentable novelty; and the decree of the court below, dismissing
the bill for that reason, is
-Affirmed.

MRI. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of the case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
EVERETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
. DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

FOR THE

No. 188.Submitted December 21, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

A switchman in the employ of a railroad company was directed, in the line
of his regular duty, to connect together two cars, one of which was
loaded with bridge timbers. The timbers were unusually and dangerously loaded, extending so far over the end of the car as to make the
coupling dangerous. The switchman had no notice or knowledge of
this fact, and in making the coupling was very severely injured. To an
action brought to recover damages for the injury, the railroad company
pleaded that the injuries were the result of the switchman's negligence,
and not of the negligence of the company, and on the trial asked to have
the jury instructed to return a verdict for defendant. The court declined,
and instructed the jury on this point, in effect, that they were to
find whether the car was or was not properly loaded, and whether the
plaintiff, by the exercise of proper diligence, could or could not have discovered the projecting timber before the cars came together and in time

