OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

:398

Counsel for Parties.

afford a remedy,by changing the rule for the future, or granting additional compensation for the past.
Petitionsforrehearingdenied.
AIR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court
when these cases were argued, took no part in the decision
,of these petitio4,s.

'MURPHY v. PACKER.
,ERROR TO THE .OLROUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 10T. Argued January 16, 17, 1894. - Decided March 19, 1894.

-Evidence of the payment of the purchase money due to the State of Pennsylvania on a land warrant, clothes the person paying it with the ownership of the warrant, and with the right to maintain ejectment for the
land.
A recital in a patent from Pennsylvania to B of a conveyance by A to B
before the warrant issued, is no evidence against persons claiming under
C to whom ;%previous patent had issued for the same land upon the
warrant to A.
,When county commissioners in Pennsylvania buy in for the county land
sold for nonpayment of taxes, and the land, while owned by the county,
is illegally assessed for taxes, and sold for nonpayment of them, and conveyance is duly made to the purchaser, who remains in possession forty
years, the county is estopped from asserting title in itself.
'When a valid title to real estate in Pennsylvania becomes vested in a person
by reason of t4e ownership of a land warrant and his payment of the
purchase money to -the State, a stranger to his title, claiming under another and distinct title, cannot avail himself of the act of April 22, 1856,
Purdon's Digest, ,1064,11ti ed., with regard to implied or resulting
trusts.

EJECOTMENT.

'The,case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. Ri7 oets ,for-pjltintiff in error.
.-r.James Byo= for.df endant in error. .Afr. John 1. Ryon
sand IIT. S. .;T,
plvto ,were with him on the brief.

MURPHY v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTIcE SRAS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment brought, in the Circuit
,Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, by Elisha A. Packer, a citizen of the State of New
York, against Charles G. Murphy, a citizen of he State of
Pennsylvania, to recover possession of a tract of land containing four hundred and sixty-two acres, situate in the county of
Cumberland and State of Pennsylvania. The plaintiff's evi•dence to show title in himself consisted of six warrants for
tracts of land of some four hundred acres each, one of which,
to Nathaniel Brown, dated November 26, 1793, embraced the
land in question; also survey under said warrant made on the
21st day of October, 1794; also, papers on file in the land
office of Pennsylvania, namely, a purchase voucher No. 12,969,
and a "purchase blotter" No. 12,969, dated June 14, 1794,
stating that Dr. Thomas Ruston applied for and took out the
warrant to Nathaniel Brown and five other warrants, and paid
the purchase money.
Under the well-settled law of Pennsylvania this evidence of
payment of the purchase money by Dr. Ruston availed to
clothe him with the ownership of the warrants and with a
right to maintain ejectment. Camtbell v. Galb'aith,1 Watts,
70, 78; Ross v. Barker, 5 Watts, 391; Sims v. I; ine, 3 Dall.
425 ; Evans v. Patterson,4 Wall. 224; Huidekcrperv. Bur rus,
1 Wash. C. C. 109, 114. With the ownership of the land
embraced in the Nathaniel Brown warrant and survey thus in
Dr. Ruston, the plaintiff put in evidence the record of a suit
against said Ruston at No. 44, April session, of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, showing a judgment obtained on October 13, 1796,
sale of said tract of land, and conveyance by the United States
marshal on October 11, 1803, to Nicholas Le Fevre. This
was followed by proof of the will of Nicholas Le Fevre and
of proceedings thereunder, in the orphans' court of Philadelphia and C6lumbia Counties, whereby the title of Le Fevre to
the Nathaniel Brown tract became vested in one Joseph Probst
on May 9, 1837. By various deeds, wills, and sheriff's sales

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court

put in evidence, but which need not be set forth here, the
iNathaniel Brown tract became finally vested, on March 20,
1883, in Elisha A. Packer, the plaintiff below. The plaintiff
likewise put in evidence showing that the Nathaniel Brown
tract had been sold for unpaid taxes by the treasurer of Northumberland'County on June 13, 1840, and conveyed to Charles
Pleasants on August 16, 1840; and also, for unpaid taxes, had
been sold and conveyed by the treasurer of Columbia County
to James Pleasants by deed dated August 17, 1842. These
tax titles to Charles and James Pleasants were shown to have
become vested, before the bringing of this suit, in the plaintiff
below.
These various documents and proceedings on which the
plaintiff relied as showing title in himself were particularly
set forth, in accordance with a rule of the Circuit Court pertaining to trials of ejectment, in a statement or brief of title.
This statement was not formally controverted by the defendant below, who filed a statement of his own title, which was
substantially as follows: (1) the warrant to Nathaniel Brown,
November 26, 1793; return of survey of the same, October
21, 17941, this being identical with plaintiff's title; (2) a patent
for the Nathaniel Brown tract, dated April 13, 1797, to one
Peter Grahl, reciting a conveyance by Nathaniel Brown to
Grahi, dated November 27, 1793; (3) assessments of Nathaniel
Brown tract, as unseated lands, for unpaid taxes for the years
1826 and 1827; (4) sale for unpaid taxes and conveyance by
the treasurer of Columbia County, on June 2, 1828, to the
commissioners of said county; (5) minutes of commissioners
of Columbia County of unseated lands, showing sale to said
commissioners in 1828 and sale made by said commissioners
of said tract to Charles G. Murphy, the defendant, by deed,
acknowledging the receipt of $305, dated September 18, 1882.
At the trial the plaintiff, as above stated, sustained his brief
or statement of title by putting in evidence the warrant, survey, and subsequent deeds, documents and proceedings vesting in him the title to the Nathaniel Brown tract.: So far as
we are advised by the record the defendant did not object to
the plaintiff's evidence, but proceeded to offer evidence to

3£URPHY v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

sustain the history of his own title contained in his brief or
statement of title. The offers of the defendant were rejected
by the court below, and a peremptory charge was given to
the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiff, which was done,
and a judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff, to which
the writ of error in this case was sued out.
Error is alleged in the action of the court in refusing to
admit the defendant's offers of evidence, and in instructing
the jury that the plaintiff was entitled to a verdict.
The first offer of the defendant below was a patent from
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to Peter Grahl, dated
April 13, 1797, with recital therein of a conveyance by
Nathaniel Brown to Peter Grahl, dated 27th November, 1793,
more than six months before the warrant issued or was paid
for. The defendant did not offer any such conveyance in
evidence, but relied upon the recital in the patent. Such
recital was not evidence against Dr. IRuston and those claiming under him. In the case of 1Ierron v. -Duter,120 U. S.
464, which was an action in ejectment for the land embraced
in one of the other warrants owned by Dr. Ruston, and called
the Lewis Walker, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the court below
rejected a precisely similar offer, namely, a patent to Peter
Grahl, with a recital therein of a conveyance by Lewis Walker
to Peter Grahl, and such action of the court below was, on
error, approved by this court. It was held, following the
doctrine of the Pennsylvania cases, that a legal title in Dr.
Ruston had been established by the 'warrant, survey, and payment of the purchase money, and that it was not competent
for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to affect that title by
a subsequent patent to a stranger. To the same effect are
.Maclay v. Work, 5 Bin. 154; Woods v. Wilson, 37 Penn. St.
379.
We, therefore, think that the court below was right, in the
present case, in rejecting the defendant's first offer.
The next assignment of error is founded upon the refusal
of the court to admit the defendant's offer of the sale book
of the commissioners of Columbia County, showing sale of
VOL. CLI-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Nathaniel Brown tract, August 31, 1882, to C. G. Murphy,
the defendant, together with a deed of said commissioners to
said Murphy, dated and acknowledged September 18, 1882.
The plaintiff objected to this offer as irrelevant and incompetent to affect the plaintiff, because the defendant offered no
evidence to show title in the county commissioners of Columbia County but a tax title or sale in 1828, and that whatever
title was acquired at such sale in 1828 was divested by the tax
sale to Pleasants in 1842, and because at the sale in 1882 the
presumption had become conclusive that the taxes of 1826,
1827, and 1828 had been paid, and the land redeemed from the
sale of 1828.
This action of the court below was justified by the ruling of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the case of the Diamond Coal Company v. .Fisher,19 Penn. St. 267, where the
very question presented to us in this assignment of error was
considered, and it was held that the county was estopped
from asserting title in itsetf under a tax sale, when the commissioners had bought in the land, as against a purchaser
from the county treasurer, notwithstanding that the directions
of the act of 1815, which prescribes the duties of the commissioners in reference to the holding and disposal of the lands
sold to them, were disregarded.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff in error challenges the
soundness of the decision of the Supreme Court, of Pennsylvania in the case of Diamond Coal Company v. Fisher,and
cites the case of Herron v. Murphy, 22 Weekly Notes of
Cases, 181, to the contrary, as overruling the former case.
If, indeed, the decision in the case of Herron v. Aulphy
must be read as contended for by the plaintiff in error, we
might be constrained thereby to sustain this assignment of
error. But our examination of that case does not satisfy us
that the case of Diamond Coal Conpany v. Fisherwas thereby
overruled. The case of Herron v. Xbvrphy does not appear
in the regular reports of the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, and from this we are, perhaps, permitted to
infer that the court did not consider the case of sufficient importance to be reported, which could scarcely have been the

MURPHY v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

case if it was intended to thereby overrule Dimond Coal
Company v. Fisher, which appears in the official reports.
Moreover, in Herron v. fruphy the case of Diamond Coal
Company v. Fisher is not noticed or referred to, nor any other
case, and the principal questions considered by the court were
whether the acknowledgment of a deed by a county treasurer
after his term of office had expired was invalid, and the
admissibility in evidence of the minute book of the commissioners' office. The defendant's evidence in the case appears
to have been ruled out because their abstract of title had not
given notice of the treasurer's sale. However this may be,
we are unable to accept the contention of the plaintiff in
error that it was the intention of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the case of Herron v. .2uryhy,to overrule the
doctrine announced in ]Diamond Coal Company v. Fisher.
The course of the court below, in the present case, in rejecting evidence to show a commissioners' sale nearly sixty years
after the sale to them in 1828, without any evidence of claim
during this time upon the part of the county to the land, is
also sought to be sustained by the contention that, by this
long lapse of time, the presumption had become conclusive
that the taxes for 1826, 1827, and 1828, for which the lands
were sold to the commissioners in 1828, had been paid, and
the lands redeemed from the sale of 1828. To sustain this
contention the case of Ioodlburn v. The Farrmers"Bank,5
W. & S. 447, 450, is cited, in which it was intimated, if not
directly held, that a presumption of payment would arise from
lapse of time against the lien of county taxes. We are not,
however, called upon to adopt this view of the case, because
we think the ruling in Diamond Coal Co.v. Fisher sufficiently
disposes of the second assignment of error.
Another assignment of error is based on the refusal of the
court below to admit defendant's offer of a subsequent treasurer's sale in 1846. The evidence to sustain this offer was the
treasurer's sale book for 1846, but on inspection the entry in
that book does not show any sale to any one else, but does
show that on November 19, 1847, the taxes on the Nathaniel
Brown tract were paid by James Pleasants, and the land re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

deemed. It is, indeed, claimed by the plaintiff in error that
the entry of payment and redemption by James Pleasants
was irregular and unauthorized. But the defendant seems to
have made no offer to show that the entry was unwarranted
and illegal, and we think, in the absence of evidence, it is a
fair presumption, after so long a period, that an entry of this
kind in the book of the treasurer was properly made. Nor
can we accept the claim that such entry, even if admissible to
show payment of taxes, does not show a redemption by James
Pleasants; for the entry itself, as shown by the copy thereof
in the brief of the plaintiff in error, discloses that the payment
of .the taxes was entered under a heading in the words, "By
whom redeemed and when." Such an entry and heading contained in a county treasurer's book might well be regarded,
after so long a period, as an admission of such facts to affect
the county, and might properly have been offered as such on
the part of the plaintiff below. At any rate, and this is all
that concerns us now, no injury was suffered by the defendant
below in the court's rejection of his offer.
The effect of this alleged tax sale of 1846 is again raised in
the sixth prayer for instructions on behalf of the defendant,
asking the court to charge the jury that if the land, after the
sale to James Pleasants in 1842, was again sold to the commissioners by the treasurer in 1846, such sale divested the
title of Pleasants, and that his subsequent payment of the
taxes for which the land was sold would not operate to reinvest him with the title. The answer to this is that the
redemption act of 1815 (Purdon's Digest, 11th ed. 1682, pl.
52) provides that upon the redemption the commissioners shall
reconvey all the county's title to the owner, and it has been
held that the entry of "redemption" in the tax books is
received as evidence of the fact, and that the redemption is
good and revests the title without a deed from the commissioners. City of Philade phia v. liller, 49 Penn. St. 440,
456. However, as the defendant's evidence was not before
the jury, this and the other prayers for instructions, so far as
they were based on the defendant's rejected evidence, are not
before us for consideration.

CORINNE MILL, CANAL & STOCK CO. v. TOPONCE. 405
Syllabus.

But it is contended that even if Dr. Ruston did pay the
purchase money for the Nathaniel Brown tract, such payment
merely inured to the benefit of Ruston by way of a resulting
trust, and that the act of assembly of April 22, 1856, (Purd.
Dig. 11th ed. 1064,) forbids the assertion of any implied or
resulting trust after the lapse of five years, unless such trust
shall have been acknowledged in writing by the party to be
charged therewith.
It is difficult to see how this statute affects the present controversy. If, indeed, Nathaniel Brown, in whose name the
warrant had issued, had taken hostile possession of the tract,
and excluded Dr. Ruston, the beneficial owner, and if at that
time the act of 1856 had been in force, such a question might
have arisen. But as we have seen that, under the well-settled
law of Pennsylvania, a legal title became vested in iRuston by
his ownership of the warrant and his payment of the purchase
money, and as his title has, by instruments in writing and by
proceedings of record, become vested in the defendant in error,
a stranger to that title, claiming under another and distinct
title, originating in a commissioners' sale in 1882, cannot avail
himself of the statute referred to.
Finding no error in the rulings of the court below, its judgment is
Aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

CORINNE MILL, CANAL AND STOCK COMPANY
v. TOPONOE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 257. Submitted March 6, 1894.- Decided March 19, 1894.

The jury having in this case practically affirmed the truth of the plaintiff's
story, this court accepts the result.
When services in the management of a farm and household in Utah are performed under a general retainer, without any express agreement as to the

