OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

SALTONSTALL v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
N1o.314. Submitted Mareb 22, 1894.- Decided April 9, 1894.

By the submission of a case to the judgment of the Circuit Court upon an
agreed statement of facts, all questions of pleading are waived; and no
finding of facts by the court is necessary.
By sebtions 2931 and 3011 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of
February 27, 1877, c. 69, if at the first port of entry, not being one of the
ports at which the statutes authorize goods to be imported and shipped
through without appraisement, goods imported by sea are entered for
warehousing and immediate transportation by the same vessel to another
port and are transported accordingly, and the duties thereon are assessed
by the collector at the first port, and again by the collector at the second
port and paid by the importers to the second collector to obtain possession
of the goods, no part of the duties can be recovered back in an action by
them against him, unless due protest is made within ten days after the
decision of the first collector as to the rate and amount of duties.

THIS was an action, brought May 15, 1888, against the collector of customs for the port of Boston and Charlestown, to
recover back dtties exacted by him, and paid under protest,
upon blueberries imported by the plaintiffs from New Brunswick. No answer was filed. But the case was submitted to
the decision of the Circuit Court upon a statement of facts, in
which it was agreed that the regulations of the Treasury
Department might be referred to, and that the court might
eater judgment as the law required upon the facts stated,
which were in substance as follows:
On October 22,1887, the plaintiffs imported from New Castle
in the Province of New Brunswick, into the port of Eastport
in the State of Maine, upon the steamship Cumberland, running regularly between St. John in New Brunswick, Eastport,
and Boston in the State of Massachusetts, five hundred cases
of canned blueberries, consigned to John Thompson, the
master of the steamship, to be by him entered at the customhouse at Eastport, and thence to be immediately transported

SALTONSTA.LL v. RUSSELL.
Statement of the Case.

in bond to the port of Boston, consigned to the plaintiffs;
and the goods were duly entered by him, as agent of the
plaintiffs, at the custom-house at Eastport, for warehouse and
immediate transportation, without being removed from the
steamship. On the same day, the duties were assessed -by the
collector at Eastport, and the amount of duty fixed at $144,
being twenty per cent of 8720, the value of the bluekerries,
cases, cans, and cost of packing, added together, that being
the amount of the entered value, as stated in the invoice.
The value of the blueberries was $315, the value of the coverings was $330, and the cost of packing them $75. The cases
were made of wood; each case contained twenty-four cans,
made of tin; and each can contained one and a half pounds
of blueberries. Both the cases and the cans were the usual
and necessary coverings of such goods, and were not of any
material or form designed to evade duties thereon, nor designed
for use otherwise than in the bonaftde transportation of the
goods to the United States.
The goods were immediately transported by the same
steamship to Boston. Upon examination of the goods by the
United States appraisers in Boston, they reported to the
defendant that the dutiable value of the same was $315, being
the cost of the blueberries, without including the value of the
coverings, or the cost of packing them; and the defendant
wrote to the collector at Eastport, calling his attention to the
fact that he had included the value of the coverings in his
assessment; but he refused to correct it. Thereupon the
defendant reported the case to the Secretary of the Treasury,
informed the collector at Eastport of the fact, and meantime
suspended the entry. On November 11, 1887, the Secretary
of the Treasury wrote a letter to the collector at Eastport,
instructing him to make the correction.
On November 18, 1887, the plaintiffs entered the goods at
the custom-house in Boston for rewarehousing and withdrawal;
and the defendant assessed the duties thereon, for the same
amount and made up of the same items as the collector at
Eastport, and exacted payment of the same from the plaintiffs.
They contended that the merchandise was subject to a duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

twenty per cent of the value of the blueberries, not including
the value of the boxes and cans, or the cost of packing; and
paid the assessed duties to the defendant under protest; and,
being dissatisfied with his decision, on the same day gave to
him, and mailed to the collector at Eastport, notices thereof in
writing, setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of
their objection; and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury,
who declined to entertain the appeal, on the ground that the
protests had not been seasonably filed, but affirmed the assessment by the collector at Eastport; and the plaintiffs seasonably brought this suit to recover the sum of $81, exacted and
paid upon the coverings and cost of packing.
Upon the agreed statement of facts, the Circuit Court gave
judgment for the plaintiffs; and the defendant sued out this
writ of error.
Mr. Assista'nt Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Frederic Cunningham for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The case having been submitted to the Circuit Court upon
a statement of facts agreed by the parties, or case stated, upon
which the court was to render such judgment as the law required, all questions of the sufficiency of the pleadings were
waived, and the want of an answer was immaterial; and no
finding of facts by the court was necessary. Willard v.
Wood, 135 U. S. 309, 314; Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 601,
607.
It is conceded that the duties complained of were illegal, in
view of the decision of this court in Oberteuvfer v. Robertson,
116 U. S. 499; and that the only question in the case is
whether protest should have been made, under sections 2931
and 3011 of the Revised Statutes, within ten days after the
liquidation of the duties at Eastport.

SALTONSTALL v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

By the customs acts of the United States, except as otherwise expressly provided, duties on imported goods are to be
assessed and paid at the first port of entry. Ulited States v.
VFowell, 5 Cranch, 368; .ofercita v. United States, 13 Pet.
486, 494; Hartranftv. Oliveer, 125 U. S. 525. For the purpose
of encouraging and facilitating commerce, by exempting the
importer from the payment of duties until he is ready to bring
his goods into market, provision has been made by which the
goods may be entered for warehousing and deposited in a
bonded warehouse in the district of entry, and may be transported to a bonded warehouse in any other collettion district,
and the payment of duties postponed until the goods are withdrawn; and they may be withdrawn for consumption within
one year from the date of original importation on payment
of the duties and charges to which they may be subject by
law at the time of such withdrawal, or after that time and
within three years from such date on payment of the duties
assessed on the original entry and charges, and ten per cent
additional. Rev. Stat. §§ 2962, 2970, 3000, 3001; TiJe"lett v.
Adawms, 13 How. 295, 303; Fabbri v. .M Ty, 95 U. S. 191;
Tesbt.ay v. United States, 18 Wall. 322. For the same
purpose, provision has been made by which merchandise
imported at certain ports, appearing to be consigned to one
of the ports afterwards named in the statute, may be entered
for warehouse and immediate transportation, and examined
and the duties estimated at the port of first arrival, but the
appraisement and liquidation of duties made at the port of
destination. Rev. Stat. §§ 2990-2997; Acts of June 10, 1880,
c. 190; 21 Stat. 174; February 23, 1887, cc. 215, 218; 24 Stat.
411, 414. But the goods in question were not deposited in or
withdrawn from a bonded warehouse; nor is Eastport one
of the ports at which goods can be imported and shipped
through without appraisement. It follows that articles 721725, 740 and 743 of the Treasury Regulations of 1884, cited
by the importers, have no application to the case; and that
the assessment at Eastport was the final ascertainment and
liquidation of the duties upon these goods. That such was
the opinion of the Treasury Department appears from its

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

having addressed its letter of instructions for the correction
of the assessment, not to the defendant, but to the Eastport
collector, as well as from the reasons which it gave for disallowing the appeal of the importers. And we have been
referred to no act of Congress, Treasury regulation or judicial
decision, which warranted a new assessment of the duties,
upon these goods by the defendant at Boston. See S'pring v.
R]useI, 1 Lowell, 258.
But this suit of the importers against him clearly comes.
within section 3011 of -the Revised Statutes, as amended by
the act of February 27, 1877, c. 69, which provides that "any
person who shall have made payment, under protest, and in
order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him,
to any collector, or person acting as collector, of any money
as duties, when such amount of duties was not, or was not
wholly, authorized by law," may maintain an action "to ascertain the validity of such demand and payment of duties, and.
to recover back any excess so paid;" but that "no recovery
shall be allowed in such action, unless a protest and appeal
shall have been taken as prescribed in section 2931." f9 Stat.
247.
By section 2931, here referred to, "the decision of the collector of customs at the port of importation and entry, as to
the rate and amount of duties to be paid" on merchandise
and the dutiable costs and charges thereon, "shall be final
and conclusive against all persons interested therein," unless
the importer "shall, within ten days after the ascertainment
and liquidation of the duties by the proper officers of the
customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered in bond as
for consumption, give notice in writing to the collector on
each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting forth
therein, distinctly and specifically, the grounds of his objection thereto, and shall, within thirty days after the date of
such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal therefrom to the
Secretary of the Treasury."
By virtue of this section, Eastport being "the port of importation and entry" of these goods, the decision of the collector at that port, as to the rate and amount of duties to be

SALTONSTA.LL v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

paid, was "the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by
the proper officers of the customs;" and the plaintiffs, not
having given notice in writing of their objection to that decision within ten days thereafter, cannot maintain an action to
recover back the whole or any part of the duties paid.
This conclusion, which appears to be required by the terms
of the statutes, is the only one consistent with the decision of
this court in Aferitt v. Cameron, 137 U. S. 542.
It was suggested, in the brief in behalf of the importers,
"that the collector had no jurisdiction or power to assess a
duty upon the coverings: the liquidation was void, just as if
the collector undertook to assess a duty upon domestic goods:
the appraisement was void; and in such a case section 2931
of the Revised Statutes does not apply, and no protest is necessary, because there has been no valid liquidation." In support of this suggestion were cited Oberteuferv. Robertson, 116
U-. S. 499; Badger v. Cusimano, 130 U. S. 39; Robertson v.
Frank Brothers Co., 132 U. S. 17, 24; United States v. Thuber, 28 Fed. Rep. 56.

But United States v. Thurber was an action by the Vnited
States to recover duties, and not an action against the collector
to recover them back ; in Badger v. Cusimano, and in Robertson v. _Frank Brothers Co., protests had been made in due
form; in Oberteuffer v. Robertson, it was distinctly recognized
that the proper remedy of the importer was by protest and
appeal; and the statutes, as has already been seen, make such
protest and appeal essential prerequisites to recovery in an
action brought to ascertain the validity of the demand and
payment of duties, and to recover back any excess so paid.
See also .Lawrencev. Caswell, 13 tow. 488, 496; lTichols v.
United States, 7 Wall. 122; Arnson v. Afiophy, 109 U. S. 238,
and 115 U. S. 579.
Judgrnent reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court
with directions to renderjudgment upon the agreed statement of cts for the defendant.

