CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

SIIVELY v. BOWLBY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
INo. 787. Submitted December 2, 1892.-Decided March 5, 1894.

This court has jurisdiction to review by writ of error a judgment of the
highest court of the State of Oregon, deciding that a donation land claim
under the act of Congress of September 27, 1850, c. 76, of land bounded
by tide water, passed no title or right below high water mark, as against
a subsequent grant from the State.
By the common law, the title in the soil of the sea, or of arms of the sea,
below high water mark, except so far as private rights in it have been
acquired by express grant, or by prescription or usage, is in the King,
subject to the public rights of navigation and fishing; and no one can
erect a building or wharf upon it, without license.
Upon the American Revolution, the title and the dominion of the tide
waters and of the lands under them vested in the several States of the
Union within their respective borders, subject to the rights surrendered
by the Constitution to the United States.
In the original States, by various laws and usages, the owners of lands
bordering on tide waters were allowed greater rights and privileges in the
shore below high water mark, than they had in England.
The new States admitted into the Union since the adoption of the Constitution have the same rights as the original States in the tide waters, and
in the lands under them, within their respective jurisdictions.
The United States, upon acquiring a Territory, whether by cession from
one of the States, or by treaty with a foreign country, or by discovery
1
VOL. CL -l

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
and settlement, take the title and the dominion of lands below high
water mark of tide waters for the benefit of the whole people, and in
trust for the future States to be created out of the Territory.
Upon the question how far the title extends of the owner of land bounding
on a river actually navigable, but above the ebb and flow of the tide,
there is a diversity in the laws of the different States; but the prevailing
doctrine now is that he does not, as in England, own to the thread of the
stream.
The title and rights of riparian or littoral proprietors in the soil below high
water mark are governed by the laws of the several States, subject to
the rights granted to the United States by the Constitution.
The United States, while they hold country as a Territory, have all the
powers both of national and of municipal government, and may grant,
for appropriate purposes, titles or rights in the soil below high water
mark of tide waters.
Congress has not undertaken, by general laws, to dispose of lands below
high water mark of tide waters in a Territory; but, unless in case of some
international duty or public exigency, has left the administration and
disposition of the sovereign rights in such waters and lands to the control of the States, respectively, when admitted into the Union.
A donation land claim, bounded by the Columbia River, acquired under the
act of Congress of September 27, 1850, c. 76, while Oregon was a Territory, passes no title or right in lands below high water mark, as against
a subsequent grant from the State of Oregon, pursuant to its statutes.
THE

original suit was in the nature of a bill in equity,

brought June 8, 1891, by John Q. A. Bowlby and W. W.
Parker against Charles W. Shively and wife, in the Circuit
Court for the county of Clatsop and State of Oregon, to quiet
the title to lands below high water mark in the city of Astoria.
The case, as appearing by the record, was as follows:
On and before May 20, 1854, John M. Shively and wife
were the owners of a donation land claim, as laid out and
recorded by him under the act of Congress of September 27,
1850, c. 76, (9 Stat. 496,) commonly known as the OregQn
Donation Act, embracing the then town and much of the
present city of Astoria, and bounded on the north by the
Columbia River.
On May 20, 1854, John M. Shively laid out and caused to
be recorded a plat of that claim, not only of the land above
high water mark, but also of adjacent tide lands and a portion
of the bed of the Columbia River, including the lands in controversy, and divided into blocks three hundred feet square,

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Statement of the Case.

and separated from each other by streets thirty or sixty feet
wide, some running at right angles to, and the others nearly
parallel with, high water mark, the outermost of which streets
were not within eight hundred feet of the ship channel.
Blocks 4 and 9 were above ordinary high water mark.
Block 146 was in front of block 4, and between high and low
water mark. In front of block 9 came blocks 141, 126 and
127 successively. A strip about fifty feet wide, being the
southern part of block 141, was above high water mark, and
the whole of the rest of that block was below high water
mark and above low water mark. The line of ordinary low
tide was on September 18, 1876, at the north line of that
block: but on December 15, 1890, and for some time before
this date, was one hundred feet north of the north line of
block 127.
On February 18, 1860, John M. Shively and wife conveyed
blocks 9, 126, 127 and 146, "in the town plat of Astoria, as
laid out and recorded by John M. Shively," to James Welch
and Nancy Welch, whose title was afterwards conveyed to
the plaintiffs.
On June 2, 1864, John i. Shively laid out and caused to be
recorded an additional plat, covering all the space between
blocks 127 and 146 and the channel.
In 1865, the United States issued a patent to John M.
Shively and wife for the donation land claim, bounded by the
Columbia River.
On September 18, 1876, the State of Oregon, by its governor,
secretary and treasurer, acting as the board of school land
commissioners, pursuant to the statute of Oregon of October
26, 1874, (Laws of 1874, p. 76,) amending the statute of Oregon
of October 28, 1872, (Laws of 1872, p. 129,) the provisions of
both of which statutes are set forth in the margin,' (the words
printed in brackets having been in the statute of 1872 only,
1 An Act to provide for the sale of tide and overflowed lands on the sea
shore and coast.
Whereas, in many of the bays, harbors and inlets on the sea coast of
this State, the sea is annually encroaching upon the land, washing away
the shores and shoaling such bays, harbors and inlets; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and those printed in italics having been inserted in the statute
of 1874,) executed to the plaintiffs a deed of all the lands lying
Whereas such encroachments can be prevented only at great expense, and
by occupying and placing improvements upon the tide and overflowed lands
belonging to the State; and
Whereas it is desirable that facilities and encouragement should be offered to the owners of the soil abutting upon the coast in such bays, harbors and inlets to make improvements and expenditures that will stay such
encroachments :
Therefore, Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Oregon:
SEC. 1. That the owner or owners of any land abutting or fronting upon
or bounded by the shore of the Pacific Ocean, or of any bay, harbor or inlet
[on the sea coast of this State] of the same, and rivers and their bays, in
which the tide ebbs andflows, within this State, shall have the right to purchase
[from the State] all the tide land belonging to [the] this State in front of
(such owner or owners] the lands so owned: Provided, that if valuable improvements have been made upon any of the tide lands of this State before
the title to the land on the shore shall have passed from the United States,
the owner of such improvements shall have exclusive right to purchase the
lands so improved, extending to low water mark, for a period of [one year]
three years from the approval of [this act] the act to which this is amendatory; Providedfurther,that the IVillamette River shall not be deemed a river
in which the tide ebbs and flows, within the meaning of this act, or of the act to
which this act is amendatory; and the title of this State to any tide or overflowed lands upon said Villamette River is hereby granted and confirmed to
the owners of the adjacent lands, or, when any such tide or overflowed lands
have been sold, then in that case to the purchaser or purchasers of such tide or
overflowed lands from such owner of such adjacent lands, or some previous
owner thereof, as the case may be.
SEc. 2. The officers of this State, who now are or who may hereafter be
authorized to dispose of the school lands belonging to this State, are authorized, empowered and directed to sell such tide lands, upon proper application to purchase by parties hereby authorized to purchase; and all
such tide lands shall be sold, and the money resulting from such sale shall
be distributed, in accordance with the laws of this State, which now are or
may hereafter be in force respecting the sale of the school lands of this
State; Provided, that in the certificates of sale and patents for such lands
acres of tide land, or land under water
the same shall be described as belonging to this State, in front of the following described premises.
(Here describe by legal subdivisions the lands in front of which said tide
lands are located.)
SEC. 3. Every applicant for the purchase of tide land, under section 1 of
this act, shall, with his application, present to the officer or officers, who
are or shall he authorized to sell such lands, the evidences of his title to
land which abuts or fronts upon or is bounded by such tide lands; and

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Statement of the Case.

between high water mark and low water mark in front of
block 9, including all the tide land in block 141; and also a
before making such sale such officer or officers shall be satisfied that such
applicant is the owner of such lands so fronting, abutting or bounded as
aforesaid.
SEC. 4. The value of such tide lands shall be appraised at a certain sum
per acre of the same, and such appraisal shall not value such lauds at less
than 1.25 for each acre of such laud: Provided, the board having in charge
the sale of said lands shall have power to set aside any appraisement on
evidence taken of the true value of the same, and shall make another and
true appraisement based on such evidence.
Suo. 5. If any person or persons who, at the passage of [this act] the act
of which this is amendatory [shall be] were entitled [under section 1 thereof]
to purchase any tide lands under the provisions of section 1 thereof shall not,
[within twelve months from the passage of this act, make application to
purchase such tide lands] have appliedfor the same within three years from
the passage of said act, or, having made such application, shall have failed
to prosecute the same, as provided by law, then such [lands] land shall be
open to purchase by any other person who is a citizen and resident of the
State of Oregon: Provided, that when any application shall be made for the
purchase of any such tide land by any person or persons other than the owner
or owners of the land adjacent to such tide lands, or the purchaseror purchasers
of such tide landsfron such owner of adjacent lands, or some previous owner
thereof, notice shall be given by said board to the owner or owners of such
adjacent lands, and to any parties who are in possession of, or who shall have
improred such tide lands in any manner, and such owner or owners of such
adjacent lands, or the person in possession of such tide lands by purchase frora
such owner of such adjacent lands, or any previous owner thereqf, or who shall
have improved the same, shall have sixty days after service of such notice to
make applicationfor the purchaseof such tide lands, and such applicationshall
have preference over all others, and in case any person to whom notice is hereby
required to be given cannot, after due diligence, be found, notice may be given
at the cost of the applicantby publication in the state paper for four successive
weeks; and all applications to purchase tide lands by the owner of adjacent
lands shall be accompanied by the atfidavit of the applicant,setting forth the
fact that such land is not held by any otherperson under a deed from said applicant, or any person under whom he holds; but this [section] provision shall
not apply to [any] the tide lands abutting upon [or fronting on or bounded
by the sea shore, which are] lands owned by the United States: [And] provided further, that if the United States haspartedor shall [hereafter] part
with its title to any lands of which, at the passage of [this act] the act of
which this is amendatory it [is] was the owner, [fronting or abutting upon
or bounded by the sea shore,] the grantee of such lands shall have [twelve
months] three years after perfecting his title from the United States to apply for [the] all tide lands in front thereof which may be owned by the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

deed of all the tide lands in block 146; but never executed to
any one a deed of any tide lands north of block 146.
The plaintiffs afterwards held possession of the lands so
conveyed to them, and maintained a wharf in front of block
127, which extended several hundred feet into the Columbia
River, and at which ocean and river craft were wont to receive
and discharge freight.
On December 15, 1890, John M. Shively, having acquired
whatever title his wife still had in the lands in controversy,
conveyed all his right, title and interest therein to the defendant Charles W. Shively.
and, in case of his failure to make such application within said period of
[twelve months] three years, or, having made such application, [in case of
his failure] shall fail to prosecute the same [as provided by] according to
law, such tide [lands] land shall be open to purchase by any other person
who is a citizen and resident of the State of Oregon.

SEc. 6. Nothing in this act provided shan prevent the Legislature of this
State,, or the corporate authorities of any city or town thereof, from
regulating the building of wharves or other improvements in any bay,
harbor or inlet of this State; and nothing in this act provided shall be
construed as a grant of an exclusive right to any person or persons to
use the natural oyster beds of this State ; but the grantee of any land
in this State, under this act, shall hold the same subject to the easement
of the public, as provided by the existing laws of this State, to enter
thereupon and remove, under the provisions and restrictions of the laws
of this State, oysters and other shell fish therefrom.
SEc. 7. Al applicants to purchase lands under the provisions of this act
shall, at their own expense, cause the same to be surveyed by the county
surveyor of the county in which such lands are situated, such survey to
conform to and connect with the surveys of the United States adjoining,
as far as may be practicable; and the certificate of the county surveyor,
describing the lands applied for by metes and bounds and designating
the quantity thereof, shall be forwarded under the certificate of appraisement to the officers of the State who are authorized to sell the same.
SEC. 8. Inasmuch as there is no law upon this subject at the present time,
this act shall take effect from and after its passage.
The act of 1874 contains two additional sections, the one providing that
the title to all tide lands heretofore sold, and for twhich conveyances have
already been executed, under the provisions of the act to which this is amendatory, be and the same is hereby confirmed unto the purchasersthereof; and
the other providing that, inasmuch as the existing lawv does not authorize
the sale of tide lands lying on the ocean beach and the rivers and bays
thereof, this act shall take effect and be in force from and after its approval
by the Governor.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Statement of the Case.

On April 7,1891, the defendants, pretending to act under the
statute of Oregon of February 18, 1891, (Laws of 1891, p. 594,)
executed and recorded an instrument dedicating to the public
their interest in some of the streets adjacent to these lands.
The plaintiffs claimed, under the deeds from the State of
Oregon, the title in all the tide lands on the west half of
block 141, on all of blocks 126 and 127 and north thereof, and
on the west half of block 146 and north thereof, between the
lines of low and ordinary high tide of the Columbia River;
and also claimed all the wharfing rights and privileges in
front thereof to the ship channel; and prayed that the cloud
created by the defendants' instrument of dedication might be
removed, and the defendants be adjudged to have no title or
right in the premises, and for further relief.
The defendants denied any title or right in the plaintiffs,
except in the west half of block 146; and, by counter-claim,
in the nature of a cross bill, stating the facts above set forth,
asserted that, under the patent from the United States to
John M. Shively, and his deed to Charles W. Shively, the
latter was the owner in fee simple of so much of the east half
of block 141 as was above high water mark, and of all the
tide lands and riparian and wharfing rights in front thereof
to the channel, excepting blocks 126 and 127; and was also
the owner of all the riparian and wharfing rights in front of
block 4 to the channel, excepting block 146; and contended
that the first deed from the State of Oregon to the plaintiffs
conveyed no title in that part of block 141 above high water
mark, or in any tide lands, and that John i. Shively's conveyance of specific blocks by reference to his plat passed no
wharfing rights in front thereof; and prayed that Charles W.
Shively might have possession of said premises, and damages
against the plaintiffs for withholding the same, and farther
relief.
The court sustained a demurrer of the plaintiffs to the
counter-claim, (except as to that part of block 141 above high
water mark,) and dismissed that claim; and then, on motion
of the plaintiffs, dismissed their suit, without prejudice to their
interest in the subject thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant Charles W. Shively appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment, upon the
ground that the grant from the United States, bounded by
the Columbia River, passed no title or right in lands below
high water mark, as against the subsequent deeds from the
State of Oregon. 22 Oregon, 410.
The said defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error,
and assigned the following errors:
"First. The Supreme Court of Oregon decided that a
grantee of the United States, under the act of Congress of
September 27, 1850, known as the Oregon Donation Land
Law, of land bounded by the tidal navigable waters of the
Columbia River, obtained by virtue of said grant no exclusive
access to the channel of said river, and no wharfage rights
below ordinary high tide of said river in front of said high
land."
"Second. The Supreme Court of Oregon decided that said
State was the absolute owner of all rights in front of the high
land granted by the United States to said grantee, *with said
Columbia River as a boundary, below the meander line, out
to the channel of said Columbia River, to the exclusion of
all rights of the grantee aforesaid of the United States, under
the said act of Congress of September 27, 1850."
"Third. The Supreme Court of Oregon decided that said
State had the absolute power to dispose of the soil of said
river and of all wharfage rights in front of the high land
granted by the United States to said grantee, the predecessor
of the plaintiff in error, with said Columbia River as a boundary, to a private person for a private beneficial use, and had
so disposed of the same to the defendants in error."
Mr. A. I. Garland, Xr. John F. Dillon, and Xi. Sidney
Dell for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.J. 2f. Dolph for defendants in error.
Xu.

JusTic

GrAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

This case concerns the title in certain lands below high
water mark in the Columbia River in the State of Oregon;
the defendant below, now plaintiff in error, claiming under
the United States, and the plaintiffs below, now defendants
in error, claiming under the State of Oregon ; and is in substance this: James M. Shively, being the owner, by title
obtained by him from the United States under the act of
Congress of September 27, 1850, c. 76, while Oregon was
a Territory, of a tract of land in Astoria, bounded north by
the Columbia River, made a plat of it, laying it out into
blocks and streets, and including the adjoining lands below
high water mark; and conveyed four of the blocks, one
above and three below that mark, to persons who conveyed
to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs afterwards obtained from
the State of Oregon deeds of conveyance of the tide lands
in front of these blocks, and built and maintained a wharf
upon part of them. The defendant, by counter-claim, asserted a title, under a subsequent conveyance from Shively,
to some of the tide lands, not included in his former deeds,
but included in the deeds from the State.
The counter-claim, therefore, depended upon the effect of
the grant from the United States to Shively of land bounded
by the Columbia River, and of the conveyance from Shively
to the defendant, as against the deeds from the State to the
plaintiffs. The Supreme Court of Oregon, affirming the
judgment of a lower court of the State, held the counterclaim to be invalid, and thereupon, in accordance with the
state practice, gave leave to the plaintiffs to dismiss their
complaint, without prejudice. Hill's Code of Oregon, §§ 246,
393.
The only matter adjudged was upon the counter-claim.
The judgment against its validity proceeded upon the ground
that the grant from the United States upon which it was
founded passed no title or right, as against the subsequent
deeds from the State, in lands below high water mark. This
is a direct adjudication against the validity of a right or
privilege claimed under a law of the United States, and presents a Federal question within the appellate jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERMIf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

this court. Rev. Stat. § 709. That jurisdiction has been
repeatedly exercised, without objection or doubt, in similar
cases of writs of error to the state courts. .Railroad Co.
v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272; Packer v. Bird,137 U. S. 661;
Knight v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161.
It was argued for the defendants in error that the question presented was a mere question of construction of a grant
bounded by tide water, and would have been the same as it
is if the grantor had been a private person. But this is not
so. The rule of construction in the case of such a grant from
the sovereign is quite different from that which governs private grants. The familiar rule and its chief foundation were
felicitously expressed by Sir William Scott: "All grants of
the Crown are to be strictly construed against the grantee,
contrary, to the usual policy of the law in the consideration
of grants; and upon this just ground, that the prerogatives
and rights and emoluments of the Crown being conferred
upon it for great purposes, and for the public use, it shall
not be intended that such prerogatives, rights and emoluments are diminished by any grant, beyond what such grant
by necessary and unavoidable construction shall take away."
The Rebeckak, 1 0. Rob. 227, 230. Many judgments of this
Charles River Bridge v.
court are to the same effect.
Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 544-548; Martin v. Wfaddell,
16 Pet. 367, 411; Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's
Car Co., 139 U. S. 21, 49.
In Yesler v. Washington Harbor Commissioners, at the last
term, in which the writ of error was dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, it did not appear that the plaintiff in error claimed
under a grant from the United States. 146 U. S. 646, 653,
654.
The present case being clearly within our jurisdiction, we
proceed to the consideration of its merits.
The briefs submitted to the court in the case at bar, as well
as in Yesler v. Washington Harbor Commissioners, above
cited, and in Prosser v. Torthern Pacifc Railroad, (which
now stands for judgment,) have been so able and elaborate,
and have disclosed such a diversity of view as to the scope

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

and effect of the previous decisions of this court upon the
subject of public and private rights in lands below high water
mark of navigable waters, that this appears to the court to be
a fit occasion for a full review of those decisions and a consideration of other authorities upon the subject.
L By the common law, both the title and the dominion of
the sea, and of rivers and arms of the sea, where the tide ebbs
and flows, and of all the lands below high water mark, within
the jurisdiction of the Crown of England, are in the King.
Such waters, and the lands which they cover, either at all
times, or at least when the tide is in, are incapable of ordinary
and private occupation, cultivation and improvement; 'and
their natural and primary uses are public in their nature, for
highways of navigation and commerce, domestic and foreign,
and for the purpose of fishing by all the King's subjects.
Therefore the title, jus privatum, in such lands, as of waste
and unoccupied lands, belongs to the King as the sovereign; and the dominion thereof, jus _publicwrn, is vested in
him as the representative of the nation and for the public
benefit.
The great authority in the law of England upon this subject
is Lord Chief Justice Hale, whose authorship of the treatise
De Juwe 31faris, sometimes questioned, has been put beyond
doubt by recent researches. Moore on the Foreshore, (3d ed.)
318, 370, 413.
In that treatise, Lord Hale, speaking of "the King's right
of propriety or ownership in the sea and soil thereof" within
his jurisdiction, lays down the following propositions: "The
right of fishing in this sea and the creeks and arms thereof is
originally lodged in the Crown, as the right of depasturing
is originally lodged in the owner of the waste whereof he is
lord, or as the right of fishing belongs to him that is the owner
of a private or inland river." "But though the King is the
owner of this great waste, and as a consequent of his propriety
hath the primary right of fishing in the sea and the creeks
and arms thereof; yet the common people of England have
regularly a liberty of fishing in the sea or creeks or arms
thereof, as a public common of piscary, and may not without

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

injury to their right be restrained of it, unless in such places,
creeks or navigable rivers, where either the King or some particular subject hath gained a propriety exclusive of that common liberty." "The shore is that ground that is between the
ordinary high water and low water mark. This doth primTa
facie and of common right belong to the King, both in the
shore of the sea and the shore of the arms of the sea." Hargrave's Law Tracts, 11, 12. And he afterwards explains:
"Yet they may belong to the subject in point of propriety,
not only by charter or grant, whereof there can be but little
doubt, but also by prescription or usage." "But though the
subject may thus have the propriety of a navigable river part
of a port, yet these cautions are to be added, viz." "2d. That
the people have a public interest, a jus publicum, of passage
and repassage with their goods by water, and must not be
obstructed by nuisances." "For the jus privatum of the
owner or proprietor is charged with and subject to that jus
pulicum which belongs to the King's subjects; as the soil of
an highway is, which though in point of property it may be
a private man's freehold, yet it is charged with a public
interest of the people, which may not be prejudiced or
damnified." pp. 25, 36.
So in the second part, .De Portibus2faris, Lord Hale says
that "when a port is fixed or settled by" "the license or
charter of the King, or that which presumes and supplies it,
viz. custom and prescription;" "though the soil and franchise
or dominion thereof primafacie be in the King, or by derivation from him in a subject; yet that jus privatum is clothed
and superinduced with a jus publicum, wherein both natives
and foreigners in peace with this kingdom are interested, by
reason of common commerce, trade and intercourse." "But
the right that I am now speaking of is such a right that
belongs to the King jureprerogativce,and it is a distinct right
from that of propriety; for, as before I have said, though the
dominion either of franchise or propriety be lodged either by
prescription or charter in a subject, yet it is charged or affected
with that juspublicum that belongs to all men, and so it is
charged or affected with that jus regium, or right of preroga-

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

tive of the King, so far as the same is by law invested in the
King." Hargrave's Law Tracts, 84-, 89.
In England, from the time of Lord Hale, it has been treated
as settled that the title in the soil of the sea, or of arms of the
sea, below ordinary high water mark, is in the King, except
so far as an individual or a corporation has acquired rights in
it by express grant, or by prescription or usage; Fitzwalter's
Case, 3 Keb. 242; . C. 1 Mod. 105; 3 Shep. Ab. 97; Com.
Dig. Navigation, A, B; Bac. Ab. Prerogative, B; The ifing
v. Smith, 2 Doug. 441; Attorney General v. Parmeter, 10
Price, 378, 400,401, 411, 412, 464; Attorney General v. Chambers, 4 D. M. & G. 206, and 4 D. & J. 55; 31alcomrson,v. O'.Dea,
10 H. L. Cas. 591, 618, 623; Attorney General v. Emerson,
(1891) App. Cas. 649; and that this title,jusprivatuyn, whether
in the King or in a subject, is held subject to the public right,
juspulicura,of navigation and fishing. Attorney General v.
Parmeter,above cited; Attorney General v. Johnson, 2 Wilson
Ch. 87, 101-103 ; Gann v. Free Fishers of UWiitstable, 11 H. L.
Cas. 192. The same law has been declared by the House of
Lords to prevail in Scotland. Smith v. Stair,6 Bell App. Cas.
4S7; Zord Advocate v. Hamilton, 1 Macq. 46, 49.
It is equally well settled that a grant from the sovereign of
land bounded by the sea, or by any navigable tide water, does
not pass any title below high water mark, unless either the
language of the grant, or long usage under it, clearly indicates
that such was the intention. Lord Hale, in Hargrave's Law
Tracts, 17, 18, 27; Somerset v. Fogwell, 5 B. & C. 875, 885;
S. C. 8 D. & R. 747, 755; Smith v. Stair, 6 Bell App. Cas.
487; United States v. Pacheco, 2 Wall. 587.
By the law of England, also, every building or wharf erected,
without license, below high water mark, where the soil is the
King's, is a purpresture, and may, at the suit of the King,
either be demolished, or be seized and rented for his benefit, if
it is not a nuisance to navigation. Lord Hale, in Hargrave's
Law Tracts, 85; Mitf. PI. (4th ed.) 145; Blundell v. Catterall,
5 B. & Ald. 268, 298, 305; Attorney General v. Richards, 2
Anstr. 603, 616; Attorney General v. Parmeter, 10 Price, 378,
411, 464; Attorney General v. Terry, L. R. 9 Oh. 425, 429,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

note; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners,18 Wall. 57, 65 ; Barney
v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324, 337.
By recent judgments of the House of Lords, after conflicting decisions in the courts below, it has been established in
England, that the owner of land fronting on a navigable river
in which the tide ebbs and flows has a right of access from
his land to the river; and may recover compensation for the
cutting off of that access by the construction of public works
authorized by an act of Parliament which provides for compensation for "injuries affecting lands," "including easements,
interests, rights and privileges in, over or affecting lands."
The right thus recognized, however, is not a title in the soil
below high water mark, nor a right to build thereon, but a
right of access only, analogous to that of an abutter upon a
highway. Buccleuch v. .fetropolitam Board of Works, L. R.
5 H. L. 418; lyor, v. Fishmongers Co., 1 App. Cas. 662.
"That decision," said Lord Selborne, "must be applicable to
every country in which the same general law of riparian rights
prevails, unless excluded by some positive rule or binding
authority of the lex loci." _North Shore Railway v. Pion, 14
App. Cas. 612, 620, affirming 14 Canada Sup. Ct. 677.
IL The common law of England upon this subject, at the
time of the emigration of our ancestors, is the law of this
country, except so far as it has been modified by the charters, constitutions, statutes or usages of the several Colonies
and States, or by the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
The English possessions in America were claimed by right
of discovery. Having been discovered by subjects of the King
of England, and taken possession of in his name, by his authority or with his assent, they were held by the King as the representative of and in trust for the nation; and all vacant
lands, and the exclusive power to grant them, were vested in
him. The various charters granted by different monarchs of
the Stuart dynasty for large tracts of territory on the Atlantic
coast conveyed tp the grantees both the territory described
and the powers of government, including the property and the
dominion of lands under tide waters. And upon the Ameri-

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

can Revolution, all the rights of the Crown and of Parliament
vested in the several States, subject to the rights surrendered
to the national government by the Constitution of the United
States. Johnsonv v. .cIntosk, 8 Wheat. 543, 595 ; -Ma'tin v.
lMaddell, 16 Pet. 367, 408-410, 414; Commonwealth v. Boxbury, 9 Gray, 451, 478-481; Steven.s v. Paterson & Newark
RJailroad,5 Vroom, (34 N. J. Law,) 532; People v. -HtewYork
& Staten Island Ferry, 68 N. Y. 71.
The leading case in this court, as to the title and dominion
of tide waters and of the lands under them, is .3fartin v. Maddell, (1842,) 16 Pet. 367, which arose in New Jersey, and was
as follows: The charters granted by Charles II. in 1664 and
1674 to his brother the Duke of York (afterwards James I.)
included New York and New Jersey and the islands of
Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, and conveyed to the Duke
the territories therein described, "together with all the
lands, islands, soils, rivers, harbors, mines, minerals, quarries,
woods, marshes, waters, lakes, fishings, hawkings, huntings and
fowling, and all other royalties, profits, commodities and hereditaments," thereto belonging or appertaining, and all the
"estate, right, title, interest, benefit, advantage, claim and
demand" of the King, of, in or to the same; as well as full
powers of government: provided, however, that all statutes,
ordinances and proceedings should not be contrary to, but, as
near as conveniently might be, agreeable to the laws, statutes
and government of England. All these rights, both of property and of government, in a part of those territories, were
granted by the Duke of York to the Proprietors of East Jersey; and they, in 1702, surrendered to Queen Anne all "the
powers, authorities and privileges of and concerning the government of" the Province, retaining their rights of private
property. Leaming and Spicer's New Jersey Grants, 4, 5, 42,
43, 148, 149, 614, 615. An action of ejectment was brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
New Jersey, for land under tide waters in Raritan Bay and
River, to which the plaintiff claimed title under specific conveyances of that land from the Proprietors of East Jersey, and
of which the defendants were in possession, for the purpose of

OCTOBER TER-M, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

planting and growing oysters, under a statute passed by the
legislature of the State of New Jersey in 1824.
This court, following, though not resting wholly upon, the
decision of the Supreme Court of New Jersey in Arnold v.
fbntdy, 1 Halsted, (6 N. J. Law,) 1, gave judgment for the
defendants, for reasons assigned in the opinion delivered by
Chief Justice Taney, which cannot be better summed up than
in his own words: "The country mentioned in the letters
patent was held by the King in his public and regal character
as the representative of the nation, and in trust for them." 16
Pet. 409. By those charters, in view of the principles stated
by Lord Hale, in the passage above quoted concerning the
right of fishing, "the dominion and propriety in the navigable
waters, and in the soils under them, passed, as a part of the
prerogative rights annexed to the political powers conferred
on the Duke;" and "in his hands they were intended to be a
trust for the common use of the new community about to be
established" -" a public trust for the benefit of the whole
community, to be freely used by all for navigation and fishery,
as well for shell fish as floatihg fish" - and not as "private
property, to be parcelled out and sold by the Duke for his
own individual emolument." "And in the judgment of the
court, the lands under the navigable waters passed to the
grantee as one of the royalties incident to the powers of government; and were to be held by him in the same manner
and for the same purposes that the navigable waters of England,
and the soils under them, are held by the Crown." pp. 411413. The surrender by the proprietors in 1702 restored to the
Crown all "its ordinary and well known prerogatives," including "the great right of dominion and ownership in the
rivers, bays and arms of the sea, and the soils under them,"
"in the same plight and condition in which they originally
came to the hands of the Duke of York." p. 416. "When
the Revolution took place, the people of each State became
themselves sovereign; and in that character hold the absolute
right to all their navigable waters, and the soils under them, for
their own common use, subject only to the rights since surrendered by the Constitution to the general government." p. 410.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

It was in giving the reasons for holding that the royal charters did not sever the soil under navigable waters, and the
public right of fishing, from the powers of government, and
in speaking of the effect which grants of the title in the sea
shore to others than the owner of the upland might have, not
upon any peculiar rights supposed to be incident to his -ownership, but upon the public and common rights in, and the benefits and advantages of, the navigable waters, which the colonists enjoyed "for the same purposes, and to the same extent,
that they had been used and enjoyed for centuries in England,"
and which every owner of the upland therefore had in common
with all other persons, that Chief Justice Taney, in the passage
relied on by the plaintiff in error, observed: "Indeed, it could
not well have been otherwise; for the men who first formed
English settlements could not have been expected to encounter
the many hardships that unavoidably attended their emigration to the New World, and to people the banks of its bays
and rivers, if the land under the water at their very doors
was liable to immediate appropriation by another, as private
property; and the settler upon the fast land thereby excluded
from its enjoyment, and unable to take a shell fish from its
bottom, or fasten there a stake, or even bathe in its waters,
without becoming a trespasser upon the rights of another."
16 Pet. 414.
The full extent of that decision may be more clearly
appreciated by referring to the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Justice Thompson in that case, and to the unanimous judgment of the court in the subsequent case of Den v. Jersey Co.,
(1853,) 15 How. 426.
In .Xfavin v. TFaddell, Mr. Justice Thompson unavailingly
contended that the title in the lands under the navigable tide
water, the jus privatum, as distinguished from the jus
.publicura,passed as private property from the King to the
Duke, and from him to the Proprietors of East Jersey, and
was unaffected by their surrender to Queen Anne, and therefore passed from them to the plaintiff, subject indeed to "the
public rights of navigation, passing and repassing, and perhaps
of fishery for floating fish, but not to the right of planting,
VOL. c u-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

growing and dredging oysters; and also that, if the King
held this land as trustee for the common benefit of all his
subjects, and inalienable as private property, the State of New
Jersey, on succeeding to his rights at the Revolution, could
not hold it discharged of the trust, and dispose of it to the
private and ekclusive use of individuals. 16 Pet. 418-434.
In Dea v. Jersey Co., which was ejectment for land under
tide water, that had been reclaimed and occupied as building
lots by a corporation, pursuant to an act of the legislature of
the State of New Jersey, the plaintiff, claiming under a
conveyance from the Proprietors of East Jersey, contended
that the fee of the soil under the navigable waters of that
part of the State was conveyed to the Proprietors as private
property, subject to the public use; that, the public use
having ceased as to the land in question, they were entitled
to the exclusive possession; and that nothing but the right
of fishery was decided in Hartin v. lVaddell. But the court,
again speaking by Chief Justice Taney, held that the decision
in .2lartin v. Jfaddell, being in ejectment, necessarily determined the title to the soil, and governed this case; and
therefore gave judgment for the grantee of the State, and
against the claimant under the Proprietors. 15 flow. 432,
433.
III. The governments of the several Colonies, with a view
to induce persons to erect wharves for the benefit of navigation and commerce, early allowed to the owners of lands
bounding on tide waters greater rights and privileges in the
shore below high water mark, than they had in England.
But the nature and degree of such rights and privileges
differed in the different Colonies, and in some were created
by statute, while in others they rested upon usage only.
In Massachusetts, by virtue of an ancient colonial enactment, commonly called the Ordinance of 1641, but really
passed in 16417, and remaining in force to this day, the title
of the owner of land bounded by tide water extends from
high water mark over the shore or fiats to low water mark,
if not beyond one hundred rods. The private right thus
created in the flats is not a mere easement, but a title in fee,

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

which will support a real action, or an action of trespass quare
clausurTh fregit, and which may be conveyed by its owner
with or without the upland; and which be may build upon or
enclose, provided he does not impede the public right of way
over it for boats and vessels. But his title is subject to the
public rights of navigation and fishery; and therefore, so long
as the flats have not been built upon or enclosed, those public
rights are not restricted or abridged; and the State, in the
exercise of its sovereign power of police for the protection
'of harbors and the promotion of commerce, may, without
making compensation to the owners of the flats, establish
harbor lines over those flats, beyond which wharves shall not
thereafter be built, even when they would be no actual injury
to navigation. Mass. Colony Laws, (ed. 1660,) 50; (ed. 1872,)
90, 91; Boston v. Lecraw, 17 iHow. 426, 432, 433; Richardson,
v. Boston, 19 How. 263, and 24 How. 188; Comronwealth v.
Alger, 7 Cush. 53, 67-81. It is because of the ordinance
vesting the title in fee of the flats in the owner of the upland,
that a conveyance of his land bounding on the tide water,
by whatever name, whether "sea," "bay," "harbor" or
"river," has been held to include the land below high water
mark as far as the grantor owns. Boston v. Richardson, 13
Allen, 146, 155, and 105 Mass. 351, 355, and cases cited. As
declared by Chief Justice Shaw, grants by the Colony of
Massachusetts, before the ordinance, of lands bounded by tide
water did not include any land below high water mark.
Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53, 66; Commonwealth v.
Roxbury, 9 Gray, 451, 491-493. See also Litch/eld v. Scituate,
136 Mass. 39. The decision in -Manchesterv. 2fassachusetts,
139 U. S. 240, affirming 152 Mass. 230, upheld the jurisdiction
of the State, and its authority to regulate fisheries, within
a marine league from the coast.
The rule or principle of the Massachusetts ordinance has
been adopted and practised on in Plymouth, Maine, Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard, since their union with the
Massachusetts Colony under the Massachusetts Province
Charter of 1692. Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53, 76,
and other authorities collected in 9 Gray, 523.

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

In New Hampshire, a right in the shore has been recognized to belong to the owner of the adjoining upland, either
by reason of its having once been under the jurisdiction of
Massachusetts, or by early and continued usage. 2Nudd v.
Hobbs, 17 N. H. 524, 526; Clement v. Bwurns, 43 N. H. 609,
621; Concord Co. v. Robertson, 66 N. I. 1, 26, 27.
In Rhode Island, the bwners of land on tide water have
no title below high water mark; but by long usage, apparently sanctioned by a colonial statute of 1707, they have
been accorded the right to build wharves or other structures
upon the flats in front of their lands, provided they do not
impede navigation, and have not been prohibited by the
legislature; and they may recover damages against one who,
without authority from the legislature, fills up such flats so
as to impair that right. Angell on Tide Waters, (2d ed.)
236, 237; Folsom v. Freeborn, 13 R. I. 200, 204, 210. It
would seem, however, that the owner of the upland has no
right of action against any one filling up the flats by authority of the State for any public purpose. Gerhard v.
Seekok Commissioners, 15 R. I. 334:; Clark v. Providence,
16 R. I. 337.
In Connecticut, also, the title in the land below high water
mark is in the State. But by ancient usage, without any
early legislation, the proprietor of the upland has the sole
right, in the nature of a franchise, to wharf out and occupy
the flats, even below low water mark, provided he does not
interfere with navigation; and this right may be conveyed
separately from the upland; and the fee in flats so reclaimed
vests in him. Ladies' Seamen's Friend Society v. Halstead,
58 Conn. 144, 150-152; Priorv. Swartz, 62 Conn. 132, 136138. The exercise of this right is subject to all regulations
the State may see fit to impose, by authorizing commissioners
to establish harbor lines, or otherwise. State v. Sargent, 45
Conn. 358. But it has been intimated that it cannot be
appropriated by the State to a different public use, without
compensation. Farist Co. v. Bridgeport, 60 Conn. 278.
In New York, it was long considered as settled law that
the State succeeded to all the rights of the Crown and Par-

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

liament of England in lands under tide waters, and that the
owner of land bounded by a navigable river within the ebb
and flow of the tide had no private title or right in the
shore below high water mark, and was entitled to no compensation for the construction, under a grant from the legislature of the State, of a railroad along the shore between
high and low water mark, cutting off all access from his
land to the river, except across the railroad. .ansing v.
Smith, 4 Wend. 9, 21; Gould v. Rudson, River Railroad,6
N. Y. 522; Pe ple v. Tibbetts, 19 K. Y. 523, 528; People v.
Canal Appraisers, 33 N. Y. 461, 467; Langdon, v. NMew
York, 93 N. Y. 129, 144, 154-156; .Brew York v. Hart, 95
N. Y. 443, 450, 451, 457; In re Staten, Island Rapid Transit
Co., 103 N. Y. 251, 260. The owner of the upland has no
right to wharf out, without legislative authority; and titles
granted in lands under tide water are subject to the right
of the State to establish harbor lines. People v. lFanderbilt,
26 N. Y. 287, and 28 N. Y. 396; People v. NYew York &
Staten Island Ferey, 68 N. Y. 71. The law of that State,
as formerly understood, has been recently so far modified
as to hold -in accordance with the decision in Buccleuch v.
-letropolitan Board of Wfroks, L. R. 5 H. L. 418, and contrary to the decisions in Gould v. Hudson River Railroad,
above cited, and in Stevens v. Paterson & NSewark Rail'oad, 5 Vroom, (34 N. J. Law,) 532- that the owner of land
bounded by tide water may maintain an action against a railroad corporation constructing its road by authority of the legislature so as to cut off his access to the water. Williams v.
NStew York, 105 N. Y. 419, 436; Kane v. New York Elevated
Railroad,125 N. Y. 164, 184; Rumsey v. New York & New
-EnglandRailroad,133 N. Y. 79, and 136 K. Y. 543.
The law of New Jersey upon this subject was recognized
and clearly stated in a recent judgment of this court, in
which a grant by commissioners under a statute of the State
to a railroad corporation, of a tract of land below high water
mark, was held to preclude a city from continuing over the
flats a highway dedicated to the public by the owner of the
upland. "In the examination of the effect to be given to

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the riparian laws of the State of New Jersey," said M r.
Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, "it is to be borne
in mind that the lands below high water mark, constituting
the shores and submerged lands of the navigable waters of
the State, were, according to its laws, the property of the
State as sovereign. Over these lands it had absolute and
exclusive dominion, including the right to appropriate them
to such uses as might best serve its views of the public interest, subject to the power conferred by the Constitution upon
Congress to regulate foreign and interstate commerce. The
object of the legislation in question was evidently to define
the relative rights of the State, representing the public
sovereignty and interest, and of the owners of land bounded
by high water mark." "The nature of the title in the State
to lands under tide water was thoroughly considered by the
Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey in the case of
Stevens v. Paterson & lewark Railroad, 5 Vrqom, (34
N. J. Law,) 532. It was there declared (p. 549) 'that all
navigable waters within the territorial limits of the State,
and the soil under such waters, belong in actual propriety to
the public; that the riparian owner, by the common law, has
no peculiar rights in this public domain as incidents of his
estate; and that the privileges he possesses by the local
custom or by force of the wharf act, to acquire such rights,
can, before possession has been taken, be regulated or revoked at the will of the legislature. The result is that there
is no legal obstacle to a grant by the legislature to the defendants of that part of the property of the public which lies
in front of the lands of the plaintiff, and which is below high
water mark.' It was therefore held, in that case, that it was
competent for the legislative power of the State to grant to
a stranger lands constituting the shore of a navigable river
under tide water, below high water mark, to be occupied and
used with structures and improvements in such a manner as
to cut off the access of the riparian owner from his land to
the water, and that without making compensation to him for
such loss." Hoboken v. Pennsylvania Railroad, (1887,) 1241
U. S. 656, 688, 690, 691.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

The arguments on both sides of that proposition, upon general principles, as well as under the law of New Jersey, are
nowhere more strongly and fully stated than by Chief Justice
Beasley delivering the opinion of the majority of the court,
and by Chancellor Zabriskie speaking for the dissenting judges,
in Stevens v. Paterson & Yewark Railroad, above cited, decided in 1870. Two years later, Chancellor Zabriskie recognized it as settled by that case, "that the lands under water,
including the shore on the tide waters of New Jersey, belong
absolutely to the State, which has the power to grant them to
any one, free from any right of the riparian owner in them."
Pennsylvania Railroad v. New York & Long Branch Railroad, 8 0. E. Green, (23 N. J. Eq.) 157, 159. See also iVew
York &e.Railroadv. Yard, 14 Vroom, (43 N. J. Law,) 632,
636; American Dock Co. v. Trustees of Public Schools, 12
Stewart, (39 N. J. Eq.) 409, 445.
In Pennsylvania, likewise, upon the Revolution, the State
succeeded to the rights, both of the Crown and of the Proprietors, in the navigable waters and the soil under them.
Rundle v. Delaware & Raritan Canal, 14 How. 80, 90; Gilman v. Phildelphia,3 Wall. 713, 726. But by the established
law of the State, the owner of lands bounded by navigable
water has the title in the soil between high and low water
mark, subject to the public right of navigation, and to the
authority of the legislature to make public improvements upon
it, and to regulate his use of it. Tinicuin Co. v. Carter, 61
Penn. St. 21, 30, 31; T]ainwright v. ilfcCullougA, 63 Penn.
St. 66, 74; Zug v. Commonwealth, 70 Penn. St. 138; Philade phia v. Scott, 81 Penn. St. 80, 86; Wall v. Pittfsburgh Earbor Co., 152 Penn. St. 427.
In Delaware, as has been declared by its Supreme Court,
"all navigable rivers within the State belong to the State, not
merely in right of eminent domain, but in actual propriety."
Boailey v. Philadelphia, Wilmington, & Baltimore Railroad,
4 Harrington, (Del.) 389, 395. And see Jillson v. Blackbird
Creek Co., 2 Pet. 245, 251.
In Maryland, the owner of land bounded by tide water is
authorized, according to various statutes beginning in 1745, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

build whar.ves or other improvements upon the flats in front
of his land, and to acquire a right in the land so improved.
Casey v. Inloes, 1 Gill, 430; Baltimore v. .fcJim, 3 Bland,
453 ; Goodsell v. Lawson, 42 Maryland, 348; Gariteev. Baltimore, 53 Maryland, 422; Horner v. Pleasants,66 Maryland,
475; Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac Steamboat
Co., 109 U. S. 672, 675, 684, in which the question was who
was the riparian owner, and as such entitled to wharf out into
the Potomac River in the District of Columbia under the
authority to do so expressly conferred under the laws of Maryland in force in the District. This court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Curtis, in affirming the right of the State of Maryland
to protect the oyster fishery within its boundaries, said: "Whatever soil below low water mark is the subject of exclusive
propriety and ownership belongs to the State on whose maritime border and within whose territory it lies, subject to any
lawful grants of that soil by the State, or the sovereign power
which governed its territory before the Declaration of Independence. But this soil is held by the State, not only subject
to, but in some sense in trust for, the enjoyment of certain
public rights, among which is the common liberty of taking
fish, as well shell fish as floating fish." Smith v. Jaryland,
18 iHow. 71, 74.
The State of Virginia was held by this court, upon like
grounds, to have the right to prohibit persons not citizens of
the State from planting oysters in the soil covered by tide
waters within the State, Chief Justice Waite saying: "The
principle has long been settled in this court, that each State
owns the beds of all tide waters within its jurisdiction, unless
they have been granted away. In like manner, the States
own the tide waters themselves, and the fish in them, so far
as they are capable of ownership while running. For this
purpose the State represents its people, and the ownership is
that of the people in their united sovereignty. The title thus
held is subject to the paramount right of navigation, the regulation of which, in respect to foreign and interstate commerce,
has been granted to the United States." -lcCready v. firginia, 94 U. S. 391, 394. In Virginia, by virtue of statutes

SHIVE.LY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

beginning in 1679, the owner of land bounded by tide waters
has the title to ordinary low water mark, and the right to
build wharves, provided they do not obstruct navigation. 5
Opinions of Attorneys General, 412, 435-440; French v.
Bankhead, 11 Grattan, 136, 159-161; Hardy v. .[oCullough,
23 Grattan, 251, 262; Norfolk v. Cooke, 27 Grattan, 430, 434,
435; Garrison v. Hall, 75 Virginia, 150.
In North Carolina, when not otherwise provided by statute,
the private ownership of land bounded by navigable waters
stops at high water mark, and the land. between high and low
water mark belongs to the State and may be granted by it.
Hatfield v. G'rimstead, 7 Iredell, 139; Lewis v. Yeeling, 1
Jones, (No. Car.) 299, 306. The statutes of that State, at different periods, have either limited grants of land, bounded on
navigable waters, to high water mark; or have permitted
owners of the shore to make entries of the land in front, as
far as deep water, for the purpose of a wharf; and any owner
of the shore appears to have the right to wharf out, subject
to such regulations as the legislature may prescribe for the
protection of the public rights of navigation and fishery.
Wilson v. Forbes, 2 Dev. 30; Collins v. Benlunry, 3 Iredell,
277, and 5 Iredell, 118; Cregory v. Forbes, 96 No. Car. 77;
State v. Narrows island Club, 100 No. Car. 477; Bond v.
Wool, 107 No. Car. 139.
In South Carolina, the rules of the common law, by which
the title in the land under tide waters is in the State, and a
grant of land bounded by such waters passes no title below
high water mark, appear to be still in force. State v. Pacific
Guano Co., 22 So. Car. 50; State v. .Pinckney, 22 So. Car.
484.
In Georgia, also, the rules of the common law would seem
to be in force as to tide waters, except as affected by statutes
of the State providing that "the right of the owner of lands
adjacent to navigable streams extends to low water mark in
the bed of the stream." Georgia Code of 1882, §§ 962, 2229,
2230; Howard v. Ingersoll, 13 How. 381, 411, 421; Alabama
v. Georgia, 23 How. 505; Savannah v. State, 4 Georgia, 26,
39; Young v. Harrison,6 Georgia, 130, 141.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The foregoing summary of the laws of the original States
shows that there is no universal and uniform law upon the
subject; but that each State has dealt with the lands under
the tide waters within its borders according to its own views
of justice and policy, reserving its own control over such lands,
or granting rights therein to individuals or corporations,
whether owners of the adjoining upland or not, as it considered
for the best interests of the public. Great caution, therefore,
is necessary in applying precedents in one State to cases arising in another.
IV. The new States admitted into the Union since the
adoption of the Constitution have the same rights as the
original States in the tide waters, and in the lands below
the high water mark, within their respective jurisdictions.
The act of 1783 and the deed of 1784, by which the State
of Virginia, before the adoption of the Constitution, ceded
"unto the United States in Congress assembled, for the benefit
of the said States, all right, title and claim, as well of soil
as jurisdiction," to the Northwest Territory, and the similar
cession by the State of Georgia to the United States in 1802
of territory including great part of Alabama and of Mississippi,
each provided that the territory so ceded should be formed
into States, to be admitted, on attaining a certain population,
into the Union, (in the words of the Virginia cession) "having
the same rights of sovereignty, freedom and independence
as the other States," or (in the words of the Ordinance of
Congress of July 13, 1787, for the government of the Northwest Territory, adopted in the Georgia cession) "on an equal
footing with the original States in all respects whatever;"
and that "all the lands within" the territory so ceded to the
United States, and not reserved or appropriated for other
purposes, should be considered as a common fund for the use
and benefit of the United States. Charters and Constitutions,
427, 428, 432, 433; Clayton's Laws of Georgia, pp. 48-51;
Acts of Congress of April 7, 1798, c. 28; 1 Stat. 549; May
10, 1800, c. 50, and March 3, 1803, c. 27; 2 Stat. 69, 229;
Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 221, 222.
In Pollard v. Hagan, (1844,) this court, upon full con-

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

sideration, (overruling anything to the contrary in Pollardv.
.ibbe, 14 Pet. 353; J1obile v. .Eslva,16 Pet. 234; -Mobile
v. Hallett, 16 Pet. 261; -Mobile v. Emanuel, 1 How. 95; and
Pollard v. Files, 2 flow. 591,) adjudged that upon the
admission of the State of Alabama into the Union, the title
in the lands below high water mark of navigable waters
passed to the State, and could not afterwards be granted
away by the Congress of the United States. Mr. Justice
McKinley, delivering the opinion of the court, (Mr. Justice
Catron alone dissenting,) said: "We think a proper examination of this subject will show, that the United States never
held any municipal sovereignty, jurisdiction or right of soil,
in and to the territory of which Alabama or any of the new
States were formed; except for temporary purposes, and to
execute the trusts created by the acts of the Virginia and
Georgia legislatures, and the deeds of cession executed by
them to the United States, and the trust created by the treaty
with the French Republic of the 30th of April, 1803, ceding
Louisiana." "When the United States accepted the cession
of the territory, they took upon themselves the trust to hold
the municipal eminent domain for the new States, and to
invest them with it to the same extent, in all respects, that
it was held by the States ceding the territories." "When
Alabama was admitted into the Union, on an equal footing
with the original States, she succeeded to all the rights of
sovereignty, jurisdiction and eminent domain, which Georgia
possessed at the date of the cession, except so far as this right
was diminished by the public lands remaining in the possession
and under the control of the United States, for the temporary
purposes provided for in the deed of cession and the legislative
acts connected with it. Nothing remained to the United
States, according to the terms of the agreement, but the public
lands." 3 How. 221-223. "Alabama is therefore entitled
to the sovereignty and jurisdiction over all the territory within
her limits, subject to the common law, to the same extent that
Georgia possessed it before she ceded it to the United States.
To maintain any other doctrine is to deny that Alabama has
been admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

original States, the Constitution, laws and compact to the
contrary notwithstanding." "Then to Alabama belong the
navigable waters, and soils under them, in controversy in this
case, subject to the rights surrendered by the Constitution
to the United States." 3 How. 228, 229.
So much of the reasoning of the learned justice, as implied
that the title in the land below high water mark could not
have been granted away by the United States after the deed
of cession of the territory and before the admission of the
State into the Union, was not necessary to the decision, which
involved only a grant made by Congress after the admission
of Alabama, and which was followed in two similar cases in
which Congress, after the admission of the State, had undertaken to confirm Spanish grants, made after the Treaty of
San Ildefonso of 1800, and therefore passing no title whatever.
Goodtitle v. ibbe, (1850,) 9 How. 4'71; Hallett v. Beebe, (1851,)
13 How. 25. In the first of these cases, Chief Justice Taney,
speaking for the whole court, of which Mr. Justice McKinley
was still a member, said: "Undoubtedly Congress might have
granted this land to the patentee, or confirmed his Spanish
grant, before Alabama became a State. But this was not
done. And the existence of this imperfect and inoperative
Spanish grant could not enlarge the power of the United
States over the place in question after Alabama became a
State, nor authorize the general government to grant or confirm a title to land when the sovereignty and dominion over
it had become vested in the State." 9 How. 478.
V. That these decisions do not, as contended by the learned
counsel for the plaintiff in error, rest solely upon the terms of the
deed of cession from the State of Georgia to the United States,
clearly appears from the constant recognition of the same
doctrine as applicable to California, which was acquired from
Mexico by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo of 1848. 9 Stat.
926; Urnited States v. Pacheco, (1861,) 2 Wall. 587; f umford
v. Wardwell, (1867,) 6 Wall. 423; Tfeber v. H~arbor Commissioners, (1874,) 18 Wall. 57; Packerv. Bird, (1891,) 137 U. S.
661, 666; San -Franciscov. Le Roy, (1891,) 138 U. S. 656, 671;
Knight v. United StateslandAssociation, (1891,) 142 U. S. 161.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

In United States v. Pacheco, it was decided that a grant
from the Mexican government, confirmed by a decree of a
court of the United States under authority of Congress, of
laud bounded "by the bay" of San Francisco, did not include
land below ordinary high water mark of the bay; because,
as was said by Mr. Justice Field, in delivering judgment, "By
the common law, the shore of the sea, and, of course, of arms
of the sea, is the land between ordinary high and low water
mark, the land over which the daily tides ebb and flow.
When, therefore, the sea, or a bay, is named as a boundary,
the line of ordinary high water mark is always intended where
the common law prevails. And there is nothing in the language of the decree which requires the adoption of any other
rule in the present case. If reference be had to the rule of
the civil law, because the bay is given as a boundary in the
grant from the Mexican government, the result will be equally
against the position of the appellants." 2 Wall. 590.
The State of California was admitted into the Union in
1850, and within a year afterwards passed statutes, declaring
that a certain line designated upon a recorded plan should
"be and remain a permanent water front" of the city of
San Francisco; reserving to the State "its right to regulate
the construction of wharves or other improvements, so that
they shall not interfere with the shipping and commercial
interests of the bay and harbor;" and providing that the city
might construct wharves at the end of all the streets commencing with the bay, not exceeding two hundred yards beyond that line, and that the spaces beyond, between the
wharves, should remain free from obstructions and be used as
public slips. In Ifreber v. Haw'bor Commissioners, it was held
that a person afterwards acquiring the title of the city in a
lot and wharf below high water mark had no right to complain of works constructed by commissioners of the State,
under authority of the legislature, for the protection of the
harbor and the convenience of shipping, in front of his wharf,
and preventing the approach of vessels to it; and Mr. Justice
Field, in delivering judgment, said: "Although the title to
the soil under the tide waters of the bay was acquired by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

United States by cession from Mexico, equally with the title
to the upland, they held it only in trust for the future State.
Upon the admission of California into the Union upon equal
footing with the original States, absolute property in, and
dominion and sovereignty over, all soils under the tide waters
within her limits passed to the State, with the consequent
right to dispose of the title to any part of said soils in such
manner as she might deem proper, subject only to the paramount right of navigation over the waters, so far as such
navigation might be required by the necessities of commerce
with foreign nations or among the several States, the regulation of which was vested in the general government." 18
Wall. 65, 66.
In the very recent case of Knight v. UnitedZ States Land
Association, Mr. Justice Lamar, in delivering judgment, said:
"It is the settled rule of law in this court that absolute property in, and dominion and sovereignty over, the soils under the
tide waters in the original States were reserved to the several
States; and that the new States since admitted have the same
rights, sovereignty and jurisdiction in that behalf, as the original States possess within their respective borders. Upon the
acquisition of the territory from Mexico, the United States
acquired the title to tide lands, equally with the title to upland;
but with respect to the former they held it only in trust for
the future States that might be erected out of such territory."
142 U. S.183. In support of these propositions he referred to
.fartin v. Taddell, Pollardv. Rbagan, _Mumford v. Wardwell,
and TWeber v. Harbor Commissioners, above cited.
In that case, it was further held, as it had previously been
declared in San Francisco v. Ze Roy, above cited, that "this
doctrine does not apply to lands that had been previously
granted to other parties by the former government, or subjected to trusts which would require their disposition in some
other way;" and that when the United States acquired
California from Mexico by the treaty, they were bound by its
stipulations, and by the principles of international law, to
protect all rights of property acquired under previous lawful
grants from the Mexican government. 142 U. S. 183, 184.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

And it was therefore adjudged that under a boundary "by
the bay," in the Mexican grant of the pueblo of San Francisco,
duly confirmed by a decree of a court of the United States,
and defined by a survey under the authority of the Secretary
of the Interior as following the general line of high water
mark of the bay, crossing the mouth of a tide water creek,
the title of lands inside of that line, although below high
water mark of the creek, was included, and therefore did not
pass by a deed from the State.
VI. The decisions of this court, referred to at the bar,
regarding the shores of waters where the ebb and flow of the
tide from the sea is not felt, but which are really navigable,
should be considered with reference to the facts upon which
they were made, and keeping in mind the local laws of the
different States, as well as the provisions of the acts of Congress relating to such waters.
By the law of England, Scotland and Ireland, the owners of
the banksp2'imafacie own the beds of all fresh water rivers
above the ebb and flow of the tide, even if actually navigable,
to the thread of the stream, vsque adfflumr ayum. Lord Hale,
in Hargrave's Law Tracts, 5; Bickett v. 2forris, L. R. 1 H. L.
Sc. 47;
uiy12)hy v. Ryan, Ir. R. 2 C. L. 143; Orr Ewing v.
COlquIhoun, 2 App. Cas. 839.
The rule of the common law on this point appears to have
been followed in all the original States- except in Pennsylvania, Virginia and North Carolina, and except as to great
rivers such as the Hudson, the Mohawk and the St. Lawrence
in New York-as well as in Ohio, Illinois, M ichigan and
Wisconsin. But it has been wholly rejected, as to rivers
navigable in fact, in Pennsylvania, Virginia and North Carolina, and in most of the new States. For a full collection and
careful analysis of the cases, see Gould on Waters, (2d ed.)

56-78.
The earliest judicial statement of the now prevailing doctrine in this country as to the title in the soil of rivers really
navigable, although above the ebb and flow of the tide, is to
be found in a case involving the claim of a riparian proprietor
to an exclusive fishery in the Susquehanna River, in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Chief Justice Tilghman in 1807, after observing that the rule
of the common law upon the subject had not been adopted
in Pennsylvania, said: "The common law principle is, in fact,
that the owners of the banks have no right to the water of
navigable rivers. Now the Susquehanna is a navigable river,
and therefore the owners of its banks have no such right. It
is said, however, that some of the cases assert that by navigable rivers are meant rivers in which there is no flow or reflow
of the tide. This definition may be very proper in England,
where there is no river of considerable importance as to navigation, which has not a flow of the tide; but it would be
highly unreasonable when applied to our large rivers, such as
the Ohio, Allegheny, Delaware, Schuylkill, or Susquehanna
and its branches." Carson v. Blazer, 2 Binney, 475, 477, 478.
It was because of this difference in the law of Pennsylvania
from that of England and of most of the older States, and
because the decisions of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
upon the subject were deemed binding precedents, that this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Grier, held that riparian
owners, erecting dams on navigable rivers in Pennsylvania,
did so only by license from the State, revocable at its pleasure,
and could therefore claim no compensation for injuries caused
to such dams by subsequent improvements under authority of
the State for the convenience of navigation; and also that by
the law of Pennsylvania preemption rights to islands in such
rivers could not be obtained by settlement. Rundle v. Delaware & Raritan Canal,(1852,) 14 How. 80, 91, 93, 94; Fisher
v. Haldeman, (1857,) 20 How. 186, 194.
By the acts of Congress for the sale of the public lands,
those lands are to be divided into townships, six miles square,
unless fhe line of an Indian reservation, or of land previously
surveyed and patented, or "the course of navigable rivers,
may render it impracticable," and into sections and quarter
sections, bounded by north and south and east and west lines,
running to the corners, or, when the corners cannot be fixed,
then, "to the watercourse," "or other external boundary;"
and it is provided "that all navigable rivers within the territory to be disposed of by virtue of this act shall be deemed to

SHIVELY o. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

be and remain public highways; and that in all cases where
the opposite banks of any stream not navigable shall belong
to different persons, the stream and the bed thereof shall be
common to both." Acts of May 18, 1796, c. 29, §§ 2, 9; 1 Stat.
464; May 10, 1800, c. 55, § 3; March 3, 1803, c. 27, § 17;
March 26, 1804, c. 35, § 6; February 11, 1805, c. 14; 2 Stat. 73,
235, 279, 313; Rev. Stat. §§ 2395, 2396, 2476.
Those acts also provide that when, in the opinion of the
President, "a departure from the ordinary method of surve3?ing land on any river, lake, bayou or watercourse, would
promote the public interest," the land may be surveyed and
sold in tracts of two acres in width, fronting on any such
water, and running back the depth of forty acres. Act of
May 24, 1844, c. 141; 4 Stat. 34; Rev. Stat. § 2407.
By the Ordinance of 1787 for the government of the Northwest Territory, "the navigable waters leading into the
Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places
between the same, shall be common highways, and forever
free, as well to the inhabitants of the said Territory as to the
citizens of the United States, and those of any other States
that may be admitted into the confederacy." Charters and
Constitutions, 432; Act of August 7, 1789, c. 8; 1 Stat. 50.
And the acts relating to the Territories of Louisiana and
Missouri contained similar provisions. Acts of March 3, 1$11,
c. 46, § 12; June 4, 1812, c. 95, § 15; 2 Stat. 666, 747.
In the acts for the admission of the States of Louisiana and
Mississippi into the Union, it was likewise declared that "the
river Mississippi, and the navigable rivers and waters leading
into the same, or into the Gulf of Mexico, shall be common
highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the
said State, as to other citizens of the United States." Acts
of February 20, 1811, c. 21, § 3; April 8, 1812, c. 50, § 1; 2
Stat. 642, 703; March 1, 1817, c. 23, § 4; 3 Stat. 349.
In IFithers v. Buckley, (1857,) 20 How. 84, this court,
affirming the judgment of the highest court of Mississippi in
29 Mississippi, 21, held that this did not prevent the legislature
of the State from improving by a canal the navigation of
one of those navigable rivers, and thereby diverting without
VOL. CLT--:3

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

compensation the flow of water by the plaintiff's land; and
Mr. Justice Daniel, in .delivering judgment, said: "It cannot
be imputed to Congress that they ever designed to forbid, or
to withhold from the State of Mississippi, the power of improving the interior of that State, ,by means either of roads
or canals, or by regulating the rivers within its territorial
limits, although a plan of improvement to be adopted might
embrace or affect the course or the flow of rivers situated
within the interior of the State. Could such an intention
be ascribed to Congress, the right to enforce it may be confidently denied. Clearly, Congress could exact of the new
State the surrender of no attribute inherent in her character
as a sovereign independent State, or indispensable to her
equality with her sister States, necessarily implied and
guaranteed by the very nature of the Federal compact.
Obviously, and it may be said primarily, among the incidents
of that equality is the right to make improvements in the
rivers, watercourses and highways, situated within the State."
20 How. 93. See also Willamette B','idge Co. v. Hatch, 125
U. S. 1, 9-12; Alonongahela Co. v. Unitecl States, 148 U. S.
312, 329-333.
In The Genesee Chief, (1851,) 12 How. 443, in which this
court, overruling its earlier decisions, held that the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
extended to all public navigable waters, although above the
flow of the tide from the sea, Chief Justice Taney, taking
the same line of argument as Chief Justice Tilghman in
Carson v. Blazer, above cited, said that in England, where
there were no navigable streams beyond the ebb and flow
of the tide, the description of the admiralty jurisdiction as
confined to tide waters was a reasonable and convenient one,
and was equivalent to saying that it was confined to public
navigable waters; but that, when the same description was
used in this country, "the description of a public navigable
river was substituted in the place of the thing intended to be
described; and, under the natural influence of precedents and
established forms, a definition originally correct was adhered
to and acted on, after it had ceased, from a change in circum-

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

stances, to be the true description of public waters." 12 How.
454, 455.
In Jones v. Soulcrd, (1860,) 24 How. 41, the decision was that
a title acquired under the act of June 13, 1812, c. 99, (2 Stat.
748,) to land in St. Louis, bounded by the Mississippi River,
included an island west of the middle of the river, then only
a sand bar, covered at ordinary high water and surrounded
on all sides by navigable water, but which, after the admission of Missouri into the Union as a State, became, by the
gradual filling up of the island and the intervening channel,
connected with the shore as fast land. Mr. Justice Catron,
indeed, in delivering the opinion, spoke of the rule of the
common law, that "all grants of land bounded by fresh
water rivers, where the expressions designating the water
line are general, confer the proprietorship on the grantee to
the middle thread of the stream and entitle him to the accretions," as a general and well settled rule, and applicable to
the Mississippi River. 24 How. 65. But, as stated in that
opinion, the charter of the city of St. Louis extended to the
eastern boundary of the State of Missouri in the middle of
the Mississippi River. By the law of Missouri, as theretofore
declared by its Supreme Court, the title of lands bounded by
the Mississippi River extended to low water mark and included accretions.
O'Fallon v. Price, 4 Missouri, 343;
Sh eltn v. .Maupin, 16 Missouri, 124; Smith v. St. Louis
Schools, 30 Missouri, 290. And the only question in Jones v.
Soulard was of the title, not in the bed or shore of the river,
but only in accretions which had become part of the fast
land.
The rule; everywhere admitted, that where the land encroaches upon the water by gradual and imperceptible degrees, the accretion or alluvion belongs to the owner of the
land, is equally applicable to lands bounding on tide waters
or on fresh waters, and to the King or the State as to private persons; and is independent of the law governing the
title in the soil covered by the water. Lord Hale, in Hargrave's Law Tracts, 5, 14, 28; Rex v. Yarborough, in the
King's Bench, 3 B. & 0. 91, and 4 D. & R. 790, and in the

OCTOBER TER.M, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

House of Lords, 1 Dow & Clark, 178, 2 Bligh N. R. 147,
and 5 Bing. 163; Doe v. East India Co., 10 Moore P. C.
140; Foster v. Wright, 4 C. P. D. 438; Handly v. Anthony,
5 Wheat. 374, 380; Jefferis v. East Omaha Co., 134 U. S.
178, 189-193; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359; AMinto v.
Delaney, 7 Oregon, 337.
Again, in St. Clair v. Lovingston, (1874,) 23 Wall. 46, the
right of a riparian proprietor in St. Louis, which was upheld
by this court, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Illinois in 64 Illinois, 56, and which Mr. Justice Swayne,
in delivering the opinion, spoke of as resting in the law of
nature, was the right to alluvion or increase of the upland
by gradual and imperceptible degrees. And, as if to prevent
any possible inference that the decision might affect the title
in the soil under the water, the learned justice, after quoting
the opinion in Jones v. Soulard,above cited, expressly reserved
the expression of any opinion upon the question whether the
limit of the land was low water or the middle thread of
the river; and repeated the propositions established by the
earlier decisions of this court, already referred to: "By the
American Revolution, the people of each State, in their
sovereign character, acquired the absolute right to all their
navigable waters and the soil under them. The shores of
navigable waters and the soil under them were not granted
by the Constitution to the United States, but were reserved
to the States respectively. And new States have the same
rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction over this subject as the
original ones." 23 Wall. 64, 68.
Some passages in the opinions in Dytton v. Strong, (1861,)
1 Black, 23; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, (1868,) 7 Wall. 272;
and Yates v. .Milwaukee, (1870,) 10 Wall. 497, were relied on
by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error, as showing
that the owner of land adjoining any navigable water, whether
within or above the ebb and flow of the tide, has, independently of local law, a right of property in the soil below high
water mark, and the right to build out wharves so far, at least,
as to reach water really navigable.
But the remarks of Mr. Justice Clifford in the first of those

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

cases, upon which his own remarks in the second case and
those of Mr. Justice Miller in the third case were based,
distinctly recognized the diversity of laws and usages in the
different States upon this subject; and went no further than
to say that wharves, piers and landing places, "where they
conform to the regulations of the State" and do not extend
below low water mark, have never been held to be nuisances,
unless they obstruct the paramount right of navigation; that
the right of the riparian proprietor to erect such structures
in the navigable waters of the Atlantic States has been
claimed, exercised and sanctioned from the first settlement
of the country to the present time; that "different States
adopted different regulations upon the subject, and in some,
the right of the riparian proprietor rests upon immemorial
local usage ;" and that "no reason is perceived why the same
general principle should not be applicable to the lakes," so far
as to permit the owner of the adjacent land to build out as far
as where the water first becomes deep enough to be navigable.
1 Black, 31, 32. And none of the three cases called for the
laying down or defining of any general rule, independent of
local law or usage, or of the particular facts before the court.
In Dutton v. ,Strong, the defendants, being the owners and
occupants of a pier extending into Lake Michigan at Racine
in the State of Wisconsin, were sued for cutting the hawser
by which the plaintiffs had fastened their vessel to the pier
during a storm, in consequence of which she was driven, by
the force of the wind and waves, against another pier, and
injured. And, as stated in the opinion, the pier appeared to
be the private property of the defendants, constructed for
their own use; there was no evidence that it constituted any
obstruction whatever to the public right of navigation;
the plaintiffs' vessel was made fast to it by her master without
any authority from the defendants, either express or implied;
and, under the increasing strain of the hawser by the storm,
the piles of the pier began to give way before the hawser was
cut. The only point adjudged was that, the plaintiffs' vessel
having been wrongfully attached to the pier, the defendants,
after she had been requested and had refused to leave, had

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the right to out her loose, if necessary to preserve the pier
from destruction or injury. 1 Black, 33, 34. There can be
no doubt of the correctness of that decision; for, even if the
pier had been unlawfully erected by the defendants as against
the State, the plaintiffs had no right to pull it down or injure
it, and upon the facts of the case were mere trespassers upon
the defendants' possession. Linthicum v. Ray, 9 Wall. 241;
Wetmore v. Brooklyn Gaslight Co., 42 N. Y. 384; Harington
v. Edwards, 17 Wisconsin, 604; Johnson v. Baorret, Aleyn,
10 11.
In Railroad Co. v. Schurneir, the plaintiff claimed title to
lots in a block iii the city of St. Paul and State of Mlinnesota under a patent from the United States of a fractional
section, bounded on one side by the Mississippi River. At
the place in question there was a small island, lying along the
shore of the river, about four feet lower than the mainland,
and separated from it by a chafinel or slough twenty-eight
feet wide, in which at very low water there was no current,
and very little water, and that standing in pools; at a medium
stage of the water the island was not covered, and there was
a current or flow through the channel *orslough; and at very
high water the island was submerged. In the original government survey, the meander lines were run along the mainlafd of the shore, the quantity of land was estimated accordingly, and the island and intervening space were not shown
or mentioned. That island and space were afterwards filled
up by the city as a landing place, and were claimed by the
railroad company under a subsequent survey and grant from
the United States. The island, therefore, was connected
with the mainland by a space substantially uncovered at low
water; and the improvements complained of did not extend
beyond high water mark of the island. The question in controversy was whether the plaintiff's patent was limited by the
main shore, or extended to the outside of the island. The
Supreme Court of Minnesota held that, by the law of Minnesota, land bounded by a navigable river extended to low water
mark, at least, if not to the thread of the river; and that the
plaintiff's title therefore extended to the water's edge at low

SHIVELY v. BOW-LBY.
Opinion of the Court.

water mark and included the island, and gave judgment for
the plaintiff. 10 Minnesota, 82. This court affirmed the
judgment, saying: "Express decision of the Supreme Court
of the State was, that the river, in this case, and not the
meander line, is the west boundary of the lot, and in that conclusion of the state court we entirely concur. Meander lines
are run in surveying fractional portions of the public lands
bordering upon navigable rivers, not as boundaries of the
tract, but for the purpose of defining the sinuosities of the
banks of the stream, and as the means of ascertaining
the quantity of land in the fraction subject to sale, and which
is to be paid for by the purchaser. In preparing the official
plat from the field notes, the meander line is represented as
the border line of the stream, and shows, to a demonstration,
that the watercourse, and not the meander line as actually
run on the land, is the boundary." 7 Wall. 286, 287. The
court also expressed an unhesitating opinion that "Congress,
in making a distinction between streams navigable and those
not navigable, intended to provide that the common law rules
of riparian ownership should apply to lands bordering on the
latter, but that the title to lands bordering on navigable
streams should stop at the stream, and that all such streams
should be deemed to be and remain public highways." And
the court treated it as too plain for discussion, that the island,
separated from the mainland only by a depression in which
at low water there was no continuous flow or line of water,
was included in the first survey, and therefore not affected by
the subsequent survey. 7 Wall. 288, 289.
In Yates v. .ilwaukee, the material facts appear by the
report to have been as follows: The owner of a lot fronting
on a river in the city of Milwaukee and State of Wisconsin
had built, upon land covered by water of no use for the purpose of navigation, a wharf extending to the navigable channel of the river. There was no evidence that the wharf was
an obstruction to navigation, or was in any sense a nuisance.
The city council afterwards, under a statute of the State,
enacted before the wharf was built, authorizing the city council to establish dock and wharf lines upon the banks of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

river, to restrain and prevent encroachments upon and obstructions to the river, and to cause the river to be dredged, passed
an ordinance declaring this wharf to be an obstruction to
navigation and a nuisance, and ordering it to be abated. The
point adjudged was that the mere declaration of the city
council that the wharf already built and owned by the plaintiff was a nuisance did not make it such, or subject it to be
removed by authority of the city. It was recognized in the
opinion that by the law of Wisconsin, established by the decisions of its Supreme Court, the title of the owner of land
bounded by a navigable river extended to the centre of the
stream, subject, of course, to the public right of navigation.
Jones v. Pettibone,2 Wisconsin, 308; Walker v. Skepardson,
2 Wisconsin, 384, and 4 Wisconsin, 486; -Marinerv. Schulte,
13 Wisconsin, 692; Arnold v. Elmore, 16 Wisconsin, 536.
See also Olson v. -Merrill,42 Wisconsin, 203; .Norcross v.
Gri~flths, 65 Wisconsin, 599. And the only decision of that
court, which this court considered itself not bound to follow,
was Yates v. Judd, 18 Wisconsin, 118, upon the question of
fact whether certain evidence was sufficient to prove a dedication to the public. 10 Wall. 504-506.
VII. The later judgments of this court clearly establish
that the title and rights of riparian or littoral proprietors in
the soil below high Water mark of navigable waters are governed by the local laws of the several States, subject, of course,
to the rights granted to the United States by the Constitution.
In iWeber v. Harbor Cormissioners,above cited, Mr. Justice
Field, in delivering judgment, while recognizing the correctness
of the doctrine "that a riparian proprietor, whose land is
bounded by a navigable stream, has the right of access to the
navigable part of the stream in front of his land, and to construct a wharf or pier projecting into the stream, for his own
use, or the use of others, subject to such general rules and
regulations as the legislature may prescribe for the protection
of the public," and admitting that in several of the States, by
general legislation or immemorial usage, the proprietor of
land bounded by the shore of the sea, or of an arm of the sea,
has a right to wharf out to the point where the waters are

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinioii of the Court.

navigable, said: "In the absence of such legislation or usage,
however, the common law rule would govern the rights of the
proprietor, at least in those States where the common law
obtains. By that law, the title to the shore of the sea, and of
the arms of the sea, and in the soils under tide waters is, in
England, in the King, and, in this country, in the State. Any
erection thereon without license is, therefore, deemed an
encroachment upon the property of the sovereign, or, as it is
termed in the language of the law, a purpresture, which he
may remove at pleasure, whether it tends to obstruct navigation or otherwise." 18 Wall. 64, 65.
In Atlee v. Packet Co., (1874,) 21 Wall. 389, which arose in
Iowa in 1871, Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering judgment, after
referring to Dutton v. St ng, Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir', and
Yates v. .Milwaukee, above cited, disclaimed laying down any
invariable rule as to the extent to which wharves and landing
places might be built out into navigable waters by private
individuals or municipal corporations; and recognized that a
State might, by its legislation, or by authority expressly or
impliedly delegated to municipal governments, control the
construction, erection and use of such wharves or landings, so
as to secure their safety and usefulness, and to prevent their
being obstructions to navigation. 21 Wall. 392, 393. And
it was adjudged, following in this respect the opinion of the
Circuit Court in 2 Dillon, 479, that a riparian proprietor had
no right, without statutory authority, to build out piers into
the Mississippi River as necessary parts of a boom to receive
and retain logs until needed for sawing at his mill by the
water side.
In Railway Co. v. Renwick, (1880,) 102 U. S. 180, affirming
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa in 49 Iowa, 664,
it was by virtue of an express statute passed by the legislature of Iowa in 1874, that the owner of a similar pier and
boom recovered compensation for the obstruction of access
to it from the river by the construction of a railroad in front
of it.
In Barney v. Keokuk, (1876,) 94 U. S. 324, the owner,
under a grant from the United States, of two lots of land in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the city of Keokuk and State of Iowa, bounded by the Mississippi IRiver, brought an action of ejectment against the
city and several railroad companies and a steamboat company to recover possession of lands below high water mark
in front of his lots, which the city, pursuant to statutes of
the State, had filled up as a wharf and levee, and had permitted to be occupied by the railroads and landing places of
those companies. The plaintiff's counsel relied on Dutton
v. Strong, Railroad Co..v. Schurmeir and Yates v. Milwaukee,
above cited. 94 U. S. 329, 331. But this court, affirming
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States, held
that the action could not be maintained; and Mr. Justice
Bradley, in delivering judgment, summed up the law upon
the subject with characteristic power and precision, saying:
"It appears to be the settled law of that State that the title
of the riparian proprietors on the banks of the Mississippi
extends only to ordinary high water mark, and that the
shore between high and low water mark, as well as the bed
of the river, belongs to the State. This is also the common
law with regard to navigable waters; although, in England,
no waters are deemed navigable except those in which the
tide ebbs and flows. In this country, as a general thing, all
waters are deemed navigable which are really so; and especially is it true with regard to the Mississippi and its principal
branches. The question as to the extent of the riparian
title was elaborately discussed in the case of .fe.Manus v.
Carmichael,3 Iowa, 1. The above conclusion was reached,
and has always been adhered to in that State. Haight v.
Xeokuk, 4 Iowa, 199; Torrdin v. Dubuque &c. Railroad, 32
Iowa, 106." "It is generally conceded that the riparian
title attaches to subsequent accretions to the land, effected
by the gradual and imperceptible operation of natural
causes. But whether it attaches to land reclaimed by artificial means from the bed of the river, or to sudden accretions produced by unusual floods, is a question which each
State decides for itself. By the common law, as before
remarked, such additions to the land on navigable waters
belong to the Crown; but, as the only waters recognized in

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

England as navigable were tide waters, the rule was often
expressed as applicable to tide waters only, although the
reason of the rule would equally apply to navigable waters
above the flow of the tide; that reason being that the public
authorities ought to have entire control of the great passageways of commerce and navigation, to be exercised for the
public advantage and convenience. The confusion of navigable with tide water, found in the monuments of the common law, long prevailed in this country, notwithstanding the
broad differences existing between the extent and topography of the British island and that of the American continent. It had the influence for two generations of excluding
the admiralty jurisdiction from our great rivers and inland
seas; and under the like influence it laid the foundation in
many States of doctrines, with regard to the ownership of
the soil in navigable waters above tide water, at variance
with sound principles of public policy. Whether, as rules of
property, it would now be safe to change these doctrines
where they have been applied, as before remarked, is for
the several States themselves to determine. If they choose
to resign to the riparian proprietor rights which properly
belong to them in their sovereign capacity, it is not for
others to raise objections. In our view of the subject, the
correct principles were laid down in -rftin v. Waddell,
16 Pet. 367; Pollard v. Ragan, 3 How. 212; and Goodtitle
v. Eibbe, 9 How. 471. These cases related to tide water, it
is true; but they enunciate principles which are equally
applicable to all navigable waters. And since this court,
in the case of The Genesee CMief, 12 How. 443, has declared
that the Great Lakes and other navigable waters of the
country, above as well as below the flow of the tide, are, in
the strictest sense, entitled to the denomination of navigable
waters, and amenable to the admiralty jurisdiction, there
seems to be no sound reason for adhering to the old rule as
to the proprietorship of the beds and shores of such waters.
It properly belongs to the States by their inherent sovereignty, and the United States has wisely abstained from
extending (if it could extend) its survey and grants beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the limits of high water. The cases in which this court has
seemed to hold a contrary view depeided, as most cases
must depend, on the local laws of the States in which the
lands were situated. In Iowa, as before stated, the more
correct rule seems to have been adopted after a most elaborate investigation of the subject." 94 U. S. 336-338.
In St. Louis v. -Myers, (1885,) 113 U. S. 566, the court, speaking by Chief Justice Waite, held that the act of Congress for
the admission into the Union of the State of Missouri, bounded
by the Mississippi River, which declared that the river should
be "a common highway and forever free," left the rights of
riparian owners to be settled according to the principles of
state law; and that no Federal question was involved in a
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri as to
the right of a riparian proprietor in the city of St. Louis to
maintain an action against the city for extending one of its
streets into the river so as to divert the natural course of the
water and thereby to injure his property.
In Packer-v. Bird, (1891,) 137 U. S.661, the general rules
governing this class of cases were clearly and succinctly laid
down by the court,. speaking by Mr. Justice Field, as follows:
"The courts of the United States will construe the grants of
the general government without reference to the rules of construction adopted by the States for their grants; but whatever
incidents or rights attach to the ownership of property conveyed by the government will be determined by the States,
subject to the condition that their rules do not impair the
efficacy of the grants, or the use and enjoyment of the property by the grantee. As an incident of such ownership, the
right of the riparian owner, where the waters are above the
influence of the tide, will be limited according to the law of
the State, either to low or high water mark, or will extend to
the middle of the stream." 137 U. S.669, 670. And it was
accordingly held, affirming the judgment of the Supreme
Court of California in 71 California, 134, and referring to the
opinion in Ba'ney v. Keokuk, above cited, as specially applicable to the case, that a person holding land under a patent from
the United States, confirming a Mexican grant bounded by the

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

Sacramento River, which was navigable in fact, took no title
below the high water mark, either under the acts of Congress
or by the local law.
In St. Louis v. Butz, (1891,) 138 U. S. 226, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Blatchford, and referring to Barney v.
t. Zouis v. -Myers and Packer v. Bird, above cited,
.eokuk,
said: "The question as to whether the fee of the plaintiff, as
a riparian proprietor on the Mississippi River, extends to the
middle thread of the stream, or only to the water's edge, is a
question in regard to a rule of property, which is governed
by the local law of Illinois." And it was because "the Supreme
Court of Illinois has established and steadily maintained, as a
rule of property, that the fee of the riparian owner of lands
in Illinois bordering on the Mississippi River extends to the
middle line of the main channel of that river," that it was
decided that a deed of land in Illinois, bounded by the Mississippi River, passed the title in fee in the bed of the river to
the middle line of the main channel, and to all islands found
in the bed of the river east of the middle of that channel;
and, "that being so, it is impossible for the owner of an island
which is situated on the west side of the middle of the river,
and in the State of Missoui, to extend his ownership, by
mere accretion, to land situated in the State of Illinois, the
title in fee to which is vested by the law of Illinois in the
riparian owner of the land in that State." 138 U. S. 242, 250.
In the recent case of liardiin v. Jordan, (1891,) 140 U. S.
371, in which there was a difference of opinion upon the question whether a survey and patent of the United States,
bounded by a lake which was not navigable, in the State of
Illinois, was limited by the margin, or extended to the centre
of the lake, all the justices agreed that the question must be
determined by the law of Illinois. Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the majority of the court, and referring to many
cases already cited above, said: "With regard to grants of
the government for lands bordering on tide water, it has been
distinctly settled that they only extend to high water mark,
and that the title to the shore and lands under water in front
of lands so granted enures to the State within which they are

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

situated, if a State has been organized and established there.
Such title to the shore and lands under water is regarded as
incidental to the sovereignty of the State -a portion of the
royalties belonging thereto, and held in trust for the public
purposes of navigation and fishery -and cannot be retained
or granted out to individuals by the United States. Such
title being in the State, the lands are subject to state regulation and control, under the condition, however, of not interfering with the regulations which may be made by Congress
with regard to public navigation and commerce. The State
may even dispose of the usufruct of such lands, as is frequently
done by leasing oyster beds in them, and granting fisheries in
particular localities; also, by the reclamation of submerged
fiats, and the erection of wharves and piers and other adventitious aids of commerce. Sometimes large areas so reclaimed
are occupied by cities, and are put to other public or private
uses, state control and ownership therein being supreme,
subject only to the paramount authority of Congress in making
regulations of commerce, and in subjecting the lands to the
necessities and uses of commerce. This right of the States to
regulate and control the shores of tide waters and the land
under them is the same as thaf which is exercised by the
Crown in England. In this country the same rule has been
extended to our great navigable lakes, which are treated as
inland seas; and also, in some of the States, to navigable
rivers, as the XMississippi, the Missouri, the Ohio, and, in Pennsylvania, to all the permanent rivers of the State; but it
depends on the law of each State to what waters and to what
extent this prerogative of the State over the lands under
water shall be exercised." 140 U. S. 381, 382. And Mr.
Justice Brewer, in beginning the dissenting opinion, said:
"Beyond all dispute, the settled law of this court, established
by repeated decisions, is that the question how far the title of
a riparian owner extends is one of local law. For a determination of that question the statutes of the State and the
decisions of its highest court furnished the best and the final
authority." 140 U. S. 402.
In the yet more recent case of Illinois Central Railroadv.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

Illinois, (1892,) which also arose in Illinois, it was recognized
as the settled law of this country that the ownership of and
dominion and sovereignty over lands covered by tide waters,
or navigable lakes, within the limits of the several States,
belong to the respective States within which they are found,
with the consequent right to use or dispose of any portion
thereof, when that can be done without substantial impairment of the interest of the public in such waters, and subject
to the paramount right of Congress to control their navigation
so far as may be necessary for the regulation of commerce.
146 U. S. 387, 435-437, 465, 474.
VIII. Notwithstanding the dicta contained in some of the
opinions of this court, already quoted, to the effect that Congress has no power to grant any land below high water mark
of navigable waters in a Territory of the United States, it is
evident that this is not strictly true.
Chief Justice Taney, in delivering an opinion already cited,
after the subject had been much considered in the cases from
Alabama, said: "Undoubtedly Congress might have granted
this land to the patentee, or confirmed his Spanish grant,
before Alabama became a State." Goodtitle v. Xibbe, 9 How.
471, 478. In the cases from California, already referred to,
the question whether a Mexican grant, confirmed by the
United States, did or did not include any lands below high
water masrk, was treated as depending on the terms of the
decree of confirmation by a court of the United States under
authority of CongTess. By the application of that test, no
.such lands were held to be included in United States v.
Pacheco, 2 Wall. 587, and some such lands were held to be
included in Unight v. United States Land Association, 142
U. S. 161. And in Packer v. Bi'd, 137 U. S. 661, 672, Mr.
Justice Field, speaking for the court, after referring to the
rule, as stated in Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 288,
above quoted, that Congress, by the provisions of the land
laws, intended that the title to lands bordering on navigable
streams should stop at the stream, said: "The same rule
applies when the survey is made and the patent is issued upon
-a confirmation of a previously existing right or equity of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

patentee to the lands, which in the absence of such right or
equity would belong absolutely to the United States, unless
the claim confirmed in terms embraces the land under the
waters of the stream."
By the Constitution, as is now well settled, the United
States, having rightfully acquired the Territories, and being
the only government which can impose laws upon them, have
the entire dominion and sovereignty, national and municipal,
Federal and state, over all the Territories, so long as they
remain in a territorial condition. American Ins. Co. v. Canter,
1 Pet. 511, 542; Benner v. Porter, 9 How. 235, 242; Cross v.
Harrison, 16 How. 164, 193; National Bank v. Yankton
County, 101 U. S. 129, 133; .Murpky v. Ramsey, 114 U. S.15,
44; .Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1, 42, 43;
.fcAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 1,74, 181.
We cannot doubt, therefore, that Congress has the power to
make grants of lands below high water mark of navigable
waters in any Territory of the United States, whenever it
becomes necessary to do so in order to perform international
obligations, or to effect the improvement of such lands for the
promotion and convenience of commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, or to carry out other public
purposes appropriate to the objects for which the United
States hold the Territory.
IX. But Congress has never undertaken by general laws
to dispose of such lands. And the reasons are not far to
seek.
As has been seen, by the law of England, the title in fee,
orjusprivatu, of the King or his grantee was, in the phrase
of Lord Hale, "charged with and subject to that juspublicuiM
which belongs to the King's subjects," or, as he elsewhere
puts it, "is clothed and superinduced with a jus publicum,
wherein both natives and foreigners in peace with this kingdom are interested by reason of common commerce, trade and
intercourse." Hargrave's Law Tracts, 36, 84. In the words
of Chief Justice Taney, "the country" discovered and settled
by Englishmen "was held by the King in his public and regal
character as the representative of the nation, and in trust for

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

them;" and the title and the dominion of the tide waters and
of the soil under them, in each colony, passed by the royal
charter to the grantees as "a trust for the common use of the
new community about to be established;" and, upon the
American Revolution, vested absolutely in the people of each
State "for their own common use, subject only to the rights
since surrendered by the Constitution to the general government." ifartin v. Tfraddell, 16 Pet. 367, 409-411. As
observed by 31r. Justice Curtis, "This soil is held by the State,
not only subject to, but in some sense in trust for, the enjoyment of certain public rights." Srmith v. M1aryland, 18 How.
71, 74. The title to the shore and lands under tide water,
said Mr. Justice Bradley, "is regarded as incidental to the
sovereignty of the State - a portion of the royalties belonging
thereto, and held in trust for the public purposes of navigation
and fishery." iEardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 381. And
the Territories acquired by Congress, whether by deed of
cession from the original States, or by treaty with a foreign
country, are held with the object, as soon as their population
and condition justify it, of being admitted into the Union as
States, upon an equal footing with the original States in all
respects; and the title and dominion of the tide waters and
the lands under them are held by the United States for the
benefit of the whole people, and, as this court has often said,
in cases above cited, "in trust for the future States." Pollard
v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 221, 222; Weber v. larbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57, 65; Knight v. United States Zand
Associatio-n, 142 U. S.161, 183.
The Congress of the United States, in disposing of the
public lands, has constantly acted upon the theory that those
lands, whether in the interior, or on the coast, above high
water mark, may be taken up by actual occupants, in order
to encourage the settlement of the country; but that the
navigable waters and the soils under them, whether within
or above the ebb and flow of the tide, shall be and remain
public highways; and, being chiefly valuable for the public
purposes of commerce, navigation and fishery, and for the
improvements necessary to secure and promote those purposes,
VOL. cLII-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

shall not be granted away during the period of territorial
government; but, unless in case of some international duty
or public exigency, shall be held by the United States in trust
for the future States, and shall vest in the several States,
when organized and admitted into the Union, with all the
powers and prerogatives appertaining to the older States in
regard to such waters and soils within their respective jurisdictions; in short, shall not be disposed of piecemeal to individuals as private property, but shall be held as a whole for the
purpose of being ultimately administered and dealt with for
the public benefit by the State, after it shall have become
a completely organized community.
X. The title of the United States to Oregon was founded
upon original discovery and actual settlement by citizens of
the United States, authorized or approved by the government
of the United States; as well as upon the cession of the
Louisiana Territory by France in the treaty of 1803, and the
renunciation of the claims of Spain in the treaty of 1819.
American State Papers, 6 Foreign Relations, 666; Barrow's
History of Oregon, c. 22; 8 Stat. 202, 256. While the right
to Oregon was in contest between the United States and
Great Britain, the citizens of the one and the subjects of the
other were permitted to occupy it under the Conventions of
1818 and 1827. 8 Stat. 249, 360. Its boundary on the north
was defined by the treaty with Great Britain of June 15,
1846. 9 Stat. 869. So far as the title of the United States
was derived from France or Spain, it stood as in other- territories acquired by treaty. The independent title based on
discovery and settlement was equally absolute. Johnson v.
-2M.ctosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 595; .Martin v. Wladdell, 16 Pet.
367, 409; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S.202, 212.
By the act of 1848, establishing the territorial government
of Oregon, "all laws heretofore passed in said Territory,
making grants of land, or otherwise affecting or incumbering
the title to lands," were declared to be void; and the laws of
the United States were "extended over and declared to be in
.force in .said Territory, so. far as the same, or any provision
,thereof,-may be applicable." .Act of August 14, 1848, c. 177,

SHIVELY v.,BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

%14;

9 Stat. 329. The land laws adopted by the provisional
government of Oregon, established by the people while the
sovereignty was in dispute between the United States and
Great Britain, regulated the occupation only. The settlers
had no title in the soil. The United States, on assuming
undisputed dominion over the Territory, owned all the lands
therein; and Congress had the right to confine its bounties to
settlers within just such limits as it chose. The provisions of
the general land laws of the United States were not applicable
to the Oregon Territory. And before 1850 there was no
statute under which any one could acquire a legal title from
the United States to lands in Oregon. Lownsdale v. Parris),21 How. 290, 293; Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Daven_port v. Lamb, 13 Wall. 418, 429, 430; Lamb v. Daver port, 18
Wall. 307, 314; Stark v. Starr, 94 U. S. 477, 486; Barney v.
.Dolph, 97 U. S.652, 654; Hall v. R usell, 101 U. S.503, 507,
508; -MissionarySociety v. .Dalles, 107 U. S. 336, 344.
The first act of Congress which granted to settlers titles in
such lands was the Oregon Donation Act of September 27,
1850, c. 76. That act required the lands in Oregon to be
surveyed as in the Northwest Territory; and it made grants
or donations of land, measured by sections, half sections and
quarter sections, to actual settlers and occupants. It contains
nothing indicating any intention on the part of Congress to
,depart from its settled policy of not granting to individuals
lands under tide waters or navigable rivers. 9 Stat. 496;
Rev. Stat. §§ 2395, 2396, 2409.
It is evident, therefore, that a donation claim under this
act, bounded by the Columbia River, where the tide ebbs and
flows, did not, of its own force, have the effect of passing any
title in lands below high water mark. Nor is any such effect
attributed to it by the law of the State of Oregon.
The southern part of the Territory of Oregon was admitted
into the Union as the State of Oregon, "on an equal footing
with the other States in all respects whatever,!' by the act of
February 14, 1859, c. 33; and the act of admission provided
that "the said State of Oregon shall have concurrent jurisdic-lion on the Columbia and all other rivers and waters bordering

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

on the said State of Oregon, so far as the same shall form a
common boundary to said State and any other State or States
now or hereafter to be formed or bounded by the same; and
said rivers and waters, and all the navigable waters of said
State, shall be common highways and forever free, as well to
the inhabitants of said State as to all other citizens of the
United States." 11 Stat. 383.
The settlers of Oregon, like the colonists of the Atlantic
States, coming from a country in which the common law prevailed to one that had no organized government, took with
them, as their birthright, the principles of the common law,
so far as suited to their condition in their new home. The
jurisprudence of Oregon, therefore, is based on the common
law. Van -Ness v. Pacard, 2 Pet. 137, 144 ; Nhorris v. Harris, 15 California, 226, 252; Cressey v. Tatorm, 9 Oregon, 541;
Lamb v. Starr, Deady, 350, 358.
By the law of the State of Oregon, as declared and established by the decisions of its Supreme Court, the owner of upland bounding on navigable water has no title in the adjoining
lands below high water mark, and no right to build wharves
thereon, except as expressly permitted by statutes of the State;
but the State has the title in those lands, and, unless they have
been so built upon with its permission, the right to sell and
convey them to any one, free of any right in the proprietor of
the upland, and subject only to the paramount right of navigation inherent in the public. Hinman v. Marren, 6 Oregon,
408; Parker v. Taylor, 7 Oregon, 435; Parker v. Rogers,
8 Oregon, 183; Shively v. Parker,9 Oregon, 500; McCann v.
Oregon Railway, 13 Oregon, 455; Bowlby v. Shively, 22 Oregon, 410. See also Shively v. Welck, 10 Sawyer, 136, 140, 141.
In the case at bar, the lands in controversy are below high
water mark of the Columbia River where the tide ebbs and
flows; and the plaintiff in error claims them by a deed from
John X. Shively, who, while Oregon was a Territory, obtained
from the United States a donation claim, bounded by the
Columbia River, at the place in question.
The defendants in error claim title to the lands in controversy by deeds executed in behalf of the State of Oregon, by

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

a board of commissioners, pursuant to a statute of the State
of 1872, as amended by a statute of 1874, which recited that
the annual encroachments of the sea upon the land, washing
away the shores and shoaling harbors, could be prevented only
at great expense by occupying and placing improvements upon
the tide and overflowed lands belonging to the State, and that
it was desirable to offer facilities and encouragement to the
owners of the soil abutting on such harbors to make such improvements; and therefore enacted that the owner of any land
abutting or fronting upon, or bounded by the shore of any
tide waters, should have the right to purchase the lands belonging to the State in front thereof ; and that, if he should
not do so within three years from the date of the act, they
should be open to purchase by any other person who was a
citizen and resident of Oregon, after giving notice and opportunity to the owner of the adjoining upland to purchase; and
made provisions for securing to persons who had actually
made improvements upon tide lands a priority of right so to
purchase them.
Neither the plaintiff in error nor his grantor appears to have
ever built a wharf or made any other improvement upon the
lands in controversy, or to have applied to the State to purchase them. But the defendants in error, after their purchase
from the State, built and maintained a wharf upon the part
of these lands nearest the channel, which extended several
hundred feet into the Columbia River, and at which ocean and
river craft were wont to receive and discharge freight.
The theory and effect of these statutes were stated by the
Supreme Court of the State, in this case, as follows: "Upon the
admission of the State into the Union, the tide lands became
the property of the State, and subject to its jurisdiction and disposal. In pursuance of this power, the State provided for the
sale and disposal of its tide lands by the act of 1872 and the
amendments of 1874 and 1876. Laws 1872, p. 129 ; Laws 1874,
p. 77; Laws 1876, p. 70. By virtue of these acts, the owner or
owners of any land abutting or fronting upon or bounded by
the shore of the Pacific Ocean, or of any bay, harbor or inlet
of the same, and rivers and their bays in which the tide ebbs

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and flows, within this State, were given the right to purchase
all the tide lands belonging to the State, in front of the lands
so 'owned, within a certain time and upon conditions prescribed; and providing further that in case such owner or
owners did not apply for the purchase of such tide lands, or,
having applied, failed to prosecute the same as provided by
law, then that such tide lands shall be open to purchase by
any other person who is a resident and citizen of the State of
Oregon;. but in consideration of the fact that prior to 1872,
as it would seem, these lands had been dealt with as private
property, and sometimes improved by expensive structures,
the acts further provided, in such cases, that where the bank
owners had actually sold the tide lands, then the purchaser
of the tide land from the bank owner, or a previous bank
owner, should have the right to purchase from the State.
These statutes are based on the idea that the State is the
owner of the tide lands, and has the right to dispose of them;
that there are no rights of upland ownership to interfere with
this power to dispose of them and convey private interests
therein, except such as the State saw fit to give the adjacent
owners, and to acknowledge in them and their grantees when
they had dealt with such tide lands as private property, subject,
of course, to the paramount right of navigation secured to the
public. These statutes have been largely acted upon, and many
titles acquired under them to tide lands. In the various questions
relating to tide lands which have come before the judiciary, the
validity of these statutes has been recognized and taken for
granted, though not directly passed upon." 22 Oregon, 415,416.
The substance and scope of the earlier statute of Oregon of
October 14, 1862, (General Laws of 1862, p. 96; Hill's Code
of Oregon, §§ 4227, 4228;) which is copied in the margin,'
1 An Aot to authorize the owners of land lying upon a navigable stream or
other like water to build wharves into such stream or other water, beyond
the line of low water mark.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon, as
follows:
SEC. 1. The owner of any land in this State, lying upon any navigable
stream or other like water, and within the corporate limits of any incorpo-

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

were stated by that court as follows:." It is true, the legislature of this State had made provision by which the upland
owner within the corporate limits of any incorporated town
might build wharves, prior to the acts of 1872 and 1874,
sul)ra; but within the purview of our adjudications it would,
as a matter of power, have been equally competent to have
given this privilege to others. But this act is not a grant. It
simply authorizes upland owners on navigable rivers within
the corporate limits of any incorporated town to construct
wharves in front of their land. It does not vest any right
until exercised. It is a license, revocable at the pleasure of
the legislature until acted upon or availed of. Shively did not
avail himself of the license, nor is there any pretence to that
effect. The plaintiffs have built a wharf upon and in front of
their tide land. If the act is as applicable to tide lands as
uplands on navigable waters, they have exercised the right."
22 Oregon, 420, 421.
Upon a review of its prior decisions, the court was of opinion
that by the law of Oregon, in accordance with the law as
formerly held in New York in Gould v. Hudson River Railroad, 6 N. Y. 522; with the law of New Jersey, as declared
in Stevens v. Paterson & iewark Railroad, 5 Vroom, (34
N. J. Law,) 532, and recognized in Hoboken v. Pennsylvania
Railroad, 124 U. S. 656; and with the law of the State of
rated town therein, is hereby authorized to construct a wharf or wharves upon
the same, and extend such wharf or wharves into such stream or other like
water, beyond low water mark, so far as may be necessary and convenient
for the use and accommodation of any ships or other boats or vessels that
may or can navigate such stream or other like water.
SEc. 2. The corporate authorities of the town, wherein such wharf or
wharves is proposed to be constructed, shall have power to regulate the
exercise of the privilege or franchise herein granted; and, upon the application of the person entitled to and desiring to construct such wharf or
wharves, such corporate authorities shall by ordinance, or other like mode,
prescribe the mode and extent to which the same may be exercised beyond
the line of low water mark, so that such wharf or wharves shall not be constructed any farther into such stream or other water beyond such low water
line than may be necessary and convenient for the purpose expressed in the
first section of this act, and so that the same will not unnecessarily interfere with the navigation of such stream or other like water.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Washington, on the other side of the Columbia River, as declared in Eisenbach v. Hafteld, 2 Wash. St. 236; and upon
the principles affirmed in decisions of this court, above cited,
and especially in Hardin v. Jordan,140 U. S. 371, 382; the
authority conferred by the statutes of Oregon upon upland
owners on navigable rivers to construct wharves in front of
their land did not vest any right until exercised, but was a
mere license revocable at the pleasure of the legislature until
acted upon; and that the State had the right to dispose of its
tide lands free from any easement of the upland owner.
The court thus stated its final conclusion: "From all this it
appears that when the State of Oregon was admitted into the
Union, the tide lands became its property and subject to its
jurisdiction and disposal; that in the absence of legislation or
usage, the common-law rule would govern the rights of the
upland proprietor, and by that law the title to them is in the
State; that the State has the right to dispose of them in such
manner as she might deem proper, as is frequently done in
various ways, and whereby sometimes large areas are reclaimed
and occupied by cities, and are put to public and private uses,
state control and ownership therein being supreme, subject
only to the paramount right of navigation and commerce.
The whole question is for the State to determine for itself; it
can say to what extent it will preserve its rights of ownership
in them, or confer them on others. Our State has done that
by the legislation already referred to; and our courts have
declared its absolute property in and dominion over the tide
lands, and its right to dispose of its title in such manner as it
might deem best, unaffected by any 'legal obligation to recognize the rights of either the riparian owners, or those who
had occupied such tide lands,' other than it chose to resign to
them, subject only to the paramount right of navigation and
the uses of commerce. From these considerations it results, if
we are to be bound by the previous adjudications of this court,
which have become a rule of property, and upon the faith of
which important rights and titles have become vested, and
large expenditures have been made and incurred, that the
defendants have no rights or interests in the lands in question.

SHIVELY v. BOWLBY.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon this point there is no diversity of judgment among us.
We all think that the law as adjudicated ought not to be disturbed, independent of other reasons and authorities suggested
in its support." 22 Oregon, 427.
By the law of the State of Oregon, therefore, as enacted by
its legislature and declared by its highest court, the title in
the lands in controversy is in the defendants in error; and,
upon the principles recognized and affirmed by a uniform
series of recent decisions of this court, above referred to, the
law of Oregon governs the case.
The conclusions from the considerations and authorities
above stated may be summed up as follows:
Lands under tide waters are incapable of cultivation or improvement in the manner of lands above high water mark.
They are of great value to the public for the purposes of commerce, navigation and fishery. Their improvement by individuals, when permitted, is incidental or subordinate to the
public use and right. Therefore the title and the control of
them are vested in the sovereign for the benefit of the whole
people.
At common law, the title and the dominion in lands flowed
by the tide were in the King for the benefit of the nation.
Upon the settlement of the Colonies, like rights passed to the
grantees in the royal charters, in trust for the communities to
be established. Upon the American Revolution, these rights,
charged with a like trust, were vested in the original States
within their respective borders, subject to the rights surrendered by the Constitution to the United States.
Upon the acquisition of a Territory by the United States,
whether by cession from one of the States, or by treaty with
a foreign country, or by discovery and settlement, the same
title and dominion passed to the United States, for the benefit
of the whole people, and in trust for the several States to be
ultimately created out of the Territory.
The new States admitted into the Union since the adoption.
of the Constitution have the same rights as the original States
in the tide waters, and in the lands under them, within their
respective jurisdictions. The title and rights of riparian or

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

littoral proprietors in the soil below high water mark, therefore, are governed by the laws of the several States, subject to
the rights granted to the United States by the Constitution.
The United States, while they hold the country as a Territory, having all the powers both of national and of municipal
government, may grant, for appropriate purposes, titles or
rights in the soil below high water mark of tide waters. But
they have never done so by general laws; and, unless in some
case of international duty or public exigency, have acted upon
the policy, as most in accordance with the interest of the
people and with the object for which the Territories were
acquired, of leaving the administration and disposition of the
sovereign rights in navigable waters, and in the soil under
them, to the control of the States, respectively, when organized and admitted into the Union.
Grants by Congress of portions of the public lands within a
Territory to settlers thereon, though bordering on or bounded
by navigabl6 waters, convey, of their own force, no title or
right below high water mark, and do not impair the title and
dominion of the future State when created; but leave the
question of the use of the shores by the owners of uplands to
the sovereign control of each State, subject only to the rights
vested by the Constitution in the United States.
The donation land claim, bounded by the Columbia River,
upon' which the plaintiff in error relies, includes no title or
right in the land below high water mark; and the statutes of
Oregon, under which the defendants in error hold, are a constitutional and legal exercise by the State of Oregon of its
dominion over the lands under navigable waters.
Judgment aftrrned.

