LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
Syllabus.

he has no right to call upon the company to pay him damages.
Had he been riding in the caboose, he would have been safe.
Had he taken the precaution to notice what was going on,
he could not have failed to see that a collision was imminent,
and could have jumped off. The only negligence chargeable
against the defendant was in backing the train down at too
great speed. But, giving to his own conduct as well as that
of the defendant the construction most favorable to the
plaintiff, there was no theory upon which it was proper to
submit the case to the jury. There was no negligence by the
defendant shown as occurring subsequent to the negligence
of the plaintiff, since his negligence was continuous down to
the moment of the injury. Neither was there any evidence
of a wilful or intentional negligence on the part of the
defendant for the purpose of injuring the plaintiff. None
such was averred in the complaint, and none such was shown
in the testimony.

The case of Railroad Co. v. Jones, 95

U. S. 439, is directly in point, and is decisive of this.

See

also St. Iouis & San Francisco Railway v. -Marker, 41
Arkansas, 542; Glover v. Scotten, 82 :Michigan, 369.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and
forfurtherproceedings in conformzity with this opinion.

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 225. Argued and submitted January 23, 24, 1894.-Decided March 5,1894.

An owner of grazing land in Texas, who stocks his land with cattle greatly
in excess of the number which can be fed upon it, and permits them to
go on and occupy and feed from the grass growing upon unoccupied
land of a neighboring proprietor, with no separating fence, becomes
liable to the latter for the rental value of his land so occupied.
VOL. cIr-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Tins was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Texas, September
1'?, 1888, by William Walter Phelps, to recover of the plaintiff in error, Sam. Lazarus, the rental value of 176,000 acres
of land in Texas, from April 15, 1887, at eight cents per acre
per annum. The facts of the case, as shown by the pleadings
and proofs, were substantially as follows:
In 1882 Phelps's vendor leased these lands, the sections of
which alternated with sections owned by the Texas public
school fund, to the firm of Curtis and Atkinson for five years,
at two cents per acre, for grazing purposes.. It was agreed in
the contract of lease that all improvements made by the lessees should become the property of the lessor at the expiration
of the lease. Curtis and Atkinson, in conjunction with adjoining owners, built a fence around the north, east, and west
sides of their land. These fences included the school sections
as well as those of Phelps. They did not separate the sections leased by them from the alternate school sections by
fence, nor did they apply for a lease of these alternate sections from the State until June 12, 1887. Before the lease
was granted, however, Curtis and Atkinson sold nearly all the
cattle and horses owned by them on the enclosure to Sam.
Lazarus, plaintiff in error and defendant below. Lazarus applied to the State for a lease of these alternate school lands,
and, in September, 1887, a lease was delivered to him to take
effect from the date of the application of Curtis and Atkinson,
June 12, 1887. There was a penalty under the law of Texas
for using the public lands without a lease.
Phelps became the owner of 168,300 acres April 15, 1887,
and Curtis and Atkinson held under him as tenants at will
up to the date of the sale of their stock. After the purchase
of this stock by Lazarus, some negotiations were entered into
with Phelps for a lease of the lands, but nothing came of
them. Subsequently he secured the lease of the alternate
school sections to the amount of 162,270 acres.
In the fall of 1887, the owners of the land on the south of
these sections in dispute erected a fence dividing their lands
from those of Phelps, thus entirely enclosing the 168,300 acres

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

belonging to Phelps and the alternating school sections in
one continuous tract of land.
During the tenancy of Curtis and Atkinson they had erected
two tanks, one upon the land of Phelps. The location of the
other was not proven. These tanks were subsequently used
by Lazarus. After the purchase by defendant of the stock of
Curtis and Atkinson, he contracted to pasture upon this land,
besides his own stock, one herd of 3500 head, for which he
received $5000 for the first year, and $1.65 per head until
purchased by him in 1889; and 3000 calves for which he
received $2500. The cattle owned and controlled by Lazarus
were not confined to the school sections leased by him, but
grazed upon the lands of Phelps; and the undisputed proof
was that the entire tract was overstocked, but in no other way
than by having his cattle in this enclosure, did Lazarus prevent the owner of the 168,300 acres from taking possession
or from grazing other stock thereon.
Upon this state of facts and proof as to the rental value of
the land, Phelps secured a verdict and judgment for $8417.
The defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error.
Mrb. Henry C. Coke, for plaintiff in error, submitted on his
brief.
.2L&. 1eigh Roblnson for defendant in error.
BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
MR.

JusTicE

But a single error is assigned to the action of the court
below, and that is to the charge that defendant was liable to
the plaintiff for the value of the use and occupation of the
plaintiff's land, if he had in the common enclosure more cattle
than were sufficient to consume the grass on the lands leased
of the State of Texas by the defendant.
The defendant, upon the contrary, requested the court to
charge that "in Texas, the law is that the owner of stock is
not required to keep them in an enclosure, or to prevent them

OCTOBER TERTI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

from ranging on the land of others; and that the owner of
land trespassed upon by cattle cannot recover from the owner
of the cattle damages for the trespass, unless his land is
fenced;" and further, "that to entitle the plaintiff to recover
in this suit you must believe from the evidence that the plaintiff's lands were fenced from those leased by defendant. If
there was a common enclosure around the lands of plaintiff
and those leased by defendant and no fence separating such
lands, then the plaintiff cannot recover." The views .of the
court below, concisely stated, are contained in the instruction
that if the defendant kept the enclosure so overstocked, as
plaintiff claimed, then he is liable for the value of the rent of
plaintiff's lands. The request of defendant, taken in connection with the instruction given, presents the respective views
of the law entertained by counsel upon either side, and upon
which the case turned.
The rule of the common law was admitted to be that a land
owner is not bound to fence his land against the cattle of
others. The owner of such cattle must confine them to his
own land, and will be liable for trespasses committed by them
upon the unenclosed lands of others. This rule, however, has
been modified in Texas by Revised Statutes of Texas, article
2431, which enacts that "every gardener, farmer, or planter
shall make a sufficient fence about his clear land under cultivation at least five feet high, and make such fence sufficiently
close to prevent hogs from passing through the same." And
by article 2434:: "If it shall appear that the said fence is
insufficient, then the owner of such cattle, horses, hogs, or
other stock shall not be liable to make satisfaction for such
damages." Construing this statute, the Supreme Court of
Texas held, in Sabine & East Texas Railway v. Johnson, 65
Texas, 389, 393, that "since the fence law of 1840 the owner
of unenclosed land has no right of action for the intrusion of
stock upon it. . . . The appellee had no right to graze
his cattle on these leagues, but in doing so was guilty of no
actionable wrong. In letting his stock range on this land he
asserted no right in the land and acquired none." See also
Pace v. Potter, 85 Texas, 473, 476. This custom of permit-

LAZARUS v. PBEYLPS.
Opinion of the Court.

ting cattle to run at large without responsibility for their
straying upon the lands of others was also recognized by this
court in Bufor( v. loutz, 133 U. S. 320.
The object of the statute above cited is manifest. As there
are, or were, in the State of Texas, as well as in the newer
States of the West generally, vast areas of land over which,
so long as the government owned them, cattle had been permitted to roam at will for pasturage, it was not thought
proper, as the land was gradually taken up by individual
proprietors, to change the custom of the country in that particular, and oblige cattle owners to incur the heavy expense of
fencing their land, or be held as trespassers by reason of their
cattle accidentally straying upon the land of others. It could
never have been intended, however, to authorize cattle owners
deliberately to take possession of such lands, and depasture
their cattle upon them without making compensation, particularly if this were done against the will of the owner, or under
such circumstances as to show a deliberate intent to obtain
the benefit of another's pasturage. In other words, the trespass authorized, or rather condoned, was an accidental trespass
caused by straying cattle. If, for example, a cattle owner,
knowing that the proprietor of certain lands had been in the
habit of leasing his lands for pasturage, should deliberately
drive his cattle upon such lands in order that they might feed
there, it would scarcely be claimed that he would not be
bound to pay a reasonable rental. So, if he lease a section of
land, adjoining an unenclosed section of another, and stock
his own section with a greater number of cattle than it could
properly support, so that, in order to obtain the proper
amount of grass, they would be forced to stray over upon the
adjoining section, the duty to make compensation would be as
plain as though the cattle had been driven there in the first
instance. The ordinary rule that a man is bound to contemplate the natural and probable consequences of his own
act would apply in such a case. In St. Louis Cattle Co. v.
Taugkt, 1 Texas Civil Appeals, 388, 390, the court observed:
"This doctrine, however, does not authorize the owner of
cattle by affirmative conduct on his part to appropriate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

use of such lands to his own benefit. He will not be permitted
thus to ignore the truth that every one is entitled to the
exclusive enjoyment of his own property. In this case the
appellant, by means of fences constructed or maintained by it,
enclosed the land of the appellee in such manner as to reap
from it those benefits, which as a rule are incident exclusively
to ownership. The use and enjoyment of the property under
such circumstances import necessarily the ,idea of liability."
In this case it was held that, where the owner of several
tracts of land, in enclosing them within a larger enclosure,
necessarily enclosed a tract belonging to another, this was
such an appropriation of the lands of such person as rendered
the defendant liable for the reasonable value of the tract so.
enclosed. See also Xerwhacer v. Oleveland &c. Railroad,3
Ohio St. 172; Unsion Pacific Railway v. Collins, 5 Kansas,
16-7, 177; Larkin v. Taylor, 5 Kansas, 433; -Delaney v.
Erricksom, 11 Nebraska, 533; Otis v. .Morgan, 61 Iowa, 712;
Willard v. iMathesus, 7 Colorado, 76.
In the case under consideration, the testimony showed that
for five years before the plaintiff acquired title to the lands in
question, they had been leased to Curtis and Atkinson for pasturage purposes, at a rental of two cents per acre, with the
stipulation that all permanent improvements erected by the
lessees during the term should, at the end of the term, remain
on the leased lands, and become the property of the lessor;
and that they were about leasing the alternate sections of
school lands when they failed; that in September, 1887, defendant, who, in the June previous, had bought out the stock
of Curtis and Atkinson, together with all their interest in the
fences, corrals, water tanks, (one of which was upon plaintiff's
land,) and other property within the common enclosure of
plaintiff and the public school lands, leased of the State the
alternate sections of school lands within this enclosure for four
years at four cents per acre. It seems, too, that negotiations
were had, after defendant bought the cattle and horses from
Curtis and Atkinson, between him and the plaintiff's agent
respecting the lease of plaintiff's lands, but no agreement was
reached between the parties as to the price to be paid, and the

ROWE v. PHELPS.
Statement of the Case.

same were not leased by the defendant or held by him as tenant
of the plaintiff. The testimony further showed that, from the
time defendant obtained the lease of the State until the dite
of the trial, the stock owned or controlled by him was more
than sufficient to consume the grass on the plaintiff's lands,
and the sections alternating therewith leased by the defendant
from the public school fund. Defendant not only pastured
his own stock upon these lands, but 3500 head of cattle owned
by one Evans, for which he received $5000 the first year, and
for the remaining period up to the year 1889, when he purchased them, $1.65 per head, as well as $2500 for the pasturage of 3000 calves belonging to another party.
These facts certainly showed an intent on the part of the defendant to avail himself of the pasturage of plaintiff's lands,
and fully authorized the instruction of the court to the jury
that, if the defendant overstocked the enclosure, he should be
held liable to the plaintiff for the rental value of the lands.
In such case the law raises an implied promise to pay a reasonable sum for the use and occupation of the lands, even though
negotiations for a new lease had proven unsuccessful. Schuyler
v. S'ith, 51 N. Y. 309.
There was no error in the action of the court below, and its
Alffrmed.
judgment is, therefore,

ROWE v. PHELPS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
.
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 237. Argued and submitted February1, 1894.-

Decided March 5, 181L

There being no assignment of errors, as required by Rev. Stat. ยง 997, and
no specification of errors required by Rule 21, this case is dismissed.

Tmis was, as in the preceding case, an action by the defendant in error to recover the rental value of certain sections of
land alleged to have been depastured by the plaintiffs in error,
constituting the firm of Rowe Bros.

