OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLE-R,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held that the State might

be estopped by its acts, conduct, silence, and acquiescence;
that the only question necessary to be considered and determined was the question of estoppel; and, after a full consideration of the facts applicable to this branch 'of the case,
reached the conclusion that the claim of the State had no
foundation in equity, justice, or good conscience; that it had
become stale; and that the State was estopped to assert
title in itself to the lands in question. As its judgment thus
rested upon the decision of a question which was not Federal,

this court has no jurisdiction to review it, and the writ of
error must be dismissed. Adams County v. Burlington &
Missouri Railroad,112 U. S. 123; Israel v. Arthur, ante, 355.
,
TWrit of error dismissed.

IfAIDOCK v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 244. Argued February 1, 1894.-

Decided Mrch 12, 1894.

In construing a tariff act, when it is claimed that the commercial use of a
word or phrase in it differs from the ordinary signification of such word
or phrase, in order that the former prevail over the latter it must appear
that the commercial designation is the result of established usage in
commerce and trade, and that at the date of the passage of the act that
usage was definite, uniform, and general, and not partial, local, or personal.

THIs was an action to recover duties paid under protest.
The bill of exceptions, omitting formal parts, was as follows:
"The plaintiff imported in the year 1886 into the port of

New York certain goods, consisting of mugs, plates, cups, and
saucers, made of china, of small size, and claimed by him to
be dutiable as toys. Duty was assessed by the defendant and
paid by the plaintiff at the rate of sixty per cent ad valorem

MADDOCK v. MAGO1E.
Statement of the Case.

under protest as follows: 'Against your decision and assessment of duties as made by you and the payment of more than
35% ad valorem on our importation below mentioned, consisting of certain china toys, claiming that under existing laws
and particularly by Sch. "N," act March 3, 1883, as toys said
goods are liable at no more than 35% ad valorem and not at
60% ad valorem, as charged by you.'
"Due appeal was made and suit was brought in due time.
"Plaintiff further introduced evidence tending to show that
the articles in question were in fact toys, and in addition that
they were known in trade and commerce in March, 1883, and
prior thereto, as toys, and were bought and sold under the
denomination of toy plates, toy teas, and toy cans.
"In behalf of the defendant evidence was introduced tending to show that these articles were not handled by toy houses,
but that they were bought and sold under the name of A B 0
plates, A B 0 mugs, A B C cans, and the cups and saucers
were known as Minton teas or after-dinner coffees, and were
also used in restaurants to serve coffee in, and that they were
used by children to eat and drink out of, and not merely for
the purpose of amusement.
"The court, at the conclusion of the evidence, submitted the
question to the jury as follows:
"' You are to answer the question by yes or no whether these
goods are or are not toys. You have heard the evidence, and
all that it is necessary for me to do in leaving the case in your
hands is to give you the definition of the word "toy": "A toy
is a plaything; a thing the main use or purpose of which is the
amusement of children." Bearing that definition in mind and
as instructed by the evidence, you will determine as to these
articles whether they are or are not toys.!
"Thereupon counsel for plaintiff requested the court to
charge that if these articles were known as toys in trade and
commerce in March, 1883, and prior thereto, the plaintiff is
entitled to recover; which request the court refused so to
charge, and plaintiff's counsel duly excepted, and the exception
was duly allowed."
The record states that "after hearing the evidence for the
VOL. c u-24

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

respective parties and the argument of counsel, the jury say
that they find the goods in suit are not toys, and, by direction
of the court, that they find a verdict for the defendant." Judgment was thereupon entered on the verdict in favor of the defendant, with costs, and this writ of error taken out.
-Mr. Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
.ib'. Assistant Attorney General W-hitney for defendant in
error.

M .CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff contended that the articles in question should have
been assessed under the clause in Schedule N, in the tariff act
of March 3, 1883, c. 121, "dolls and toys, thirty-five per centum ad valorem;" but the collector assessed them under
Schedule B of that act, imposing a duty on "china, porcelain,
parian, and bisque, earthen, stone, and crockery ware, including
plaques, ornaments, charms, vases, and statuettes, painted,
printed, or gilded, or otherwise decorated or ornamented in any
manner, sixty per centurn ad valorem." 22 Stat. 488, 495, 512.
After giving the ordinary definition of the word "toy," the
court left to the jury the question whether these goods were
or were not toys. No exception was reserved to this part of
the charge nor to the action of the court in that regard. The
evidence on behalf of the plaintiff tended to show that the
articles were in fact toys, and on behalf of the defendant that
they were "used in restaurants to serve coffee in, and that
they were used by children to eat and drink out of, and not
merely for the purpose of amusement;" but the plaintiff, in
addition to the contention that they were in fact toys, attempted to establish that such was their commercial designation. Accordingly he offered evidence tending to show that
"they were known in trade and commerce in March, 1883,
and prior thereto, as toys, and were bought and sold under
the denomination of toy plates, toy teas, and toy cans;"
while defendant's evidence tended to show "that these articles
were not handled by toy houses, but that they were bought
and sold under the name of A B C plates, A B C mugs, A B C

MADDOCK v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

cans, and the cups and saucers were known as Minton teas or
after-dinner coffees."
Plaintiff requested the court to charge "that if these articles
were known as toys in trade and conmerce in March, 1883,
and prior thereto, the plaintiff is entitled to recover." The
court refused so to charge and this refusal is the subject of
the only exception in the record.
In Cadwalader v. Zek, 151 U. S. 171, 176, it was said that
"it has long been a settled rule of interpretation of the statutes imposing duties on imports, that if words used therein
to designate particular kinds or classes of goods have a wellknown signification in our trade and commerce, different from
their ordinary meaning among the people, the commercial
meaning is to prevail, unless Congress has clearly manifested
a contrary intention; and that it is only when no commercial
meaning is called for or proved, that the common meaning of
the words is to be adopted." But it is also true that, as observed by Mr. Chief Justice Waite in Swan v. Arthur, 103
U. S. 597, 598, "while tariff acts are generally to be construed
according to the commercial understanding of the terms employed, language will be presumed to have the same meaning
in commerce that it has in ordinary use, unless the contrary

is shown."
The inquiry was whether, in a commercial sense, the articles
were so known, trafficked' in, and used, under the denomination of toys, that Congress, in the use of the particular word,
ishould be presumed to have had that designation in mind as
covering such articles.
Necessarily the commercial designation is the result of
established usage in commerce and trade, and such usage, to
affect a general enactment, must be definite, uniform, and
general, and not partial, local, or personal.
The sole instruction requested by plaintiff was that he was
entitled to recover if these articles were known as toys in
trade and commerce at the time of the passage of the act and
prior thereto. The prevalence of the usage related to the
date of the act, and.although if a special meaning were attached to certain words in a prior tariff act, it would be pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sumed that Congress intended that they should have the same
signification when used in a subsequent act in~relation to the
same subject-matter, Reiche v. Smythe, 13 Wall. 162, this presumption is not conclusive, and the instruction was not objectionable because not referring to the date of the first appearance of toys in tariff legislation.
But the difficulty is that if these articles were only so
known in one trade or branch of trade or in one part of the
country; partially and locally, and not uniformly and generally; the conclusion announced by the instruction would
not follow. Recovery could not be had on a theory involving
different rates of duty at different ports of entry, or distinct
and differing designations.
Plaintiff did not attempt to prove that the articles were
handled by toy houses, though evidence was adduced by him
that they were known as toys and bought and sold as "toy
plates, toy teas, and toy cans," but not by toy dealers according to defendant's evidence; and if it were admitted that
their sigmnification as toys was confined to a particular locality,
or to a particulat class, as, for instance, to those who imported
them, (in which case there might be danger that the designation would vary with the rates,) and not to those who dealt
in them, and that a different meaning obtained elsewhere or
among the latter, then the usage relied on would fail to be
made out.
The instruction, without qualification in the direction of the
essential elements of such a usage, was altogether too broad,
and plaintiff cannot complain of the refusal to give it in the
terms in which it was requested.
The jury found a special verdict that the articles were not
toys, and then, by direction of the court, found a general
verdict for the defendant. To this no exception was taken,
but plaintiff contends that the general verdict was based upon
the special verdict, and so was given upon an immaterial issue,
and that it was error, there being evidence to establish commercial usage, to direct the general verdict as the legal result
of the special finding. This, however, .does not appear, and
as the judgment was the logical, legal conclusion from the

BERBECKER v. IOBERTSON.
Statement of the Case.

general verdict, and no exception to the direction was preserved, there is nothing open to our review on this branch
Judgment aflirmed.
of the case.
Mm. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and

took no part in the decision of this case.

BERBECKER v.ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 245.

Argued February 1,1894.-Decided Ufarch 12,1894.

arch 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, brass upholstering nails
Under the act of Mf
were subject to the duty of 45 per cent ad valorem imposed upon manufactures, articles, or wares, not specially enumerated or provided for in
the act, composed wholly or in part of iron, steel, copper, lead, nickel,
pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or any other metal.

Tins was an action to recover duties paid under protest
upon inportations of nails, described in the bill of particulars
as "upholstering nails," between September 21, 1883, and
January 22, 1884:.
Schedule C of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, contained
the following provisions, 22 Stat. 488, 498, 501:
"Horse-shoe nails, hob nails, and wire nails, and all other
wrought iron or steel nails, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, four cents per pound."
"Britannia ware, and plated and gilt articles and wares of
all kinds, thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
"Manufactures, articles, or wares, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, composed wholly or in part of iron,
steel, copper, lead, nickel, pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or any other metal, and whether partly or wholly manufactured, forty-five per centum ad valorem."
These paragraphs are numbered in the tariff index as 168,
210, and 216.
The collector applied the last paragraph to these nails and

