OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

COLEMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 109.

Submitted November 23,1893.-Decided March 5,1894.

In an action brought to recover fees as assistant district attorneys in
suits to vacate patents of public land, it being conceded that the complainants did not expect, during the period in which the services were
performed, that the United States would compensate them, and that they
looked for recompense to the clients who had retained them, and that
the use of the name of the United States had been consented to on the
application of the plaintiffs with the understanding that they were to
receive no compensation from the United States, and that on the first
intimation that they might look to the United States for compensation,
their formal employment was at once terminated, held, that there was
no contract, express or implied, between them and the United States,
for a breach of which judgment should be rendered against the latter.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Edwin B. Smith and Xr. T. H. 2i. AfPherson for appellants.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and -Mr. George H
Gorman for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
sustaining a demurrer of the defendants to the claimants' petition, and dismissing the petition.
It appears that in the year 1843 the government of Mexico
granted to Miranda and Beaubien, citizens and residents of
Mexico, a tract of land situated in Mexico. After the territory which included this grant was brought by treaty with
Mexico within the jurisdiction of the United States Congress,
in the year 1860, passed an act confirming the grant to Miranda and Beaubien. Subsequently, Miranda and Beaubien

COLEMAIK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

conveyed these lands to the Maxwell Land Grant and Railway
Company, and thereafter the lands were surveyed by the government of the United States, and a patent for them issued to
the said company.
The petitioners allege that the grant from the Mexican government contained about one hundred and twenty-four thou-

sand acres, but that the lands, included within the United
States survey, embraced about two million acres, lying both
in the Territory of New Mexico and,the present State of Colorado, and that the excess included in said survey belonged to
the United States, and was of great value, namely, of the
value of two million dollars.
The petitioners further state that upon portions of the lands
included in said fraudulent survey many persons had become
actual settlers and residents prior to the confirmation of the
survey, and that some of said settlers, who claimed that their
right to possession had been invaded by the land grant company, determined, in 1881, to commence legal proceedings to
test the title of that company to so much of said lands as had
been fraudulently or mistakenly conveyed to the company by
the United States. The petitioners were employed by these
settlers to take the necessary proceedings, and they, accordingly, pursued an inv estigation into the facts connected with
the said alleged fraudulent survey, and expended much time
and labor in so doing.
In order to facilitate their proceedings the petitioners, on
behalf of the settlers by whom they had been retained, applied
to the then Attorney General of the United States for leave to
bring suit in the name of the United States to vacate the patents which had been theretofore granted to the Maxwell Land
Grant Company.
They allege that they were duly authorized to begin suit for
that purpose, and that, in pursuance of such authority, they
drew and prepared two bills in equity, one to vacate and set
aside the patent so far as it embraced lands in New Mexico,
the other for like purpose in respect to the lands within the
State of Colorado. They further state that they filed one of
these bills in the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
VOL. CLII-7

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

District of Colorado. The parties defendant to said bill were
the Maxwell Land Grant Company and others, on whose behalf an answer was filed. The court by order fixed the time
within which the United States as complainants and the defendants should close the taking of their testimony, to wit, in
September, 1883.
It is further stated that, in the preparation for the trial of
said case, the petitioners were required to expend time and
money in the examinationb of maps and surveys of record in
the various departments, and to go to New Mexico and
Colorado, in order to get the names of proper persons to make
defendants, and the names of witnesses. They allege that
they were jointly employed by the settlers for the purpose
aforesaid, and were to share equally in the moneys paid in
compensation; but no sum was fixed or agreed upon as to the
amount which they were to receive for their services, and
that only the sum of $177 was paid to or received by them
in compensation for services, or in reimbursement for money
expended. In the fall of 1883 they were notified by the
settlers that they could not furnish any more money to defray
the expenses of the trial of said causes, neither could they pay
attorneys any sum in compensation for services, for the reason
that almost all the lands embraced within said fraudulent
survey belonged to, and would revert to, the United States,
and not to the settlers, in case of a successful result of said
litigation; and that, as the benefits would result to the
United States, they should bear the expenses of the litigation.
They further allege that, on August 16, 1882, they had
been, by the then Attorney General, appointed special district
attorneys, without compensation, to prosecute said suits to
vacate said patent; that, on receipt of the notice aforesaid
from the settlers, they notified the duly constituted authorities
of the United States that the settlers upon the disputed lands
would not pay any of the expense connected with the prosecution of said suits, and requested that such expense should be
borne by the United States.
Thereupon and thereafter the United States refused to

COLEMANYq v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

further employ them, but employed other counsel, and took
and appropriated to themselves all the benefit and advantages
of the labor so rendered and the expenses so expended by
them.
The petitioners claim that the United States are indebted
to them, for such service and expenses, in the sum of $11,500.
The appellants assign for error the judgment of the court
below, in sustaining the government's demurrer, and in dismissing their petition.
The appellants contend that the facts disclosed in their
petition constitute an implied contract on the part of the
United States to pay the value of the services rendered and
of the expenditures made in furtherance of a suit in which
they were beneficially interested. Assuredly there may be
a state of facts from which an implied contract or promise
to pay for services rendered may be justly inferred, and we do
not doubt that, in such a case, where the United States are
parties defendant, the Court of Claims have jurisdiction, under
section 1079 of the Revised Statutes, to entertain a suit and
render judgment. United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623;
Salomono v. United States, 19 Wall. 178; Rollister v. Benedict
&c. Manfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59; United tates v. Palmer, 128
U. S. 262. But we think that a promise to pay for services
can only be implied when the court can see that they were
rendered in such circumstances as authorized the party performing to entertain a reasonable expectation of their payment by the party benefited.
It is a conceded fact in the present case, by express allegation in the petition, that the claimants did not expect, during the period in which the services were performed, that the
United States would compensate them; that they looked for
recompense to the clients who had retained them; and that
their use of the name of the United States in the litigation
was consented to on their own application, anaL with the express understanding that they were to receive no compensation
from the United States. On the first intimation that they
might, in the matter of compensation, exchange their clients
for the United States, their formal employment was at once

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

terminated. For their past services they are entitled to recover from the settlers who employed them, but the admitted
facts clearly show that the United States are under no express
or implied obligation to answer for a breach of contract between the appellants and their clients.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. The court
below committed no error in dismissing the claimants' petition, and the decree is
________

fflrmed.

BELDING MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. CHALLENGE CORN PLANTER COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
'o. 235. Argued January 31, February 1,1894. - Decided March 5,1894.

Letters patent No. 204,216, granted May 28, 1878, to Richard T. Harhbrook,
for an improvement in refrigerators, are, in view of the prior state of
the art, void for want of patentable novelty.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Tayor Everett Brown, (with whom was XU. Charles
Clarence Poole on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Edward Taggart and ir. Arthur Stem for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

Letters patent of the United States, No. 204,216, were
granted, on May 28, 18T8, to Richard T. Hambrook, for an
improvement 'in refrigerators, and by various assignments the
ownership thereof became vested, in 1885, in the Belding
Manufacturing Company.
In March, 1889, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western District of Michigan, a bill in equity was filed

