NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EVERETT. 107
Syllabus.

ducing the air into the ice chamber, but it does not amount to
a patentable improvement.
As was said in Roberts v. .yer, supra, "it was a mere

carrying forward, a change only in form, proportions, or
degree, doing the same thing, in the same way, by substantially the same means, with better results."

In view, then, of the state of the art as manifested by
numerous prior patents, and particularly by that of Smith, we
conclude that the Hambrook patent is void for want of patentable novelty; and the decree of the court below, dismissing
the bill for that reason, is
-Affirmed.

MRI. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of the case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
EVERETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
. DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

FOR THE

No. 188.Submitted December 21, 1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

A switchman in the employ of a railroad company was directed, in the line
of his regular duty, to connect together two cars, one of which was
loaded with bridge timbers. The timbers were unusually and dangerously loaded, extending so far over the end of the car as to make the
coupling dangerous. The switchman had no notice or knowledge of
this fact, and in making the coupling was very severely injured. To an
action brought to recover damages for the injury, the railroad company
pleaded that the injuries were the result of the switchman's negligence,
and not of the negligence of the company, and on the trial asked to have
the jury instructed to return a verdict for defendant. The court declined,
and instructed the jury on this point, in effect, that they were to
find whether the car was or was not properly loaded, and whether the
plaintiff, by the exercise of proper diligence, could or could not have discovered the projecting timber before the cars came together and in time

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
to avoid the danger, and that if he could not, by the exercise of such diligence, have so discovered it, then he was entitled to recover. The jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiff. Held, that, as there was no conclusive evidence of a want of due care on the part of the switchman in not
observing the projecting timber while in discharge of his duty, and while
his attention was directed to his work, there was no error or unfairness
in these instructions.

WiLLIAm

J. EvER.TT brought an action in the District Court

of the Sixth Judicial Circuit of the Territory of Dakota on
November 13, 1889, against the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, seeking to recover from it the sum of thirty thousand dollars as damages for injuries received by him in coupling cars owned and controlled by the company, alleging that
he had received such injuries while in the employ of the company, as a yard switchman, in its yards at Jamestown, Dakota
Territory, and while there engaged in the performance of his
regular duties. The accident had happened, as he stated in
his complaint, under the following circumstances: On July 6,
1889, he was at work in the yard, and was ordered by the
yard foreman to couple together a car loaded with bridge
timbers and a box car which was standing upon a side track.
The car bearing the timbers was moved by a switch engine.
This car was loaded in an unusual and dangerous manner, in
that the timbers extended so far beyond each end of the car
as to leave insufficient space for coupling with safety. The
plaintiff had, however, no notion or knowledge of this fact.
He attempted to carry out the orders which be had received,
and in so doing his head was caught between the box car and
the end of a heavy timber which projected over the end of
the other car a distance of twenty-two inches. His injuries,
thus received, were of a serious and permanent character, and
consisted in the impairment, not only of his physical powers
and senses, but also of his mental faculties.
The defendant admitted, in its answer, its ownership and
control of the cars mentioned, but denied generally all the
other averments of the complaint upon which were founded
the plaintiff's alleged right to a recovery from it, and averred
that the injuries, if any, received by the plaintiff were the
result of his own negligence, and not of that of the defendant.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RILROAD v. EVERETT. 109
Statement of,the Case.

After the deposition, on behalf of the plaintiff, of a witness
residing in the State of Washington had been taken, in pursmance of a commission to take testimony, issued out of the said
territorial court, the portion of the Territory in which the
action was pending became a part of the State of North
Dakota, and before further proceedings were had in the case
it was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of North Dakota, in which court a trial was had
before the court and a jury.
On the trial, after all the evidence for both parties had been
heard, the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury to
return a verdict for the defendant for the reason that the evidence in the case would not warrant a verdict for the plaintiff.
The court refused to so instruct the jury, and the defendant
excepted to this ruling. The court then instructed the jury as
follows:
"The fact that the plaintiff was injured in an effort to
couple defendant's cars at the time and'place mentioned has
not on the trial been contested, but the defendant says the
plaintiff's injury was the result of his own negligence, or that
his own negligence contributed to his injury; and if this answer of defendant is true, it is a complete defence to this action.
"To entitle the plaintiff to a verdict, he must satisfy you, by
a preponderance of the evidence, of these two principal facts:
First, that his injury was the result of the negligence of the
railroad company; and, second, that his own neglect was not
the occasion of the injury, and did not in any manner contribute to it. If the plaintiff's injury resulted from his own negligence, or if his own negligence contributed to his injury, he
cannot recover.
"The particular act which the plaintiff alleges constitutes
the neglect on the part of the defendant which resulted in his
injury is that the flat car, which was in motion, and which he
was ordered to couple to a box car standing on the track, was
loaded with lumber, which projected twenty-two inches, or
about that distance, over the end of the car where the coupling was to be made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"The first question for you to determine is, was this an unusual or improper or negligent manner of loading lumber on a
fiat car? If you answer this question in the negative, you
need inquire no further, but will return a verdict for defendant.
"If you answer this question in the affirmative, you will
then inquire whether such negligent loading of the lumber on
the car was the cause of the plaintiff's injury, unmixed with
any negligence on his part; and if you find that it was, your
verdict will be for the plaintiff.
"The plaintiff was bound to exercise care and diligence in
his employment of coupling cars; he was bound to use all his
senses as actively and intelligently as any prudent man having
a knowledge of the hazardous character of his business would
have done under like circumstances. The business is a dangerous one, and imposed on him the duty of exercising great
care and caution.
"If the plaintiff saw that the lumber projected over the end
of the car before he attempted the coupling, or if he could
have seen it if he had exercised great care and diligence,
which, under the circumstances, it was incumbent upon him
to exercise, then he can claim nothing on account of the injury
resulting from such projecting lumber, and the injury must be
attributed to his own negligence.
"If you find the lumber was negligently loaded -that is, in
an unusual and dangerous manner- and that this fact was
unknown to the plaintiff, then when the plaintiff was ordered
to couple the cars he had a right to assume that the car was
properly loaded, and act on that assumption; but if before the
peril was encountered he discovered the projecting lumber, he
should have desisted from any effort to make the coupling, or
should have made it in some manner that would not have subjected him to injury, if it was practicable for him to do so;
and if by the exercise of proper diligence he might have discovered the projecting lumber before the accident, and in time
to avoid it, he cannot recover."
The defendant objected to the last paragraph of the foregoing instructions, and moved that it be withdrawn. The
motion was denied, to which ruling of the court the defendant

NORTKERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EVERETT. 111
Opinion of the Court.

excepted. The case was then submitted to the jury, which
rendered a verdict for the plaintiff, and awarded him damages
in the sum of seven thousand dollars. Judgment in accordance with the verdict was entered on April 25, 1890. The
defendant thereupon sued out a writ of error from this court.

.Mr. James .MtoNaught, .b'. A. H. Gar'lanaand Mr. H. J.
.May for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S..L. Glasyell for defendant in error.

:MR. JUsTICE Sn-Ams, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
While it is true that the defendant company excepted to the
court's refusal to give, on the whole evidence, a peremptory
charge in favor of the defendant, and has assigned such
refusals for error, yet, in the brief of plaintiff in error, the
learned counsel have not thought fit to discuss those assignments, but have put their case mainly upon the error alleged
to have been committed by the trial court in instructing the
jury in the following terms:
"If you find the lumber was negligently loaded - that is, in
an unusual manner -and that this fact was unknown to the
plaintiff, then when the plaintiff was ordered to couple the cars
he had a right to assume that the car was properly loaded, and
act on that assumption; but if before the peril was encountered he discovered the projecting lumber, he should have desisted from any effort to make the coupling, or should have
made it in some manner that would not have subjected him
to injury, if it was practicable for him to do so; and if by the
exercise of proper diligence he might have discovered the projecting lumber before the accident, and in time to avoid it, he
cannot recover."
The criticism made upon this instruction is that the court
erred in stating that Everett had a right to assume that the
car was properly loaded, without, at the same time, telling the
jury that some portion of the duties of a car inspector were
cast upon Everett himself, and that he should have discharged
those duties before he undertook the work.

OCTOBER TERMIV, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

But though the court did say that Everett had a right to
assume that the car was properly loaded and to act on that
assumption, yet, at the same time, the court told the jury that
if Everett had discovered the projecting lumber before the
peril was encountered, he should have desisted from his effort
to make the coupling, or should have made it in some manner
that would not have subjected him to injury, and that if by
the exercise of proper diligence he might have discovered the
projecting timber before the accident and in time to avoid it,
he could not recover.
In effect, the jury were told to find whether the car was
or was not properly loaded, and whether the plaintiff, by the
exercise of proper diligence, could or could not have discovered
the projecting timber before the cars came together and in
time to avoid the danger. In other words, the jury were instructed that if the car was negligently loaded, with the sticks
of timber extending too far beyond the end of the car, and if
the plaintiff could not, in the exercise of proper diligence, have
perceived the projecting timber in time to escape, then he was
entitled to recover.
We are unable to detect any error or unfairness in these
instructions.
It appeared that Everett was a young and inexperienced
man; that this was his first service in attempting to couple
a car with a projecting load; the duty he was expected to
perform gave him no time to narrowly inspect the approaching car or to observe its condition. His attention was not
called to the projecting timber until he was in the very act of
making the coupling, and when his effort to avoid it was too
late. He had first to throw the switch to receive the approaching car, and then run ahead and get ready to put the pin in
the drawhead. It was shown that there was no pin in the
drawhead of the stationary car, and he was obliged to pick
one up and put it in place ready to make the coupling. These
duties gave him no opportunity to closely scan the car that
was in rapid motion behind him. In such circumstances, when
the whole transaction is the work of a moment, and when his
duty calls upon him to act promptly, a man cannot be expected

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. EVERETT.

113

Opinion of the Court.

to act with circumspection. At all events, we think that, in
view of the fact that the car was improperly loaded, that
Everett was new and inexperienced in such work, and that
he was required to perform the double duty of throwing the
switch and making the coupling, the case was an appropriate
one for submission to a jury.
In the case of Dutnla2 v. Northeastern Rail'oad Co., 130
U. S. 649, 652, we held that the Circuit Court erred in not
submitting the question of contributory negligence to the
jury, as the conclusion did not follow, as matter of law, that
no recovery could be had upon any view which could be properly taken of the facts the evidence tended to establish.
And in Richmond and Danville Railroad v. Powers, 149
U. S. 443, we said that where in an action against a common
carrier to recover damages for injuries there is uncertainty
as to the existence of either negligence or contributory negligence, the question is not one of law, but of fact, to be settled
by a jury; and this whether the uncertainty arises from a
conflict in the testimony, or because the facts, being undisputed, fair-minded men will honestly draw different conclusions from them.
In Sullivan v. AT. . & N. H. Railroad, 151 Mass. 524, 527,
it was held that the court is not permitted to take from the
jury these questions of negligence and to decide them for the
jury and for the case, unless the evidence shows that the negligence of the defendant in error was gross and wilful; if it
was less than that, then the questions of negligence were for
the jury, and are all settled in favor of defendant in error by
the verdict.
It is not easy, in a subject of this kind, to lay down unbending rules, and conflicting cases can readily be found. But,
without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied that, in the
present case, there was no conclusive evidence of a want of due
care on the part of Everett in not observing the projecting
timber while he was in the discharge of his duty, and while
his attention was directed to the work in which he was engaged.
The judgment of the court below is
-Affirned.
VOL. CL---8

