OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

was first taken at the subsequent hearing before a master, and
was therefore held to have been waived.
In some later cases in the Circuit Courts of the United States
it has been assumed that the defendant was bound to allege
and prove that the patented articles were not marked, if he
would, upon that ground, avoid liability for damages under
the section in question. But in none of those cases was that
point in judgment. In Goodyear v. Allyn, 6 Blatchford, 33,
the only question before the court was of granting an injunctiol, a matter not touched by this section. In Herring v.
Gage, 15 Blatchford, 124, the point decided was that the
statute did not apply to the marking of the articles made and
used by the infringing defendants. In .tew York Pharrbical
Association v. Tilden, 21 Blatchford, 190, the answer alleged
and the proof showed that the plaintiffs' goods were not
marked, and the question was as to the sufficiency of a verbal
notice to charge the defendants in damages. And in Allen
v. -Deacon, 10 Sawyer, 210, the want of marking was alleged
and proved by the defendant, and he was also proved to have
been duly notified of the infringement. On the other hand,
in e Comb v. Brodie, 1 Woods, 153, it was held that if the
patentee did not prove that his articles were marked, or that
he gave the defendant notice of the infringement, he could
recover only nominal damages.
The patent having now expired, so that the injunction is of
no further value, the decree is reversed and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to
Dismiss the bill.
CARNE v. RUSS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 229. Argued and submitted January 25, 1894.-Decided March 5, 1894.

If, at the hearing of a bill in equity to redeem land worth more than 65000
from incumbrances, the only controversy is as to less than that amount
of incumbrances, no appeal lies to this court.

CAR1E v. RUSS.
Opinion of the Court.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.fr. George IF. Smith for appellants.
.Mr.Allan 0. Story, for appellee, submitted on his brief.
MR.JusTICE Grx.y delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity by Russ, as the owner of land in'
Chicago, worth more than $40,000, against Ogden and others,
to set aside and cancel, as creating a cloud upon his title, a tax
deed to Ogden, and a certificate of tax sale procured by the,
other defendants as his agents.
The bill alleged that the taxes upon which the tax deed and
certificate were issued were illegally levied and apportioned,
and that the plaintiff had tendered to the defendants the fl
amount of the taxes paid by them.
The defendants answered, denying the plaintiff's title, the
illegality of the taxes, and the tender of payment. But Ogden,.
in his answer, offered to waive his claim of title to the land and
to reconvey it to the plaintiff, if the plaintiff would pay him
the sums paid by him, with penalties accrued thereon and ten
per cent interest. And the other defendants, in their answers,
disclaimed all title in themselves.
At the hearing, the defendants contended that the sums
which the plaintiff was in equity bound to pay them amounted
to $8705.34. But the Circuit Court held that those sums
amounted to $4:291.81 only, and that the plaintiff, upon paying
this amount, (which he forthwith paid into court,) was entitled
to the relief prayed for, and entered a final decree in his favor.
The defendants appealed to this court.
Upon the admissions of the answers, and upon the claims
made by the defendants in the Circuit Court, and renewed in
this court, it clearly appears that the plaintiff's title to the
land was not really contested, but that the only matter in controversy was the amount of money which the plaintiff was
equitably bound to pay to the defendants, and that the difference between the sum which the Circuit Court held him to
pay and the highest sum claimed by the defendants was less

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

than $5000. The amount in controversy, therefore, is insufficient to support the appellate jurisdiction of this court. Act
of February 16; 1875, c. 77, ยง 3 ; 18 Stat. 316 ; Peyton v. Robertson, 9 Wheat. 527; -Farmers'Bank of Alexandria v. Hfoof,
7 Pet. 168; -Ross v. Prentiss,3 How. 771; Tintsman v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 6.
A.ppeal dismissed.

JOHNSON COMPANY v. WHARTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT CO RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 114. Argued November 24,1893.-Decided March 5, 1894.

A judgment recovered in a Circuit Court of the United States in favor of the
plaintiff by the owner of a patent right in an action against a licensee to
recover royalties on sales of the patented article, where the sole defence
set up was that the articles manufactured and sold by the defendant were
not covered by the patent, in which the amount recovered was not sufficient to permit a review by this court, is a bar to an action in the same
Circuit Court by the same plaintiff against the same defendant, to recover
like royalties on other like sales where the same defence is set up, and no
other, and the amount involved is sufficient to authorize a review here.

BY written agreement executed November 24,1885, between
William Wharton, Jr., & Co., a limited partnership association, and the Johnson Steel Street Rail Company, a corporation -to be hereafter referred to as the Wharton and Johnson
companies -the latter acquired the right to make and sell,
upon certain conditions, guard rails constructed according to
the specifications attached to letters patent granted to William
Wharton, Jr., for an improved guard rail.
The present action was brought upon this agreement of
license to recover the stipulated royalties or fees for guard
rails sold and delivered by the Johnson Company between
January 10, 1888, and June 4, 1889.
In its statement of demand the Wharton Company averred
that the Johnson Company commenced and continued the sale
of guard rails, and voluntarily rendered statements and paid

