OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

said was in deference to the decision of the state court, whose
interpretation of the local statute was accepted as the law of
the case. The jury were distinctly informed that they were to
follow the rule of damages announced by the state court, notwithstanding the court below had, on a former occasion, acted
on a different interpretation of the statute. It is not to be
supposed that the jury misapprehended or disregarded the
explicit injunction of the court to allow, in the event of a
verdict for the plaintiff, only the pecuniary loss suffered by the
widow and surviving children on account of the death of the
husband and father.
We perceive no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

DUNLAP v. SCHOFIELD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PEN'NSYLVANIA.

No. 149. Submitted December 5,1893.-Decided March 5,1894.
A patentee of an invention, or of a design, cannot, in a suit against infringers thereof, recover damages within section 4900 of the Revised
Statutes, or the penalty imposed by the act of February 4, 1887, c. 105,
without alleging and proving either that patented articles made and sold
by him, or the packages containing them, were marked " patented," or
else that he gave notice to the defendants of his patent and of their
infringement.

Tins was a bill in equity, filed May 7,1889, for the infringement of letters patent issued April 2, 1889, for the term of
three and a half years, by the United States to Julius Stroheim for a design for rugs.
The bill alleged that the design was new and original; that
Stroheim was the original and first inventor thereof ; that it
was not, at the time of his application fot a patent, in public
use or on sale with his consent or allowance; that before the
issue of the patent he assigned the invention and the patent

DUNLAP v. SCHOFIELD.
Statement of the Case.

to be obtained therefor to the plaintiffs by an instrument in
writing recorded in the Patent Office; that the invention was
of great practical use and benefit to the plaintiffs, and they
had applied it to large and extensive use, and had expended
large sums of money in introducing it, and the public and the
users of the invention had acknowledged and acquiesced in its
value; that the defendants had infringed, and intended to
continue to infringe the patent by making, using and vending
the patented design, substantially the same in outline, detail
and appearance as shown and described in the patent; and
that the plaintiffs, "after the issue of the aforesaid letters
patent, notified the said defendants of the issue of said letters
patent, of their infringement thereof, and requested them, the
said defendants, to abstain and desist from any further violation thereof in infringement of" the plaintiffs' "rights thereunder in the manufacture and sale of rugs bearing said
patented design;" and prayed for a discovery, an injunction,.
an account of profits, damages, and further relief.
The defendants answered under oath, admitting the issue
of the letters patent to Stroheim; denying all the other allegations of the bill, and, among other things, denying that
"after the issue of the aforesaid letters patent these complainants notified these defendants of the issue of said letters
patent, or of their infringement thereof, and requested the
said defendants to abstain and desist from infringement of the
complainants' alleged rights thereunder, in the manufacture
and sale of rugs bearing said patented design." The plaintiffs filed a general replication.
. At the hearing upon pleadings and proofs, it appeared by
the testimony introduced by both parties that the plaintiffs
made and sold many rugs with the patented design upon
them; and there was conflicting evidence upon the question
of infringement. The court held that the patent was valid,
and that the defendants had infringed it by making and selling rugs bearing a design in imitation of and substantially
similar to the design shown, described and claimed in the
patent.
No evidence was offered by either party upon the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

whether the plaintiffs' rugs were marked "patented," or upon
the question whether the plaintiffs had notified the defendants
that they were infringing the patent.
The defendants contended that they were not liable in

damages, because the plaintiffs had failed to prove their own
compliance with section 4900 of the Revised Statutes, which is
as follows:
"It shall be the duty of all patentees, and their assigns and
legal representatives, and of all persons making or vending
any patented article for or under them, to give sufficient
notice to the public that the same is patented; either by fixing thereon the word 'patented,' together with the day and
year the patent was granted; or when, from the character of
the article, this cannot be done, by fixing to it, or to the
package wherein one or more of them is enclosed, a label containing the like notice; and in any suit for infringement, by
the party failing so to mark, no damages shall be recovered
by the plaintiff, except on proof that the defendant was duly
notified of the infringement, and continued, after such notice,
to make, use, or vend the article so patented."
The court held that the notice alleged in the bill was not
a sufficient compliance with this section, and that the burden
of proof was upon the defendants to show that the plaintiffs
had not complied with it. 42 Fed. Rep. 323.
The plaintiffs asked for an injunction, and for damages in
the sum of $250, as penalty and damages under the act of
February 4, 1887, c. 105, (which is copied in the margin,')
1 An act to amend the law relating to patents, trade-marks and copyright.
SEC. 1. Hereafter, during the term of letters patent for a design, it shall
be unlawful for any person other than the owner of said letters patent,
without the license of such owner, to apply the design secured by such
letters patent, or any colorable imitation thereof, to any article of manufacture for the purpose of sale, or to sell or expose for sale any article of
manufacture to which such design or colorable imitation shall, without the
license of the owner, have been applied, knowing that the same has been so
applied. Any person violating the provisions, or either of them, of this
section, shall be liable in the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars; and
in case the total profit made by him from the manufacture or sale, as afore-

DUN LAP v. SCHOFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

and waived all right to any further damages, or to an account
of profits. The court, on M[ay 13, 1890, entered a decree for
the plaintiffs accordingly, and the defendants appealed to this
court.
.31r. Joseph C. _FrPaley for appellants.
.Ar. Rector T. Fenton for appellees.
MR.

JUsTIcE GR Y,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By section 4900 of the Revised Statutes, (which by virtue of
section 4933 applies to patents for designs,) it is made the duty
of every patentee or his assigns, and of all persons making or
vending any patented article for or under them, to give sufficient notice to the public that it is patented, by putting the
word "patented" upon it, or upon the package enclosing it;
"and in any suit for infringement, by the party failing so to
mark, no damages shall be recovered by the plaintiff, except
on proof that the defendant was duly notified of the infringement, and continued, after such notice, to make, use, or vend
the article so patented."
The clear meaning of this section is that the patentee or his
assignee, if he makes or sells the article patented, cannot
recover damages against infringers of the patent, unless he
has given notice of his right, either to the whole public by
said, of the article or articles to which the design, or colorable imitation
thereof, has been applied, exceeds the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars,
he shall be further liable for the excess of such profit over and above the
sum of two hundred and fifty dollars. And the full amount of such liability may be recovered by the owner of the letters patent, to his own use, in
any Circuit Court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties,
either by action at law, or upon a bill in equity for an injunction to restrain
such infringement.
SEC. 2. Nothing in this act contained shall prevent, lessen, impeach or
avoid any remedy at law or in equity which any owner of letters patent for
a design, aggrieved by the infringement of the same, might have had if this
act had not been passed; but such owner shall not twice recover the profit
made from the infringement. 24 Stat. 387.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

marking his article "patented," or to the particular defendants by informing them of his patent and of their infringement of it.

One of these two things, marking the articles, or notice to
the infringers, is made by the statute a prerequisite to the
patentee's right to recover damages against them. Each is
an affirmative fact, and is something to be done by him.
Whether his patented articles have been duly marked or
not is a matter peculiarly within his own knowledge; and
if they are not duly marked, the statute expressly puts upon
him the burden of proving the notice to the infringers, before
he can charge them in damages. By the elementary principles
of pleading, therefore, the duty of alleging, and the burden of
proving, either of these facts is upon the plaintiff.
In the present case, although the plaintiffs had manufactued
and sold goods with the patented design upon them, they
made no allegation or proof that the goods were marked as
the statute required. They did allege in their bill that they
notified the defendants of the patent and of their infringement; but this allegation was distinctly denied in the defendants' answer, and the plaintiffs offered no proof in
support of it. They could not, therefore, recover, even if
this were a suit for damages within section 4900 of the Revised Statutes.
But these plaintiffs, waiving all right to an account of
profits, or to other damages, sought and were allowed to
recover the fixed sum of $250, in the nature of a penalty,
imposed by the act of February 4, 1887, c. 105, upon any
person who, during the term of a patent for a design, and
without the license of the owner, applies the design secured
by the patent, "or any colorable imitation thereof," to any
article of manufacture for the purpose of sale, or sells or
exposes for sale any article of manufacture to which "such
design or colorable imitation" has been applied, "knowing
that the same has been so applied." 24 Stat. 387. This
statute, according to its clear intent and effect, requires that,
in order to charge either a manufacturer or a seller of articles
to which has been applied a patented design or any colorable

DUNLAP v. SCHOFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

imitation thereof, he must have been "knowing that the same
has been so applied," which is equivalent to saying "with a
knowledge of the patent and of his infringement." The
reasons for holding the patentee to allege and prove either
such knowledge, or else a notice to the public or to the
defendant, from which such knowledge must necessarily be
inferred, are even stronger, in a suit for such a penalty, than
in a suit to recover ordinary damages only.
In none of the cases on which plaintiffs rely, and by which
the court below considered its judgment as controlled, was
there any adjudication inconsistent with this conclusion.
The leading case is Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 88,
decided at October term, 1869, which was a bill in equity for
an injunction, and for an account of profits, against infringers
of a patent for an invention; and the passage in the opinion
of this court, which is relied on by the plaintiffs, is that in
which Mr. Justice Swayne, after citing the provisions of the
act of March 2, 1861, c. 88, ยง 13, which are reenacted in
section 4900 of the Revised Statutes, proceeded as follows:
"It is said that the bill contains no averment on this subject,
and that the record is equally barren of proof that any such
notice was ever given to the defendants, except by the service
of process, upon the filing of the bill. Hence, it is insisted
that the master should have commenced his account at that
time, instead of the earlier period of the beginning of the
infringement. His refusal to do so was made the subject of
an exception. The answer of the defendants is as silent upon
the subject as the bill of the complainants. No such issue
was made by the pleadings. It was too late for the defendants to raise the point before the master. They were concluded by their previous silence and must be held to have
waived it. It cannot be considered here." 9 Wall. 801.
In that case, as appears in the passage just quoted from the
opinion, not only was there no averment in the bill, or in the
answer, on the subject of marking or of notice; but no objection to the want of proof of either fact was made by the
defendants at the original hearing in the Circuit Court, as
appears by its opinion reported in 2 Cliff. 351. The objection

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

was first taken at the subsequent hearing before a master, and
was therefore held to have been waived.
In some later cases in the Circuit Courts of the United States
it has been assumed that the defendant was bound to allege
and prove that the patented articles were not marked, if he
would, upon that ground, avoid liability for damages under
the section in question. But in none of those cases was that
point in judgment. In Goodyear v. Allyn, 6 Blatchford, 33,
the only question before the court was of granting an injunctiol, a matter not touched by this section. In Herring v.
Gage, 15 Blatchford, 124, the point decided was that the
statute did not apply to the marking of the articles made and
used by the infringing defendants. In .tew York Pharrbical
Association v. Tilden, 21 Blatchford, 190, the answer alleged
and the proof showed that the plaintiffs' goods were not
marked, and the question was as to the sufficiency of a verbal
notice to charge the defendants in damages. And in Allen
v. -Deacon, 10 Sawyer, 210, the want of marking was alleged
and proved by the defendant, and he was also proved to have
been duly notified of the infringement. On the other hand,
in e Comb v. Brodie, 1 Woods, 153, it was held that if the
patentee did not prove that his articles were marked, or that
he gave the defendant notice of the infringement, he could
recover only nominal damages.
The patent having now expired, so that the injunction is of
no further value, the decree is reversed and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to
Dismiss the bill.
CARNE v. RUSS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 229. Argued and submitted January 25, 1894.-Decided March 5, 1894.

If, at the hearing of a bill in equity to redeem land worth more than 65000
from incumbrances, the only controversy is as to less than that amount
of incumbrances, no appeal lies to this court.

