PROSSER v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

59

Statement of the Case.

PROSSER v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOI
THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 637. Argued January 16, 17, 1693.-Decided March 5,1894.
A railroad corporation, which has laid out, built and maintained its railroad
for two miles along the shore of a harbor, below high water mark,
claiming under its charter the right to do so and the ownership of
adjacent lands under tide waters of the harbor, cannot maintain a bill in
equity to restrain a board of commissioners from establishing, pursuant
to statutes of the State, a general system of harbor lines in the harbor,
and from filing a plan thereof.

TIs was a bill in equity, filed December 29, 1891, and
amended Mlay 27, 1892, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Washington, by the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, a corporation created and existing under
the laws of the United States, for an injunction to prevent
Prosser and four other persons, constituting the board of
harbor line commissioners of the State of Washington, from
establishing harbor lines and lines of waterways in front of
the city and in the harbor of Tacoma, over the plaintiff's
wharves and lands; and to prevent the Secretary of State of
the State and the clerk of the city from receiving or filing.
a plat of such lines made by the commissioners, covering lands
included in a strip two hundred feet wide on either side of. the
plaintiff's railroad.
On the day of the filing of the amended bill, a general
tlemurrer was filed by the defendants, and overruled by the
court; and, the defendants standing upon their demurrer and
declining to answer further, a final decree was entered for the
plaintiff, as prayed for in the bill; and the defendants appealed
to this court.
By the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, c. 217, entitled "An
act granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget's Sound on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Pacific Coast by the northern route," the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company was incorporated, and authorized to construct and maintain a railroad, "beginning at a point on Lake
Superior, in the State of Minnesota or Wisconsin, thence
westerly by the most eligible railroad route as shall be
determined by said company, within the territory of the
United States, on a line north of the forty-fifth degree of
latitude, to some point on Puget's Sound;" and for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of the railroad, and
of a telegraph line, to the Pacific Coast, there was granted
to the company "the right of way through the public lands"
to the extent of two hundred feet in width on either side of
the railroad, as well as every alternate section of the public
lands on either side of the line; and it was authorized to take
lands within the two hundred feet, "and also any lands or
premises that may be necessary and proper for turnouts,
standing places for cars, depots, station-houses, or any other
structures required in the construction and working of said
road;" and it was provided that the railroad should "be a
post route, and a military road, subject to the use of the
United States, for postal, military, naval and all other government service, and also subject to such regulations as Congress
may impose, restricting the charges for such government
transportation;" that the acceptance of the terms and conditions of the act should be signified by the company in
writing to the President of the United States within two
years after its passage; and that, "the better to accomplish
the-object of this act, namely, to promote the public interest
and welfare by the construction of said railroad and telegraph
line, and keeping the same in working order, and to secure
to the government at all times, but particularly in time of
war, the use and benefits of the same for postal, military and
other purposes," Congress might, at any time, having due
regard to the rights of the company, add to, alter, amend or
repeal this act. 13 Stat. 365.
The bill alleged that after the passage of the act, and before
March 9, 1865, the company determined upon and selected
the general line of its main road from Lake Superior to Puget

PROSSER v. NOIRTHERNq PACIFIC RAILROAD.

61

Statement of the Case.

Sound; that on March 9, 1865, it duly signifieOl to the
President of the United States its acceptance of the act, and
therewith presented and filed with the Secretary of the
Interior a map showing the general route of its main line;
that the general route so selected and designated was by way
of the Columbia River to Puget Sound and north of the fortyfifth degree of latitude, and was "the most eligible railroad
route for the main line of said railroad and telegraph line
from Lake Superior to Puget Sound, and was at the time
aforesaid selected and determined upon as such;" and that
many years before November 11, 1889, and while the State
of Washington was still a Territory, the plaintiff constructed
and fully completed, and bad since continuously maintained,
its railroad from the city of Portland, in the State of Oregon,
to the city of Tacoma, in the State of Washington.
The bill alleged that the main line of the plaintiff's railroad,
as so constructed and maintained, extended to the eastern
boundary of the Tacoma Mill Company's property at a point
upon Commencement Bay, an arm or indentation of Admiralty
Inlet, near its junction with Puget Sound. The bill, with
a map annexed to it, showed that the railroad was laid out
for about two miles along the edge of the harbor and in front
of the city of Tacoma from a point opposite Fifteenth Street
to the termination aforesaid; and that the greater part of the
space two hundred feet in width on either side of the railroad,
throughout these two miles, was below. high water mark.
And the bill alleged that the whole of that space between
those points was, at the time of the passage of the act of 1864-,
"a part of the public domain, subject to no rights save those
of the United States, and those at that date granted to this
plaintiff by said act of Congress."
The bill further alleged that the plaintiff was the owner
of the lands next the inner boundary of the right of way
aforesaid; "that the plaintiff is also the owner of the littoral
and riparian rights, rights of access to deep water, and preference rights of purchase of the tide lands pertaining or
belonging to the said lands; that said right of way and said
lands are chiefly valuable for their right of access to deep

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

water and the right to construct landings and warehouses
upon the same northward and westward to the navigable
waters of Commencement Bay; that many years prior to
November 11, 1889, the plaintiff constructed and built upon
the lands included within said right of way, and westward
and northward thereof into deep water and the navigable
water of the said Commencement Bay, wharves, upon which
are constructed, in addition to the tracks, switches, turnouts,
side tracks, spur tracks, station buildings and freight houses,
and the other terminal facilities of its railroad; also warehouses for the accommodation of general commerce and
shipping by water, coal bunkers for the accommodation of
loading coal into ships and to facilitate the shipment thereof
by water, wheat warehouses and grain elevators for the
accommodation of the loading of ships with wheat and other
grain, and to facilitate the shipment thereof by water, all of
which were constructed for the accommodation of commerce
and for the loading of ships and to facilitate navigation and
all classes of shipment by water; and ever since has continuously maintained and does now maintain and use the same
for the benefit of trade, commerce and navigation; that the
land hereinbefore described is situated between said plaintiff's
right of way and the platted portion of the city of Tacoma,
and consists of a high, steep, abrupt bluff, over or across
which a railroad could not be properly or safely built; that a
railroad built over or across the same would not be practicable to operate so as to reach out and connect with the
shipping by water on Commencement Bay; that the space
included within the right of way limits designated upon the
map hereto attached is the only space between the said bluff
and the waters of Commencement Bay upon which the
tracks, station buildings and terminal facilities of said plaintiff's railroad could be located, and the only space within the
city of Tacoma where said plaintiff could establish such
facilities as are necessary to make possible and facilitate
transshipment from rail to vessel and from vessel to rail;
that the general warehouses, coal bunkers, and wheat and
grain warehouses, built and constructed along said harbor

PROSSER v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

63

Statement of the Case.

front upon and extending outward from said right of way
and said abutting lands, are also necessary adjuncts to the
proper operating of said railroad and necessary to aid in and
facilitate the said transshipment from rail to vessel and from
vessel to rail;" and that a point opposite South Second
Street, (about half.way along the aforesaid two miles,) was
the first point on Commencement Bay, in the harbor front
of the city of Tacoma, reached by the plaintiff's line of railroad, going westward towards the waters of Puget Sound,
"where water can be found of sufficient depth to accommodate the navigation of deep-water vessels; and that all of
the space included within said right of way of the plaintiff
between said point and the point of termination of said
plaintiff's line is required for the accommodation of the terminal facilities necessary in the use and operation of the
plaintiff's said railroad."
The bill then alleged that the plaintiff's wharves, buildings and other facilities had been constructed at an expense
of several millions of dollars; and were indispensable to the
performance of the duties imposed upon the plaintiff by its
charter; that for the public welfare and for the benefit of
commerce and navigation it was necessary that they should
be constructed and maintained upon and along said water
front, and be used by the plaintiff in connection with its
railroad; and that, though in large part below high water
mark, they were not obstructions, but were aids, to commerce and navigation.
The bill further alleged that the harbor line commissioners,
pretending to act under authority of the statutes of the State,
of March 28, 1890, (1 Hill's Laws of the State of Washington,
tit. 23, cc. 1, 3,) were about to- take final action in the location and establishment of the harbor lines and lines of waterways within the city of Tacoma, in such a way as to include
within those lines a part or the whole of the plaintiff's right
of way, wharves, warehouses and other improvements, and,
unless prevented by injunction, would thereby deprive the
plaintiff of the use and benefit -thereof, without compensation or due process of law, and would cloud the plaintiff's title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. 1. 0. Jones, Attorney General of the State of Washington, (with whom was -Mr. William 1 air Hill on the brief,)
for appellants.
Mr. James Ao.Naught and Mr. A. H. Garland for appellee.
GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE

It may be admitted that the Congress of the United States,
while the present State of Washington was a Territory, had
the power, in chartering a corporation to construct and maintain a railroad from Lake Superior to the Pacific Coast, to
grant to the corporation such title or rights in lands below
high water mark of tide waters of the Territory, as might be
necessary or convenient for the building, maintenance, use and
enjoyment of such structures as might be required for commerce and transportation on the railroad and by sea, and for
transferring goods and passengers between the railroad and
sea-going vessels. Shively v. Bowlby, just decided, ante I ; In
re New York Central & Hudson River Railroad, 77 N. Y.
248; 1n re Staten sland Rapid Transit Co., 103 N. Y. 251.
The more serious question, whether the grant of Congress
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company of the right to
construct a railroad to the waters of Puget Sound can be construed as authorizing the corporation to lay out its railroad
for two miles, below high water mark, along the shore of a
harbor, so as practically to monopolize the use of the waters
of the harbor, and of the lands under them, cannot properly
be decided in this suit, and we express no opinion upon it.
There can be no doubt that a State may, by its legislature,
or through a board of harbor commissioners, establish, for the
protection and benefit of commerce and navigation, harbor
lines in navigable waters, not inconsistent with any legislation of Congress, limiting the building of wharves and other
structures upon lands not already built upon. Yesler v.
Wiash. Harbor Commissioners, 146 U. S. 646; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; Atee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall.

HUTCHINSON INVESTMLENT CO. v. CALDWELL.

65

Statement of the Case.

389, 393; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53: People v. New
Y'ork & Staten Island Ferry, 68 IN. Y. 71; State v. Sargent,
45 Conn. 358. Such harbor lines, in order to fulfil their purpose, must be established according to a general system, having in view not only the convenience of approach to the water
from the shore, but the effect of the daily ebb and flow of the
tide in keeping clear or filling up the harbor. The establishment of general harbor lines, of itself, takes or injures no one's
property, and cannot, consistently with the interests of the
public, or with the principles of equity, be restrained by injunction. If the State of Washington, or the city of Tacoma,
or any public officer or private individual, shall hereafter
take active measures, or bring suit, so as to injure or affect
the supposed title or rights of the plaintiff, or its use and enjoyment thereof, the dismissal of this bill will not stand in the
way of a full and fair trial of the title and rights claimed.
.Decree reversed, and bill dismrissed, without prejudice.
?MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR.

JUSTICE

JAcKsoN were not

present at the argument and took no part in the decision of
this case.

HUTCHINSON INVESTMIENT COMPANY v.
CALDWELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 190.

Argued January 3, 4,1894. -Decided

March 5, 1894.

In States whose laws permit illegitimate children, recognized by the father
in his lifetime, to inherit from him, such children are "heirs" within the
meaning of Rev. Stat. ยง 2269, which provides that when a party entitled
to claim the benefits of the preemption laws of the United States dies
before consummating his claim, his executor or administrator may do
so, and the entry in such case shall be made in favor of his heirs, and
the patent, when issued, inure to them as if their names had been
specially mentioned.

THIS was an action brought by John Caldwell against
D. B. Miller (for whom the Hutchinson Investment Company
VOL. Cii-5

