MORGAN ENVELOPE CO. v. ALBANY PAPER CO.

425

Statement of the Case.

ignorance of any claim of plaintiff, or of any question as to
the correctness of the survey; that he entered into possession
and expended several thousand dollars in improvements before
any challenge of his .rights was made by plaintiff. Under
those circumstances injustice would be done to him to disturb
the survey and his possession of the property. As this situation
of affairs was brought about through the negligence of the
plaintiff, the court rightfully held him guilty of laches, and
properly dismissed his bills. The decree is
Afl rrned.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

MORGAN ENVELOPE COMPANY v. ALBANY PERFORATED WRAPPING PAPER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 254. irgued 31arch 8, 9, 1894. -Decided

March 19, 1894.

An inventor who acquiesces in the rejection by the Patent Office of his claim
in one form, and accepts a patent with the claim changed so as to correspond with the views of that office, is estopped to claim the benefit of the
rejected claim.
Letters patent No. 325,410, granted to Oliver H. Hicks September 1, 1885, for
a package of toilet paper known as the oval roll or oval king package, is
void for want of patentable invention.
Letters patent No. 325,174, issued to said Hicks August 25, 1885, for a
toilet-paper fixture, and letters patent No. 357,993, issued to said Hicks
February 15, 1887, for an apparatus for holding toilet paper, are not infringed by selling such fixture or apparatus, bought of the patentee, with
paper manufactured by the seller.
'When a patentee has once received his royalty, he cannot treat the subsequent seller or user as an infringer.

Tins was a bill in equity to recover damages for the infringement of three letters patent issued to Oliver Ht. Hicks of
,Chicago, and assigned to the appellant, viz.: Patent No. 325,410,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.,

issued September 1, 1885, for a "package of toilet paper,"
known as the "Oval Roll" or "Oval King" package..
(2) Patent No. 325,174, issued August 25, 1885, for a "toiletpaper fixture." (3) Patent iNo. 357,993, issued February 15,,
1887, for an "apparatus for holding toilet paper..' These are
known as the "Oval King" fixtures.
The answer made the usual denials of novelty and infringement.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the court
dismissed the bill, except as to the fifth claim of patent
No. 357,993, upon which a decree was ordered for plaintiff
without costs. From this decree plaintiff appealed to this
court.
3X'. .Jelville Church and 36'. Charles E .Mitchell, (with
whom was .ft. J. B. Church on the brief,) for appellant.
2r.Bsek Cowen for appellee.
MR.

JusTiCE

Baoww delivered the opinion of the court.

Prior to the inventions covered by the patents in this case,.
toilet paper had been put up in packages of sheets cut to a
convenient size, sometimes attached together by a wire, or in
cylindrical rolls of continuous length, either perforated transversely at proper intervals for the convenient detachment of
the sheets, or in similar rolls not perforated, but designed to,
be cut by a device having a sharp edge, to which the rolls were
attached. All these methods proved to be objectionable on
account of the temptation offered to greed or wastefulness,
in the facility with which unnecessary amounts of paper could
be detached, which were either carried off or allowed to fall
on the floor. Where perforated paper was employed in roll
form, the litter was increased by the dropping of small particles
of paper intended to have been removed by the perforating
machine, but which remained attached until the paper was
unwound, when they fell upon the floor and became very
difficult to remove.

MORGAN ENVELOPE CO. v. ALBANY PAPER CO.

427-

Opinion of the Court.

(1) In the specification of his patent No. 325,410, which is
for a package of toilet paper, the patentee states that he had
in view to furnish a toilet paper in the form which would prevent in a large measure this vast amount of wastage. "In
carrying out this object I have put up one or more lengths of
paper in the form of a continuous band (as contra-distinguished
from a roll) of oblong or oval shape, the short rounded ends of
the bundle thus produced serving as guides for determining the
proper points at which the paper has to be separated in order
to produce sheets of a size desirable for use, and affording also
the most advantageous surfaces upon which to tear the paper.
The band I make of a thickness calculated to produce sheets
severed at the point stated of practical and economical lengths
from the time the bundle is opened until it is consumed."
The band he makes of an oblong or oval shape so that it
may be mounted in a fixture shown in a previous patent for
that purpose, or used detached from the fixture, one hand of
the user being slipped into the interior, and the other hand
being employed to grasp the pendant end of the paper, and by
drawing the paper tightly over one of the short rounded ends
of the bundle, causing it to separate at that point and produce
a sheet of convenient length. His claim was for "a bundle of
paper consisting of one or more lengths formed into a continuous band whose internal diameter is greater than the thicknessof the paper, substantially as described." The invention in
question, as described in the specification and illustrated in the"
drawings annexed to the patent, is for a band of paper rolled
in an oval instead of the usual cylindrical shape, with a view
of affording a convenient method of tearing off sheets of a
proper size, the fracture in each case being at the end of the
roll. It is difficult to see, however, how any waste is thereby
prevented, since it is nearly, if not quite as easy, to unwind
long strips of this paper from an oblong as from a cylindrical
roll. So, too, if the patent were construed as for an oblong
roll, the fact that from time immemorial, cotton and woollen
goods and silks have been almost universally wound about a
flat board or core, precisely as described in the patent, would
indicate that there is no novelty in the oblong or oval shape,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and that the patent, if supported at all, must be for the different purpose for which toilet paper is wound in this'form.
Upon examining the claim, however, in connection with the
original application, it appears that, if the patent involved any
invention at all, it is not limited to .bands of oval or oblong
shape, since the claim contained in the original application
was for "a bundle of toilet paper consisting of one or more
lengths of paper formed into a flexible continuous band of
oblong or oval shape, the short rounded ends of such band
serving as guides for determining the proper points at which
the paper is to be. separated in order to produce sheets of a
size desirable for use, and affording, also, the most advantageous surfaces upon which to tear the paper, substantially as
described." This claim, which corresponds with the specification and drawings, and was Hicks' real invention, was rejected
as indefinite, because it failed to point out any construction
over an ordinary paper roll, and was also rejected upon a prior
patent to one Peacock. The patentee thereupon amended his
application by changing his claim to "a bundle of paper consisting of one or more lengths formed into a continuous band
whose internal diameter " (by which we understand the internal diameter, when rolled into a cylindrical form) "is greater
than the thickness of the paper, substantially as described."
If this claim be good, it would seem to follow that any band
of paper wound in such manner that the internal diameter is
greater than the thickness of the paper, would be an infringement, whatever be its shape, or for whiatever purpose used.
The size of the roll, too, is not made material, except that it
must bear a certain relation to its inner diameter. Certainly
it would apply to all toilet paper, even if wound in a cylindrical form, as the language of the claim, though not of the
specification, indicates that it should be. It would also follow
that, even if the roll of paper, when purchased, had an internal
diameter less than the thickness of the paper, such internal
diameter would become relatively greater with the progressive
using of the paper, until its thickness was so far reduced as to
become less than the internal diameter, when it would fall
within the description of the claim. Indeed, it is difficult to

IORGAK ENVELOPE CO. v. ALBANY PAPER 00. 429
Opinion of the Court.

see what function is performed by a band of paper so constructed, or what difference it makes whether the internal
diameter is greater or less than the thickness of the paper,
unless the paper be made in an oval form.
It is insisted in this connection, however, that under the
words "substantially as described" the patentee is entitled to
claim a band of oval or oblong shape, and that, looking at his
specification and drawing in connection with the claim, it is
obvious that the latter should be so limited. But the patentee
having once presented his claim in that form, and the Patent
Office having rejected it, and he having acquiesced in such
rejection, he is, under the repeated decisions of this court,
now estopped to claim the benefit of his rejected claim or such
a construction of his present claim as would be equivalent
thereto. Zeggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256; N/epwrd v. Carrigan' 116 U. S. 593; Crawford v. Hleysinger, 123 1U. S. 589,
606; UJnion _Metallic CartridgeCo. v. United Btates Cartridge
Go., 112 U. S. 624.
It is true that these were cases where the original claim was
broader than the one allowed, but the principle is the same if
the rejected claim be narrower. Why the claim of the present
patent was allowed after the rejection of the narrower claim
does not appear. The objections made to the claim as originally presented seem to be equally applicable to this.
But construing this claim as for an oval or oblong roll, it
is clearly anticipated by the patent granted March 6, 1883, to
one Peacock, for a toilet-paper case, used for carrying toilet
paper, which was wound in an oval form about a spool or
core, precisely as described in plaintiff's patent. Apparently
it differs from the Hicks roll only in being smaller and having
its core hinged to a stiff case, in which the paper for convenience was carried.
There was also put in evidence by the defendant a device
known as the Wheeler Pocket Companion, which was a small
package of toilet paper of an oval form, differing from those
covered by the Hicks patent only in size, and in the fact that no
attention was paid to the relation of the inner to the outer
convolutions, and no intent shown that when one convolution

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

,was torn off the end of the next one would drop down into
,position to be grasped. While neither of these devices is a
,precise anticipation of the Hicks patent in the manner in
which they are used, it is impossible to say that a mere enlargement of these devices to the size contemplated by Hicks
would constitute invention, although by such enlargement the
-roll became capable of being used in a somewhat different
-manner.
(2) Patents No. 325,174 and No. 357,993 are practically
-the same, and are for a combination of the paper roll described
in the former patent, with a mechanism for the delivery of
-the paper to the user in an economical manner. The object
*of both inventions is said to be "to so arrange the paper as to
prevent more than a given quantity of it to be withdrawn
from the roll at 'a single operation, and so that in the act of
withdrawing such given quantity it shall be automatically
severed from the roll, leaving pendent from the roll a free end,
which shall serve as a means of withdrawing a like quantity
by the next user." This is accomplished by the combination
*of an oscillating roll of toilet paper actuated in one direction
by a pull upon its free end, of a knife or cutter cobperating
with the roll to sever the unwound portion when the roll has
reached the limit. of its motion in one direction, and a stop for
,so limiting the motion of the roll. The principal difference
between the twpopatents is that No. 325,174 is limited to an
appliance in which a knife or cutter for arresting the roll of
paper, when oscillated, is employed; while the latter one, No.
357,993, is broad .enough in its scope to include a structure in
which a mere stop, which has no cutting action at all, is employed to arrest the roll.
Each patent contains five claims, and in all of them, except
-the fourth and fifth, of the first patent and the fifth of the
second, the paperroll is included as an element of the combination.
No question is made but that the mechanism of these
patents, by which, the paper is served out to the user, involves
a patentable novelty;, but it is claimed, first, that the roll of
paper beingppjshable.,And the machine being constructed for

MORGAKN ENVELOPE CO. v. ALBA-NY PAPER 00.

431

Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of delivering this paper to users in convenient
lengths, such a roll is not a proper part of the combination;
second, that conceding it to be a part of the combination,
there was no infringement.
The first defence raises the question whether, when a
machine is designed to manufacture, distribute, or serve out
to users a certain article, the article so dealt with can be said
to be a part of the combination of which the machine itself is
another part. If this be so, then it would seem to follow that
the log which is sawn in the mill; the wheat which is ground
by the rollers; the pin which is produced by the patented
machine; the paper which is folded and delivered by the
printing press, may be claimed as an element of a combination of which the mechanism doing the work is another
element. The motion of the hand necessary to turn the roll
and withdraw the paper is analogous to the motive power
which operates the machinery in the other instances.
But without expressing an opinion upon this point, we think
the facts of this case fail to sustain the charge of infringement. Defendants neither made, sold, nor used the mechanism invented by Hicks to serve out the toilet paper, except
as they purchased it of the patentee, and the only acts proven
against them were in selling oval rolls of paper of their own
manufacture, with fixtures manufactured and sold by the
plaintiff, in combination with its (the plaintiff's) paper to
persons other than the defendants, the fixtures having been
obtained by defendants from the original purchasers of the
patented combination; and also of selling oval rolls of paper
,f defendant's own manufacture to persons who had previously
purchased fixtures and paper from the plaintiff, with the
knowledge and intention that the paper so sold was to be
used in connection with the plaintiff's fixtures. In this connection it appeared that it had not been the practice of the
plaintiff to sell its fixtures independently of its paper, and
that they sold only to such parties as dealt in and used their
paper. Purchasers were also required to buy a given quantity
,of paper to a given number of fixtures, to be sold only in conmection with the paper, the rule being not to sell more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

one fixture to one case of paper. The fixtures were also sold
to hotels and other public buildings, with the understanding
that their paper would be subsequently purchased of the
plaintiff company. It appears to have been its invariable
rule to refuse to sell fixtures except to persons also ordering
paper.
So far as fixtures sold by defendants, which had been
originally manufactured and sold by the patentee to other
parties, are concerned, it is evident that, by such original sale
by the patentee, they passed out of the limits of the monopoly,
and might be used or sold by any one who had purchased
them from the original vendees. The patentee having once
received his royalty upon such device, he cannot treat the
subsequent seller or user as an infringer. Bloomer v.
.McQuewan, 14 How. 539. As was said by Mr. Justice
Clifford in Ckafjee v. Boston Belting Company, 22 How.
217, 223: "When the patented machine rightfully passes to
the hands of the purchaser from the patentee, or from any
other person authorized to convey it, the machine is no longer
within the limits of the monopoly.

.

.

.

By a valid sale

and purchase, the patented machine becomes the private individual property of the purchaser, and is no longer protected
by the laws of the United States, but by the laws of the
State in which it is situated." See also Bloomer v. .fillinger,
1 Wall. 340; The Paper Bag Cases, 105 U. S. '166, 71. In
this latter case one Morgan had purchased a machine for
making paper bags of the patentee, and it was held that,
having the absolute ownership of the machine, he had the
right either to use it during the existence of the letters-patent,
or to transfer such ownership and right to another. It was
said that "the power to sell the machine and transfer the
accompanying right of use is an incident of unrestricted
ownership." Birdsell v. S]haliol, 112 U. S. 485; Voodworth
v. Curtis,2 Woodb. & Min. 524; Goodyear v. Beverly Rubber
Co., 1 Cliff. 348.
The real question in this case is, whether, conceding the
combination of the oval roll with the fixture to be a valid
combination, the sale of one element of such combination,

MORGAN ENVELOPE CO. v. ALBANY PAPER CO.

433

Opinion of the Court.

with the intent that it shall be used with the other element,
is an infringement. We are of opinion that it is not. There
are doubtless many cases to the effect that the manufacture
and sale of a single element of a combination, with intent that
it shall be united to the other elements, and so complete the
combination, is an infringement. Saxe v. Hammond, Holmes,
456; Wallace v. Holmes, 9 Blatchford, 65; Barnes v. Straus,
9 Blatchford, 553; Schneider v. Pounney, 21 Fed. Rep. 399.
But we think these cases have no application to one where the
element made by the alleged infringer is an article of manufacture perishable in its nature, which it is the object of the
mechanism to deliver, and which must be renewed periodically,
whenever the device is put to use. Of course, if the product
itself is the subject of a valid patent, it would be an infringement of that patent to purchase such product of another than
the patentee; but if the product be unpatentable, it is giving
to the patentee of the machine the benefit of a patent upon
the product, by requiring such product to be bought of him.
To repeat an illustration already put: If a log were an element of a patentable mechanism for sawing such log, it would,
upon the construction claimed by the plaintiff, require the
purchaser of the sawing device to buy his logs of the patentee
of the mechanism, or subject himself to a charge of infringement. This exhibits not only the impossibility of this construction of the patent, but the difficulty of treating the paper
as an element of the combination at all. In this view the distinction between repair and reconstruction becomes of no value,
since the renewal of the paper is in a proper sense neither the
one nor the other.
The case of the Cotton-Tie Company v. Simmons, 106 U. S.
89, 93, presents no difficulty whatever. In that case the owner
of a patent for a metallic cotton bale tie, each tie consisting of
a buckle and band, granted no licenses to manufacture the ties,
but supplied the market with them, and stamped upon the
metal of each buckle the words, "Licensed to use once only."
After the bands had been once used and severed, defendants,
who had bought the bands and the buckles as scrap iron, rolled
and straightened the pieces of the bands, and rivetted together
VOL. cLu-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

their ends. They then cut them into proper lengths, and sold
them with the buckles, to be used as ties, nothing having been
done to the buckles. It was held that they thereby infringed
the patent. The gist of the decision is that the use of a tie
once, and its subsequent severance, were intended to operate
as a destruction of it, and that the defendants had no right to
put the same parts together for use a second time. Says Mr.
Justice Blatchford : "Whatever rights the defendants could
acquire to the use of the old buckle, they acquired no right to
combine it with a substantially new band to make a cottonbale tie. They so combined it when they combined it with a
band made of the pieces of the old band in the way described.
What the defendants did in piecing together the pieces .of the
old band was not a repair of the band or tie in any proper
sense. The band was voluntarily severed by the consumer at
the cotton-mill, because the tie had performed its function of
confining the bale of cotton in its transit from the plantation
or the press to the mill. Its capacity for use as a tie was
voluntarily destroyed."
It is evident that the use of the tie was intended to be as
complete a destruction of it as would be the explosion of a
patented torpedo. In either case, the repair of the band or the
refilling of the shell would be a practical reconstruction of the
device. In this case, however, the purchaser of the new roll
does precisely what the patentee intended he should do: he replaces that which is in its nature perishable, and without the
replacement of which the remainder of the device is of no
value. The replacement is of a product which it is the object
of the mechanism to deliver. The case is more nearly analogous to that of Iilson v. Simpson, 9 How.109, in which the
invention involved was a planing machine, and the patent sued
upon covered the combination with the cutting knives or planes
of a pressure roller to effect the planing of the planks. It was
proved that one of the machines would last in use for several
years, but that its cutting knives would wear out, and must be
replaced at least every sixty or ninety days. It was said by
Mr. Justice Wayne, (p. 125,) that "the right to replace them
was a part of the invention transferred to the assignee for the

MORGAN ENVELOPE 00. v. ALBANY PAPER CO.

435

Opinion of the Court.

time he bought it, without which his purchase would be useless
to him, except for sixty or ninety days after a machine had been
put in use. It has not been contended, nor can it be, that such
can be a limitation of the assignee's right in the use of the invention. . . . If, then, the use of the machine depends upon the
replacement of the knives, . . . frequently replacing them,
according to the intention of the inventor, is not a reconstruction of the invention, but the use only of so much of it as is
absolutely necessary to idehtify the machine with what it was
in the beginning of its use, or before that part of it had been
worn out. The right of the assignee to replace the cutter
knives is not because they are perishable materials, but because
the inventor of the machine has so arranged them as a part of
his combination, that the machine could not be continued in
use without a succession of knives at short intervals. Unless
they were replaced, the invention would have been of little use
to the inventor or to others."
The true distinction is statedby Mr. Justice Clifford in Aiken
v. Manchester Print Wtorks, 2 Cliff. 435, where the invention
was of a knitting-machine, with which the vendor was accustomed to send a package of the needles used in the machine,
which needles were the subject of a separate patent. It was
held that the purchase of the knitting-machine, and the needles
accompanying the same, did not confer upon the purchaser
any right, after the needles were worn out and became useless,
to manufacture other needles, and use the same in the knittingilson v. Simepmachine so sold and purchased. The case of
son was distinguished from this in the fact that the cutters and
knives in that case were not subject to a patent, and of course
the respondent had a right to use them as materials to repair
his machine; "but," says the court, "unfortunately for the
defendants in this case, the needle is subject to a patent, and
in making and using it they have infringed the right of the
plaintiff." As we have already held that the paper roll in this
case was not the subject of a valid patent, it follows that the
defendants cannot be held as infringers for the manufacture
and sale of such roll.
Considerable stress is laid by plaintiff upon the fact that Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

Wheeler, president of the defendant corporation, in February,
1885, and before the first patent was issued, bought one of the
plaintiff's fixtures, known as the Oval King fixture, together
with some of its paper, and despatched them to England with
instructions to his agents to file an application for a patent
there, which patent was subsequently issued. That, before a
patent was issued, Hicks himself applied for protection in England, and learning of the filing of the application there by
Wheeler, filed a protest against the'issuance of a patent to the
latter, who thereupon to thwart his obtaining a patent, made
an affidavit that he did not obtain the knowledge of the invention from Hicks or any other person, but by seeing it in
public use in the United States. Wheeler's own testimony in
this case indicates that this affidavit contained a suppressioyeri
if not a suggestio falsi. But, however reprehensible his conduct may have been in this connection, it does not affect the
issue between the parties here. It does not show that the Hicks
patent upon the roll is a validpatent, or that the conduct of
the defendants in making and selling such roll is an infringement upon the combination patents.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

UNITED STATES v. BASHAW.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 770.

Submitted January 8, 1894. - Decided March 19, 1894.

An action cannot be maintained against the United States by a District
Attorney, to recover for services rendered and expenses incurred in
prosecuting for fines, penalties, and forfeitures, under Rev. Stat. §§ 838

