OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

purpose to reclaim the property and rights granted to Brooks,
because of the failure to perform the condition upon which
he, or any one claiming under him, was entitled to hold the
property.
Under the view we have expressed, it becomes unnecessary
to consider other questions discussed by counsel; and it results,
and we so adjudge, that the plaintiffs are not entitled to have
the property in question or any part thereof sold in satisfaction
of their judgment for $35,901.30 against the Kansas City and
Southern Construction Company.
The decree below is affirmed.

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.
TENNESSEE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
TENNESSEE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Nos. 1020, 1021, 761.

Argued January 12, 15, 1894.-Decided March 19, 1894.

Under the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, the Circuit Court of the United
States has no jurisdiction, either original, or by removal from a state
court, of a suit as one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's statement of his
own claim.

THE.first case was a bill in equity, filed Tanuary 26, 1893, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee, by the State of Tennessee, and the county of
Shelby in that State, against the Union and Planters' Bank
of Memphis, a corporation organized under the laws of Tennessee, and having its place of business at Memphis in Shelby
county, and against S. P. Read and W. A. Williamson, citizens
of the State of Tennessee, to recover taxes alleged to be due to

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK. 455
Statement of the Case.

the State and county for the years 1887-1891, under the general tax act of the State of 1887, c. 2.
The bill, after alleging that the original charter of the defendant corporation, granted by the State of Tennessee in 1858,
provided "that said company shall pay to the State of Tennessee an annual tax of one half of one per cent on each share
of stock subscribed, which shall be in lieu of all other taxes ;"
and stating the provisions of the tax act of 1887, relied on by
the plaintiffs, made the following allegations:
"The defendant bank claims that both its capital stock and
the shares of stock in the hands of its stockholders are exempt
from taxation by virtue of its charter. Complainants, however,
are advised and submit that the exemption contained in said
charter applies to the shares of stock only and not to the capital stock of said institution, and that the latter in any event is
subject to the taxing power of the State."
"It may be, however, that complainants are mistaken in the
foregoing construction of the charter, and that the shares of
stock are taxable and the capital stock of said institution exempt. The question is one of law, and is submitted to the
court for determination."
In view of the latter alternative, the bill alleged that the
corporation had each year refused, on demand of the assessing
officers of the State, to give them a list of its stockholders;
made Williamson, a stockholder, and Read, the cashier of the
bank, defendants; and required the latter to disclose on oath
the names of the other stockholders and -the number of their
shares, in order that they might be made defendants and
proper relief be had against them.
The bill also set forth the amounts of taxes due from the
corporation in one alternative, or from the stockholders in the
other, amounting on either view to more than $5000; and concluded as follows:
"Complainants further state and show that the defendant
claims that under and by virtue of the terms of its charter
both its shares of stock and its capital stock are exempt from
taxation, excepting only the one half of one per cent-prescribed
by the charter; and that the revenue law of the State, under-

OCTOBER TER/T,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

taking to tax the one or the other, is void, because in violation
of the clause of the Constitution of the United States which
forbids the State to pass any law impairing the obligation of
a contract. It claims immunity from taxation upon that
ground, and upon none other. The case is therefore one arising under the Constitution of the United States and within the
jurisdiction of this court, this bill being brought to obtain an
adjudication of the question of the exemption of the shares of
stock, or of the capital stock, or both, of the defendant bank.
Complainants aver that by the statute laws of the State of
Tennessee they respectively have liens upon the capital stock
of said bank, and upon any property in which the same may
be invested, for the payment of any sums that may be adjudged
due from the defendant bank on account of taxes laid on said
capital stock, and liens upon the shares of stock in said bank for
any taxes upon said shares that may be adjudged due thereon.
"Premises considered, complainants pray that the parties
named as such in the caption be made defendants hereto; that
subpcena and copy issue, returnable to the next proper rule
day, according to the practice of the court, requiring them to
appear and answer the allegations of this bill, the defendant
S. P. IRead answering under oath and making discovery as
asked in the body of the bill; that the court will construe the
charter of defendant company, and pass upon the claim of
immunity from taxation set up by defendant company and its
stockholders, adjudging the liability of the one or the other,
or both, to taxation, determining upon which the taxes are
laid for the several years mentioned in the bill, rendering
judgment accordingly, and enforcing the liens given by the
statute laws of the State ; and that the court will grant such
further relief, genefal and special, as complainants in equity
ought to have."
The defendants filed an answer, admitting most of the facts
alleged in the bill, and that the defendant corporation "claims
that under and by virtue of the terms of its charter, both its
shares of stock and its capital stock are exempt from taxation,
excepting only the one half of one per cent prescribed by the
charter, and that the revenue law of a State, undertaking to

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK. 457
Statement of the Case.
tax the one or the other, is void, because in violation of that
clause of the Constitution of the United States which forbids
the State to pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract;" stating that "it does claim immunity from taxation
upon that ground, but not, as alleged in the bill, upon none
other;" and setting up, as additional grounds of defence, that
the exemption of the corporation and its stockholders from
taxation, except as provided in its charter, had been adjudicated and established by the decision of this court in Foarivgton v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, and by the decision of the
Supreme Court of Tennessee in Memphis v. Union & Planter's Bank, 7 Pickle, 546; and also that they were so exempt
from taxation under the constitution and laws of Tennessee;
and insisting that the case was not one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, nor within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States.
The plaintiffs filed a general replication; and the court
entered this decree: "This cause came on for final hearing on
the pleadings and proofs, and having been argued by counsel
and considered by the court, the court is of the opinion as
follows, to wit: First, that the objection to the jurisdiction of
the court, set up in the answer of the defendants, is not well
taken; that the jurisdiction of the court should be sustained,
and the cause determined on its merits; second, that by the
charter of the defendant bank both the capital stock of the
said bank and the shares of stock therein are exempt from
taxation; third, that the defence of resjudieataset up in the
answer need not, therefore, be passed upon. It is therefore
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the bill of complaint herein
be, and is hereby, dismissed at the cost of complainants."
The plaintiffs appealed to this court.
The second ease was a like bill in equity, filed at the same
time by the State of Tennessee and the county of Shelby
against the Bank of Commerce, a corporation of Tennessee
and established at Memphis, and against its cashier, and one
of its stockholders, both citizens of Tennessee; and was dismissed on demurrer; and the plaintiffs appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The t ird case was a bill in equity, filed October 22, I891,
in the chancery court of Shelby county, by the State of
Tennessee and the city of Memphis against the Bank of Commerce and its cashier; and was substantially similar to the
bills in the other cases, except in omitting the last paragraph
but one, relating to the Constitution of the United States, the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States, and the
lien of the plaintiffs. The case was removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States upon the petition of the defendant
corporation, upon the ground that, by reason of the exemption in its charter, the tax act of Tennessee, on which the
plaintiffs relied, was repugnant to the provision of the Constitution of the United States that no State shall pass any law
impairing the obligation of a contract. In the Circuit Court
of the United States; a demurrer to the bill, on the same
ground, was filed and sustained, and a final decree entered,
dismissing the bill. 53 Fed. Rep. 735. The plaintiffs appealed to this court.
.-Af. S. P. Walker, (with whom was Mr. C. W.T etcaf on
brief,) for all the appellants.
.M. T. B. Turley, (with whom was Mr. Henry Craft on the
brief, in :No. 1020,) for all the appellees.
.r. WilliamJH. Carroll and .r.
appellees in No. 1021.

Julius A. Taylor for

M . JUsTioE GRAY, after stating the cases, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We find it unnecessary to consider other objections to the
maintenance of these three bills, or of any of them, because
we are clearly of opinion that each suit is not one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, of
which the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction,
either original, or by removal from a state court, under the
act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as corrected by the act of August
13, 1888, c. 866. 25 Stat. 434.

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.

459'

Opinion of the Court.

The Third Article of the Constitution, said Chief Justice
Marshall, "enables the judicial department to receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the Constitution, laws and treaties of
the United States, when any question respecting them shall
assume such a form that the judicial power is capable of acting on it. That power is capable of acting only when thesubject is submitted to it by a party who asserts his rights in
the form prescribed by law. It then becomes a case, and theConstitution declares that the judicial power shall extend to
all cases arising under the Constitution, laws and treaties of
the United States." And "when a question to which thejudicial power of the Union is extended by the Constitution
forms an ingredient of the original cause, it is in the power of
Congress to give the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of that cause,
although other questions of fact or of law may be involved
in it." But "the right of the plaintiff to sue cannot depend
on the defence which the defendant may choose to set up.
His right to sue is anterior to that defence, and must depend
on the state of things when the action is brought. The questions which the case involves, then, must determine its character, whether those questions be made in the cause or not."
Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 819, 823,
824. In this last clause, as the context shows, the word
"then" (though printed between commas) means "at that
time," that is to say, "when the action is brought."
The earliest act of Congress which conferred on the Circuit
Courts of the United States general jurisdiction of suits of a
civil nature, at common law or in equity, "arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made or
which shall be made under their authority," was the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137. 18 Stat. 470. Under section 1 of that
act, providing that those courts should have original cognizance of such suits when the matter in dispute exceeded the
sum or value of $500, their jurisdiction was exercised in cases
in which the plaintiff's statement of his cause of action showed
that he relied on some right under the Constitution or laws of
the United States. Feibelman v. Pacekard, 109 U. S. 421;
.Yansas Paciflc Railrfoad v. Atchison &c. Railroad, 112 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
414; NYew Orleans v. HLouston, 119 U. S.265; Bachrack v.
Norton, 132 U. S. 337; Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375. And
under section 2 of that act, which provided that any suit of a
civil nature, at law or in equity, brought in any state court,
"and arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made or which shall be made under their
authority," might be removed by either party into the Circuit
Court of the United States, it was held sufficient to justify a
removal by the defendant that the record at the time of the
removal showed that either party claimed a right under the
Constitution or laws of the United States. Railroad Co. v.
Mississippi,102 U. S. 135; Ames v. .ansas, 111 U. S. 449,
462; Brown. v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Provident Savings
Society v. -Ford,114 U. S. 635, 642; Pacific RailroadRemoval
Cases, 115 U. S. 1; Tennessee v. WhFitwortli, 117 U. S. 129,
139; Southern Pai#c Railroad v. California,118 U. S. 109;
Bock v. Perkins, 139 1J. S.628.
But, as has been decided under that act, "the suit must be
one in which some title, right, privilege, or immunity on which
the recovery depends will be defeated by one construction of
the Constitution, or a law or treaty of the United States, or
sustained by a contrary construction ;" Carson v. Dunham, 121
U. S.421, 427; "a cause cannot be removed from a state court
simply because, in the progress of the litigation, it may become
necessary to give a construction to the Constitution or laws of
the United States ;" Gold WVashing Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S.199,
203; and "the question whether a party claims a right under
the Constitution or laws of the United States is to be ascertained by the legal construction of its own allegations, and
not by the effect attributed to those allegations by the adverse
party." Central Railroad v. ltills, 113 U. S.249, 257.
Even under the act of 1875, the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States could not be sustained over a suit
originally brought in that court, upon the ground that the suit
was one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, unless that appeared in the plaintiff's statement
of his own claim. This was distinctly adjudged, and the
reasons clearly stated, in _Xetalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586,

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK. 461
Opinion of the Court.

589, in which Mr. Justice Harlan, after pointing out that the
cases, in which it had been held sufficient that the Federal
question upon which the case depended was first presented by
the answer or plea of the defendant, were cases of removal, in
which, therefore, the requisite of jurisdiction appeared on the
record at the time when the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of the United States attached, said: "Where, however, the
original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States is
invoked upon the sole ground that the determinatiom of the
suit depends upon some question of a Federal nature, it must
appear, at the outset, from the declaration or the bill of the
party suing, that the suit is of that character; in other words,
it must appear, in that class of cases, that the suit was one of
which the Circuit Court, at the time its jurisdiction is invoked,
could properly take cognizance. If it does not so appear, then
the court, upon demurrer or motion, or upon its own inspection
of the pleading, must dismiss the suit; just as it would remand
to the state court a suit which the record, at the time of removal, failed to show was within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. It cannot retain it in order to see whether the defendant may not raise some question of a Federal nature upon
which the right of recovery will finally depend; and if so
retained, the want of jurisdiction, at the commencement of
the suit, is not cured by an answer or plea which may suggest
a question of that kind." That view has been affirmed and
acted on at the present term in Colorado Co. v. Turck, 150
U. S. 138, 143.
The same rule applies, more comprehensively, to the acts
of 1887 and 1888. In section 1, as thereby amended, the
words giving original cognizance to the Circuit Courts of the
United States in this class of cases are the same as in the act
of 1875, (except that the jurisdictional amount is fixed at
$2000,) and it is therefore essential to their jurisdiction that
the plaintiff's declaration or bill should show that he asserts
a right under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
But the corresponding clause in section 2 allows removals
from a state court to be made only by defendants, and of suits
"of which the Circuit Courts of the United States are given

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.original jurisdiction by the preceding section," thus limiting
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States on
removal by the defendant, under this Pection, to such suits as
,might have been brought in that court by the plaintiff under
the first section. 24 Stat. 553; 25 Stat. 434. The change is
in accordance with the general policy of these acts, manifest
upon their face, and often recognized by this court, to contract
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States.
Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, 320; In re Pennsylvania Co.,
137 U. S. 451, 454; Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, 467;
.Shtaw v. Quincy -lining Co., 145 U. S. 444, 4,49; .2lartin v.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 151 U. S. 673, 687.
Congress, in making this change, may well have had in
mind the reasons which so eminent a judge as Mr. Justice
Miller invoked in support of his dissent from the original deci-sion that a defence under the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States was sufficient to justify a removal by the
.defendant under the act of 1875. "Looking," said he, "to
the reasons which may have influenced Congress, it may well
.be supposed that while that body intended to allow the removal of a suit where the very foundation and support thereof
was a law of the United States, it did not intend to authorize
.a removal where the cause of action depended solely on the
law of the State, and when the act of Congress only came in
.question incidentally as part (it might be a very small part) of
the defendant's plea in avoidance. In support of this view, it
may be added, that he in such case is not without remedy in
a Federal court; for if he has pleaded and relied on such
.defence in the state court, and that court has decided against
him in regard to it, he can remove the case into this court by
writ of error, and have the question he has thus raised decided
here." Railroad Co. v. Mississippi, 102 U. S. 135, 144.
The acts of 1887 and 1888, indeed, contain special provi•sions as to particular kinds of cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States. By section 3, every receiver
.or manager of property, appointed by a court of the United
States, is permitted to be sued without the previous leave of
that court, but the suit is subject to its general equity juris-

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.

463

Opinion of the Court.

diction so far as necessary to the ends of justice. By section
5, nothing in this act is to repeal or affect any jurisdiction or
right mentioned in sections 641, 642, 643, 722, or title 24 of
the Revised Statutes, or the act of March 1, 1875, c. 114, all
of which relate to suits concerning civil rights, and section 643
relates also to the removal of suits against officers or other
persons acting or claiming under any revenue law of the
United States; or in the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 8, which
relates to notice to absent defendants in suits to enforce or to
remove liens. And section 6 expressly repeals section 640 of
the Revised Statutes, which authorized any suit commenced
in a state court against any corporation, other than a banking
corporation, organized under a law of the United States, to be
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States upon the
petition of the defendant stating that it had a defence arising
under or by virtue of the Constitution, or of any treaty or law
of the United States. 24 Stat. 554, 555 ; 25 Stat. 436. But
those provisions have no application to the cases now before
us, and contain, to say the least, nothing tending to show that
it was intended that such a case as any of these might be
removed into the Circuit Court of the United.States for trial.
The difference between the act of M arch 3, 1875, and the
later acts is illustrated by the recent case of Texas & Pacic
Railway v. Cox, in which receivers, appointed by a Circuit
Court of the United States, of a railroad corporation deriving
its corporate powers from acts of Congress, were sued in the
same court, without previous leave of the court, after the act
of 1887 took effect. This court, speaking by the Chief Justice, after observing that the corporation would have been
entitled, under the act of 1875, to remove a suit brought
.against it in a state court, maintained the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States of the action against
the receivers, under the act of 1887, upon the ground that the
right to sue, without the leave of the court which appointed
them, receivers appointed by a court of the United States, was
conferred by section 6 of that act, and therefore the suit was
one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
.States. 145 U. S. 593, 601, 603.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

In each of the three cases now before this court, the only
right claimed by the plaintiffs is under the law of Tennessee,
and they assert no right whatever under the Constitution and
laws of the United States. In the first and second bills, the
only reference to the Constitution or laws of the United States
is the suggestion that the defendants will contend that the law
of the State under which the plaintiffs claim is void, because
in contravention of the Constitution of the United States; and
by the settled law of this court, as appears from the decisions
above cited, a suggestion of one party, that the other will or
may set up a claim under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, does not make the suit one arising under that Constitution or those laws. In the third bill, no mention is made
of the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of any
right claimed under either; and no statement in the petition
for removal, or in the demurrer, of the defendant corporation,
can supply that want, under the existing act of Congress.
The result is that, in the first and second cases, the decrees
must be reversed, at the cost of the plaintiffs, and the cases
remanded to the Circuit Court of the United States with directions to dismiss tjhe bills for want of jurisdiction; and that, in
the third case, the decree must be reversed, at the cost of the
defendants, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court of the
United States with directions to remand it to the state court
from which it was removed. The costs in each case are to be
borne by the party who brought into the Circuit Court of the
United States a case not within its jurisdiction. Torrence v.
Shedd, 144 U. S. 527; .Mfartin v. Snyder, 148 U. S. 663.
.Decrees reversed accordingly.
MR. JusTioE HARLAN, with whom concurred MR. JusTIcE
FIELD, dissenting.
I agree that the decrees in the first and second of the above
cases must be reversed with directions to dismiss the bills for
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court.
But I cannot assent to the proposition that the third case,
which was originally brought in one of the courts of the State,

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.

465

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JT.

was not removable to the Circuit Court of the United States
upon the application of the defendant bank. In that case, as
the opinion of the court shows, the State sought to enforce a
lien for taxes alleged to have been given by a general statute
of Tennessee upon the capital stock of the defendant. The
bank defended upon the ground that its stock was exempt by
the terms of its charter from such taxation, and that the statute under which the State brought its suit was, if applied to
the defendant, repugnant to the provision of the Constitution
of the United States forbidding the States from passing laws
impairing the obligation of contracts.
The opinion of the court proceeds upon the general ground
that, while a plaintiff, if his cause of action arises under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or under some treaty
with a foreign power, may invoke the original jurisdiction of
a Circhit Court of the United States, a defendawnt is not entitled, under the existing statutes, to remove from the state
court into the Circuit Court of the United States any suit
against him, in respect to which the original jurisdiction of the
Federal court could not be invoked by the plaintiff, even where
his defence goes to the whole cause of action set forth in the
bill, declaration, or complaint, and is grounded entirely upon

the Con'titutionof the United States, or upon an act of Cangress, or upon a t'reaty between the United States and aforeign
.power. Of course the cases excepted by the fifth section of
the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, 555, to be presently referred to, cannot be brought under this rule.
By the Judiciary Act of 1789, the original jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States, in suits of a civil
nature, at common law or in equity, was restricted to those
in which the value of the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and in
which the United States were plaintiffs or petitioners, or an
alien was a party, or the suit was between a citizen of the
State in which it was brought and a citizen of another State.
And the right of removal was given only to the defendant in
a suit commenced in a state court against an alien, or by a
citizen of the State in which the suit was brought against a
VOL. CL-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field,

J. .

citizen of another State, and, under certain circumstances, to
the party in an action in which the title to land was concerned
who relied upon a grant from a State other than that in which
the action was pending. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1
Stat. 73, 78, 79.
The act of 1875 enlarged the original jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts of the United States so as to embrace all suits
of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, in which the
matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of costs, the sum or value
of five hundred dollars, and "arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall
be made, under their authority, or in which the United States
are plaintiffs or petitioners, or in which there shall be a controversy between citizens of different States or a controversy
between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants
of different States, or a controversy between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens, or subjects." In respect to each
of these cases that act provided that " eitherpartymay remove
said suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district." Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470.
The act of March 3, 1887, as amended in 1888, left the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States precisely as it was established by the act of 1875, except that it
increased the sum or value of the matter in dispute, necessary
to give jurisdiction, to two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs. Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 434.
The act of 1887 further provided as follows:
"SEO. 2. That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity,
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority,
of which the Circuit Courts of the United States are given
original jurisdiction by the preceding section, which may now
be pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in any state
court, may be removed by the defendant or defendants therein
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper district.
Any other suits of a civil nature, at law or in equity, of which
the Circuit Courts of the United States are given jurisdiction
by the preceding section, and which are now pending, or which

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.

467

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

may hereafter be brought in any state court, may be removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper
district by the defendant or defendants therein, being nonresidents of that State; and when in any suit mentioned in
this section there shall be a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be fully
determined as between them, then either one or more of the
defendants actually interested in such controversy may remove
said suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district.
"SEO. 3. That whenever any party entitled to remove any
suit mentioned in the next preceding section, except in such
cases as are provided for in the last clause of said section,
may desire to remove such suit from a state court to the
Circuit Court of the United States, he may make and file a
petition in such suit in such stal court at the time, or any
time before the defendant is required by the laws of the State
or the rule of the state court in which such suit is brought, to
answer or plead to the declaration or complaint of the plaintiff
for the removal of such suit into the Circuit Court to be held
in the district where such suit is pending, and shall make and
file therewith a bond, with good and sufficient surety, for his
or their entering in such Circuit Court, on the first day of its
then next session, a copy of the record in such suit, and for
paying all costs that may be awarded by the said Circuit Court,
if said court shall hold that such suit was wrongfully or improperly removed thereto, and also for their appearing and
entering special bail in such suit if special bail was originally
requisite therein."
By the fifth section of that act it was declared that nothing
in it should be "held, decreed, or construed to repeal or affect
any jurisdiction or right mentioned either in sections six hundred and forty-one, or in six hundred and forty-two, or in
seven hundred and twenty-two, or in Title twenty-four of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, or mentioned in section
eight of the act of Congress of which this act is an amendment, or in the act of Congress approved March first, eighteen
hundred and seventy-five, entitled 'An act to protect all citi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

Section 641 of the Rezens in their civil and legal rights.'
vised Statutes relates to civil suits and criminal prosecutions
commenced in state courts, and involving the equal civil rights
of citizens of the United States. Section 642 prescribes what
shall be done when the petitioner who seeks the removal is in
the actual custody of the state court. Section 643 gives the
right of removal to the defendant in any civil suit or criminal
prosecution against an officer, or any person acting under him,
for any act done under the authority of a revenue law of the
United States. Section 722 relates to proceedings, civil and
criminal, in vindication of civil rights. Title 24 of the Revised Statutes relates to civil rights. The eighth section of
the act of March 3, 1875, prescribes the mode in which absent
defendants, in suits brought to enforce any legal or equitable
lien upon or claim to property within the district may be
brought before the court. - The act of March 1, 1875, has
reference to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities of inns, public conveyances, theatres, and other places of public amusements.
There can be no question as to the import of the words
"arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,"
to be found in the acts of 1875 and 1887. It has long been
settled that a suit was of that class if it necessarily involved
a title, right, privilege, or immunity asserted, by either _party,
under the Constitution or laws of the United States. If the
defence was based upon the Constitution or laws of the United
States, the suit was one arising under that Constitution or
those laws, although .the ylaintiff may not have asserted, in
his pleading, any claim whatever of a Federal nature. Rail-road Co. v. Nlississippi, .102 U. S. 135, 140; Feibelman v.
Packard,109 U. S.421; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S.449, 462;
Pacift# RailroadRemoval Cases, 115 U. S.1; Starin, v. New
York, 115 U. S.248, 257; Bachracek v. Norton, 132 U. S.
337; Bock v. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628, 630. But the court
now holds that the effect of the words in the first clause of
section two of the act of 1887, "Of which the Circuit Courts
of the United States are given original jurisdiction by the preceding section," is to make the right of the defendant in a suit

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.

469

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or
under a treaty, to remove it from the state court, depend upon
the inquiry whether the suit was one in respect of which the
original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court could be invoked by
the plaintiff. In my judgment, this is an erroneous interpretation of the statute. It is too narrow. No such interpretation was suggested at the bar, nor do I think it has ever been
before suggested in any case.
The main purpose of the second section of the act of 1887
was to restrict the right of removal to the defendant or defendants in suits of the kind mentioned in the first clause of that
section, and to the defendant or defendants, "being non-residents" of the State, in all other suits mentioned in that section. It was not intended to deny to a defendant the right of
removal where the suit, by reason of the nature of the defence,
was one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties with foreign powers, while allowing the
plaintiff, whose bill, declaration, or complaint made a suit of
that kind, to invoke the original jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. What possible reason could there have been for denying to a defendant the right, by a removal of the suit, to invoke
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States for the
protection of his rights under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, while giving to the plaintiff the right to invoke
the jurisdiction of the same court for the protection of similar
rights under the Constitution and laws of the United States?
One effect of the present decision is -except in the cases mentioned in the sections of the Revised Statutes and in the acts
of Congress referred to in the fifth section of the act of 1887
-to prevent an officer of the United States, when sued in a
state court on account of some act done by him, from removing the suit into the Federal court, although what he did is
alleged to have been done in execution of some act of Congress, or pursuant to an order of a court of the United States.
If it be said that this was the condition of things under the
original judiciary act, my answer is that Congress did not, by
the act of 1887, evince a purpose to return to the policy indicated by the act of 1789 in respect to the concurrent juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

diction of the courts of the United States and the state courts.
This is shown by the fact that, while under the act of 1789,
the Circuit Courts of the United States had no original jurisdiction of suits arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or under treaties with foreign powers, or of
suits between citizens of the same State, claiming lands under
grants of different States, or of controversies between citizens
of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects, original jurisdiction in all such cases, as conferred by the act of 1875, is
preserved to those courts by the act of 1887. It seems to me
contrary to the general purpose of the latter act to hold that
a suit, which is made by the plaintiff's pleading one arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States or a
treaty, can be brought in the proper Circuit Court of the
United States, while a suit which is made by the defendant's
answer one arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States or a treaty, cannot be removed to the Federal
court for hearing or trial. The words in the first clause of
the second section of the act of 1887, "of which the Circuit
Courts of the United States are given original jurisdiction by
the preceding section," have, I think, been construed by the
court with too much strictness. They were inserted in the
act, in part, for the purpose of indicating that the suits mentioned in the second section as suits "arisin g under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority," and which could
be removed, were of the same nature as the suits of the same
kind described in the same language in section 1, and not for
the purpose of limiting the right of removal to those suits
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or under treaties, which could be brought by an original action
in a Circuit Court of the United States. The court, by its
construction, does what the act of Congress does not do, and
what it should not be supposed Congress intended to do,
namely, it divides suits arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States and suits under treaties with foreign
powers into two classes, and excludes one of those classes
altogether from the original cognizance of the Circuit Courts

TENNESSEE v. UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK.

471

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

of the United States. It thus -except in the cases saved by
the fifth section of the act of 1887- makes a discrimination
against a defendant, whose defence rests entirely upon the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or on a treaty, that
is not justified either by the policy or the words of the act
of 1887.
The Judiciary Acts of 1789 and 1875 restricted the original
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States to suits,
at law or in equity, in which the matter in dispute exceeded the
sum or value of fve hundred dollars, exclusive of costs. The
act of 1887 fixed this amount at two thousand dollars,excelusive
of interest and costs. It may well be held-indeed, the
natural and reasonable construction of the act of 1887 isthat the words "of which the Circuit Courts of the United
States are given original jurisdiction by the preceding section,"
were introduced for the purpose of making it clear that no
suit, arising under the Constitution or the laws of the United
States, or under any treaty, should be removed, unless the
matter in dispute exceeded in value the sum of $2000, exclusive of interest and costs. But for the words in the second
section of the act of 1887, "of which the Circuit Courts of
the United States are given original jurisdiction by the preceding section," any suit arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or under a treaty, however small
the amount in dispute, could have been removed from the
state court.' Those words being in the second section, no suit
of that class could be removed into the Federal court, unless
the value of the matter in dispute was such as is prescribed in
"the preceding section," namely, $2000, exclusive of interest
and costs.
Again, if, instead of suing to enforce the lien given by the
statute, the State had levied upon the property of the bank,
the officer making the levy could have been enjoined, at the
suit of the bank, upon the very ground now set forth in its
answer, namely, that the statute under which that officer proceeded was repugnant to the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States. Such a suit would have been one
arising under the Constitution, and, therefore, cognizable by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

the Circuit Court. Alle v. Baltimore & Okio Railroad, 114
U. S. 311; TFite v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 307; Barry v.
Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550. Yet, under the decision just rendered, the bank cannot, by removing the present suit, invoke.
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the determination of
the same question.
Further, it was held in Texas & _Paific Railway v. Cox,
145 U. S. 593, that, without reference to the citizenship of the
plaintiff, a suit for damages can be brought in a Circuit Court
of the United States against receivers appointed by a Circuit
Court of the United States of a railroad corporation created
by an act of Congress, although the case involves no question
of a Federal nature; this, upon the ground that the receivers,
in executing their duties, were acting under judicial authority
derived from the Constitution of the United States. Such a
suit, if brought in a state court, could, I take it, be removed
under the present decision, upon the ground simply that the
plaintiff's suit was within the original cognizance of the Circuit Court. And yet, under the act of 1887, as now interpreted, a suit against a citizen or against a corporation created
by a State cannot be removed, even if the defence rests exclusively on the Constitution of the United States. I cannot
believe that Congress contemplated any such result.
I am of opinion that, under the act of 1887, a suit, involving
the required amount, and "arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority "- whether the suit becomes one
of that kind by reason of the allegations in the bill, declaration, or complaint, or by reason of the answer or defence may be removed, not, as under the act of 1875, by either party,
but by the defendant or defendants, of whatever State residents or citizens, in the mode and at the time prescribed by
the act of 1887.
-MR. JUsTIcE FIELD authorizes me to say that he concurs in
this dissenting opinion.

M . JUSTICE WHITE, not having been a member of the
court when these cases were argued, took no part in their
decision.

