OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Statement of the Case.

LOUISVILLE, EVANSVILLE, AND ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. CLARKE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 191. Argued January 4,1894.-Decided March 4,1894.
The right which section 284 of the Revised Statutes of Indiana gives to the
personal representative of a deceased person, whose death has been
caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, to maintain an
action against the latter within two years after the death, accrues when
the death so caused occurs, whether it happens before or after the
expiration of a period of a year and a day from the date of its cause.
The common law rule in prosecutions for murder, appeals of death, and
inquisitions against deodands, does not apply to the right of action given
by that statute.
In an action by the personal representative of a deceased person whose
death has been caused by the wrongful act or omission of the defendant,
evidence as to the income of the deceased previous to his death is
admissible.
When, in an action founded upon a state statute, a Federal judge in instructing the jury adopts the construction given to the statute by the
highest court of the State, it is no error to add that he had formerly
been of a different opinion, and so instructed former juries.

THIS was an action brought by the executor of a deceased

person under Rev. Stats. Indiana, § 284, against the plaintiff
in error, defendant below, to recover damages for the death
of the plaintiff's testator alleged to have been caused by the
wrongful act of the defendant. The accident by which the
plaintiff was injured was alleged to have taken place November 25, 1886, and the death to have happened by reason of
his injuries February 23, 1888. The defendant demurred on
the ground that the complaint did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, contending that, as the death
did not occur until after the expiration of a year and a day
from the infliction of the injury, it could not be held in law
to have been caused by the act of the defendant. The
demurrer was overruled, the defendant answered, issue was
joined, and the trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff, to which this writ of error was sued out. The

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 231
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

overruling of the demurrer was one of the assignments of
error. There were also other assignments which are noticed
in the opinion of the court.
-Mr.Alexander Pope Humphrey for plaintiff in error. -Mr.
JohAn . iglehart and .Mr. Edwin Taylor were with him on
the brief.
At common law there were three occasions upon which
the courts inquired in respect of the killing of a human being:
.First:Indictments which were public prosecutions; prosecutions brought in the name and behalf of the king. Second:
Appeals of death, which were proceedings brought not by the
king nor in his name, but in the name and for the benefit of
private individuals. Third: Inquisitions against deodands.
As to the first, where there was a public prosecution, that
is, a prosecution brought in the name of the king, against one
accused of a wrongful act, causing the death of another, it
was necessary to show that the stroke or poison given by the
accused had been given within a year and a day from the
time of the death of the person alleged to have been slain.
As to the second, these appeals of death were merely the
survival of the Saxon weregild, 4 B1. Com. 313. Though
criminal in form, they were civil in purpose, being between
private individuals and under the control of private individuals. They could not be brought more than a year and a day
after the death. 3 Henry 7, c. 1. See also 6 Ed. 1, c. 9.
And in Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, Bk. 2, c. 23, § 88, it is
said that "it seems clear that the appeal of death must not only
set forth the day when the hurt was given, but also the day
when the party died of it." Thus we see that, in this action
at the common law, civil in its nature, and closely resembling
the action allowed by the Indiana Statute, not only must it be
commenced within a year and a day after the receipt of the
injury, but also that the pleadings must set forth the dates.
The third instance at which, at common law, an inquisition
could be set on foot, by reason of the death of an individual
was in case of a deodand. At common law if the death of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

person was caused by an inanimate object the inanimate object
was a deodand, and was seized foi the benefit of the Crown
and sold for pious uses. Now, what was the rule in reference
to the deodand?
In 1 Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, Bk. 1, c. 26, § 7,it is
said in regard to the presumption and rule of law as to inanimate objects causing the death of a human being: "In all
these cases, if the party wounded die not of the wound within
a year and a day after he received it, there shall be nothing
forfeited; for the law does not look upon such a wound as
the cause of a man's death, after which he lives so long; but
if the party die within that time, the forfeiture shall have
relation to the wound given, and cannot be saved by any
alienation or other act whatsoever, in the meantime." This
rule was enforced in Regina v. Brownlow, 11 Ad. & El. 119.
It will thus be seen that every application of this rule of a
year and a day, was made at common law, which was possible.
This rule of the law is still applicable to every case known
at common law, where a civil remedy, or a quasi-civil remedy
is given against a person who has killed another.
The statute of Indiana, See. 284, Revision of 1881, upon
which this action is brought, furnishes a civil remedy for a
like criminal offence. It follows inevitably that the law must
apply the same rule to the civil action as to the criminal
prosecution, or be guilty of the grossest absurdity. That statute is said to have been "intended to accomplish the same end
as the statutes 9 and 10 Vict. c. 93, commonly known as Lprd
Campbell's Act." -Mayhiew v. Burns, 103 Indiana, 328.
There was, in England, at the time of the passing of Lord
Campbell's Act, no civil remedy by the relations of a person
killed by another against the slayer. That act had for its
end and object, therefore, the revival of the ancient law relating to appeals of death in a modified form, and to insert
into the common law a principle, the reverse of which had
been declared to be the common law of England. It gave a
new cause of action, namely, for causing the death. It continued the right of action which the deceased had in favor of
his relatives only in the sense that it gave them a right of

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 233
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

action for any injury arising from the wrongful act, default
or neglect. It did not give them a right of action for the
injury which the deceased sustained, and for which he might
have recovered damages, had he lived, but for the injury
which they suffered by the death of the deceased. And this
loss must be a pecuniary loss to the person claiming as beneficiary.
'anklin v. Southeastern Railway, 3 H. & N. 211;
Pyrn v. Great Northern Railway, 4 Best & Smith, 396.
The interpretation placed upon the act by the English
Courts is that the right of action for the benefit of the relatives is conditional - that, if the deceased might have sued
for the injury to him, they, after his death, may sue for the
injury to them. Hence, if he has compromised and settled
his right of action, their right of action falls thereby. Read
v. Great Eastern Railway, L. R. 3 Q. B. 555.
It is plain from the wording and structure of Lord Campbell's Act, that it was the intention to revive in a modified form
the old law of -weregilds and appeals of death. It gave the
pecuniary remedy to the same relations who would have been
entitled to sue in the case of appeals of death, and the same
time of limitation was fixed as the time within which the action
must be brought. It canno be that such similarity was unintentional. The reason for the abolition of appeals of death
was, that they interfered with, and oftentimes delayed, the
criminal prosecution, and amounted to a gratification of private resentment, rather than a punishment for the injury
committed against the State. The principle of them, however, that there ought to be a remedy to the individual for
the injury done him by the killing of a relative on whom he
or she was dependent, was recognized as being a just and
correct one.

In passing the Statute of 9 and 10 Vict., c. 93, the

legislature preserved nearly all the features of the old law
relating to weregilds and appeals of death, except that the
civil remedy was made independent of and in addition to the
criminal prosecution, instead of being a substitute therefor.
The year and a day rule is a reasonable one, founded upon
principles of justice to the individual, and necessary to the
orderly administration of trials. If it be not declared as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

rule applicable to this class of actions, the duties of courts and
juries will be likely to be increased to an extent far beyond
what has hitherto been required of them, by actions upon this
statute for injuries received years ago. The fact that there is
no case to be found where this question has been raised, argues
that the year and a day rule has been taken as settled law, for
the facts certainly have existed many times before this, and
the question would certainly have been litigated, if there had
been any hope of success.
There is nothing in the statutory limitation of two years to
prevent the construction which we claim as being placed upon
this statute. Two years from the death of the injured party
is allowed -within which the action must be brought. fHann
v. Jeffersonville Railroad,32 Indiana, 113.
Such a limitation is necessary in order that there may be an
end of litigation. The year and a day rule stands upon an entirely different ground, as above shown, absolutely placing a
limit to the inquiry into causes of causes. This limit operates
from the time of the wrongful act or omission. The two years
statute of limitation operates from the accruing of the cause
of action, that is, from the death. The two limitations are,
therefore, absolutely disconnected, and stand upon different and
independent grounds.
For the above reasons we claim that the complaint, by the
reason of its showing the death to have occurred more than a
year and a day after the act, shows, in contemplation of law,
that the wrongful act or omission did not cause the death, and
that it is, therefore, insufficient, by reason of the failure to
allege the most important fact.
JM. W H. H. Miller, (with whom were Mr. _Ferd. Winter
and Mr. John B. Elam on the brief,) for defendant in error.
M .. JusTicx HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought April 28, 1888, by the executor
of Augustine CJarke, whose death, the plaintiff alleged, was
caused by the wrongful act and omission of the defendant,
the Louisville, Evansville and St. Louis Railroad Company,

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 235
Opinion of the -Court.

a carrier of passengers for hire. The gist of the action is
the negligence of the company, its agents and servants, in
consequence of which the decedent, on the 25th day of
November, 1886, while travelling on the defendant's cars, in
the State of Indiana, received injuries in his person from
which death ensued. The plaintiff's testator died February
23d, 1888.
The action was founded on section 284 of the Revised
Statutes of Indiana, (Revision of 1881,) providing:
"When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or
omission of another, the personal representatives of the former
may maintain an action therefor against the latter, if the
former might have maintained an action, had he lived, against
the latter for an injury for the same act or omission. The
action must be commenced within two years. The damages
cannot exceed ten thousand dollars, and must inure to the
exclusive benefit of the widow and children, if any, or next
of kin, to be distributed in the same manner as personal
property of the deceased."
It appeared from the complaint that plaintiff's testator
lived more than a year and a day after being injured. And
the question was presented, upon a demurrer interposed by
the defendant, whether, within the meaning of the statute,
it could properly be said that death was caused by the wrongful act or omission of another if it did not occur until after
the expiration of a year and a day from such act or omission.
The argument in support of this limitation upon the right of
action given by the statute is based upon certain rules at
common law in prosecutions for murder, appeals of death,
and inquisitions against deodands. Before examining this
question it will be well to ascertain the object of the statute
as declared by the Supreme Court of Indiana.
In LofoNA v. Vogles' Administrator,17 Indiana, 105, 107,
which was an action under this statute, it was contended thaf
the plaintiff could not maintain his suit without showing that
he had criminally prosecuted the defendant to conviction;
that such prosecution was a condition precedent to a civil
action. It was held that this rule did not prevail in the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

States, as we do not in this country depend upon the injured
party, or his representative, to institute criminal prosecutions.
In Jefersonville Railroad v. Swayne's Administrator, 26
Indiana, 459, 484, the court, observing that it was a maxim
of the common law, too familiar and long established to
require the citation of authority to support it, that a cause
of action for an injury to the person dies with the party
injured, and does not survive to his personal representative,
said: "The statute does not profess to revive the cause of
action for the injury to the deceased in favor of his personal
representative, nor is such its legal effect, but it creates a new
cause of action unknown to the common law. The action
given by the statute is for causing the death, by a wrongful
act or omission, in a case where the deceased might have
maintained an action had he lived, for an injury by the same
act or omission. The right of compensation for the bodily
injury of the deceased, which dies with him, remains extinct.
The right of action created by the statute is founded on a
new grievance, namely, causing the death, and is for the
injury sustained thereby, by the widow and children, or next
of kin of the deceased, for the damages must inure to their
exclusive benefit."
"The provision that the personal representative may maintain an action, if the deceased could have maintained one, if
the injury had caused death," the court said in Pittsburgh,
Fort Wayne &c. lRailway v. ining's Administrator,27 Indiana, 513, 518, "has been heretofore ruled to be applicable to
the cause of action, and not to the person bringing it. In
other words, an action may be maintained when the deceased,
had he lived, would not have been prevented from recovering
by reason of his own want of care."
In Ml ayhew v. Burns, 103 Indiana, 328, 333, the court said
that the statute "gives to the widow or next of kin, through
the personal representative, a right to recover for any injury
which they may have sustained by reason of the death of an
adult, or one emancipated from parental service, and in whose
life they may have had a pecuniary interest."
In Hanna v. Jefersonville Railroad Co., 32 Indiana, 113,

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 237
Opinion of the Court.

114, the court, discussing the question whether the two years'
limitation prescribed by the statute ran from the death of the
person injured, or from the qualification of his administrator,
said: "The statute was intended mainly to be operative
against carriers of passengers and in a very large measure
against corporations, whose business is exclusively performed
by hired servants, who are being constantly changed, and in
whose knowledge the facts of such cases would generally rest,
or who must be depended on for such information as would
lead to a discovery of the facts and witnesses to establish
them. The reasons for requiring the suit to be brought within
some short period after the occurrence were, therefore, very
forcible and must have been perceived. While a proper regard
for the security of human life required that a right of action
should be given which did not exist by previous law, the considerations already noted required that the remedy should be
promptly sought; else a door would be open wide for injustice
and wrong." It was, therefore, held that the time limited for
suit began to run from the death.
In Burns v. Grand Rapids & Indiana Railroad, 113 Indiana, 169, 171, the court, construing the statute, said that "the
recovery is not a penalty inflicted by way of punishment for
the wrong, but is merely compensatory of the damages sustained by the heirs or next of kin, who had, or are supposed
to have had, a pecuniary interest in the life of the intestate."
And in Hcecht v. Ohio & .Miss. Railway, 132 Indiana, 507,
514: "The wording of Lord Campbell's Act and the statute
of this State differ somewhat, but are in effect the same. The
purpose of each was to give to the personal representative of
the deceased a right of action if the deceased at the instant
of his death would have had a right of action for the same
act or omission had he survived." It was, consequently, held
that a personal representative could not maintain an action
under the statute, if the party injured, in his lifetime, sued
and recovered full compensation for the injuries inflicted, and
had thereby, if he had lived, precluded himself from maintaining any further action on account of such injuries. The same
construction was placed upon Lord Campbell's Act in Read v.

OCTOBER TERM\,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

GreatEastern Railway, L. R. 3 Q. B. 555; and in Littlewood
v. Hew York City, 89 N. Y. 24-, upon a statute of New York,
not differing materially from the Indiana statute.
It thus appears to be the settled construction of this statute
that the right of a personal representative to bring an action
for the exclusive benefit of the widow and children, or next
of kin, of one whose death was caused by the wrongful act or
omission of another, depends upon the existence or non-existence of a right in the decedent, immediately before his death,
to have maintained an action on account of such act or omission. Consequently, the words of the Indiana statute, "the
action must be commenced within two years," means two years
from the death of the person injured, not from the time he
received the injuries from which death resulted.
In the light of this construction it would seem to be an
unreasonable interpretation of the statute to hold that the
personal representative has no right of action, in any case,
where a year and a day passes after the injury before death
occurs. The statute, in express words, gives the personal
representative two years within which to sue. He cannot sue
until the cause of action accrues, and the cause of action
given by the statute for the exclusive benefit of the widow
and children or next of kin cannot accrue until the person
injured dies. Until the death of the person injured, the "new
grievance " upon which the action is founded does not exist.
To say, therefore, that where the person injured dies one year
and two days after being injured, no action can be maintained
by the personal representative, is to go in the face of the
statute, which makes no distinction between cases where
death occurs within less than a year and a day from the
injury, and where it does not occur until after the expiration
of one year and a day. Although the evidence may show,
beyond all dispute, that the death was caused by the wrongful act or omission of the defendant, and although the action
by the personal representative was brought within two years
after the death, yet, according to the argument of learned
counsel, the action cannot be maintained if the deceased happened to survive his injuries for a year and a day. We can-

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 239
Opinion of the Court.

not assent to this view. Was the death, in fact, caused by
the wrongful act or omission of the defendant? That is the
vital inquiry in each case. The statute imposes no other condition upon the right to sue. The court has no authority to
impose an additional or different one. If death was so caused,
then the personal representative may sue at any time within
two years from such death.
Ought we to allow this obvious construction of the statute
to be defeated by any rule recognized at common law as controlling upon an inquiry as to the cause of death in cases of
murder, appeals of death, or requisitions against deodands?
In cases of murder the rule at common law undoubtedly
was that no person should be adjudged "by any act whatever
to kill another who does not die by it within a year and a day
thereafter; in computation whereof the whole day on which
the hurt was done shall be reckoned first." Hawkins' Pleas of
the Crown, Bk.1, c. 13; Id. Bk. 2, c. 23, § 88; 4 B1. Com. 197,
306. The reason assigned for that rule was that if the person
alleged to have been murdered "die after that time, it cannot
be discerned, as the law presumes, whether he died of the
stroke or poison, etc., or a natural death; and in case of life,
a rule of law ought to be certain." 3 Inst. 53. And such is
the rule in this country in prosecutions for murder, except in
jurisdictions where it may be otherwise prescribed by statute.
Wharton's Amer. Cr. L. § 1073; State v. Sorrell, 1 Devereux
Law (N. C.) 139.
An appeal, when spoken of as a criminal prosecution,
denoted, according to Blackstone, an accusation by a private
subject against another, for some heinous crime - a "private
process for the punishment of public crimes," having its origin
in a custom, derived from the ancient Germans, of allowing
a pecuniary satisfaction, called a uieregild,to the party injured
or his relations, "to expiate enormous offences." 4 B1. Com.
312, 313. Bacon defines it to be a "vindictive" action, "the party's private action, seeking revenge for the injury
done him, and at the same time prosecuting for the Crown in
respect of the offence against the public." Bacon Abridg.
Title, Appeal. These appeals could be brought "previous to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

an indictment, and if the appellee be acquitted thereon, he
could not be afterwards indicted for the same offence." 4 Bl.
Com. 315; Comyn's Dig. Title, Appeal, G. 11, 16. While,
during the continuance of the custom referred to, a process
was given for recovering the weregild by the party to whom
it was due, "it seems that when these offences by degrees
grew no longer redeemable, the private process was still cantinued, in order to insure the infliction of punishment on the
offender, though the party was allowed no pecuniary compensation for the offence." Bk. 4, 314. By statute of 59 Geo. 3,
c. 46, appeals of murder, treason, felony, and other offences
were abolished.
During the time when appeals of death were allowed, at
common law, the rule established by the statute of Gloucester,
6 Edw. 1, c. 9, was that "the appeal must be sued out within
a year and a day after the completion of the felony by the
death of the party." 4 Bl. Com. 315, 329 n. This, the
author said, seemed to be only declaratory of the common
law. And Hawkins says: "It seems clear that the appeal of
death must set forth the day when the hurt was given, but
also the day when the party died of it; as it appears from all
precedents of this kind, both in Coke and Raslat, and also
from the manifest reason of the thing, that it may appear that
the party died within a year and a day after the stroke, in
which case only the law intends the death was occasioned by
it." Bk. 2, c. 23, § 88. Bacon, referring to the statute of
Gloucester, says that, by that statute, "an appeal shall not be
abated for default of fresh suit, if the party sue within the
year and day after the deed done, the computation whereof,
as the law is now settled, shall be made not from the day
lxrty
when the wound is given, but f'o the day when thep
died; also, the year and day shall be computed--from the
beginning of the day, and not from the precise time when the
death happened, because regularly no fraction shall be made
of a day." Title, Appeal, D. And Comyn: "By the statute
of Gloucester, 6 Edw. 1 c. 9, an appeal shall not abate by
want of fresh suit, if brought in a year and a day after the
fact done; which statute is, by construction, restrained to an

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 241
Opinion of the Court.

appeal for the death of a man. And, therefore, an appeal
upon the death of a man may be within the year and day,
though there be not any fresh suit; within a year and day
after the death, though the blow was given before." 2 Inst.
320, Title, Appeal, D.
The rule of a year and a day was also applied at common
law to inquisitions of deodands, brought to forfeit to the king,
"to be applied to pious uses and distributed in alms by his
high almoner," personal chattels that were the immediate
occasion of the death of any reasonable creature. 1 Bl. Com.
300. The rule in those cases was that the law does not look
upon such a wound as the cause of a man's death, "after which
he lives so lon&" Hawkins' P. 0.Bk. 1, c. 8, § 7.
We have made this full reference to prosecutions for murder, appeals of death, and inquisitions against deodands, because of the earnest contention of counsel that the rule,
applied at common law in such cases, should control the construction of the Indiana statute. In our judgment, the rule
of a year and a day is inapplicable to the case before us. In
prosecutions for murder the rule was one simply of criminal
evidence. Appeals of death and inquisitions against deodands, although having some of the features of civil proceedings, were, in material respects, criminal in their nature.
Besides, as we have seen, the statute of 6 Edw. 1, c. 9, was
construed as giving a year and a day from the death of the
party killed, not from the time the wound was inflicted.
And we do not understand that any different construction
was placed upon the statute of 3 Hen. 8, c. 1, to which
counsel referred.
But be that as it may, in prosecutions for murder and appeals of death, the principal object was the punishment of
public offences. In cases of murder and appeals of death,
human life was involved, while in inquisitions against deodands it was sought to forfeit property that had caused the
death of some one. In such cases, the rule of a year and a
day might well have been applied. But actions under a statute like the one in Indiana are, in their nature and consequences, wholly of a civil character. What the legislature
VOL. Cu-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

had in view was to make provision for the widow and children, or next of kin, of one whose death had been caused by
the wrongful act or omission of another. The reasons upon
which the rule of a year and a day were applied in the abovementioned cases at common law do not apply with the same
force in purely civil proceedings that involve no element of
punishment, but only provide compensation to certain relatives of the -decedent who have been deprived of his assistance
and aid. As the statute, according to the construction placed
upon it by the highest court of Indiana, allows the personal
representative to sue within two years after the death of the
testator or intestate, where death was caused by the wrongful
act or omission of the defendant, we cannot, by mere construction, restrict that right to cases in which the death occurred within a year and a day after such act or omission.
We repeat that, where death was caused by the wrongful act
or omission of another, the right of the personal representative, suing for the benefit of the widow and children or next
of kin, to recover damages on account of such death, is complete under the statute, and may be asserted by action brought
at any time within two years from the death.
It is assigned for error that the court below permitted the
plaintiff, against the objection of the defendant, to testify as
to the income of the deceased previous to his death. It is
conceded by counsel that it was competent to have shown the
testator's ability and capacity for labor as well as his skill in
his calling. But it is insisted that the evidence as to his income for a particular period was not competent. We are of
the opinion that the evidence to which the defendant objected
was properly admitted. It tended, in connection with other
evidence, to show the extent of the loss sustained by the
widow and children on account of the death of the husband
and father. The age of the deceased, his probable expectancy
of life, his occupation, his ability to labor, his accustomed
earnings, were all proper elements of the inquiry as to the
compensation proper to be awarded on account of his death.
TFade v. Ze Roy, 20 H1ow. 34; lebraska City v. Campbell, 2
Black, 590; District of Columbia v. Woodbury, 136 U. S. 450;

LOUISVILLE & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD v. CLARKE. 243
Opinion of the Court.

Texas & Pacifie Railway v. 7olk, 151 U. S. 73; Howard
County v. Legg, 110 Indiana, 479; Hudson v. Houser, Administrator,123 Indiana, 309; Collins v. Davidson, 19 Fed. Rep.
83; Hall v. Galveston, 39 Fed. Rep. 18; Serenson v. Nvortherm
Pacfic Railroad,45 Fed. Rep. 407.
Certain observations made by Judge Woods, at the close of
his charge to the jury, are also assigned for error. They were
as follows: "Some years ago, in a case in this court involving
this question, I instructed that the jury was not restricted in
its award of damage to the proof of pecuniary loss suffered by
the widow or next of kin, for whose benefit the action was
prosecuted, and, if left to myself, should so rule now. The
statute provides that the damages awarded shall ' be distributed,
in the same manner as personal property of the deceased,' and
this, it seems to me, is inconsistent with the proposition that
the damages to be allowed cannot exceed the proven pecuniary
loss. Some of the next of kin might be dependent and shown
to have a pecuniary interest in the life of the deceased, and
others to have no such interest, and yet the damages allowed
must go to those who had no such interest as well, and as much
as to those on account of whose interest it was allowable; but
the Supreme Court of the State, in a somewhat recent case, as
I understand, has put an interpretation upon this statute which
is binding upon this and other courts, and in accordance with
that decision, as I remember it, I instruct you, and for the purpose of this case you will accept it as the law, that you will
allow only the pecuniary loss suffered by the widow and surviving children on account of this death, not exceeding the limit
of ten thousand dollars fixed by the statute."
The defendant, of course, makes no objection to the principle
of law announced by the court, for the charge was in exact
conformity to its request for instructions upon the question of
damages. But it insists that the jury were probably influenced,
to its prejudice, by the statement that the court below had
expressed a different -view from that announced by the state
court.
We are of opinion that the action of the court below, in respect to this matter, is not ground of error. What the judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

said was in deference to the decision of the state court, whose
interpretation of the local statute was accepted as the law of
the case. The jury were distinctly informed that they were to
follow the rule of damages announced by the state court, notwithstanding the court below had, on a former occasion, acted
on a different interpretation of the statute. It is not to be
supposed that the jury misapprehended or disregarded the
explicit injunction of the court to allow, in the event of a
verdict for the plaintiff, only the pecuniary loss suffered by the
widow and surviving children on account of the death of the
husband and father.
We perceive no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

DUNLAP v. SCHOFIELD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PEN'NSYLVANIA.

No. 149. Submitted December 5,1893.-Decided March 5,1894.
A patentee of an invention, or of a design, cannot, in a suit against infringers thereof, recover damages within section 4900 of the Revised
Statutes, or the penalty imposed by the act of February 4, 1887, c. 105,
without alleging and proving either that patented articles made and sold
by him, or the packages containing them, were marked " patented," or
else that he gave notice to the defendants of his patent and of their
infringement.

Tins was a bill in equity, filed May 7,1889, for the infringement of letters patent issued April 2, 1889, for the term of
three and a half years, by the United States to Julius Stroheim for a design for rugs.
The bill alleged that the design was new and original; that
Stroheim was the original and first inventor thereof ; that it
was not, at the time of his application fot a patent, in public
use or on sale with his consent or allowance; that before the
issue of the patent he assigned the invention and the patent

