LAWTON v. STEELE.
Statement of the Case.

actual injustice to the owner of the injured vessel, yet, being
in derogation of the common law, we think the court should
not limit the right of the injured party to a recovery beyond
what is necessary to effectuate the purposes of Congress.
We are satisfied with the conclusions of the court below
upon both of the points involved, and its decree is, therefore,
A4ffiormed.

LAWTON v. STEELE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 203. Submitted January 17, 1894.-Decded March 5,1894.

It is within the power of a State to preserve from extinction fisheries in
waters within its jurisdiction, by prohibiting exhaustive methods of fishing, or the use of such destructive instruments as are likely to result in
the extermination of the young as well as the mature fish.
The provision in the statutes of New York. c. 591 of the Laws of 1880, as
amended by c. 317 of the Laws of 1883, that nets set or maintained upon
waters of the State, or on the shores of or islands in such waters,
in violation of the statutes of the State enacted for the protection of
fish, may be summarily destroyed by any person, and that it shall be the
duty of certain officers to abate, remove, and forthwith destroy them, and
that no action for damages shall lie or be maintained against any person
for or on account of such seizure or destruction, is a lawful exercise of
the police power of the State, and does not deprive the citizen of his
property without due process of law, in violation of the provision of the
Constitution of the United States.

THIs was an action at law instituted in th&Supreme Court
for the county of Jefferson by the plaintiffs in error against
the defendant in error, together with Edward L. Sargent and
Richard U. Sherman, for the conversion of fifteen hoop and
fyke nets of the alleged value of $525. Defendants Steele
and Sargent interposed a general denial. Defendant Sherman
pleaded that he, with three others, constituted the "1Commissioners of Fisheries" of the State of New York, with. power
to give directions to game and fish protectors with regard to
the enforcement of the game law; that defendant Steele was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

a game and fish protector, duly appointed by the governor of
the State of New York, and that the nets sued for were taken
possession of by said Steele, as such game and fish protector,
upon the ground that they were maintained upon the waters
of the State in violation of existing statutes for the protection
of fish and game, and thereby became a public nuisance.
The facts were undisputed. The nets were the property of
the plaintiffs, and were taken away by the defendant Steele
and destroyed. At the time of the taking most of the nets
were in the waters of the Black River Bay, being used for
fishing purposes, and the residue were upon the shore of that
bay, having recently been used for the same purpose. The
plaintiffs were fishermen, and the defendant Steele was a state
game and fish protector. The taking and destruction of the
nets were claimed to have been justifiable under the statutes
of the State relating to the protection of game and fish.
Plaintiffs claimed there was no justification under the statutes, and if they constituted such justification upon their
face, they were unconstitutional. Defendant Sherman was
a state fish commissioner. Defendant Sargent was president
of the Jefferson County Fish and Game Association. Plaintiffs claimed these defendants to be liable upon the ground
that they instigated, incited, or directed the taking and
destruction of the nets.
Upon trial before a jury a verdict was rendered, subject to
the opinion of the court, in favor of the plaintiffs against
defendant Steele for the sum of $216, and in favor of defendants Sargent and Sherman. A motion for a new trial was
denied, and judgment entered upon the verdict for $216 damages and $166.09 costs. On appeal to the General Term this
judgment was reversed, and a new trial ordered, and a further
appeal allowed to the Court of Appeals. On appeal to the
Court of Appeals, the order of the General Term granting
a new trial was affirmed, and judgment absolute ordered for
the defendant. 119 N. Y. 226. Plaintiffs thereupon sued
out a writ of error from this court.
-Mr.Levi H. Brown for plaintiffs in error.

JAWTON v. STEELE.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Elon 1?. Brown for defendant in error.
Mr.

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

JUSTiCE

opinion of the court.
This case involves the constitutionality of an act of the legislature of the State of New York known as chapter 591, Laws
of New York of 1880, as amended by chapter 317, Laws of
New York of 1883, entitled "An act for the appointment of
game and fish protectors."
By a subsequent act enacted April 15, 1886, c. 141:
"SECTION 1. No person shall at any time kill or take from
the waters of Henderson Bay or Lake Ontario, within one
mile from the shore, between the most westerly point of Pillar
Point and the boundary line between the counties of Jefferson
and Oswego,

.

.

any fish of any kind by any device or

means whatever otherwise than by hook and line or rod held
in hand. But this section shall not apply to or prohibit the
catching of minnows for bait, providing the person using nets
for that purpose shall not set them, and shall throw back any
trout, bass, or any other game fish taken, and keep only chubs,
dace, suckers, or shiners.
"SEc. 2. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and liable to a penalty
of $50 for each offence."
By the act of 1880, as amended by the act of 1883:
"SEC. 2. Any net, pound, or other means or device for
taking or capturing fish, or whereby they may be taken or
captured, set, put, floated, had, found, or maintained, in or
upon any of the waters of this State, or upon the shores
of or islands in any of the waters of this State, in violation
of any existing or hereafter enacted statutes or laws for the
protection of fish, is hereby declared to be, and is, a public
nuisance, and may be abated and summarily destroyed by
any person, and it shall be the duty of each and every protector aforesaid and of every game constable to seize and
remove and forthwith destroy the same,

.

.

.

and no

action for damages shall lie or be maintained against any
person for or on account of any such seizure or destruction."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

This last section was alleged to be unconstitutional and
void for three reasons: 1, as depriving the citizen of his property without due process of law; 2, as being in restraint of
the liberty of the citizen; 3, as being an interference with the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States.
The trial court ruled the first of the above propositions in
plaintiffs' favor, and the others against them, and judgment
was thereupon entered in favor of the plaintiffs.
The constitutionality of the section in question was, however, sustained by the General Term and by the Court of
Appeals, upon the ground of its being a lawful exercise of the
police power of the State.
The extent and limits of what is known as the police power
have been a fruitful subject of discussion in the appellate
courts of nearly every State in the Union. It is universally
conceded to include everything essential to the public safety,
health, and morals, and to justify the destruction or abatement, by summary proceedings, of whatever may be regarded
as a public nuisance. Under this power it has been held that
the State may order the destruction of a house falling to decay
or otherwise endangering the lives of passers-by; the demolition of such as are in the path of a conflagration; the slaughter
of diseased cattle; the destruction of decayed or unwholesome
food; the prohibition of wooden buildings in cities; the regulation of railways and other means of public conveyance,
and of interments in burial grounds; the restriction of objectionable trades to certain localities; the compulsory vaccination of children; the confinement of the insane or those afflicted
.with contagious diseases; the restraint of vagTants, beggars,
and habitual drunkards; the suppression of obscene publications and houses of ill fame; and the prohibition of gambling
houses and places where intoxicating liquors are sold. Beyond this, however, the State may interfere wherever the
public interests demand it, and in this particular a large discretion is necessarily vested in the legislature to determine,
not only what the interests of the public require, but what
measures are necessary for the protection of such interests.
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; .idd v. Peamrson, 128

LAWTON v. STEELE.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 1. To justify the State in thus interposing its authority
in behalf of the public, it must appear, first, that the interests
of the public generally, as distinguished from those of a particular class, require such interference; and, second, that the
means are reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of
the purpose, and not unduly oppressive upon individuals.
Tlre legislature may not, under the guise of protecting the
public interests, arbitrarily interfere with private business, or
impose unusual and unnecessary restrictions upon lawful occupations. In other words, its determination as to what is a
proper exercise of its police powers is not final or conclusive,
but is subject to the supervision of the courts. Thus an act
requiring the master of a vessel arriving from a foreign port
to report the name, birthplace, and occupation of every passenger, and the 'owner of such vessel to give a bond for every
passenger so reported, conditioned to indemnify the State
against any expense for the support of the persons named for
four years thereafter, was held by this court to be indefensible
as an exercise of the police power, and to be void as interfering
with the right of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign
nations. Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259. A similar
statute of California, requiring a bond for certain classes of
passengers described, among which were "lewd and debauched
women," was also held to show very clearly thatthe purpose
was to extort money from a large class of passengers, or to
prevent their immigration to California altogether, and was
held to invade the right of Congress. Chy Lung v. Freeman,
92 U. S. 275. So in Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, a
statute of Missouri which prohibited the driving of Texas,
Mexican, or Indian cattle into the State between certain dates
in each year was held to be in conflict with the commerce
clause of the Constitution, and not a legitimate exercise of
the police powers of the State, though it was admitted that
the State might for its self-protection prevent persons or
animals having contagious diseases from entering its territory.
In Rockwell v. Nearing, 35 N. Y. 302, an act of the legislature of New York, which authorized the seizure and sale
without judicial process of all animals found trespassing within

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

private enclosures, was held to be obnoxious to the constitutional provision that no person should be deprived of his
property without due process of law. See also Autin v.
Mlurray, 16 Pick. 121; Watertown v. _MJayo, 109 Mass. 315;
The Slaughter-house Cases, 16 Wall. 36; In re Cheesebrough,
78 N. Y. 232; Brown v. Perkins, 12 Gray, 89. In all these
cases the acts were held to be invalid as involving an unnecessary invasion of the rights of property, and a practical inhibition of certain occupations harmless in themselves, and which
might be carried on without detriment to the public interests.
The preservation of game and fish, however, has always
been treated as within the proper domain of the police power,
and laws limiting the season within which birds and wild animals may be killed or exposed for sale, and prescribing the
time and manner in which fish may be caught, have been repeatedly upheld by the courts. Thus in Smith v. -Maryland,
18 How. 71, it was held that the State had a right to protect
its fisheries in Chesapeake Bay by making it unlawful to take
or capture oysters with a scoop or drag, and to inflict the penalty of forfeiture upon the vessel employed in this pursuit.
The avowed object of the act was to prevent the destruction
of the oysters by the use of particular instruments in taking
them. "It does not touch," said the court, "the subject of
the commoii liberty of taking oysters save for the purpose of
guarding it from injury to whom it may belong and by whomsoever it may be enjoyed." It was held that the right of forfeiture existed, even though the vessel was enrolled for the
coasting trade under the act of Congress. So in Smith v.
levinus, 8 N. Y. 472, a similar act was held to be valid,
although it vested certain legislative powers in boards of supervisors, authorizing them to make laws for the protection of
shell and other fish. In State v. Roberts, 59 N. H. 256, which
was an indictment for taking fish out of navigable waters out
of the season prescribed by statute, it was said by the court:
"At common law the right of fishing in navigable waters was
common to all. The taking and selling of certain kinds of
fish and game at certain seasons of the year tended to the
destruction of the privilege or right by the destruction conse-

LAWTON v. STEELE.
Opinion of the Court.

quent upon the unrestrained exercise of the right. This is
regarded as injurious to the community, and, therefore, it is
within the authority of the legislature to impose restriction
and limitation upon the time and manner of taking fish and
game, considered valuable as articles of food or merchandise.
For this purpose fish and game laws are enacted. The power
to enact such laws has long been exercised, and so beneficially
for the public that it ought not now to be called into question." Commonwealth v. Chapin, 5 Pick. 199; -leCready v.
Yirginia, 94 U. S. 391; VTinton v. lFelsh, 9 Pick. 87, 92; Commonwealth v. Essex County, 13 Gray, 239, 248; Phelps v.
1?acey, 60 N. Y. 10; Holyoke Co. v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500;
Gentile v. State, 29 Indiana, 409; State v. Lewis, 33 N. E. Rep.
1024.
As the waters referred to in the act are unquestionably
within the jurisdiction of the State of New York, there can
be no valid objection to a law regulating the manner in which
fishing in these waters shall be carried on. Hooker v. Cummings, 20 Johns. 91. The duty of preserving the fisheries of
a State from extinction, by prohibiting exhaustive methods of
fishing, or the use of such destructive instruments as are likely
to result in the extermination of the young as well as the mature fish, is as clear as its power to secure to its citizens, as far
as possible, a supply of any other wholesome food.
The main, and only real difficulty connected with the act in
question is in its declaration that any net, etc., maintained in
violation of any law for the protection of fisheries, is to be
treated as a public nuisance, "and may be abated and summarily destroyed by any person, and it shall be the duty of each
and every protector aforesaid and every game constable to
seize, remove, and forthwith destrdy the same." The legislature, however, undoubtedly possessed the power not only to
prohibit fishing by nets in these waters, but to make it a criminal offence, and to take such measures as were reasonable and
necessary to prevent such offences in the future. It certainly
could not do this more effectually than by destroying the
means of the offence. If the nets were being used in a manner detrimental to the interests of the public, we think it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

within the power of the legislature to declare them to be nuisances, and to authorize the officers of the State to abate them.
Hart v. Albany, 9 Wend. 571; Meeker v. Tan Rmensselaer, 15
Wend. 397. An act of the legislature which has for its object
the preservation of the public interests against the illegal depredations of private individuals ought to be sustained, unless it
is plainly violative 6f the Constitution, or subversive of private
rights. In this case there can be no doubt of the right of the
legislature to authorize judicial proceedings to be taken for the
condemnation of the nets in question, and their sale or destruction by process of law. Congress has assumed this power
in a large number of cases, by authorizing the condemnation
of property which has been made use of for the purpose of
defrauding the revenue. Examples of this are vessels illegally
registered or owned, or employed in smuggling or other illegal
traffic; distilleries or breweries illegally carried on or operated, and buildings standing upon or near the boundary line
between the United States and another country, and used as
depots for smuggling goods. In all these cases, however, the
forfeiture was decreed by judicial proceeding. But where the
property is of little value, and its use for the illegal purpose is
clear, the legislature may declare it to be a nuisance, and subject to summary abatement. Instances of this are the power
to kill diseased cattle; to pull down houses in the path of conflagrations; the destruction of decayed fruit or fish or unwholesome meats, or infected clothing, obscene books or
pictures, or instruments which can only be used for illegal
purposes. While the legislature has no right arbitrarily to
declare that to be a nuisance which is clearly not so, a good
deal must be left to its discretion in that regard, and if the
object to be accomplished is conducive to the public interests,
it may exercise a large liberty of choice in the means employed. iVewark Railway v. Hunt, 50 N. J. Law, 308;
Blasier v. -Miller, 10 Hun, 435; -Alouse's Case, 12 Rep. 63;
Stone v. -Yew York, 25 Wend. 157, 173; Am. Print Works v.
-Lawrenoe, 21 N. J. Law, 248; 23 N. J. Law, 590.
It is not easy to draw the line between cases where property
illegally used may be destroyed summarily and where judicial

LAWTON v. STEELE.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings are necessary for its condemnation. If the property were of great value, as, for instance, if it were a vessel
employed for smuggling or other illegal purposes, it would
be putting a dangerous power in the hands of a custom officer
to permit him to sell or destroy it as a public nuisance, and
the owner would have good reason to complain of such act,
as depriving him of his property without due process of law.
But where the property is of trifling value, and its destruction
is necessary to effect the object of a certain statute, we think
it is within the power of the legislature to order its summary
abatement. For instance, if the legislature should prohibit
the killing of fish by explosive shells, and should order the
cartridges so used to be destroyed, it would seem like belittling the dignity of the judiciary to require such destruction
to be preceded by a solemn condemnation in a court of justice.
The same remark might be made of the cards, chips, and dice
of a gambling room.
The value of the nets in question was but $15 apiece. The
cost of condemning one, (and the use of one is as illegal as the
use of a dozen,) by judicial proceedings, would largely exceed
the value of the'net, and doubtless the State would, in many
cases, be deterred from executing the law by the expense.
They could only be removed from the wateO with difficulty,
and were liable to injury in the process of removal. The
object of the law is undoubtedly a beneficent one, and the
State ought not to be hampered in its enforcement by the application of constitutional provisions which are intended for
the protection of substantial rights of property. It is evident
that the efficacy of this statute would be very seriously
impaired by requiring every net illegally used to be carefully
taken from the water, carried before a court or magistrate,
notice of the seizure to be given by publication, and regular
judicial proceedings to be instituted for its condemnation.
There is not a State in the Union which has not a constitutional provision entitling persons charged with crime to a trial
by jury, and yet from time immemorial the practice has been
to try persons charged with petty offences before a police
magistrate, who not only passes upon the question of guilt,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

but metes out the proper punishment. This has never been
treated as an infraction of the Constitution, though technically
a person may in this way be deprived of his liberty without
the intervention of a jury. Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540,
and cases cited. So the summary abatement of nuisances
without judicial process or proceeding was well known to the
common law long prior to the adoption of the Constitution,
and it has never been supposed that the constitutional provision in question in this case was intended to interfere with
the established principles in that regard.
Nor is a person whose property is seized under the act in
question without his legal remedy. If in fact his property
has been used in violation of the act, he has no just reason to
complain; if riot, he may replevy his nets from the officer
seizing them, or, if they have been destroyed, may have his
action for their value. In such cases the burden would be
upon the defendant to prove a justification under the statute.
As was said by the Supreme Court of New Jersey in a similar
case, Am. Print WVorks v. Lawrence, 21 N. J. Law, 248, 259:
"The party is not, in point of fact, deprived of a trial by jury.
The evidence necessary to sustain the defence is changed.
,Even if the party were deprived of a trial by jury, the statute
is not, therefoi, necessarily unconstitutional." Indeed, it is
scarcely possible that any actual injustice could be done in
the practical administration of the act.
It is said, however, that the nets are not in themselves a
nuisance, but are perfectly lawful acts of manufacture, and are
ordinarily used for a lawful purpose. This is, however, by no
means a conclusive answer. Many articles, such, for instance,
as cards, dice, and other articles used for gambling purposes,
are perfectly harmless in themselves, but may become nuisances by being put to an illegal use, and in such cases fall
within the ban of the law and may be summarily destroyed.
It is true that this rule does not always follow from the illegal
use of a harmless article. A house may not be torn down because it is put to an illegal use, since it may be as readily used
for a lawful purpose, (Ely v. 8upervisors, 36 N. Y. 297,) but
where minor articles of personal property are devoted to such

LAWTON v. STEELE.
Opinion of the Court.

use the fact that they may be used for a lawful purpose would
not deprive the legislature of the power to destroy them.
The power of the legislature to declare that which is perfectly
innocent in itself to be unlawful is beyond question, (People v.
West, 106 N. Y. 293,) and in such case the legislature may
annex to the prohibited act all the incidents of a criminal
offence, including the destruction of property denounced by it
as a public nuisance.
In W'eller v. Snover, 42 N. J. Law, 341, it was held that a
fish warden for a county, appointed by the governor, had the
right, under an act of the legislature, to enter upon land and
destroy a fish basket constructed in violation of the statute,
together with the materials of which it was composed, so that
it might not again be used. It was stated in that case that
"after a statute has declared an invasion of a public right to
be a nuisance it may be abated by the destruction of the object used to effect it. The person who, with actual or constructive notice of the law, sets up such nuisance cannot sue
the officer whose duty it has been made by the statute to execute its provisions." So in Williams v. Blackwall, 2 H. & C.
33, the right to take possession of or destroy any engine placed
or used for catching salmon in contravention of law was held
to extend to all persons, and was not limited to conservators
or officers appointed under the act.
It is true there are several cases of a contrary purport.
Some of these cases, however, may be explained upon the
ground that the property seized was of considerable valueleck v. Andlerson, 57 California, 251, boats as well as nets;
Dunn v. Burleigh, 62 Maine, 24, teams and supplies in lumbering; King v. Hayes, 80 Maine, 206, a horse; in others
the court seems to have taken a more technical view of the
law than the necessities of the case or an adequate protection
of the owner required. Lowry v. Rainwater, '10 Missouri, 152;
State v. Robbins, 124 Indiana, 308; Ridgeway v. West, 60
Indiana, 371.
Upon the whole, we agree with the Court of Appeals in
holding this act to be constitutional, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court is, therefore,
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Field, Brewer, JJ.

MR. CMEF JUSTICE FULLER (with whom concurred MR. JusTICE FIELD and MR. JUSTICE BREWER) dissenting.

In my opinion the legislation in question, so far as it authorizes the summary destruction of fishing nets and prohibits any
action for damages on account of such destruction, is unconstitutional.
Fishing nets are in themselves articles of property entitled
to the protection of the law, and I am unwilling to concede to
the legislature of a State the power to declare them public
nuisances, even when put to use in a manner forbidden by
statute, and on that ground to justify their abatement by
seizure and destruction without process, notice, or the observance of any judicial form.
The police power rests upon necessity and the right of selfprotection, but private property cannot be arbitrarily invaded
under the mere guise of police regulation, nor forfeited for the
alleged violation of law by its owner, nor destroyed by way of
penalty inflicted upon him, without opportunity to be heard.
It is not doubted that the abatement of a nuisance must be
limited to the necessity of the occasion, and, as the illegal use
of fishing nets would bl terminated by their withdrawal from
the water and the public be fully protected by their detention,
the lack of necessity for the arbitrary proceedings prescribed
seems to me too obvious to be ignored. Nor do I perceive
that the difficulty which may attend their removal, the liability
to injury in the process, and their comparatively small value
ordinarily, affect the principle, or tend to show their summary
destruction to be reasonably essential to the suppression of the
illegal use. Indeed, I think that that argument is to be deprecated as weakening the importance of the preservation, without impairment, in ever so slight a degree, of constitutional
guaranties.
I am, therefore, constrained to withhold my assent to the
judgment just announced, and am authorized to say that Mr.
JUSTME FIELD and MR. JUSTICE BREWER concur in this dissent.

