PLANT INVESTMENT CO. v. KEY WEST RAILWAY.

71

Opinion of the Court.

the Revolutionary War or soldiers of the War of 1812, the
patent when applied for by part of the heirs was to be issued
in the name of the heirs, generally, and to inure to the benefit
of the whole in such portions as they were severally entitled
to by the laws of descent in the State or Territory of the
decedent's domicil; and other illustrations might be given.
These differences, however, cannot affect our conclusion
here, which, under the circumstances, accords with that of
the Supreme Court of Kansas.
Judgment a2ff'med.

PLANT INVESTMENT COMPANY v.
VILLE, TAMPA AND KEY WEST
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

JACKSONRAILWAY

NITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
1No. 226. Argued January 24, 1694.-Decided March 5,1894.

A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction over a suit to enforce a contract for the conveyance of land brought in the State where
the land is situated by the assignee of one party to the contract against
the other party, if both parties to the contract are citizens of the same
State, although the assignee is a citizen of a different State.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John P.
E,
rtridge, (with whom was Mir. 1?. G. Erwin
on the brief,) for appellant.
Air. Charles i. Cooper, (with whom was Mr. J. C. Cooper
on the brief,) for the trustees of the internal improvement
fund of Florida, appellees.
JUsT E FIELD stated the case, and delivered the opinion
of the court.
Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

This case comes to us on appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Florida sustaining the
demurrer to the bill of complaint and dismissing the suit. The 4
bill was brought to enforce the conveyance of certain lands in
Florida, pursuant to the contract of the trustees of the internal
improvement fund of Florida, made pursuant to certain statutes
of 'that State, with the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West
Railway Company, a corporation created under its laws, the
beneficial results of which contract are claimed by the complainant.
The facts out of which the suit arises are given at length in
the bill, and, as there set forth, may be briefly stated so far as
is necessary for the presentation of the question of jurisdiction,
upon which the demurrer turned.
The Plant Investment Company, the complainant, is a corporation under the laws of Connecticut, having its principal
office at New Haven. The defendants are the Jacksonville,
Tampa and Key West Railway Company, and the trustees of
the internal improvement fund of Florida, citizens and residents
of that State.
The bill of complaint sets forth: That the general assembly
of Florida, by an act of January 6, 1855, "to provide for and
encourage a liberal system of internal improvements in the
State," declared that the lands granted to the State by the
acts of Congress of March 3, 1845, and September 28, 1850,
together with the proceeds thereof, accrued or that might
thereafter accrue, should be set apart and made a separate
fund, to be called the internal improvement fund of the State;
and that, for the purpose of assuring a proper application of
the fund for the objects mentioned, the lands and the funds
arising from the sale thereof, after paying the necessary expenses of selection, management, and sale, should be vested in
five trustees, to wit, in the governor of the State, the comptroller of public accounts, the state treasurer, the attorney general,
and the register of state lands, and their successors in office,
to hold the same for the uses provided in the act; and by its
twenty-ninth section, the general assembly reserved the right
to grant to such railroad companies, thereafter chartered, as

PLANT INVESTMENT CO. v. KEY WEST RAILWAY.

73

Opinion of the Court.

they might deem proper, upon their compliance with the provisions of the act as to the manner of constructing the road
and the drainage of the land, the alternate sections of the
"swamp and overflowed lands" for six miles on each side of
the line of the road of any such company. That the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway Company was incorporated in March, 1878, under the general corporation act of the
State of February, 1874, by the name of the Tampa, Peace
Creek and St. John's River Railroad Company. That the
legislature of Florida by act of March 4, 1879, granted to
that company alternate sections of the lands given to the
State by the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, within
six miles on each side of the track or line of its road, provided
that the company should comply with the specified provisions
of the act of January 6, 1855; and further granted to the
company, in consideration of the greatly improved value which
would accrue to the State from the construction of the road,
ten thousand acres of the same class of lands for each mile of
road it might construct, such lands to be of those nearest to
the line of the road, its branches and extensions, this lastnamed grant being made subject to the rights of all creditors
of the internal improvement fund and to the trusts to which
the fund was applicable under the act of January 6, 1855.
That on the 27th of June, 1881, the Tampa, Peace Creek and
St. John's River Railroad Company, by a resolution of its
board of directors, changed its corporate name to Jacksonville,
Tampa and Key West Railway Company, and on the 23d of
August, 1881, filed a plat of its route with the trustees of the
internal improvement fund; and on' the first of September,
1881, the trustees passed a resolution reserving from sale for
the benefit of the company the even-numbered sections of land
for six miles on each side of its line, and again on the 21st of
September, 1881, acting under the provisions of the act of the
legislature of March 12, 1879, "to amend section 26 of the act
'to provide a general law for the incorporation of railroads
and canals,' and to grant aid to railroads and canals incorporated under said act," they passed a resolution to reserve from
sale, to further aid in the construction of the road, a quantity

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of lands in the even-numbered sections within twenty miles of
said road sufficient to supply the deficiency existing in the
even-numbered sections within six miles of the road.
The bill further avers that in 1883 the complainant entered
into a contract with defendant company to construct the
southern division of its road, to extend from the waters of
Tampa Bay, in Hillsborough County, to Kissimmee City,
in Orange County, with a branch to or near Bartow, in Polk
County, and by that contract was to receive, as a part of
the consideration for the construction of the road, all the
alternate sections of land to which defendant company was
or might be entitled under any of the aforesaid acts and
any of the laws of Florida for its construction; that the resolutions passed by the board of trustees September 21, 1881,
had been published in the report of its official proceedings,
and submitted to the legislature in January, 1883, with the
reports of the heads of departments of the state government,
and went forth to the world unchallenged as the official
action of the trustees, with the silent approval of the legislature; and the complainant, relying on the provisions of
the acts of March 4 and 12, 1879, and the resolutions of the
trustees, was induced to enter into its contract with the
defendant company, believing that it would receive all
the lands contemplated by those acts and resolutions; that
to carry out the contract made between the complainant and
the defendant company, the board of directors of that company passed a resolution in November, 1883, requesting and
directing the trustees of the internal improvement fund to
convey to the complainant all the alternate sections of land
to which the defendant company was or might be entitled
by reason of the construction of the said railroad from
Tampa to Kissimmee City and its branch, and a copy of
that resolution was presented to the trustees and entered
in the minutes of their proceedings; that, as soon as practicable, after making the contract, complainant commenced
the construction of the road and completed the line from
Tampa to Kissimmee, a distance of seventy-five miles, by the
following January; and the completion of the road being

PLANT INVESTAENT CO. v, KEY WEST RAILWAY.

75

Opinion of the Court.

reported to-the trustees, the state engineer was directed to
inspect the same, which he did, and approved it as being
built according to the specifications required; whereupon the
trustees accepted the same.
That when the complainant applied for the lands which
it claimed under the contract with defendant company, it
discovered that not only the lands in the even sections within
twenty miles, but also within six miles of the road, had been
selected by one Hamilton Disston, to whom the board of
trustees had contracted to sell four million acres of land to
pay off a large indebtedness of their fund, as a part' of his
purchase; that the complainant protested to the trustees
against permitting said Disston to take these lands, but the
trustees decided that the claim of said Disston for any lands
outside the six-mile limit of said road should take precedence
of the claim of the defendant company, and of the complainant contractor thereunder.
The bill further sets forth that in February, 1884, the
trustees conveyed to the complainant the lands granted to
the State by the act of September 28, 1850, lying in the
even-numbered sections and within six miles of the line of
that portion of the road constructed which then remained
undisposed of, viz., 123,481 acres, for the entire seventy-five
miles of the road; and that the complainant is advised and
believes that, under the grant of the alternate sections, the
defendant company is entitled to 3840 acres of land for each
mile of road it constructed, and that, where there is not
sufficient land in the alternate sections within six miles of the
line of the road to make that quantity, the deficiency can
be made up from the alternate sections within twenty miles,
under the act of March 12, 1879, and resolution of September
21, 1881; and that the complainant under its contract with
the defendant company has the same right for such part of
the road as it has constructed, and alleges that there is a deficiency in the quantity of land to which it is entitled of about
160,000 acres. After stating other matters not material for
the consideration of the question presented for our determination, the bill prays that the trustees of the internal im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

provement fund be compelled to convey to complainant the
necessary lands to make up to the complainant the deficiency
claimed, according to the terms of their contract with the
defendant railroad company; the complainant asserting its
right to the lands necessary to make up this deficiency by
virtue of its contract with the defendant railroad company for
the construction of the road.
To this bill the defendant trustees of the internal improvement fund demurred, on the ground, among others, that the
court had no jurisdiction in the premises.
The contract between the trustees of the internal improvement fund of Florida and the defendant railroad company,
being a contract between citizens and residents of the same
State, could not be enforced by suit in a Federal court. The
complainant, the Plant Investment Company, claims the benefit of that contract, and seeks to have it enforced for its
benefit. It occupies, in fact, the position of assignee of that
contract, its only right to the lands depending upon its validity. But it cannot enforce the contract in the Federal court;
because, by section 629 of the Revised Statutes, it is provided
that no Circuit Court shall have cognizance of any suit to
recover the contents of any promissory note, or other chose in
action in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been
prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no
assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of
exchange. And the same provision is contained in the act of
March 3, 1881, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, amendatory of the act to
determine the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States. As we said in the case of Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124
U. S. 730, 735, "the terms used - 'the contents of any promissory note or other chose in action'- were designed to embrace the rights the instrument conferred which were capable
of enforcement by suit. They were not happily chosen to
convey this meaning, but they have received a construction
substantially to that purport in repeated decisions of this
court." And in support of this doctrine the case of Corbin v.
County of Black Hawk, 105 U. S. 659, was cited. In that
case a suit brought to enforce the specific performance of a

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. SCHUMACHER.

117

Syllabus.

contract was held to be a suit to recover the contents of a
ehose in action, and therefore could not be maintained under
the statute in question in a Federal court in the name of the
assignee, if the assignor could not have maintained such suit.
The complainant is not, it is true, designated in the pleadings or in any formal instrument as assignee of the contract
between the trustees of the internal improvement fund and
the defendant railway company, but the term "assignee"1 in
the statute covers not merely persons to whom is technically
transferred the contract in controversy, but any one who, by
virtue of any transfer to him, can claim its beneficial interest.
The contract under which the complainant claims, to wit, its
contract with the defendant company for the construction of
the road, transferred to it the beneficial interest of that company in the lands covered by its contract with the trustees,
and therefore brings the suit within the prohibition of section
629 of the Revised Statutes.
It follows that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of this
case in the name of complainant, but as the decree below dismissed the bill generally, that decree is reversed at the costs
of appellant, and the cause remanded with a direction to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction and without prejudice.

Di~missed.

ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY v. SCHUMACHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 239. Submitted February 1, 1894.- Decided March 5, 1894.

When the employ6 of a railroad company sues the company to recover
damages for injuries inflicted upon him while in its service by reason
of defective machinery, and it plainly appears that he was guilty of
contributory negligence, and there is no evidence of a wilful or intentional negligence on the part of the railroad company for the purpose of
injuring the plaintiff,there is nothing in the case to submit to the jury.

