SNELL v. CHICAGO.
Syllabus.

the petitioner's furnishing a crew was unnecessary if he was
to retain the management and control. Any possible inference
from one clause may be set off against a different inference
from the other, but neither of them destroys the significance
of the operative words of transfer, nor outweighs that of the
action of the parties in the execution of the contract.
The claim when presented to the department was rejected
on the ground that the "boat was wholly under the control
of the owner and his agents and employ~s." But the findings
of fact show that that alleged ground is a mistake; that it was
wholly under the management and control of the quartermaster's department. Nothing more need be said. While
the question is not free from doubt, yet in view of the fact
that the petitioner was to provide and furnish a vessel; that
this vessel, when tendered, was accepted, and was not only in
the service, but under the exclusive management and control
of the quartermaster's department at the time of the accident,
we think that it must be adjudged that the case presented is
one of a contract of hiring, and not for service, and that the
government, during this possession of the vessel, was a special
owner, and bound to pay rent for the vessel until returned to
petitioner.
The judgment will be

Afflrmed.
The CHEF JUSTIoE and MR.
this opinion and judgment.

TUSTICE

JA1oxsox dissented from

SNELL v. CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 242. Submitted February 1, 1894.-Decided March 5, 1894.

The decision by the highest court of a State, that the conveyance by a
corporation existing under the laws of the State (and acting in this
respect under a statute of the State) to an individual, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, of "all the property of said company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
consisting of the charter and its amendments and franchises," and other
enumerated property, and "all the property, goods, and chattels of said
company of whatsoever nature or description," passed to him only a life
estate in the franchises of the corporation, and that these did not pass
to his heirs, presents no question of a Federal nature, but only one as to
the extent bf an authority given by statute to a corporation to dispose
of its franchises.

Tins case came before the court on error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois. The record disclosed these
facts: On Dec6mber 21, 1888, the plaintiffs in error, as plaintiffs, filed in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of
Cook County their bill of complaint, seeking to enjoin the
defendants, their officers, agents, and servants, from removing,
or attempting to remove, a certain toll-gate on Milwaukee
Avenue, in the city of Chicago, and from interfering with the
plaintiff's collection of tolls thereat. The bill set forth that
on February 10, 1849, the general assembly of the State of
Illinois passed an act to incorporate the Chicago Northwestern
Plank Road Company, certain sections of which were quoted.
It is unnecessary to refer to these sections in detail; it is
enough to say that they provided for the incorporation of a
company to construct a plank road, and described the various
powers and privileges given to such corporation. The bill
then referred to an act of the general assembly, dated February 12, 1849, Laws of 1849, Private Laws, p. 57, entitled
"An act to construct a plank road," etc., the twenty-first and
twenty-second sections of which, quoted in the bill, purported
to incorporate the Northwestern Plank Road Company, the
incorporators of which, as appeared from section 21, had a
license from the county commissioners' court of Cook County
to construct a plank road from the city of Chicago to Oak
Ridge, and from thence to Wheeling and the north line of said
county. It then quoted the act of the general assembly of
the State of Illinois of date March 1, 1854, entitled an act to
incorporate the Northwestern Plank Road Company. Laws
of 1854, 2d sess., 224. This act commences with a preamble
which, referring to the act of February 12, 1849, says that
doubts exist as to whether by the twenty-first, twenty-second,

SN ELL v. CHICAGO.
Statement of the Case.

and twenty-third sections of said act the Northwestern Plank
Road Company was duly incorporated, and therefore in the
first section in terms incorporates the Northwestern Plank
Road Company, and, by the second section, grants to it the
powers and privileges, rights and duties, contained in the sections quoted from the earlier act of 1849. The allegation is
that by virtue of these several acts the N orthwestern Plank
Road Company became duly incorporated and organized as
a corporation, and proceeded to and did prosecute and complete the construction of the road under the powers and franchises granted. The bill further set forth that on February
15, 1865, another act was passed by the general assembly of
the State of Illinois, Laws of 1865, (Private,) p. 115, which act
was set forth in full, and the material sections of which are as
follows:
"SEc. 3. The president, by the advice and direction of a
majority of the stockholders, may sell to the county of Cook
the franchise, the property, and immunities of said company,
or to any other party or parties, and thus dissolve said company, and divide the avails amongst the stockholders.
"SEC. 4. That the board of supervisors of Cook County may
purchase such franchise, property, and immunities, and, upon
the order of said board, the clerk of said county shall proceed
to purchase and receive the deed of title to the same, and
should said county fail to purchase the same, any person or
persons may purchase the same, and thereby make the same
private property.
"SEC. 5. The deed of the president of said company to the
said county of Cook, or to any other party purchasing, shall
be a good and lawful title to the same; provided, always, that
all the debts and liabilities of said company shall be paid;
provided,further, that the purchaser or purchasers of said
franchise and road shall be bound by all the obligations said
Northwestern Plank Road Company is by its charter, and
shall enjoy all the rights and privileges enjoyed by said company, and no more."
On August 5, 1870,the Northwestern Plank Road Company
made a deed to Amos J. Snell. This deed, after reciting the
VOL. CLI-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

incorporation under the act of March 1, 1854, quoting sections
3 and 5 of the act of February 15, 1865, and reciting a meeting of the stockholders on January 5, 1866, closes with this
resolution, passed at such meeting, and this granting clause:
"Resolved by the stockholders of this Company, That Thomas
Richmond, president, be authorized to sell the plank road, tollhouses, and other property belonging to the company, with
the franchise and all its rights and privileges, and give a deed
of the same to the purchaser for such sum and upon such
conditions as he shall deem advisable;
"And whereas the said plank road company is entirely free
from debt, now, therefore, I, Thomas Richmond, president of
the lorthwestern Plank Road Company, for and in consideration of the sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) to me
in hand paid by Amos J. Snell, of Jefferson, in the county of
Cook and State of Illinois, do hereby sell, transfer, convey,
and set over to the said Amos J. Snell, his heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns, ' all the property of said company,
consisting of the charter and its amendments and franchises,
the right of way, the grading, the planking, ditches, bridges,
and drainages, the tollhouses, gates, teams, implements of
work, and being the plank from the old city limits of Chicago
aforesaid to the nine-mile post, together with all the property,
goods, and chattels of said company of whatsoever nature or
description;'
"To have and to hold unto the said Amos J. Snell, his heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns, forever.
"In witness whereof the said Thomas Richmond, as president, has hereunto signed his name and affixed the seal of the
said INorthwestern Plank Road Company this fifth day of
August, A.D. 1870.
"[Corporate seal of the Northw. P. R. R. Co.]
" THoms RcIO OID,

"Pres' N.

. P.R.

. Co."

This deed was duly recorded. The bill also alleges that
from that time until his death Snell continued in the owner-

SNELL v. CHICAGO.

195 .

Opinion of the Court.

ship of said property and in the actual and exclusive possession, control, and enjoyment thereof, and the undisturbed

exercise of all the franchises, rights, and powers which were
conferred upon the corporation by said enactments. At this
time the plank road, or so much thereof as was constructed,
was outside of the corporate limits' of the city of Chicago,
and during such time Snell erected a toll-gate and toll-house
on the southeast corner of Milwaukee Avenue and Fullerton
Avenue, at which place the tolls were collected. It is further
averred that on February 8, 1888, Snell died; that the present
plaintiffs are his personal representatives and heirs; that on
December 10, 1888, the defendants commenced proceedings
for the purpose of removing such toll-gate, -the territorial
limits of the city having been duly extended so as to include
a part at least of the toll-road and the part on which the tollgate was situated.
To this bill a demurrer was filed, which, on February 6,
1890, was sustained, and, the plaintiffs electing to stand by
the bill, a decree of dismissal was entered. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State the decision of the Superior Court
was, on the 14th day of May, 1890, sustained, and the decree
of dismissal affirmed. 133 Illinois, 413.
Air. Frank J. C cwford and Ar. Sidney Smith for plaintiffs
in error.
-Mr. Harry Rubens and 21r. Edward Roby for defendants
in error.
MR. J UsTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By this writ of error we are called upon to review the decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, and it is
insisted that that decision is in conflict with the clause of the
first section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the national
Constitution, which declares that "no State shall deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,"
and of the tenth section of the first article of that Constitution,

.196

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

which prohibits a State from passing any law impairing the
obligations of contracts.
It is the settled law of this court that to give it jurisdiction
of a writ of error to a state court it must appear affirmatively
not only that a Federal question was presented to that court
for decision, but also that the decision of the question was
necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was
actually decided adversely to the party claiming a right under
the Federal laws or Constitution; or that the judgment as
rendered could not have been given without such decision.
.Alille's Pxecutor's v. Swann, 150 U. S. 132; -Eustisv. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361, and cases cited therein.
Guided by the rule thus laid down and long established, we
turn to the record, including therein the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the State, to see what in fact was decided. From
such inspection it is obvious that there was no decision adverse
to the rights vested in the Northwestern Plank Road Company
by its charter. On the contrary, the clear concession in the
opinion of the Supreme Court was that that company had by
its charter a valid and exclusive franchise in respect to the
toll-road, including therein the right to take tolls, and to erect
and maintain a toll-gate therefor. All the contract rights
which it can be claimed passed by the charter to the plank
road company were conceded to have passed to it, and the
matter which was determined by that court, and upon which
its decision rested, was that the franchises, thus vested in the
corporation, did not pass by the deed made under the authority
of the act of 1865 to Snell and his heirs in perpetuity. It was
not denied that those franchises passed to Snell by the deed
of August 5, 1870, but the ruling was that such conveyance
did not vest in the grantee the franchises as a matter of private
property, to pass by inheritance to his heirs.
In order that there may be no misunderstanding of the
rulings of the Supreme Court we quote at length from its
opinion (pp. 430-432):
"By the act of 1854, Gray, Filkins, Richmond, and their
associates became a corporate body, with the right of perpetual succession, etc. This was the franchise of the corpo-

SNELL v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

rators. By the same act the corporate body received the right
to construct and maintain a toll-road, and to build toll-honses,
and collect tolls. These were the franchises of the corporation.
The former franchise, that is to say, the franchise to be a corporation, cannot be transferred without express provision of
law pointing out the mode in which the transfer is to be made.
Coe v. The Columbus P. & I . 1R. Co., 10 Ohio St. 372;
.emphiis 1?. A?. Co. v. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 609. The
act of 1865 authorizes the sale of 'the franchise, the property,
and immunities ' of the plank road company, and specifies that
such transfer is to be made by deed of the president. If the
word ' franchise' as here used is broad enough to include the
franchise to be a corporation, with the power of perpetual
succession, even then, Snell was not thereby made a corporation under the old charter. He was merely vested with the
'right to organize as a corporation,' (Mem is 1. 1R. Co. v.
Cor'rs, 'upra,) but such organization never took place.
Neither he nor his heirs or representatives are claiming as the
corporate successors of the plank road company. The appellants are claiming as the heirs of Snell the individual.
"' The franchise of becoming and being a corporation in its
nature is incommunicable by the act of the parties and incapable of passing by assignment.' (MtJenphis R. R. Co. v.
Com'rs, supra.) If Snell in his lifetime was the owner of
such franchise by express legislative grant, he could not assign it and it could not descend to his heirs. Hie failed to use
it for the purpose of effecting any corporate organization,
and it died with him. Even if this were not so, his failure to
effect said organization within ten days after the constitution
of 1870 went into effect rendered it impossible, under section 2
of article 11 of that constitution, to give any validity to an
organization made after the lapse of such period of ten days.
"If the franchises designated as those which belong to the
corporation as distinguished from the corporators passed to
Snell by the transfer, and if he had the right to maintain the
toll-houses transferred to him and to collect the tolls therefrom, did such franchise and right pass to the appellants at
his death ? The second proviso of section 5 of the act of 1865

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

is as follows: 'Provided further, that the purchaser or purchasers of said franchise and road shall be bound by all the
obligations said Northwestern Plank Road Company is by its
charter, and shall enjoy all the rights and privileges enjoyed
by said company and no more.' This provision is to be
strictly construed in favor of the public and against the
grantee of the privileges in question. (Angell on Highways,
section 357; 1 Morawetz on Priv. Corp. see. 323; Stormfeltz v.
The person
The Fanor Tunpike Co., 13 Penn. St. 555.)
who is to 'enjoy all the rights and privileges enjoyed by said
company' is stated to be the purchaser of the franchise and
road. It is not stated that the purchaser and his heirs and
assigns shall enjoy such rights and privileges. If it had been
the intention of the legislature that the heirs of the purchaser
should succeed to the privilege of collecting tolls and maintaining toll-gates, it would have been so specified.
"The dissolution of the corporation did away with the
right of perpetuaZ succession which attached to the corporate
body. By neglecting to organize a corporation with such
privilege of perpetual succession, if the power to do so passed
to him, Snell failed to preserve the element of perpetuity. But
if the right to collect tolls and maintain toll-houses descended
to his heirs, and by consequence became inheritable by the
heirs of such heirs, then there was a continuation of the perpetuity which has been abrogated by the dissolution of the
corporation. It is true that the deed made by the president
of the corporation to Snell conveys to him, 'his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns,' but the question is not what
the language of the deed was, but what the legislature authorized to be put into the deed."
There can be no mistake as to the scope of this decision.
It is that the franchises vested in the plank road corporation,
though passing to Snell by the deed, passed to him and not
to him and his heirs, and that he took by such deed only a
life estate. But in this is presented no question of a Federal
nature, but only of the extent of an authority to dispose of
its franchises given by a statute to a corporation. It is assumed that the charter was a valid and binding contract, and

SIELL v. CHICAGO.
Opinion of the Court.

that by it certain franchises were vested in the Northwestern
Plank Road Company as its absolute property, beyond the
power of the State to arbitrarily retake. After the grant of
this charter, and after the full investiture of the corporation
with these franchises, an act was passed giving it authority to
dispose of them, and the matter which was determined by the
Supreme Court was as to the extent of the authority thus conferred. But in this there is no matter of contract. The State
never contracted with the plank road company that it should
have the power to transfer its franchises; nor with these plaintiffs that their intestate and ancestor should acquire an absolute
title to these franchises with an indefeasible estate of inheritance. The mere grant of franchises to a corporation carries
with it no power of alienation. On the contrary, the general
rule is that, in the absence of express authority, they are
incapable of alienation. And many cases have arisen in which
an attempted alienation by the corporation has been declared
by the courts to be void, as divesting it of the power to discharge the duties imposed by the charter. Thomas v. Railroad
Co., 101 U. S. 71; Pennsylvwsnia Railroad Co. v. St. Louis,
Alton &c. Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 290; Oregon Railway v.
OregonianRailway, 130 U. S. 1; Central Transportation Co.
v. Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S. 24. In the original act of
incorporation no power of alienation was given to the plank
road company. The only authority is found in the act of
1865, and that is a mere grant of a permission to sell. Determining the extent of that permission determines no question
of contract, and presents no other matter of a Federal nature.
If it be true, as decided by the Supreme Court, that only a life
estate passed to Snell, then the plaintiffs have no interest in
the franchises, and the demurrer to the bill was properly sustained. This, therefore, is a pivotal question, and having been
decided adversely to the plaintiffs, and in it there being no
matter of a Federal nature, it follows that this court has no
jurisdiction, and the case must be
-Dismissed.

