SCHOENFELD v. HENDRICKS.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

if the care disclosed by it in these several matters accorded
with that reasonable skill and prudence and care which careful,
prudent men, engaged in the same kind of business, ordinarily
exercise."
And that, "as between employer and employ6, between
master and servant, as in this case, negligence on the part of
the former is not proven, or to be inferred, simply from the
existence or occurrence of the accident which caused the injury
complained of."
The defendant had no reason to complain because the fourth
and fifth instructions, which it asked, were not otherwise
given than as contained in the views thus expressed by the
Judgment af2imed.
court.
AIR. JUSTICE JTAoKSON did not hear the argument, and took
no part in the decision of this case.

SCHOENFELD v. HENDRICKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1067. Submitted March 5, 1894. -Decided

April 16, 1894.

An action cannot be maintained against a collector of customs, either at
common law or under the statutes of the United States, to recover duties
alleged to have been illegally exacted, in 1892, upon an importation of
merchandise, appraised according to law, no reappraisement being asked
for, and the duties being assessed upon the valuation so arrived at.
A Circuit Court of the United States is without jurisdiction to hear and
determine a suit against a collector raising such issues.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.31r. TFriMokham Smitk for plaintiffs in error.

.t&. Solioitor General for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. COmr JUSTIoE FULEmn delivered the opinion of the
court.

This was an action brought by Max Schoenfeld, David
Schoenfeld, Lewis Loeb, and Ferdinand E. Loeb against
Francis Hendricks, collector of the port of New York, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, to recover duties alleged to have been unlawfully assessed.
The defendant demurred to the complaint for want of jurisdiction. The Circuit Court held that it had no jurisdiction,
sustained the demurrer, rendered judgment for defendant, and
certified the question of jurisdiction to this court.
The complaint alleged that, upon entry made at the port of
New York, the invoice was transmitted by the collector to the
appraiser for appraisement of the merchandise therein described; that the appraisement was not conducted according
to law by the appraiser and resulted in an illegal addition to
the value of the merchandise; and that thereafter the collector
assessed the duties upon the valuation so arrived at, which
liquidation, therefore, plaintiffs alleged "to be wholly illegal,
null, and void."
Under section 13. of the act of Congress "to simplify the
laws in relation to the collection of the revenues," approved
June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, it was provided that if the
importer, owner, agent, or consignee of merchandise imported
should be dissatisfied with the appraisement thereof, he might,
by giving notice to the collector in writing of such dissatisfaction, obtain a reappraisement by one of the general appraisers,
and that the decision of the general appraiser in such cases
should govern as to the dutiable value, unless the importer,
owner, consignee, or agent should still be dissatisfied and carry
the matter, as provided, before the board of three general
appraisers on duty at the port, the decision of which board
should be final and conclusive.
In the case at bar the importers did not avail themselves
of the means pointed out for the correction of the alleged
error, and it follows that the exaction by the collector on the

SCHOENFELD v. HENDRICKS.
Opinion of the CourL

value according to the appraisement cannot be held to be
illegal, since if the appraisement remained unquestioned, the
collector was bound to proceed thereon.
It was decided by this court in Ar'nson v. .Murphy, 109
U. S. 238, that the common law right of action against a collector to recover duties illegally collected was taken away by
act of Congress, and a statutory remedy given, which was exclusive. Arnson v. 2Euirphy, 115 U. S. 579; Cheatzm v.
United States, 92 U. S. 85. While the common law right
was outstanding, the collector withheld, as an indemnity, the
sum in dispute, but Congress provided that he must pay into
the Treasury all moneys received officially, and that the
Secretary of the Treasury should refund erroneous and illegal
exactions. A suit to recover back an excess of duty necessarily
could only be maintained as affirmatively specified in the
statute. Rev. Stat. (2d ed.) §§ 2931, 3010, 3011, 3012, 30121,
8013; act of February 27, 1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 240, 2417;
Hager v. Swcayne, 149 U. S. 242, 244.
Section 3011 of the Revised Statutes, which authorized an
action against a collector to recover money paid as duties
"when such amount of duties was not, or was not wholly,
authorized by la*," was repealed by section 29 of the act of
June 10, 1S90, as were also sections 2931, 3012, 3012-, 3013;
and the remedies substituted which these importers did not
see fit to pursue. Moreover, section 25 of that act provided:
"That from and after the taking effect of this act no collector,
or other officer of the customs shall be in any way liable to
any owner, importer, consignee, or agent of any merchandise,
or any other person, for or on account of any rulings or decisions as to the classification of said merchandise or the duties
charged thereon, or the collection of any dues, charges, or
duties on or on account of said merchandise, or any other
matter or thing as to which said owner, importer, consignee, or
agent of such merchandise might, under this act, be entitled
to appeal from the decision of said collector or other officer, or
from any board of appraisers provided for in this act."
This section exempted the collector from suit in respect of
any rulings or decisions as to the classification of merchan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dise; the duties charged thereon; the collection of any dues,
charges, or duties on or on account of said merchandise, orany other matter or thing as to which the importer might
under the act be entitled to appeal from the decision of the
collector or other officer, or from any board of appraisers provided for in the act; and its operation is not confined to rulings and decisions of the collector from which an appeal lies
ultimately to the Circuit Court.
We held in Passavant v. United States, 148 U. S. 214, that
the act of June 10, 1890, conferred no jurisdiction upon Circuit Courts of the United States, on the application of dissatisfied importers, to review and reverse a decision of a board of
general appraisers ascertaining and fixing the dutiable value
of imported goods, when such board has acted in pursuance
of law, and without fraud or other misconduct from which
bad faith could be implied; but it does not result from that
conclusion that in such cases the collector is still subject to
suit.
In In re Fassett, Petitioner, 142 U. S. 479, the question
arose as to whether a British-built steam pleasure yacht, purchased in England by a citizen of the United States, and duly
entered at the port of New York, was liable to duty as an imported article; and it was held that, as the owner, in order to
have the benefit of proceedings under the act of June 10, 1890,
would have been obliged to concede that the vessel was imported merchandise and to make entry of her as such, which
was the very question in contention, he had pursued the
proper remedy by filing his libel in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, which
had jurisdiction of the vessel, under the circumstances disclosed, by virtue of section 934 of the Revised Statutes.
In Robertson v. Frank Brothers Company, 132 U. S. 17;
Oelbermann v. Merritt, 123 U. S. 356; and other cases cited
for plaintiffs in error, it was decided that while the general
rule that the valuation of merchandise made by the appraiser,
and unappealed from, is conclusive, the appraisement was subject to be impeached on grounds therein indicated, but
these cases were adjudicated while section 3011 of the Revised

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
Statement of the Case.

Statutes was still in force, and in view of the provision therein
made for suits against the collector.
We are of opinion that this action would not lie at common
law, the money being required by section 3010 to be paid into
the Treasury; that it was not authorized by statute; and that
the question of jurisdiction certified was properly answered
by the Circuit Court in the negative.
Judgment airmed.
M . JusTICE JACKSON was absent when this case was submitted, and took no part in its decision.

WORTHINGTON v. BOSTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 312.

Argued March 20, 21, 1894. -Decided

April 9, 1894.

The Mayor and City Council of Boston hid authority, in 1885, to authorize
the City Water Board, without previous advertisement, to contract for
the exchange of such pumping engines and machinery as were inadequate or of insufficient capacity for those of the capacity required by
plans and estimates for a high-service extension previously made, and
to direct that the expense of such exchange should be charged to the
appropriation for high-service extension; and the contract made by
the Water Board, in pursuance of such authority, and without previous
advertising, is binding on the city.

THE plaintiffs in error, as surviving partners of a firm doing
business under the name of Henry R. Worthington, brought
this action upon a written agreement concluded, May 19,
1885, between that firm and the Boston Water Board -the
latter assuming to act on behalf of the city of Boston.
This agreement involved the expenditure of a large sum of
money for pumping engines and machinery in connection
with the "high-service" extension of the water works of the
city, and was made without an advertisement for proposals
by bidders.

