110

OCTOBER TEAM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 744. Argued January 14, 1942.-DecIded February 2, 1942.
1. The national power to regilate the price of milk moving interstate into a marketing area, extends to such control over intrastate
transactions there as is necessary and appropriate to make the
regulation of the interstate commerce effective; it includes authority to regulate the price of intrastate milk, the sale of which,
in competition with the interstate milk, affects adversely the price
structure and federal regulation of the latter. P. 121.
2. The federal power to regulate intrastate transactions is not limited
to persons who are engaged also in interstate transactions. P. 121.
3. Viewed in the light of its legislative history, § 8c (1) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of June 3, 1937, which authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to issue marketing orders
fixing minimum prices to be paid to producers of milk, limiting the
regulation to such handling of the commodity as is in the current
of interstate or foreign commerce or as "directly affects" such commerce, was intended, by a full exercise of the commerce power, to
confer upon the Secretary authority to regulate the handling of
milk produced and marketed intrastate, which by reason of its
competition with the handling of interstate milk so affects the
interstate commerce as substantially to interfere with its regulation
under the Act. P. 125.
4. Opinions of individual members of Congress on the meaning of a
bill, which conflict with committee reports concerning it and
explanations of it made on the floor by Committee members having it in charge, are not persuasive of the Congressional purpose.

P. 125.
123 F. 2d 100, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 605, t&Treview the affirmance of a

decree dismissing a bill brought by the Government to en* Together with No. 783, Wrighbwood Dairy Co. v. United &ates,
also on writ of certiorari, 314 U. S. 605, to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

Argument for the Company.

force an order of the Secretary of Agriculture, and granting
an injunction to the defendant against the execution of the
order.
Mr. Alvin E. Stein for Wrightwood Dairy Company,
respondent in No. 744 and cross-petitioner in No. 783.
The intrastate distribution of products in competition
with interstate commerce is not subject to federal
regulation.
Respondent purchased its total daily milk requirements
from producers located entirely within Illinois and processed the milk in its Chicago plant without intermingling
it with any milk which had crossed the state lines, and
sold and distributed the processed product solely within
Illinois. Respondent thus was engaged in an intrastate
business and was not in the current of interstate
commerce.
Petitioner's contention that respondent is a "handler,"
on the ground that the product handled was in competition with interstate commerce and therefore subject to
federal regulation, requires a construction of the Commerce Clause which would enable the Federal Government to control every enterprise, every occupation and
every activity of the people merely by showing that the
product thereof is in competition with similar products
which cross state lines. Such a restriction would reach
all enterprises and transactions which were in competition with those of other States. The authority of the
Federal Government would embrace all activities of the
people, and the authority of the State over its domestic
affairs would exist only by sufferance of the Federal Government. There would be no limit to federal power, and
theStates and the people would be effectively deprived
of rights reserved under the Tenth Amendment.
Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 546;
Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for the Company.

315 U. S.

In United States.v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533,
it appears from the opinion, unlike the present case, that
the intrastate milk referred - to was inextricably intermingled with milk which moved across state lines. Moreover, the order there promulgated by the Secretary recognized that there was -some milk entirely in intrastate
commerce over which th e Federal Government had no
control and which was regulated under state laws, and
such intrastate handling of milk was expressly excepted
from the order.
Congress may not under the Commerce Clause regulate
purely intrastate transactions where the point of impingement of the intrastate transactions upon interstate
transactions is one of competition only. Discussing
Brown Chemical Co. v. Meyer, 139 U. S. 540, 544; Citizens' Light Co. v. Montgomery Light Co., 171 F. 553, 560;
United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 68; Schechter Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S. 495, 546. Distinguishing the
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342; Chicago Board of Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 41; National Labor Relations Board v.
Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1; Stafford v. Wallace,
258 U. S. 495; Currinv. Wallace; 306 U. S. 1; Mulford v.
Smith, 307 U. S. 38; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S.
100.
Competitive discrimination against interstate
rates, as
illustrated in the Shreveport case, by a railroad engaged
both in interstate and intrastate transportation, has no
application whatsoever to a situation where a handler
qf milk buys all of his milk within a State and sells it
within a State, and where none of his activities partake of
an interstate character other than that his milk might
be in competition with milk which crossed state lines.
There is hardly an article in common use which -can be
said not to be in competition with a similar article produced or manufactured across state lines.
The fact that Congress can not under the Constitution
control purely local activities, like that of iespondent

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

Argument for the United States.

herein, does not mean that there is a hiatus where neither
State nor Nation could effectively function. See United
States v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533; Milk Control
Board v. EisenbergFarmProducts,306 U. S. 346.
Congress did not intend in passing the Act of 1937, and
prior Acts, to assume control of purely intrastate transactions, and the Act itself contains no such provision.
The brief history of the prior Acts, and their construction
by the courts, clearly sustain this position.
The finding of the Secretary that all milk which was
produced for sale in the marketing area is handled in the
current of interstate commerce, or so as directly to burden,
obstruct or affect interstate commerce, is not authorized
by law, is contrary to the fact, and of no legal effect.
Mr. John S. L. Yost, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. Robert
L. Stern, James C. Wilson, and Miss MargaretH. Brass
were on the brief, for the United States.
The intrastate distribution of milk in competition with
interstate 'commerce is subject to federal regulation.
In United States v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533,
568, which involved the marketing order for the New
York area, this Court stated: "Nor is any question raised
as to the power of the Congress to regulate the distribution
in the area of the wholly intrastate milk. It is recognized
that the federal authority covers the sales of this milk, as
its marketing is inextricably intermingled with and directly affects the marketing in the area of the milk which
moves across state lines."
It is true that other expressions in the Rock Royal
opinion show that this Court assumed that all of the milk
involved moved through the channels of interstate commerce. 307 U. S. at pp. 540, 541, 568. The record in the
case shows, however, that, although the issue was not
pressed in this Court, one of the defendants did challenge

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for the United States.

315 U. S.

the power of Congress to regulate it, on the ground that
its activities were entirely intrastate and that its milk
was usually handled entirely intrastate.
Whether or not this Court's remark in the Rock Royal
case was dictum, it was not erroneous. United States v.
Adler's Creamery, 107 F. 2d 987, '110 F. 2d 482, cert.
den., 311 U. S. 657.
Every District Court which has passed upon the question, apart from the instant case, has held that intrastate
milk competing with interstate is subject to milk orders
issued under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act.
United States v. Krechting,26 F. Supp. 266; United States
v. Andrews, 26 F. Supp. 123; United States v. H. P. Hood
& Sons, 26 F. Supp. 672; United States v. Schwarz (N. D.
Ill.) decided January 30, 1941.
The term "competition" as used in the findings describes
a dynamic and frequently complex economic relationship.
The finding that the milk processed by respondent competes with other milk, including milk from outside the
State, means that respondent and other handlers are
struggling as "rivals for the same trade." Lipson v.
Socony Vacuum Corporation,87 F. 2d 265, 270; Schiti v.
Remington-Putnam Book Co., 17 A. 2d 175, 178. Where
such rivalry exists, it is inevitable that the imposition of
restrictions upon some of the antagonists and not upon
ethers will greatly injure the business of those whose
freedom of action is restricted.
Although the unchallenged finding of "competition"
necessarily carries with it this connotation, the record
shows in more detail that both the handlers of interstate
milk and the farmers who produce it will be harmed if
intrastate milk is exempt from regulation.
A handler not complying with the minimum price system established under an order will have advantages over
his competitors. He will be able to pay the producers
less than his rivals are required to pay, and thus will be

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

Opinion of the Court.

in a position to undersell them on the market. In order
to protect themselves competitors will seek to reduce the
amounts they pay producers, and inevitably the entire,
price structure, interstate and intrastate, will collapse.
A price order applicable only to interstate transactions
would thus either be unworkable or would discriminate
against the interstate dealings of those subjected to it.
The Court has frequently held that the commerce
power extends to the regulation of intrastate acts%when
necessary to make the control of interstate commerce
effective. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342; Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Chicago
Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1:; Schechter Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S. 495, 544-546; National Labor Relaticns Board v. Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1,
36-38; Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1; Mulford v. Smith,
307 U. S. 38; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 121.
This principle is merely an application of the basic constitutional doctrine, embodied in the "necessary and
proper" clause but implied in any event (McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316), -which permits Congress to
choose the means appropriate to the accomplishment of
a purpose within the federal power, even though the means
itself might not expressly fall within the powers granted.
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, at 121, and cases
cited.
The statute authorizes the Secretary to regulate intrastate transactions which compete with interstate. This
is shown by the language of the Act; its legislative history;
the committee reports; and the Congressional debates.
MR. CHIMF JUSTWE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The principal questions for our decision are whether
certain price regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture
of milk produced and sold intrastate is authorized by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of June 3, 1937, 50 Stat. 246, 7 U. S. C. § 608c, and is a permissible regulation under the commerce clause of the
Constitution.
Section 8c of the Act authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to issue marketing orders fixing minimum prices to
be paid to producers of milk and certain other commodities. Paragriph 1 of the section provides that orders of
the Secretary "shall regulate, in the manner hereinafter in
this section provided, onlysuch handling of such agricultural commodity, or product thereof, as is in the current
of interstate or foreign commerce, or which directly burdens, obstructs, or affects, interstate or foreign commerce
in such commodity or product thereof.".
The United States sought in the present suit a decree
directing respondent to comply with the Secretary's Order
No. "41, of August 28, 1939, regulating the handling of
milk in the "Chicago, Illinois, marketing area." Respondent is a handler in that area of milk which it purchases from producers in Illinois. The order, which is of
the type described in the opinion of this .Court in United
State8 v. Rock Royal Co-operative,307 U. S. 533, 551-555,
is by its terms applicable to respondent, and purports to
carry out the statutory scheme for regulating the price of
milk paid to producers considered in the opinion in that
case. By the order the Secretary found that all milk
produced for sale in the marketing area "is handled in
the current of interstate commerce, or so as directly to
burden, obstruct, or affect interstate commerce in milk
or its products . . . ," and directed that it apply to such
"handling of milk" in the marketing area "as is in the
current of interstate commerce, or which directly burdens,
obstructs, or affects interstate commerce."
The order, as provided by the statute, § 8e (5), classifies
milk according to its uses, and establishes a formula for
determining the minimum price to be paid to producers

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

Opinion of the Court.

for each class of milk. It prescribes the method of determining the value of milk received from producers by each
handler during each month. It requires the payment of
a uniform unit price to producers, computed by dividing
the total value of milk reported by all hardters in the
marketing area by the total quantity of such milk, with
deductions of certain amounts to provide a cash balance
in a "producer-settlement fund." The handler is required to pay producers the uniform price, subject to butterfat and location differentials. But he is also required
to pay into the settlement fund, or permitted to withdraw
from it, as the case may be, certain amounts, depending
on whether the total value of the milk used by him is
greater, or less, respectively, than his total payments to
producers at the uniform price. The amounts withdrawn
from the settlement fund by handlers are required to be
used to bring the price received by certain producers up
to the uniform price set in the order, where, because of the
purpose for which the handler has sold it, the value of
their milk is less than the uniform price. Handlers are
required to make reports to the Administrator containing
information necessary for the execution of the order and
to bear the expense of administering it.
Respondent's answer in the District Court sets up that
its business is entirely intrastate, and that, in consequence, the statute does not, and under the commerce
clause can not constitutionally, apply to it. The answer
also sets up additional grounds, which need not now be
considered, for respondent's contention that the order is
invalid, and by way of counterclaim prays that the United
States and its officers and agents be enjoined from enforcing the order. The court found that respondent had not
complied with the order; that in the course of its business
it purchases milk from producers within the State of Illinois, processes the milk and sells it in the state "in competition with the milk of other handlers in the area"; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

none of respondent's milk is physically intermingled with
that which has crossed state lines; and that, prior to the
order, 60 per cent of the milk sold in the marketing area
was produced in Illinois and 40 per cent in neighboring
states, and that at the time of the findings "over 60 per
cent" was produced in Illinois. The record shows that
"approximately 40%" comes from without the state.
The court held that "the order was issued by the Secretary in full compliance with the law. All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said order have occurred," but
that the business of the defendant "was not in the current
of interstate . . . commerce, and did not directly burden,
obstruct or affect interstate . . . commerce in milk marketed within the Chicago, Illinois, marketing area." It
accordingly decreed that the complaint be dismissed, and
granted the injunction prayed by the counterclaim.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, 123 F. 2d 100, on
the sole ground that Congress is without authority under
the commerce clause to regulate intrastate transactions
in milk which affect interstate commerce through competition only. It recognized that respondent's milk is sold in
competition with other milk moving interstate; that the
"milk problem is a serious one and apparently for the
most effective control requires unified regulations," and
that if respondent is not subject to the present regulations is "may well be that the effective sanction of the order
will wither before the force of competition, the morale of
the market will disintegrate, and this attempt at solution
of the problem by the National Government will fail."
But it concluded that there is a hiatus between the constitutional power of State and Nation which precludes any
solution of the problem by Congressional legislation.
We think there is no such hiatus. Congress plainly has
power to regulate the price of milk distributed through the
medium of interstate commerce, United States v. Rock
Royal Co-operative, supra, and it possesses every power

U. S. v. WRIG11TWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

Opinion of the Court.

needed to make that regulation effective. The commerce
power is not confined in its exercise to the regulation of
commerce among the states. It extends to those activities
intrastate which so affect interstate commerce, or the exertion of the power of Congress over it, as to make regulation of them appropriate means to' the attainment of a
legitimate end, the effective execution of the granted
power to regulate interstate commerce. See McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421; United States v. Ferger,250
U. S. 199; ConsolidatedEdison Co. v. NationalLabor RelationsBoard, 305 U. S. 197, 221; United States v. Darby,
312 U. S. 100, 118-19. The power of Congress over interstate commerce is plenary and complete in itself, may be
exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limita-,
tions other than are prescribed in the Constitution. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196. It follows that no form
of state activity can constitutionally thwart the regulatory
power granted by the commerce clause to Congress.
Hence the reach of that power extends to those intrastate
activities which in a substantial way interfere with or
obstruct the exercise of the granted power.
.Familiar examples are the Congressional power over
commodities inextricably commingled, some of which are
moving interstate and some intrastate, see United States
v. New York Central R. Co., 272 U. S. 457, 464; the power
to regulate safety appliances on railroad cars, whether
moving interstate or intrastate, SouthernRy. Co. v. United
States, 222 U. S. 20; the power to control intrastate rates
of a common carrier which affect adversely federal regulation of the performance of its functions as an interstate
carrier, Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342; RailroadCommission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Cq, 257 U. S. 563;
the regulation by the Tobacco Inspection Act of tobacco
produced intrastate and destined to consumers within the
state as well as without, Currinv. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1; the
regulation of both interstate and intrastate marketing of

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

tobacco under the Agricultural Adjustment Act, Mulford
v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38, 47; and see cases collected and discussed in UnitedStates v. Darby,312 U. S. 100, 118-125.
Competitive practices which are wholly intrastate may
be reached by the Sherman Act because of their injurious
effect on interstate commerce. Nqrthern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197; Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375; United States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525; Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295;
Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293; Stevens Co. v.
Foster& Kleiser Co., 311 U. S. 255. So too the.marketing
of a local product in competition with that of a like commodity moving interstate may so interfere with interstate
commerce or its regulation as to afford a basis for Congressional regulation of the intrastate activity. It is the effect
upon the interstate commerce or its regulation, regardless
of the particular form which the competition may take,.
which is the test of federal power. Cf. Shreveport Case,
supra;RailroadCommission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. &
Q.R. Co., supra;NationalLabor Relations Board v. Jones
& Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 36-43; United States v.
Darby, supra, 122.
As the court below recognized, and as seems not to be disputed, the marketing of intrastate milk which competes
with that shipped interstate would tend seriously to break
down price regulation of the latter. Under the conditions
prevailing in the milk industry, as the record shows, the
unregulated sale of the intrastate milk tends to reduce the
sales price received by handlers and the amount which they
in turn pay to producers. Study of the order which we
have summarized makes clear that the unregulated handler selling fluid milk can pay producers substantially less
than the minimum price set in the order for milk of that
class, and yet pay as much as, or more than, the "uniform
price" prescribed by the regulatory scheme for all pro-

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

121

Opinion of the Court.

ducers, which is based upon the average price for the several classes of milk combined. Such a handler would have
an advantage over others in the sale of the class of milk in
which he principally deals, and could force his competitors
dealing in interstate milk to surrender the market or seek
to reduce prices to producers in order to retain it.
It is no answer to suggest, as does respondent, that the
federal power to regulate intrastate transactions is limited
to those who are engaged also in interstate commerce.
The injury, and hence the power, does not depend upon the
fortuitous circumstance that the particular person conducting the intrastate activities is, or is not, also engaged
in interstate commerce. See Chicago Board of Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; Stevens Co. v. Foster & Kleiser Co.,
supra. It is the effect upon interstate commerce or upon
the exercise of the power to regulate it, not the source of the
injury which is the criterion of Congressional power. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51. We conclude that the national power to regulate the-price of milk
moving interstate into the Chicago, Illinois, marketing
area, extends to such control over intrastate transactions
there as is necessary and appropriate to make the regulation of the interstate commerce effective; and that it includes authority to make like regulations for the marketing
of intrastate milk whose sale and competition with the
interstate milk affects its price structure so as in turn to
affect adversely the Congressional regulation.
We turn to the question whether Congress has exercised
that authority by § 8c (1). Respondent argues that C6ngress, in enacting it, did not intend to exercise its full power
over commerce, and that read in the light of its legislative
history the section does not authorize the regulation of
competing intrastate milk. In terms the statute speaks
of the handling of products "in the current of interstate
commerce" or "which directly burdens, obstructs, or af-

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

fects, interstate commerce." The argument is that the
word "directly" in the statute is restrictive, evidencing an
intention to exercise less than the full authority possessed
by Congress, and a purpose not to extend that authority,
to the regulation of local products which affect the interstate commodities and their regulation only by competing
with them.
In support of this contention respondent points to the
precursor of the present statute, the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 31, 35, as amended by 48 Stat.
528, which contained provisions omitted from the present
statute, specifically authorizing certain regulation of products "in competition with" those in interstate commerce.
Section 8 (2) of the 1933 Act, as amended, authorized the
Secretary to enter into marketing agreements with those
"engaged in the handling of any agricultural commodity
or product thereof, in the current of or in competition
with, or so as to burden, obstruct, or in any way affect,
interstate or foreign commerce." And § 8 (3) provided
for the issuing of licenses to those engaged "in the handling, in the current of interstate or foreign commerce, of
any agricultural commodity or product thereof, or any
competing commodity or product thereof." In the 1935
amendments to the Agricultural Adjustment Act these
provisions were replaced by the phraseology which was
taken over without change into § 8c (1) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, already quoted.
Hence it is to the legislative history of the 1935 amendinents that we must turn to ascertain the significance of
the phrase, "directly affects" interstate commerce, which
then appeared in the statute for the first time.
The bills providing for the 1935 amendments, as introduced, eliminated the differences between § 8 (2) and§ 8
(3) of the 1933 Act, as amended, and authorized the Secretary to issue licenses to those "engaged in the handling
of any agricultural commodity or product thereof, or any

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.
110

Opinion of the Court.

competing commodity or product thereof, in the current
of or in competition with or so as to burden, obstruct, or
in any way affect, interstate or foreign commerce." S.
1807, H. R. 7713 and 8052, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. In the
reports of the House and Senate Committees on Agriculture, it was pointed out that although "the full extent of
the Federal power over interstate commerce is intended
to be vested in the Secretary," it was "not intended to
authorize the licensing of persons handling goods only in
intrastate commerce except where such handling
burdens, obstructs, or affects interstate commerce." S.
Rep. No. 548, p. 6, H. Rep. No. 808, p. 5, H. Rep. No. 952,
p. 5, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
These bills were pending in Congress when Schechter
Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, was decided on May
27, 1935. In consequence 'of that decision a new bill,
H. R. 8492, was reported out which superseded the pending bills and eventually became the Act of 1935. The new
bill, in terms, permitted the Secretary to regulate the
handling of products which "directly affects" interstate
commerce. As the legislative history demonstrates, this
phraseology was deliberately chosen to conform to that
adopted in the opinion in the Schechter case, as signifying
the full' reach of the commerce power, and with the
avowed purpose of conferring on the Secretary authority
over intrastate products to the full extent of that power.
See 79 Cong. Rec. 9478 and S. Rep. No. 1011, p. 8, H. Rep.
No. 1241, p. 8, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
In the Schechter case the Court. was concerned only
with the alleged infringements of the "Code of Fair
Competition" for the live poultry industry of the New
York City metropolitan area, which had been adopted
under the provisions of § 3 of the National Industrial
Recovery Act of June 16, 1933, 48 Stat. 195, 196. The
violations of the code charged were that wholesale distributors who had purchased poultry in New York, most

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

of which came from without the state, and who were engaged in slaughtering and reselling to retailers, had failed
to maintain for their employees wages and hours prescribed by the code, and had failed to abandon "selective
selling" to their customers in New York which the code
had prohibited.
The Court's opinion pointed out that the defendants
were not charged with injury to interstate commerce or
interference with persons engaged in that commerce, and
that the acts charged had no different relation to or effect
upon interstate commerce than like acts in any other
local business which handles commodities brought into the
state. Schechter Corp. v. United States, supra, 545-6.
It characterized their effect upon interstate commerce as
"indirect," and distinguished them from those acts and
transactions intrastate which, because they "directly
affedt" interstate commerce, are within the Congressional
regulatory power. In explanation of this distinction and
as examples of direct effects which are within the commerce power it referred to the "fixing of rates for intrastate transportation which unjustly discriminate against
in terstate commerce," citing the Shreveport.Case, supra,
and referred to intrastate restraints upon competition injuriously affecting interstate commerce condemned by
the Sherman Act, citing Local 167 v. United States, supra,
and other cases.
In adopting the change in the new bill, giving to the
Secretary the authority to regulate the handling of products "directly affecting" interstate commerce, and in deleting the phrase "in competition with" interstate commerce, the House and Senate Committees on Agriculture,
after referring to the Schechter case stated: "This phrase
has been omitted from the proposed section 8c (1) of the
bill which deals with orders . . . because the proposed

language makes it clear that the full extent of the Federal
power over interstate and foreign commerce and no more

U. S. v. WRIGHTWOOD DAIRY CO.

110

Opinion of the Court.

is intended to be vested in the Secretary of Agriculture
in connection with orders." See S. Rep. No. 1011, p. 9;
H. Rep. No. 1241, p. 8, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
The same interpretation of the amendments was given
by the Committee representative charged with explaining
them on the floor of the Senate, who declared, 79 Cong.
Rec. 11139, "The position of the committee in respect to
these amendments is that intrastate commerce may burden or affect interstate commerce and that consequently
this is a constitutional enactment under the decision of
the Court in the Shreveport case." The House debates
also disclose general recognition that the bill as amended
was intended to be a full exercise of the federal power
over competing intrastate milk. 79 Cong. Rec. 94799480,-9485.
The opinions of some members of the Senate,1 conflicting with the explicit statements of the meaning of the statutory language made by the Committee reports and members of the Committees on the floor of the Senate and the
House, are not to be taken as persuasive of the Congressional purpose. Cf. United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 318. Moreover, other
Senators, not members of the Committee on Agriculture,
accepted its views of the extent to which the federal power
was to be exerted by the proposed legislation.2
We think it clear that Congress, by the provisions of
§ 8c (1), conferred upon the Secretary authority to regulate the handling of intrastate products which by reason
of its competition with the handling of the interstate milk
so affects that commerce as substantially to interfere with
its regulation by Congress; and that the statute so read
is a constitutional exercise of the commerce power.' Such
was the view expressed in United States v. Rock Royal
179

Cong. Rec., 11135-6.

'79 Cong. Rec., 11134-9.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

Co-operative, supra,307 U. S. at 568. We adhere to that
opinion now.
The judgment will be reversed, but, as errors assigned
below have not been passed on there or argued here, the
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
The mandate will issue forthwith.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS
or decision of this case.

took no part'in the consideration

EXHIBIT SUPPLY CO. v. ACE PATENTS
CORPORATION.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 154. Argued January 15, 16, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.
1. In a case involving a patent concerning which there was no conflict of decisions by Circuit Courts of Appeals, certiorari was granted
because of the nature of the questions involved, and because
it was shown that the industry affected by a decision sustaining the
patentee's contentions was located in a single circuit so that litigation
resulting in such conflicts would not be likely to occur.' P. 128.
2. Claim 4, as amended, of the Nelson patent, No. 2,109,678, relates
to the structure of a resilient switch or circuit closer, so disposed on
the board of a game table as to serve as a target which, when struck
by a freely rolling ball, will momentarily close an electrical circuit.
It claims as elements .of the invention a conductor standard
anchored to the table, a coil spring surrounding the standard, means
carry ng the spring pendantly from the upper portion of the standard,
with the coils of the spring spaced from the standard, "and con-

ductor means in said circuit and embedded in the table at a point
Together with No. 155, Genco, Inc. v. Ace Patents Corporation,

and No. 156, Chicago Coin Machine Co. v. Ace Patents Corporation,
also on writs of certiorari, 314 U. S. 702, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Cireuit.

