442

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

free speech is in no way infringed by the statute or the
order of the board." 236 Wis. 329, passim.
What public policy Wisconsin should adopt in furthering desirable industrial relations is for it to say, so long
as rights guaranteed by the Constitution are respected.
Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; Senn v. Tile Layers
Union, 301 U. S. 468. As the order and the appropriate
provisions of the statute upon which it was based leave
the petitioners' freedom of speech unimpaired, the judgment below must be affirmed. Problems that would arise
had the order and the pertinent provisions of the Act
been otherwise construed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin need not therefore be considered.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
THOMSON, TRUSTEE OF CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY CO., ET AL. v. GASKILL
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 139.

Argued January 7, 8, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. The policy of Jud. Code ยง 24 (1), conferring jurisdiction by diversity of citizenship, calls for strict construction of the statute.
If a plaintiff's allegations of jurisdictional facts are challenged by
the defendant, the plaintiff must support them by competent proof,
or the bill must be dismissed. P. 446.
2. Owing to the absence from the record of agreements upon which
this suit was founded, it can not be determined whether the nature
of the plaintiffs' claims is such that they may be aggregated in
determining the jurisdictional amount. P. 446.
3. In computing jurisdictional amounts, claims of plaintiffs can not be
aggregated merely because they are derived from a single instrument, or because the plaintiffs have a community of interests. P.447.

THOMSON v. GASKILL.
442

Opinion of the Court.

4. The value of the "matter in controversy," in a suit based on diversity of citizenship, is measured, not by the monetary result of
determining the principle involved, but by its pecuniary consequence
to those involved in the litigation. P. 447.
119 F. 2d 105, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 590, to review a decree reversing
a decree of the District Court which dismissed for want
of jurisdiction a suit by numerous conductors and brakemen against the above-named Railway Company, its trustee in reorganization proceedings, and others. The plaintiffs claimed seniority rights to work on certain railroad
runs, arising under agreements between the railway and
two railway brotherhoods. The bill sought an accounting
to show the loss to each plaintiff from failure to observe
these rights, and damages for each accordingly, in the
order of his seniority, and prayed for future enforcement
of the agreements.
Messrs. Wymer Dressler and W. M. McFarland, with
whom Messrs. W. C. Fraser, J. M. Grimm, Robert D.
Neely, W. T. Faricy, and Samuel H. Cady were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Mr. S. L. Winters, with whom Mr. Nelson C. Pratt was
on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question for decision is whether the record shows an
essential requisite of the jurisdiction of the District Court,
namely, that the "matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive
of interest and costs, the sum or value of $3,000." Judicial
Code, ยง 24 (1), 28 U. S. C. ยง 41 (1). There were other
questions which, in the view we take of the case, need not
be stated.
Resppndents, forty-one conductors and brakemen employed by the Chicago & Northwestern Railway Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

brought suit against the railroad and one Kimball, an
employee of the road, in the United States District Court
for the District of Nebraska. The complaint alleged that
the plaintiffs "belong to" the trackage of the railroad
called the Nebraska Division; that "the controversy arises
over the division of seniority rights between the Nebraska
Division to which plaintiffs belong, and the Sioux City
Division to which the defendant George Kimball belongs,
over the Northwestern road from Omaha, Nebraska to
Sioux City, Iowa"; that trains running between these
points moved over 31 miles of the Nebraska Division and
70 miles of the Sioux City Division; that prior to May 1,
1930, seniority rights of the plaintiffs were governed by
certain contracts "referred to sometimes as the 'Schedule
of Wages and Rules of Compensation for Conductors and
Trainmen,'" which provided that, when trains were operated over more than one seniority district, the "percentage of miles run over each division will govern in assignment to such runs"; that since May 1, 1930, the railroad
has a signed all of the work on the Omaha-Sioux City run
to the Sioux City Division; that, although the railroad
insists that the plaintiffs' seniority rights have been
abrogated "by an alleged agreement between the said
defendant railroad trainmen, and the order of Railway
Conductors," the plaintiffs are not bound by such agreement; and that, on account of the "wrongful deprivation"
of their seniority rights, the plaintiffs have been damaged
in excess of $3,000.
The railroad's answer stated that the plaintiffs had only
such seniority rights as were derived from agreements between the railroad and the Order of Railroad Conductors
and the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen; that the
agreements could be abrogated or modified by the railroad
and the unions without the consent of the plaintiffs; that
the track between Omaha and Blair, located on the Omaha-

THOMSON v. GASKILL.
442

Opinion of the Court.

Sioux City run, was not part of the Nebraska Division of
the railroad; that this trackage is owned by the Chicago,
St. P., M. & 0. Railway Company; that the only part of
the Nebraska Division on the run between Omaha and
Sioux City is 7.5 miles long; and that the complaint did
not show the existence of the required jurisdictional
amount. The District Court ordered the plaintiffs to
prove that more than $3,000 was involved, and ten of them
submitted affidavits. The substance of each affidavit was
that, since May 1, 1930, the Chicago & Northwestern had
"operated trains over thirty-one miles of the Nebraska
Division in violation of existing contracts," and that, "to
the best of [affiant's] knowledge and ability," his loss
exceeded $3,000. The defendants submitted affidavits
supporting the allegations of their answers. But neither
the pleadings nor the affidavits of the parties contain the
terms of the various agreements referred to in the complaint and upon which the plaintiffs' action is based.
Upon the defendants' motion to dismiss the cause for
want of jurisdiction, the District Court held that the
pleadings and supporting affidavits established that "the
amount in controversy as to any one plrlintiff does not
amount to as much as $3,000," and that the nature of the
suit was not such as to permit aggregation of the claims of
all the plaintiffs. Accordingly, the action was dismissed.
The first conclusion of the District Court was not challenged either in the Circuit Court of Appeals or before us.
The plaintiffs contended that their claims Ehould be aggregated because "the rights of the plaintiffs are so interlocked and interwoven that the rights of one cannot be
determined without the others being parties thereto."
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the dismissal, holding that the plaintiffs' claims could be aggregated for
purposes of determining the value of the matter in controversy. The Court stated that, although it found the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941..
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

plaint "very difficult of analysis," it had construed it "most
favorably to the pleader, for the purpose of passing on the
sole question of jurisdiction raised on the appeal." 119
F. 2d 105, 108. We brought the case here, 314 U. S. 590,
in view of the important question affecting the jurisdiction
of the district courts.
The policy of the statute conferring diversity jurisdiction upon the district courts calls for its strict construction. Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263, 270; and see
Elgin v. Marshall, 106 U. S. 578, 580. Accordingly, if a
plaintiff's allegations of jurisdictional facts are challenged
by the defendant, the plaintiff bears the burden of supporting the allegations by competent proof. McNutt v.
General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 188-89;
KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269, 278; Gibbs
v. Buck, 307 U. S.66, 72. The bill must be dismissed if
the evidence in the record does not support the allegations
as to jurisdictional amount. And our review of the District Court's determination of the jurisdictional amount
must be confined to this record. Henneford v. Northern
PacificRy. Co., 303 U. S.17, 19; Clark v. Paul Gray, Inc.,
306 U. S.583, 589-90.
Since the record does not contain the various agreements
upon which the plaintiffs' action is founded, there is no
basis for determining whether this is a suit "in which several plaintiffs, having a common undivided interest, unite
to enforce a single title or right, and in which it is enough
that their interests collectively equal the jurisdictional
amount," Lion Bonding Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S.77, 86;
see Shields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3, 5; Troy Bank v. Whitehead & Co., 222 U. S. 39, 40-41; Gibbs v. Buck, 307 U. S.
66, 74-75, or one in which "the matters in dispute are separate and distinct, and are joined in one suit for convenience or economy," Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S.631, 647;
see Clay v. Field, 138 U. S.464, 479-80; Russell v. Stansell,

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO. v. F. D. I. C.
442

447

Syllabus.

105 U. S. 303. Aggregation of plaintiffs' claim cannot be
made merely because the claims are derived from a single
instrument, Pinel v. Pnel, 240 U. S.594, or because the
plaintiffs have a community of interest, Clark v. Paul
Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583. In a diversity litigation the
value of the "matter in controversy" is measured not by
the monetary result of determining the principle involved,
but by its pecuniary consequence to those involved in the
litigation. Wheless v. St. Louis, 180 U. S. 379, 382; Oliver
v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143, 147.
The record contains no showing of the requisite jurisdictional amount, and the District Court was therefore
without jurisdiction. The judgment will be reversed and
the cause remanded to the District Court without prejudice to an application for leave to amend the bill of
complaint.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

D'OENCH, DUHME & CO., INC. v. FEDERAL
DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 206.

Argued January 9, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. Jurisdiction of the District Court of an action by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to collect a note, part of the assets acquired by the Corporation as collateral securing a loan made by it
to a state bank, is based upon the fact that the plaintiff is a federal
corporation suing under an Act of Congress authorizing it to sue
and be sued "in any court of law or equity, State or Federal," and
providing that "All suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity to which the Corporation shall be a party shall be deemed to

