60

OCTOBER :TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

to enter the order, and hence was not "quasi jurisdictional." Cf. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
293 U. S. 454, 462-463; Floridav. United States, 282 U. S.
194, 214-215. One of the findings of the Commission,
which appellant may not attack,' was that appellant
hauled "for Hendricks, a common carrier by motor
vehicle," and the Commission was satisfied from the evidence before it that Hendricks, and not the appellant,
was the carrier in respect to the operations in which appellant was engaged. It was therefore immaterial
whether Hendricks acted as a broker in connection with
some other operations. Whether appellant's name was
on his equipment can only be a factor b-:aring on the
ultimate issue. It is in no sense "quasi juriL'ictional."
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the concideration

or decision of this case.
GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued November 13, 14, 1941.-Decided January 19, 1942.
1. Jud. Code § 275 provides that jurors in a federal court shall have
the qualifications of jurors in the highest court of the State. Acts
of the State of Illinois providing for jury service by women became
effective before a grand jury in a federal court in that State was
drawn from a box from which the names of women had been excluded. Under the state legislation, the making of state lists including women could be delayed for some time later. Held that
the jury was not illegally constituted, in view of the short time
See Note 3, ante.
* Together with No. 31, Kretske v. United States, and No. 32,

Roth v. United States, also on writs of certiorari, 313 U. S. 551, to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

61

Syllabus.

elapsed since the state law came in force, and the absence of any
showing that women's names had appeared on the state jury lists
in the counties comprising the federal district. P. 64.
2. The record in this case shows adequately, though informally, that
the indictment was returned by the grand jury in open court.
P. 65.
3. An indictment which is sufficiently definite to inform the defendants of the charges against them and shows certainty to a common
intent, is good against demurrer. P. 66.
4. Depriving the United States of lawful governmental functions by
dishonest means is a "defrauding" within the meaning of § 37 of
the Criminal Code. P. 66.
5. A charge of conspiracy to defraud the United States of lawful governmental functions by bribery of a Government officer is distinct
from a charge of bribery or of conspiracy to commit bribery.
P. 66.
6. Error which might be overlooked as harmless where the case is
strong against the accused may be ground for reversal where the
question of guilt or innocence is close. P. 67.
7. A defendant in a conspiracy case is deprived of the assistance of
counsel, contrary to the Sixth Amndment, where, over his objection, the court appoints his counsel to represent also a codefendant, where this is done with notice to the judge that their interests may be inconsistent, and where the counsel's defense of the
first defendant is less effective than it might have been if he had
represented that defendant alone. P. 76.
8. Every reasonable presumption is indulged against a waiver of
fundamental rights such as the right of the accused to have the
full and untrammeled assistance of counsel in the trial of a criminal
case. P. 70.
9. The fact that a defendant in a criminal case is an experienced
lawyer may be a factor in determining whether he waived his right
to assistance of counsel; but it is not conclusive. P. 70.
10. The trial judge should protect the right of an accused to have
the assistance of counsel. P. 71.
11. The right to have the assistance of counsel is too fundamental
to be made to depend upon nice calculations by courts of the degree
of prejudice arising from its denial. P. 76.
12. The declarations of a conspirator are not admissible against an
alleged co-conspirator, who was not present when they were made,
unless there is proof aliunde connecting the latter with the conspiracy. P. 74.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties..

315 U. S.

13. Persons convicted as conspirators can not have a new trial because of error prejudicial to a co-defendant,,but not to themselves.
P. 76.
14. A verdict of conviction must be sustained if, taking the view most
favorable to the Government, there is substantial evidence to support it. P. 80.
15. Participation in a criminal conspiracy may be inferred from circunistances. P. 80.
16. Defendants in a criminal case can not complain of error in the
introduction of reports as to which, when they were admitted in
eviaence, the trial judge informed the jury that they were admitted
against another defendant only. P. 81.
17. A district judge conducting a jury trial in a criminal case has a
sound discretion to interrogate witnesses and t6 limit their crossexamination, P. 82.
18. Acts of the trial judge, complained of as lacking impartiality,
were not such as to prejudice substantial rights of defendants.
P. 83.
19. Acts of alleged misconduct of the prosecuting attomey,--held
not such as to call for reversal of convictions. P. 83.
20. A motion for a new trial in a criminal case upon the ground that
the jury was illegally constituted must be supported by the introduction or offer of distinct evidence; a formal affidavit, in the
absence of a stipulation that it may be accepted as proof, is not
enough, although it be uncontroverted. P. 87.
116F. 2d 690, reversed in part; affirmed in part.
CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 551, in three cases, to review a
judgment sustaining convictions for conspiracy.

Messrs. Homer Cummings and Ralph M. Snyder argued
the cause, and Mr. William D. Donnelly was on the brief
with Mr. Cummings, for petitioner in No. 30. Mr. Edward M. Keating, with whom Mr. Joseph R. Roach was
on the brief, submitted for petitioner in No. 31. Mr.
Alfred E. Roth submitted, pro se, in No. 32.
Mr. Edwin D. Dickinson, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and
Mr. Richard S. Salant were on the brief, for the United
States.

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

60

Messrs. Ralph M. Snyder and John Elliott Byrne filed
a brief, as amici curiae, on behalf of petitioner in No. 30,
urging reversal.
MR. JusTIcE MuRPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners, together with Anthony Horton and Louis
Kaplan, were found guilty upon an indictment charging
them with a conspiracy to defraud the United States,
under § 37 of the Criminal Code (R. S. § 5440; 18U. S. C.
§ 88).' Judgment was entered on the verdict and Glasser,
Kretske and Kaplan were sentenced to imprisonment for
a term of 14 months. Roth was ordered to pay a fine of
$500, and Horton was placed on probation. On appeal the
convictions of Glasser, Kretske and Roth were affirmed.2
We brought the case here because of the important constitutional issues involved. 313 U. S. 551.
Glasser was the assistant United States attorney in
charge of liquor cases in the Northern District of Illinois
from about March 1935 to April 1939. Kretske was an
assistant United States attorney in the same district from
October 1934 until April 1937. He assisted Glasser in the
prosecution of liquor cases. After his resignation he entered private practice in Chicago. Roth was an attorney
in private practice. Kaplan was an automobile dealer
reputed to be engaged in the illicit alcohol traffic around
Chicago. Horton was a professional bondsman.
The indictment was originally in two counts, but only
the second survives here, as the Government elected to
"If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense
against the United States, or to defraud the United States in any
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any
act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the parties to such
conspiracy shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not
more than two years, or both."
2 116 F. 2d 690.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

proceed on that count alone at the close of its case. That
count, after alleging that during certain periods Glasser
and Kretske were assistant United States attorneys for the
Northern District of Illinois, employed to prosecute all
delinquents for crimes and offenses cognizable under the
authority of the United States, and more particularly
violations of the federal internal revenue laws relating to
liquor, charged in substance that the defendants conspired- to "defraud the United States of and concerning
its governmental function to be honestly, faithfully and
dutifully represented in the courts of the United States"
in such matters "free from corruption, improper influence,
dishonesty, or fraud." The means by which the conspira cy was to be accomplished was alleged to be by the
defendants' soliciting certain persons charged, or about to
be charged, With violating the laws of the United States,
to promise or cause to be promised certain sums to be paid
or pledged, to the defendants, to be used to corrupt and
influence the defendants Glasser and Kretske, and the
defendant Glasser alone, in. the performance of their and
his official duties.
All the defendants filed a motion to quash the indictment on the ground (a) that the grand jury was illegally
constituted because women were excluded therefrom and
(b) that the indictment was not properly returned in
open court. Glasser, Kretske and Roth also filed demurrers to the indictment. The motion to quash and the
demu'rrers were overruled, and petitioners here renew
their objections.
On July 1, 1939, two Acts of the State of Illinois providing for women jurors became effective.' Section 275 of
the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 411) provides in substance
that jurors in a federal court are to have the qualifications
of jurors in the highest court of the State. Petitioners
SIII. Rtev. Stat., 1939, c. 78, §§ 1 and 25.

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

65

Opinion of the Court.

contend that the grand jury, composed entirely of men,
and summoned on August 25, 1939, was illegally constituted because, at the time it was drawn, Illinois law required state jury lists to contain the names of women.
However, in 17 of the 18 counties comprising the Northern
District of Illinois the county boards could wait until September, 1939, to include women on their jury lists.' Of
course, for women to serve as federal jurors in Illinois it
is not necessary that their names appear on a county list,
but we are of opinion that, in view of the short time elapsing between the effective date of the Illinois Acts and the
summoning of the grand jury, it was not error to omit
the names of women from federal jury lists, where it was
not shown that women's names had yet appeared on the
state jury lists.
The record here adequately disposes of petitioners' contention that there is no showing that the indictment was
returned in open court by the grand jury. It contains a
placitum in regular form which recites the convening of
a regular term of the District Court for the Eastern
Division of the Northern District of Illinois, "on the first
Monday of September [1939] (it being the twenty-ninth
day of September the indictment was filed)," and discloses the presence of the judges of that court, the marshal and the clerk. The indictment bears the notation:
"A true bill, George A. Hancock, Foreman", and the endorsement: "Filed in open court this 29th day of Sept.,
'Section 1 of Chapter 78 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, 1939,

applies to counties not having jury commissioners (into which class
the 17 counties fall) and provides:
"The county board of each county shall, at or before the time of

its meeting, in September, in each year, or at any time thereafter,
when necessary for the purpose of this Act, make a list of sufficient

number, not less than one-tenth of the legal voters of each sex of each
town or precinct of the county, giving the place of residence of each
name on the list, to be known as a jury list."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

A. D. 1939, Hoyt King, Clerk.", Immediately following
the indictment in the record is the motion-slip discharging
the September grand jury, dated September 29, 1939, initialled by Judge Wilkerson and containing: "The Grand
Jury return 4 Indictments in open Court. Added
10/30/39." The presence of this notation in the record
is meaningless unless the indictment in this case is one
of the four mentioned. The addition was obviously made
to clarify the indorsement of the clerk so as to show clearly
the return by the grand jury and thus avert the technical
argument here advanced. While a formal nunc pro tunc
order would have been the more correct procedure, especially since a new term of court had begun, we do not
think that this informal clarification of the record amounts
to such error as requires reversal. Cf. Breese v. United
States, 226 U. S. 1.
The demurrers to the indictment were properly overruled. The indictment is sufficiently definite to inform
petitioners of the charges against them. It shows "certain,ty, to a common intent." Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425, 447. The particularity of time,. place, circumstances, causes, etc., in stating the manner and means
of effecting the object of a conspiracy, for which petitioners
contend, is not essential to an indictment. Crawford v.
United States, 212 U. S. 183; Dealy v. United States, 152
U. S. 539' Such specificity of detail falls rather within
the scope of a bill of particulars, which petitioners requested and received..
The indictment charges that the United States was
defrauded by depriving it of its lawful governmental
functions by dishonest means; it is settled that this
is a, "defrauding" within the meaning of § 37 of the
Criminal Code. Hammerschmidt v. United States,
265 U. S. 182.
It is unnecessary to explore the merits of the argument
that the indictment is defective on the ground that it

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

charges a conspiracy to commit a substantive offense requiring concerted action, namely, bribery, because, "The
indictment does not charge as %substantive offense the
giving or receiving of bribes; nor does it charge a conspiracy to give or accept bribes. It charges a conspiracy
to . . . defraud the United States, the scheme of resorting
to bribery being averred only to be a way of consummating
the conspiracy and which, like the use of a gun to effect a
conspiracy to murder, is purely ancillary to the substantive offense." United States v. Manton, 107 F. 2d 834,
839.
Petitioners Glasser and Roth claim that the evidence
was insufficient to support the verdict. Kretske makes
no such argument but merely contends that the Government's testimony was largely that of accomplices "to erphasize the inescapable conclusion that the evidence
against petitioner (Kretske) was of a borderline character." Since we are of opinion that a new trial must be
ordered as to Glasser, we do not at this time feel that
it is proper to comment on the sufficiency of -the evidence
against Glasser.
Admittedly, the case against Glasser is not a 9trong one.
The Government frankly concedes that the case with
respect to Glasser "depends in large part . . . upon
a development and collocation of circumstances tending
to sustain the inferences necessary to support the verdict."
This is significant in relation to Glasser's contention that
he was deprived of the assistance of counsel contrary to
the Sixth Amendment. In all cases the constitutional
safeguards are to be jealously preserved for the benefit of
the accused, but especially is this true where the scales
of justice may be delicately poised between guilt and innocence. Then error, which under some circumstances
would not be ground for reversal, cannot be brushed aside
as immaterial, since there is a real chance that it might
have provided the slight impetus which swung the scales
toward guilt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

On November 1, 1939, George Callaghan entered the
appearance of himself and Glasser as attorneys for
Glasser. On January 29, 1940, William Scott Stewart entered his appearance as associate counsel for Glasser.
"Harrington & McDonnell" had entered an appearance
for Kretske. On February 5, 1940, the day set for trial,
Harrington asked for a continuance. The motion was
overruled and McDonnell was appointed Kretske's attorney. On February 6, McDonnell informed the court that
Kretske did not wish to be represented by him. The
court then asked if Stewart could act as Kretske's attorney. The following discussion then took place:
"Mr. Stewart: May I make this statement about that,
judge? We were talking about it-we were all trying to
get along together. I filed an affidavit, or I did on the
behalf of Mr. Glasser pointing out some little inconsistency in the defense, and the main part of it is this: There
will be conversations here where Mr. Glasser wasn't present, where people have seen Mr. Kretske and they have
talked about, that they gave money to take care of Glasser, that is not binding on Mr. Glasser, and there is a
divergency there, and Mr. Glasser feels that if I would
represent Mr. Kretske the jury would get an idea that
they are together, and all the evidence"The Court: How would it be if I appointed you as
attorney for Kretske?
"Mr. Stewart: That would be for, your Honor to
decide.
"The Court: I know you are looking out for every possible legitimate defense there is. Now, if the jury understood that while you were retained by Mr. Glasser the
Court appointed you at this late hour to represent Kretske,
what would be the effect of the jury on that?
"Mr. Stewart: Your Honor could judge that as well as
I could.

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

"The Court: I think it would be favorable to the defendant Kretske.
"Mr. Glasser: I think it would be too, if he had Mr.
Stewart. That's the reason I got Mr. Stewart, but if a
defendant who has a lawyer representing him is allowed
to enter an objection, I would like to enter my objection.
I would like to have my own lawyer representing me.
"The Court: Mr. McDonnell, you will have to stay in
it until Mr. Kretske gets another lawyer, if he isn't satisfied with you.
"(To Mr. Kretske) Mr. Kretske, if you are not satisfied
with Mr. McDonnell, you will have to hire another lawyer.
We will proceed with the selection of the jury now."
A colloquy then ensued between the court, McDonnell
and Kretske when the following occurred:
"Mr. Kretske: I can end this. I just spoke to Mr.
Stewart and he said if your Honor wishes to appoint him
I think we can accept the appointment.
"Mr. Stewart: As long as the Court knows the situation.
I think there is something to the fact that the jury knows
we can't control that.
"Mr. McDonnell: Then the order is vacated?
"The Court: The order appointing Mr. McDonnell is
vacated and Mr. Stewart is appointed attorney for Mr.
Kretske."
Glasser remained silent. Stewart thereafter represented
Glasser and Kretske throughout the trial and was the
most active of the array of defense counsel.
The guarantees of the Bill of Rights are the protecting
bulwarks against the reach of arbitrary power. Among
those guarantees is the right granted by the Sixth Amendment to an accused in a criminal proceeding in a federal
court "to have the assistance of counsel for his defense."
"This is one of the safeguards deemed necessary to insure
fundamental human rights of life and liberty," and a

OCTOBftR TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

federal court cannot constitutionally deprive an accused,
whose life or liberty is at stake, of the assistance of counsel.
Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 462, 463. Even as we
have held that the right to The assistance of counsel is
so fundamental that the denial by a state court of a reasonable time to allow the selection of counsel of one's own
choosing, and the failure of that court to make an effective
appointment of counsel, may so offend our concept of
the basic requirements of a fair hearing as to amount to
a denial of due process of law contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment, Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, so are we
clear that the "assistance of counsel" guaranteed by the
Sixth Amendment contemplates that such assistance be
untrammeled and unimpaired by a court order requiring
that one lawyer shall simultaneously represent conflicting
interests. If the right to the assistance of counsel means
less than this, a valued constitutional safeguard is
substapntially impaired.
To preserve the protection of the Bill of Rights for hardpressed defendants, we indulge every reasonable presumption against the waiver of fundamental rights. Aetna
Insurance Co. v. Kennedy, 301 U. S. 389; Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 301 U. S. 292.
Glasser never affirmatively waived the objection which
he initially advanced when the trial court suggested the
appointment of Stewart. We are told that, since Glasser
was an experienced attorney, he tacitly acquiesced in
Stewart's appointment because he failed to renew vigorously his objection at the instant the appointment was
made. The fact that Glasser is an attorney is, of course,
immaterial to a consideration of his right to the protection of the Sixth Amendment. His professional experience may be a factor in determining whether he actually
waived his right to the assistance of counsel. Johnson v.
Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 464. But it is by no means
conclusive.

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the trial judge rests the duty of seeing that the
trial is conducted with solicitude for the essential rights
of the accused. Speaking of the obligation of the trial
court to preserve the right to jury trial for an accused,
Mr. Justice Sutherland said that such duty "is not to be
discharged as a matter of rote, but with sound and advised
discretion, with an eye to avoid unreasonable or undue
departures from that mode of trial or from any of the
essential elements thereof, and with a caution increasing
in degree as the offenses dealt with increase in gravity."
Pattonv. United States,281 U.S.276,312-313. The trial
court should protect the right of an accused to have the
assistance of counsel. "This protecting duty imposes tlhe
serious and weighty responsibility upon the trial judge
of determining whether there is an intelligent and competent waiver by the accused. While an accused may
waive the right to counsel, whether there is a proper waiver
shotffd be clearly determined by the trial court, and it
would be fitting and appropriate for that determination
to appear upon the record." Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S.
458, 465.
No such concern on the part of the trial court for the
basic rights of Glasser is disclosed by the record before
us. The possibility of the inconsistent interests of Glasser
and Kretske was brought home to the court, but instead
of jealously guarding Glasser's rights, the court may fairly
be said to be responsible for creating a situation which
resulted in the impairment of those rights. For the man,
ner inwhich the parties accepted the appointment indicates that they thought they were acceding to the wishes
of the court. Kretske said the appointment could be accepted "if your Honor wishes to appoint him [Stewart],"
and Stewart immediately replied: "As long as the Court
knows the situation. I think there is something in the
fact that the jury knows we can't control that." The
court made no effort to reascertain Glasser's attitude or

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

wishes. Under these circumstances, to hold that Glasser
freely, albeit tacitly, acquiesced in the appointment of
Stewart is to do violence to reality and to condone a
dangerous laxity on the part of the trial court in the discharge of its duty to preserve the fundamental rights of
an accused.
Glasser urges that the court's appointment of Stewart
as counsel for Kretske embarrassed and inhibited Stewart's conduct of his defense, in that it prevented Stewart
from adequately safeguarding Glasser's right to have incompetent evidence excluded and from fully crossexamining~the witnesses for the prosecution.
One Brantman, an accountant known to Kretske and
recommended professionally by him to a client, testified
that he gave Kretske $3000 on behalf of one Abosketes.
He further testified that he did not know Glasser. Stewart secured a postponement of cross-examination for "In
view of the fact that your Honor appointed me for Mr.
Kretske, I am not prepared to cross-examine."
Abosketes took the stand immediately after Brantman
and testified that Brantman told him that he was about
to be indicted and offered to "fix" the case with someone
in the Federal Building for $5000. About the time of this
meeting, Glasser and investigator Bailey were questioning
one Brown, who had been convicted for operating a still,
to determine whether Abosketes was connected with that
still. Abosketes referred frequently to Glasser in his testimony and indicated that Glasser and Brantman were
linked together. Thus he testified that Brantman told
him "They have got the goods on you, Mr. Glasser has
got it out of Brown." When questioned as to his knowledge" of Brantman's connections, Abosketes replied:
"There was more than a fix, if indictment was stopped.
He [Brantman] knows Mr. Glasser and that was all there
was to it." And, later: "He had connections to stop
things like that, he had connections in the Federal Build-

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

ing." And, again: "I could not be sure that this man
[Brantman] was not putting a shake on me and be honest
about it. I could not go over and ask Mr. Glasser if Mr.
Brantman was able to fix him. I thought Brantman
could, though. I was kind of hoping he, could. If I did
not think he could, I would not have given him the
money."
Brantman was re-called three days later. Stewart declined cross-examination. That this decision was influenced by a desire to protect Kretske can reasonably be
inferred from the colloquy between the court and Stewart
before sentence was imposed. At that time Stewart told
the court that, lest his failure to cross-examine Brantman
reflect on Kretske, the reason for his forbearance was that
he feared that Brantman would tell worse lies. But, especially after the intervening testimony of Abosketes, a
thorough cross-examination was indicated in Glasser's interest to fully develop Brantman's lack of reference to,
or knowledge of Glasser. Stewart's failure to undertake
such a cross-examination luminates the cross-purposes
under which he was laboring.
Glasser also argues that certain testimony, inadmissible
as to him, was allowed without objection by Stewart on
his behalf because of Stewart's desire to avoid prejudice
to Kretske. The testimony complained of is that of
Elmer Swanson, Frank Hodorowicz, Edward Dewes, and
Stanley Wasielewski as to statements made by Kretske,
not in the presence of Glasser, and heard by them which
implicated Glasser. Glasser has red' hair, and the statements made by Kretske were that he would have to see
"Red," or send the money over to the "red-head," etc.,

in connection with "fixing" cases.'
Glasser contends that such statements constituted inadmissible hearsay as to him and that Stewart forewent
Elmer Swanson testified- that when money was paid to Kretske
in connection with the Stony Island still case Kreteke said that part

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

this obvious objection lest an objection on behalf of
Glasser alone leave with the jury the impression that the
testimony was true as to Kretske. The Government attacks this argument as unsound, and, relying on the doctrine that the declarations of one conspirator in furtherance of the objects of the conspiracy made to a third party
are admissible against his co-conspirators, Logan v. United
States, 144 U. S. 263, contends that the declarations of
Kretske were admissible against Glasser and hence no
prejudice could arise from Stewart's failure to object.
However, such declarations are admissible over the objection of an alleged co-conspirator, who was not present
when they were made, only if there is proof aliunde that
he is connected with the conspiracy. Minner v. United
States, 57 F. 2d 506; and see Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426.
of it would go to "Red or Dan." The witness understood this to refer

to Glasser.
Frank Hodorowicz testified that he gave $800 in currency to Kretske
to secure favorable action with regard to a still at 124 East 118th
Place. Kretske told Frank he "had to deliver the money to Red."
Hodorqwicz knew this meant Glasser. Frank attempted to "fix" a
case for Albina Zarrattini through Kretske, who declined after "he
talked to Red" because Zarrattini talked too much.
After Frank Hodorowicz was himself indicted he went to Kretske
to "fix" his case. Kretske told him there was "a lot of heat" on the
case and "They got Glasser over a barrel, he can't do anything. He
has to put you in jail."
When Edward Dewes gave Kretske $100 so that he would not be
indicted in connection with a still at Spring Grove, Kretske told him
"he would send it over to the red-head in the Federal Building." The
witness knew this meant Glasser. Dewes also testified that Kretske
told him that he, Kretske, had resigned from the United States attorney's office under pressure, and that, "for holding the bag," he was
to receive favors from the "red-head."
Stanley Wasielewski testified that he heard Kretske tell Stanley
Slesur that "I will take care of everything between meand the redhead." Both Wasielewski and Slesur were involved in a still at
Downers Grove.

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

Otherwise, hearsay would lift itself by its own bootstraps
to the level of competent evidence.
Glasser urges that, independently of the statements
complained of, there is no proof connecting him with the
conspiracy. Clearly the statements were damaging.
Other evidence tending to connect Glasser with the conspiracy is rather meagre by comparison. Frank
Hodorowicz testified that Glasser apologized to him after
his indictment because he, Glasser, could do nothing for
Hodorowicz. Hodorowicz also testified that he sent a case
of whiskey to Glasser for Christmas, 1937. Victor
Raubunas testified that he saw Glasser, Kretske and
Kaplan meet on three occasions. An alcohol agent, Dowd,
testified that Glasser expelled him from the court-room
during the trial of a libel case in which Roth represented
the successful claimant. Glasser released Raubunas and
one Joppek, who were picked up on different occasions for
suspected liquor violations, without extensive questioning. Whether testimony such as this was sufficient to
establish the participation of Glasser in the conspiracy
we need not decide. That is beside the-point. The important fact is that no objection was offered by Stewart
on Glasser's behalf to the statements complained of, and
this despite the fact that, when the court broached the
possibility of Stewart's appointment, Stewart told the
court that statements of this nature were not binding on
Glasser. That this is indicative of Stewart's struggle to
serve two masters cannot seriously be doubted.
There is yet another consideration. Glasser wished the
benefit of the undivided assistance of counsel of his own
choice: We think that such a desire on the part of an
accused should be respected. Irrespective of any conflict
of interest, the additional burden of representing another
party may conceivably impair counsel's effectiveness.
To determine the precise degree of prejudice sustained
by,Glasser as a result of the court's appointment of

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Stewart as counsel for Kretske is at once difficult and
unnecessary. The right to have the assistance of counsel
is too fundamental and absolute to allow courts to indulge
in nice calculations as to the amount of prejudice arising
from its denial. Cf. Snyder v. Massachusetts, 291 U. S.
97, 116; Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510, 535; Patton v.
United States, 281 U. S.276, 292. And see McCandless
v. United States, 298 U. S. 342, 347. Of equal importance with the duty of the court to see that an accused
has the assistance of counsel is its duty to refrain from
embarrassing counsel in the defense of an accused by insisting, or indeed, even suggesting, that counsel undertake to concurrently represent interests which might
diverge from those of his first client, when the possibility
of that divergence is brought home to the court. In conspiracy cases, where the liberal rules of evidence and the
wide latitude accorded the prosecution may, and sometimes do, operate unfairly against an individual defendant, it is especially important that he be given the benefit
of the undivided assistance of his counsel without the
court's becoming a party to encumbering that assistance.
Here the court was advised of the possibility that conflicting interests might arise which would diminish Stewart's usefulness to Glasser. Nevertheless Stewart was
appointed as Kretske's counsel. Our examination of the
record leads to the conclusion that Stewart's representation of Glasser was not as effective as it might have been
if the appointment had not been made. We hold that the
court thereby denied Glasser his right to have the effective assistance of counsel, guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment. This error requires that the verdict be set aside
and a new trial ordered as to Glasser.
But this error does not require that the convictions of
the other petitioners be set aside. To secure a new trial
they must show that the denial of Glasser's constitutional
rights prejudiced them in some manner, for where error

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

as to one defendant in a conspiracy case requires that a
new trial be granted him, the rights of his co-defendants
to a new trial depend upon whether that error prejudiced
them. Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20; United
States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150; Rossi v.
United States, 278 P. 349; Belfi v. United States, 259 F.
822; Browne v. United States, 145 F. 1; Dufour v. United
States, 37 App. D. C. 497. Kretske does not contend that
he was prejudiced by the appointment, and we are clear
from the record that no prejudice is disclosed as to him.
Roth argues the point, but he was represented throughout the case by his own attorney. We fail to see that
the denial of Glasser's right to have the assistance of
counsel affected Roth.
Turning now to the contentions of Kretske and Roth,
we are clear that substantial evidence supports the verdict
against both. As noted before, Kretske does not raise. the
point other than to mention that the testimony against
him was largely that of accomplices and unsavory characters. The short answer to this is that the credibility
of a witness is a question for the jury.
The evidence against Roth discloses the following salient facts. Elmer Swanson,: Clem Dowiat and Anthony
Hodorowicz were arrested in connection with a still on
Stony Island Avenue Frank Hodorowicz, the head of
the Hodorowicz crowd, arranged a meeting with Kr,-tske
at his hardware store to "take care" of the case. Horton
was present and Kretske told the group that there "was
a lot of heat" on the case but that it could be arranged so
that nobody "would go to jail" for $1200, part of which
"Red" was to get. A down payment of $500 was made.
When a lawyer was sought, Kretske referred the prospective defendants to Roth. He represented them at the
hearing before the Commissioner, which was continued
at the request of Glasser. After an indictment was returned, Roth appeared for trial to find that the case had

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

been stricken from the docket with leave to reinstate it.
The defendants were never brought to trial. None of
the Hodorowiczes or their associates paid Roth for his
services. Roth testified that he received his fee from
Kretske.
In June' 1938, Glasser secured two indictments, one
against Frank, Mike, and Peter Hodorowicz and Clem
Dowiat, and the other against Frank and Peter Hodorowic and Dowiat, for the sale of illicit alcohol. Frank
paid Kretske $250 after the indictments. Kietske later
told him that nothing could be done, as investigator Bailey
was pressing Glasser. Frank then went to see Roth, who
with Kretske went to see Glasser. Roth later told Frank
that nothing could be done and suggested that he get an
attorney and prepare to defend himself. Roth's explanation of this was that he went to Glasser to learn the latter's
attitude toward clemency for Frank, and that he suggested
the retention of two lawyers, one to defend Frank, and the
other to represent the remaining defendants. ' Frank dispensed with Roth's services and was represented at the
trial by one Hess. Frank paid Roth $50, but this was
in connection with substituting some securities on his
bond.
Edward Dewes had been associated with the defendant
Kaplan in a still at Spring Grove. That case was twice
presented to a grand jury by Glasser but withdrawn on
each occasion. Two days before it was presented a third
time, the defendant Horton told Dewes that Kretske
wished to see him. Dewes went to Kretske's office and
paid him $100 so that he would not be indicted. Dewes
was no-billed in that case. Dewes was also involved in a
still on the farm of one Beisner. It was raided and several were arrested. Dewes, Victor Raubunas and Edward
Farber asked Horton to "fix" that case, but when his price
was thought too high, Farber, who had known Kretske
for some time, took Dewes and Raubunas to Kretske's

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

office. Kretske offered to take care of the case for $1200.
Raubunas paid $300 and they were told they would need
no lawyer at the preliminary hearing. Eventually
Raubunas, Dewes and Beisner were indicted. Dewes
thereafter paid Kretske $275 to "fix" his case. Kretske
referred the matter to Roth, who represented Dewes
throughout his trial. Dewes testified that he neither
retained nor paid Roth.
Paul Svec, an associate of one Yarrio, was arrested in
1937 for a liquor violation. Horton arranged his bond.
in Svec's presence Horton picked up Kretske and Yarrio.
They told Svec not to worry. He was thereafter indicted
and convicted. While at liberty pending an appeal, he
was again arrested. This time he called Glasser, and
according to the latter, offered him money. The following morning Glasser interrogated Svec in the hearing of
a secreted agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and secured admissions that Svec had never paid Glasser
money or received any promises from him, and that the
call had been at the instigation of the arresting investigators. Svec testified that Roth told him that he "stood
up o. k." under Glasser's questioning. Svec was discharged at the Commissioner's hearing..
Glasser prosecuted Leo Vitale for the operation of a
still. He was convicted and received a sentence of one
hour in the custody of the marshal. Vitale's wife, Rose,
was the claimant in a subsequent libel action against a
car allegedly used to transport illicit liquor. The case
was referred to Roth by Kietske. Roth informed the
court that Vitale was "o. k." and that the car was not
used for illegal purposes. As was the custom, the case
was tried 'on the agent's report. It was dismissed. Investigator Dowd later informed Glasser that he had heard
that Vitale had boasted that "he got out of this for nine
hundred dollars."
InApril 1938., :Edward, and William Wroblewski were
indicted in the Northern District of Indiaa,. They en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U..S.

gaged Roth as their counsel. They did not remember
how they met Roth. When asked by the court if anyone
recommended Roth to him, Edward answered: "No, sir,
I don't remember whether it was a rumor about his name."
According to Alexander Campbell, an assistant United
States attorney in that district, Roth appeared in his
office in September 1938 and asked if the Wroblewskis had
been indicted. Campbell replied that he did not know
off-hand but would check the files. Roth then asked, if
the files showed no indictment, whether some arrangement
could be made so that no indictment would be returned.
He offered Campbell $500 or $1000. When Campbell
refused, Roth said: 'Well, that is the way we handle cases
in Chicago sometimes." The Wroblewskis were convicted. Subsequently, Roth asked Campbell to use his
influence to stop the 'investigation in Chicago by Bailey
which resulted in the instant case.
It is not for us to weigh the evidence or to determine the
credibility of witnesses. The verdict of a jury must be
sustained if there is substantial evidence, taking the view
most favorable to the Government, to support it. United
States v. Manton, 107 F* 2d 834, 839, and cases cited.
Participation in a criminal conspiracy need not be proved
by direct evidence; a common purpose and plan may be
inferred from a "development and a collocation of circumstances." United States v. Manton, supra. We are
clear that, from the circumstances outlined above, the
jury could infer the existence of a conspiracy and the participation of Roth in it. Roth's statements to Campbell
in the Wroblewski matter, his suggestion to Frank
Hodorowicz that he should get a lawyer and prepare to
defend himself when the case could not be ."fixed," the
fact that he received no fees from the Hodorowiczes with
the exception of $50 in connection with Frank's bond,
Dewes' testimony that he neither retained nor paid Roth,
Roth's commendation of Svec's bearing under Glasser's

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

interrogation, all furnish the necessary support for the
jury's verdict.
The objections of Kretske and Roth with regard to the
admission of certain evidence are without merit. The
reports of investigators of the Alcohol Tax Unit on stills
at Western Avenue and at Spring Grove, operated by
the defendant Kaplan and his associates, were admitted
as Government exhibits 81A and 113. Each contained
statements taken from prospective witnesses by the investigators, and each gave a description of the prospective defendants. Kaplan was referred to as of Jewish
descent, a bootlegger by reputation, and mention was
made of the arrest of Kaplan and Edward Dewes in con-.
nection with the killing of one Pinna. At the time each
report was admitted the trial judge informed the jury
that it was admitted only against Glasser and continued:
."At some further stage of the proceedings I may advise
you with reference to its competency as to the other defendants, but for the time being it will be admissible only
against the defendant Glasser." The record before us
contains no indication that the jury was later informed
that the exhibits were evidence against the defendants
other than Glasser. The claim of Kretske and Roth, that
the admission of these reports was prejudicial to Kaplan
and that they are entitled to take advantage of that error,
ignores the fact that they were admitted against Glasser
alone.
No reversible error was committed by overruling objections to the testimony of Alexander Campbell with relation to his dealings with Roth. Trial judges have a measure of discretion in allowing testimony which discloses the
purpose, knowledge, or design of a particular person.
Butler v. United States, 53 F. 2d 800; Simpkins v. United
States, 78 F. 2d 594, 598. We do not think the bounds of
that discretion were exceeded here. The statements of
Roth were not in furtherance of the conspiracy, but they

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

did tend to connect Roth with it by explaining his state
of mind.
The judge conducting a jury trial in a federal court is
"not a mere moderator, but is the governor of the trial
for the purpose of assuring its proper conduct." Quercia
v. United States, 289 U. S. 466, 469. Upon him rests
the responsibility of striving for that atmosphere of perfect impartiality which is so much to be desired in a judicial proceeding. Petitioners contend that the trial judge
made remarks prejudicial to them, committed acts of
advocacy, questioned them in a hostile manner, unduly
limited cross-examination, and in general failed to maintain an impartial attitude. Various incidents in support
of those contentions are brought to our attention.
The court did interrogate several witnesses, but in the
main such interrogation was within its power to elicit
the truth by an examination of the witnesses. United
States v. Gross, 103 F. 2d 11; United States v. Breen, 96
F. 2d 782. In asking Anthony Hodorowicz whether there
had been a full disclosure of his connection with the Stony
Island still when he appeared before Judge Woodward,
the cqurt obviously was under a misapprehension of the
nature of the appearance. It was simply for the purpose
of arraignment, and of course no testimony.was offered.
Much is made of this, but at the time no one attempted to
explain to the court the nature of the appearance. Stewart later brought out on cross-examination that it was
only an arraignment and that there was no necessity for
testimony on that day.
After the testimony of Abosketes, the court read into
the record the fact. that Abosketes was indicted in Wisconsin in 1936 and 1938, and that he pleaded guilty to one
indictment and that the other was dismissed. It is, of
course, improper for a judge to assume the role of a witness, but we cannot here conclude that prejudicial error

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

resulted. Abosketes had briefly referred to his troubles
in Wisconsin in his testimony.
The alleged undue limitation of cross-examination
merits scant attention. The extent of such examination
rests in the sound discretion of the trial court. Alford v.
United States, 282 U. S. 687. We find no abuse of that
discretion.
Perhaps the court did not attain at all times that thoroughgoing impartiality which is the ideal, but our examination of the record as a whole leads to the conclusion that the substantial rights of the petitioners were not
affected. The trial was long and the incidents relied
on by petitioners few. We must guard against the magnification on appeal of instances which were of little importance in their setting. Cf. United States v. SoconyVacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 240; Goldstein v. United
States, 63 F. 2d 609; United States v. Warren, 120 F. 2d
211.

Separate consideration of the numerous instances of
alleged prejudicial misconduct on the part of the prosecuting attorney would unduly extend this opinion.
Suffice it to say, that after due consideration we conclude
that no one instance, nor the combination of them all,
constitutes reversible error.
All the petitioners contend that they were denied an
impartial trial because of the alleged exclusion from the
petit jury panel-of all women not members of the Illinois
League of Women Voters. In support of their motions
for a new trial, Glasser and Roth filed affidavits which are
the basis of petitioners' present contentions. Kretske
did not fie an affidavit, but he urges the point here.
Glasser swore on information and belief that all the
names of women placed in the box from which the panel
was drawn were taken from a list furnished the clerk of
the court by the Iliinoi League of Women Voters, and pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

pared exclusively from its membership, that the women
on that list had attended "jury classes whose lecturers
presented the views of the prosecution," and that women
not members of the League, but otherwise qualified, were
systematically excluded, by reason of which affiant "did
not have a trial by a jury free from bias, prejudice, and
prior instructions, and as a result thereof the jury was
disqualified and this affiant's rights were prejudiced in that
he was deprived of a trial by jury guaranteed to him by
the laws and the constitution of the United States of
America, and particularly the 5th and 6th amendment,
all of which he offers to prove." The source of Glasser's
information was stated to be a then current article,
"Women and the Law," in the American Bar Association
Journal for April 1940 (Vol. 26, No. 4). Roth's affidavit
merely gave Glasser as his source of information and
made no offer of proof. The court overruled the motions
for a new trial. The record discloses that the jury was
composed of six men and six women.
Since it was first recognized in Magna. Carta, trial by
jury has been a prized shield against oppression, but,
while proclaiming trial by jury as."the glory of the English
law," Blackstone was careful to note that it was but a
"privilege." Commentaries, Book 3, p. 379. Our Constitution transforms that privilege into a right in criminal
proceedings in a federal court. This was recognized by
Justice Story: "When our more immediate ancestors removed to America, they brought this great privilege [trial
by jury in criminal cases] with them, as their birthright
and inheritance, as a patt of that admirable common law
which had fenced round and interposed barriers on every
side against the approaches of arbitrary power. It is now
incorporated into all our State constitutions as a fundamental right, and the Constitution of the United States
would have been justly obnoxious to the most conclusive

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES
60

Opinion of the Court.

objection if it had not recognized and confirmed it on the
most solemn terms." 2 Story, Const. § 1779.
Lest the right of trial by jury be nullified by the improper constitution of juries, the notion of what a proper
jury is has become inextricably intertwined with the idea
of jury trial. When the original Constitution provided
only that "The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury," 6 the people and their representatives, leaving nothing to chance, were quick to
implement that guarantee by the adoption of the Sixth
Amendment which provides that the jury must be
impartial.
For the mechanics of trial by jury we revert to the common law as it existed in this country and in England when
the Constitution was adopted. Patton V. United States,
281 U. S.276. But even as jury trial, which was a privilege at common law, has become a right with us, so also,
whatever limitations were inherent in the historical common law concept of the jury as a body of one's peers do
not prevail in this country. Our notions of what a proper
jury is have developed in harmony with our basic concepts
of a democratic society and a representative government.
For "It is part of the established tradition in the use
of juries as instruments of public justice that the jury
be a body truly representative of the community." Smith
v. Texas, 311 U. S.128, 130.
Jurors in a federal court are to have the qualifications
of those in thehighest court of the State, and they are to
be selected by the clerk of the court and a jury commissioner. §§ 275, 276 Jud. Code; 28 U. S. C. §§411, 412.
This duty, of selection may not be delegated. United
States v. Murphy, 224 F. 554; In re Petition For Special
Grand Jury, 50 F. 2d 973. And, its exercise must always
"Const., Art. III,§ 2, ci. 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

accord with the fact that the proper functioning of the
jury system, and, indeed, our democracy itself, requires
that.the jury be a "body truly representative of the community," and not the organ of any special group or class.
If that requirement is observed, the officials charged with
choosing federal jurors may exercise some discretion to
the end that competent jurors may be called. But they
must not allow the desire for competent jurors to lead
them into selections which do not comport with the concept of the jury as a cross-section of the community.
Tendencies, no matter how slight, toward the selection
of jurors by any method other than a process which will
insure a trial by a representative group are underminiing
processes weakening the institution of jury trial, and
should be sturdily resisted. That the motives influencing
such tendencies may be of the best must not blind us to the
dangers of allowing any encroachment whatsoever on this
estential right. Steps innocently taken may, one by one,
lead to the irretrievable impairment of substantial
liberties.
The deliberate selection of jurors from the
membership
not condoes
definitely
private
organizations
of particular
form to the traditional requirements of jury trial. No
matter how high-principled and imbued with a desire to
inculcate public virtue such organizations may be, the
dangers inherent in such a method of selection are the
more real when the members of those organizations, from
training or otherwise, acquire a bias in favor of the prosecution. The jury selected from the membership of such
an organization is then not only the organ of a special
class, but, in addition, it is also openly partisan. If such
practices are to be countenanced, the hard-won right of
trial by jury becomes a thing of doubtful value, lacking
one of the essential characteristics that have made it a
cherished feature of our institutions.

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of the Court.

So, if the picture in this case actually is as alleged in
Glasser's affidavit, we would be compelled to set aside
the trial court's denial of the motion for a new tiialasa
clear abuse of discretion, and order a new trial for all the
petitioners. But from the record before us we must conclude that petitioners' showing is insufficient.-.The
Government did not controvert the affidavi .sby counteraffidavits or formal denial, and it does not appear from
the record that any argument was heard on them. From
this, petitioners argue that the allegations of the affidavits
are to be taken as true for the purpose of the motion.
However, this is not a case where the prosecution has
impliedly, Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, or actually,
Hale v. Kentucky, 303 U. S. 613, stipulated tht affidavits
in support of a motion alleging the improper constituti6n
of a jury may be accepted as proof. In the absence of
such a stipulation, it is incumbent on the moving party
to introduce, or to offer, distinct evidence irYupport of
the motion; the formal affidavit alone, even though uncontroverted, is not enough. Smith v. Mississippi, 162
U. S. 592; Tarrancev. Florida,188 U. S. 519; cf. Brounfield v. South Carolina, 189 U. S. 426. Glasser, in his
affidavit, offered to prove the allegations contained therein, but the record is barren of any actual tender of-proof
on his part. Furthermore, there is no indication that
the court refused to entertain such an offer, if it were in
fact made. Roth did not even make an offer of proof in
his affidavit, and Kretske did not file one. While it is
error to refuse to hear evidence offered in support of
allegations that a jury was improperly constituted, Carter
v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, there is, and, on the state of this
record, can be, no assertion that such error was here committed. The failure of petitioners to prove their contention is fatal.
We conclude that the conviction of Glasser must be set
aside and the cause as to'him remanded to the District

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of

FRANKFUT2z, J.

315 U. S.

Court for the Eastern Division of the Northern District of
Illinois for a new trial. The convictions of petitioners
Kretske and Roth are in all respects upheld.
No. 80, reversed.
Nos. 81 and 32, affirmed.
took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUsTIcE JACKSON

MR. JUSTICE FRAN.NFURTER:

The CHIEF JUSTICE and I are of opinion that the conviction of Glasser, as well as that of his co-defendants,
should stand.
It is a commonplace in the administration of criminal
justice .that the actualities of a long trial are too often
given a meretricious appearance on appeal; the perspective of the living trial is lost in the search for error in a
dead record. To set aside ,the conviction of Glasser (a
lawyer who served as an Assistant United States Attorney
for more than four years) after a trial lasting longer than
a month, on the ground that he was denied the basic constitutional right "to have the assistance of counsel for his
defence," is to give fresh point to this regrettably familiar
phenomenon. For Glasser himself made no such claim
at any of the critical occasions throughout the proceedings.
Neither when the judge appointed Stewart to act as counsel for both Kretske and Glasser, nor at any time during
the long trial, nor in his motions to set aside the verdict
and to arrest judgment, nor in his plea to the court before

sentence was passed, nor in setting forth his grounds for
appeal, did Glasser assert, or manifest in any way a belief,
that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel.
Not until twenty weeks after Stewart had become counsel
for the co-defendant Kretske, and fifteen weeks after
the trial had ended, did Glasser discover that he had been

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of FhANKFKmn,

J.

deprived of his constitutional rights. This was obviously
a lawyer's afterthought. It does not promote respect for
the Bill of Rights to turn such an afterthought into an
imaginary injury that is reflected nowhere in the contemporaneous record of the trial, and make it the basis
for reversal.
The guarantees of the Bill of Rights are not abstractions. Whether their safeguards of liberty and dignity
have been infringed in a particular case depends upon the
particular circumstances. The fact that Glasser is an
attorney, of course, does not mean that he is not entitled
to the protection which is afforded all persons by the
Sixth Amendment. But the fact that he is an attorney
with special experience in criminal cases, and not a helpless illiterate, may be-as we believe it to be here-extremely relevant in determining whether he was denied
such protection.
In this ight, what does the record show? Before the
trial got under way the trial judge was presented with a
problem created by the inability of one of Kretske's lagyers to try the case in his behalf. Kretske was dissatisfied
with his other lawyer, who professed to be unfamiliar with
the many details of the case. Upon Kretske's motion for
a continuance, the judge was faced with the difficulty of
avoiding either delay of the trial or an undesirable severance as to Kretske. All the defendants, including
Glasser, and their counsel were present in court. The
judge asked whether Stewart, who had been retained by
Glasser, would be prepared to act also for Kretske. The
record gives no possible ground for any inference other
than that this suggestion came from the judge as a fair
and disinterested proposal to solve a not unfamiliar trial
problem. It is not, and indeed could not be, contended
that the judge's suggestion, addressed to the consideration of the defendants, was not wholly proper. And so,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

315 U. S.

when Stewart raised the question of a possible conflict of
interest, and Glasser himself .objected, saying "I would
like to have my own lawyer representing me," the judge
neither remonstrated nor argued. He promptly dropped
his suggestion and directed Kretske's other lawyer, who
,was present but with whom Kretske was dissatisfied, to
stay in the case until Kretske could hire someone to his
satisfaction. The footnote sets forth the full text of this
episode.1
There ensued a long discussion relating to the i epresentation of Kretske. During this discussion the judge never
"'Mr. Stewart:. May I make this statement about-that, judge? We
were talking about it-we were all trying to get along together. I
filed an affidavit, or I did on the behalf of Mr. Glasser, pointing out
some little inconsistency in the defense, and the main part of it is this:
There will be conversations here where Mr. Glasser wasn't present,
where people have seen Mr. Kretske and they have talked about,
that they gave money to taka care of Glasser, that is not binding on
Mr. Glasser, and thereC is a divergency there, and Mr. Glasser feels
that if I would represent Mr. Kretske the jury would get an idea that
tty are together, and all the evidenceThe Court: How would it be if I appointed you as attorney for Mr.
Kretske?
Mr. Stewart: That would be for your Honor to decide.
The Court: I know you are looking out for every possible legitimate
defense there is. Now, if the jury understood that while you were
retained by Mr. Glasser the Court appointed you at this late hour to
represent Kretske, what would be the effect of the jury on that?
Mr. Stewart: Your Honor could judge that as well as I could.
The Court: I think it would be favorable to the defendant Kretske.
Mr. Glasser: I think it would be too, if he had Mr. Stewart. That's
the reason I got Mr. Stewart, but if a defendant who has a lawyer
representing him is allowed to enter an objection, I would like to enter
my objection. I would like to have my own lawyer representing me.
The Court: Mr. McDonnell, you will have to stay in it until Mr.
Kretske gets another lawyer, if he isn't satisfied with you. (To Mr.
Kretske) Mr. Kretske, if you are not satisfied with Mr. McDonnell, you
will have to hire another lawyer. We will proceed with the selection
of the jury now."

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of

FRANKmtRmTi,

J.

again adverted to his original suggestion that Stewart
also represent Kretske. Kretske interrupted, and there
then. occurred in Glasser's presence what is now made the
basis for' reversal:
"Mr. Kretske: I can end this. I just 'spoke to Mr.
Stewart and he said if your Honor wishes to appoint him
I think we can accept the appointment.
"Mr. Stewart: As long as the Court knows the situation.
I think there is something to the fact that the jury knows
we can't control that.
"Mr. McDonnell: Then the order is vacated?
"The Court: The order appointing Mr. McDonnell is
vacated and Mr. Stewart is appointed attorney for Mr.
Kretske."
It is clear, therefore, that this arrangement was voluntarily assumed by the parties, and was not pressed upon
them by the judge. Glasser, who was present, raised no
objection and made no comment.
The requirement that timely objections be made to
prejudicial rulings of a trial judge often has the semblance
of traps for the unwary and uninformed. But Glasser
was neither unwary nor uninformed. His experience in
the prosecution of criminal cases makes his silence here
most significant. Nor, was this the last opportunity he
had to indicate that embarrassment was being caused him
by Stewart's representation of Kretske, let alone that he
deemed it a denial of his constitutional rights. If he were
laboring under a handicap, he would have made it known
at the times when he felt it most-during the long course
of the trial, in his motions for new trial and in arrest of
judgment, in his extended plea to the court before sentence
was passed, and finally when, on April 26, 1940, over his
own signature he gave twenty grounds for appeal but did
not mention this one. The long period of uninterrupted
silence concerning his after-discovered injury negatives
its existence. We find it difficult to know what acquies-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of FANKFuRmR, J.

315 U. S.

cence in a judge's ruling could be, if this record does not
show it.2
A fair reading of the record thus precludes the inference
that the judge forced upon Glasser a situation which
hobbled him in his defense. To be sure, he did say at
first that he would like his lawyer to represent him alone.
But he plainly acquiesced in the arrangement which, after
consultation at the defense table, was proposed to the trial
judge and which the judge accepted. A conspiracy trial
presents complicated questions of strategy for the defense.
There are advantages and disadvantages in having separate counsel for each defendant or a single counsel for
more than one. Joint representation is a means of insuring against reciprocal recrimination. A common defense
often gives strength against a common attack. These
considerations could not have escaped a lawyer of Glasser's
experience. His thorough acquiescence in the proceedings
cannot be reconciled with a denial of his constitutional
rights.
A belated showing that Glasser was actually prejudiced
by the judge's action is now attempted. This has two
aspects: (1) Stewart's failure to cross-examine the witness Brantman, and (2) his failure to make objections on
behalf of Glasser to the admission of certain evidence.
Stewart. was designated to represent Kretske on February 6, 1940,
when the trial began. The jury brought in its verdict on March 8.
The motions for new trigl and in arrest of judgment were denied on
April 23, and on the same day the defendants were sentenced. On
April 26, Glasser filed a notice setting forth twenty grounds of appeal
without suggesting that he had been denied his right to the assistance
of counsel. On June 27, Glasser and the two other petitioners filed
a "joint and.several assignment of errors,". for the first time asserting
that: "The court erred in appointing the employed counsel of defendant Daniel D. Glasser to represent defendant Norton I. Kretske, to
the prejudice of the defendants."

GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.
60

Opinion of FRANKmRTER, J.

(1) The Brantman episode evaporates upon examination. His only testimony relating to Glasser was that he

did not know him. This was brought out fully and distinctly on direct examination.3 That it had been amply
established, Glasser himself recognized in his address to
the court before sentence. It is difficult to understand how
cross-examination would have been of any further benefit
to Glasser. *In any event, the record shows that Stewart
abstained from cross-examining Brantman not because
he felt himself inhibited by any conflict of interest but
because, as he told the judge after verdict, he thought that
on cross-examination Brantman "would be telling worse
lies."
(2) It is said that Stewart's failure to object, on behalf
of Glasser, to certain evidence in itself proves that Stewart
felt himself restricted-wholly regardless of the admissibility of such evidence. No evidence inadmissible against
Glasser is avouched. Indeed we are told that it is "beside
the point" that the evidence is admissible. Can it be
that a lawyer who fails to make frivolous objections to
admissible evidence is thereby denying his client the constitutional right to the assistance of counsel?

",Q. Do you know Mr. Glasser?
A. No, sir.
Q. Did you ever see him before the time you got this money?
A. I have seen him, I think I might have been introduced to the
man once, but I don't think it was before I got that money.
Q. You never had any conversation with him in any event?
A. No, sir.
Q. What?
A. No, sir."

