OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

PECHEUR LOZENGE CO., INC. v. NATIONAL
CANDY CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 648. Argued March 10, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.
A suit in the District Court to enjoin infringement of a trademark and
for resulting damages can not be maintained as a suit arising under
the Trademark Law where the registration of plaintiff's labels was
not under that law but under the Copyright Law. P. 657.
122 F. 2d 318, vacated.

Mr. Alfred J. L'Heureux, with whom Mr. Joseph Fairbanks was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James D. Carpenter,Jr., for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner brought this suit in the district court to
recover damages and for an injunction restraining trademark infringement and unfair competition. There was
diversity of citizenship, and the bill of complaint alleged
that "this suit arises under the Trademark Laws of the
United States" and that petitioner's wrapper design "was
registered in the United States Patent Office by the plaintiff on May 1, 1936, under the No. 47748." It prayed
treble damages "in accordance with the provisions of the
Trademark Law of 1905," and was amended to allege registration of a second wrapper design in the Patent Office
under the No. 46862.
A decree for petitioner, 36 F. Supp. 730, was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 122
F. 2d 318. Both courts below having failed to consider
or apply local law, we granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 603, in
order to determine whether local law or federal law should

PECHEUR CO. v. NAT. CANDY CO.
666

Opinion of the Court.

have been applied in a suit for infringement of a trademark registered under the Trademark Act of 1905, 33
Stat. 724, and we requested counsel "to present their views
as to whether state law governs and, if so, what the applicable state law is."
The opinions below, the printed record and the petition
for certiorari give no indication that the suit was not
founded upon a trademark registered under the 1905 Act,
as the bill of complaint had made it appear. But an examination of the original exhibits, not printed in the record, and of petitioner's brief on the merits here, discloses
that the registration referred to is that of petitioner's labels
under the Copyright Law of the United States, and not
registration under the Trademark Law. It thus appears
that petitioner has alleged no cause of action under the
Copyright Law and is not entitled to the benefits of registration under the Trademark Law. The only cause of
action that this record could possibly support is for unfair
competition and common law "trademark infringement,"
to which local law applies.' See Fashion Guild v. Trade
Commission, 312 U. S. 457, 468.
The decree will be vacated without costs in this Court
to either party, and the cause will be remanded, to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, to afford it opportunity to apply the appropriate local law, and for such further or other
proceedings as in the circumstances may be proper.
Decree vacated and cause remanded.

