ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

15

Syllabus.

ALTON RAILROAD CO.

ET AL.

V. UNITED STATES

ETAL.*
APPEAL, FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 110. Argued December 19, 22, 1941.-Decided January 12, 1942.
1. Section 205 (h) of the Motoi Carrier Act of 1935 incorporates
by reference the "party in interest" provision of § 1 (20) of the
Interstate Commerce Act. P. 19.
2. A railroad company which is in competition with an individual
engaged in the transportation of motor vehicles by the driveaway
or caravaning method, is a "party in interest" entitled, under § 205
(h), to sue to set aside an order of the.Interstate Commerce Commission granting to such individual a certificate of public convenience
and necessity. P. 19.
3. Operations authorized under the "grandfather clause" of § 206 (a)
of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, in the territory to be served,
need not be restricted to specified routes or between fixed termini.
P. 20.
4. In the case of a transporter of motor vehicles by the driveaway or
caravaning method, the Interstate Commerce Commission, under
the "grandfather clause," may, considering the characteristics of
the particular transportation service, authorize operation to all
points within a State, although but a few points had previously
been served. Such authorization in this case was not inappropriate,
and must be sustained. P. 22.
5. There was evidence in this case that a transporter of motor vehicles
by the driveaway or caravaning method was in bona fide operation in certain States on and since June 1, 1935, and the Commission's determination that he was, and that he was entitled in those
States to rights under the "grandfather clause," may not be set
aside. P. 23.
6. That a carrier's status under the law of a State is that of a contract carrier, does not necessarily bar his obtaining common carrier rights there under the "grandfather clause." P. 23.
*Together with No. 267, United States et al. v. Alton Railroad Co.
et al., also on appeal from the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Michigan.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

7. Whether a carrier's operation in a particular State was bona fide,
within the meaning of the "grandfather clause," is a question of
fact for the Commission to determiner P. 24.
S. Violation of state law by a carrier, though relevant to establishing an abqence of "bona fide operation," does not necessarily bar
rights under the "grandfather clause." P. 24.
9. There is evidence in this case to sustain the Commission's finding
that the carrier's operation ip a particular State was bona fide, notwithstanding violation of the state law, and the finding is sustained.
P. 24.
10. Where the carrier's last shipment to a particular State was on
May 12, 1935, and more than a year elapsed between June 1, 1935,
and the time of the hearing on the application, held that a grant
of "grandfather" rights under § 206 (a)-which requires that the
carrier shall have been in bona fide operation on June 1, 1935, and
"since that time"--was properly set aside. P. 24.
36 F. Supp. 898, affirmed.

Appeal and cross appeal from a decree of a District
Court of three judges in a suit brought to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 8 M. C. C.
469.
Mr. Amos M. Mathews, with whom Messrs. Henry P.

Stacy, FrederickV. Slocum, Joseph H. Hays, and Richard
W. Sharpless were on the brief, for the Alton Railroad
Co. et al.

Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Frank Coleman, Nelson Thomas, and John C. Lehr were
on the brief, for the United States et al.

Mr. George S.

'Dixon, with whom Messrs. Carney D. Matheson and
Edmund M. Brady were On the brief, for John P.
Fleming.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases are an appeal and a cross appeal under
§ 210 (28 U. S. C. § 47a) and t§ 238 of the Judicial Code

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

as amended (28 U. S. C. § 345) to review a final decree of a
district court of three judges (28 U. S. C. § 47) which
modified in part and sustained as modified (36 F. Supp.
898) an order of the Interstat& Commerce Commission
(8 M. C. C. 469) granting appellee Fleming a certificate
of public convenience and necessity as a common carrier
by motor Vehicle under the so-called "grandfather clause"
(§ 206 (a)) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935.1 49 Stat.
543, 551, 49 U. S. C. § 306.
The findings of the Commission may be briefly summarized as follows: Fleming. on and since June 1, 1935,
was engaged in bona fide operation as a common carrier
by motor vehicle "in driveaway service of new automotive
vehicles, finished and unfinished, and new automotive
vehicle chassis." This driveaway or caravaning method
of transportation is performed by individual driving of the
vehicle under its own power, by driving one vehicle under
its own power and towing a second vehicle attached to the
first, or by driving under its own power a vehicle -upon
which another vehicle is partially or wholly aiounted.
Shipments by Fleming originated from the factories of
automobile manufacturers in Detroit, Michigan, and were
made to dealers and distributors in various States. Certain new cars were returned to Detroit in the same manner. Fleming commenced operations in 1933, and
between January 1, 1934 and June 1, 1935 transported
shipments to one point each in Arkansas and Alabama; to
two points each in California, New York, Pennsylvania
and Tennessee; to three points each in Washington, Oregon, Kentucky and North Carolina; to four points in
Texas; to five points in South Carolina; and to seven
points in Georgia. About 1200 vehicles were transported
in this period and more than 2100 from 1933 to July,
The Motor Carrier Act of 1935 is now designated as Part II of
the Interstate Commerce Act. 54 Stat. 919.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

1936, the time of the hearing. Shipments consisted of
from one to sixteen vehicles, shipments of two and four
being the most common. Fleming's service was confined
to deliveries at very few points in several States, due to
the fact that he was furnishing a highly specialized transportation service from manufacturers to dealers and distributors. Shipments to most of the States named were
numerous. Shipments to other States were fewer in
number. Thus the three shipments to Arkansas aggregated twenty-five vehicles, the four shipments each to
Texas and Oregon aggregated fourteen vehicles and
twenty-four vehicles respectively, and the five shipments
to Washington aggregated twenty-eight vehicles. Operations in those four States started just prior to June 1,
1935; but they were sufficient in scope to establish that
Fleming was in bona fide operation in them on the statutory date. Fleming held his services out to the public
generally as a common carrier and operated as such; and
he held himself out to transport by the driveaway method
between any points in the States for which application
was made.
Though his transportation of shipments was restricted
to a few points in each of the enumerated States, the Commission held that he was entitled to transport to all points
in all of the States served, with the exception of New
York and Pennsylvania, as respects which the application
was denied. The District Court sustained the order of
the Commission in all respects except the operation in
Arkansas. As to that it held that his service had been
abandoned.
We are met at the outset with the question of the standing of the appellant railroad companies (seventy-one in
number) to bring and maintain the suit in the District
,Court. All but a few intervened in the hearing before
the Commission. Each is a common carrier and a competitor of Fleming in some portion of the territory which

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

Fleming is authorized to serve. They rest their right to
sue on § 205 (h) of the Motor Carrier Act' (49 U. S. C.
Supp. § 305 (h)) which provides that "Any final order
made under this part shall be subject to the same right
of relief in court by any party in interest as is now provided in respect to orders of the Commission made under
part I . . ." Sec. 1(20) of Part I (49 U. S. C. § 1(20))
authorizes "any party in interest" to sue to enjoin any
construction, operation or abandonment of a railroad
made contrary to § 1 (18) or (19). Such suits may be
maintainednot only where the railroad proceeds without
authorization of the Commission but also where it proceeds under a certificate of the Commission whose validity
is challenged. Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry Co. v. United
States, 285 U. S.382. Hence -we conclude that § 205 (h)
has incorporated by reference the "party in interest" provision of § 1 (20). We do not stop to inquire what effect,
if any, the status of appellant railroad companies as intervenors before the Commission had on their right to -bring
and maintain this suit. Cf. Chicago Junction Case, 264
U. S. 258, with Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry. Co. v.
United States, 281 U. S.479. They clearly have a stake
as carriers in the transportation situation which the order
of the Commission affected. They are competitors of
Fleming for automobile traffic in territory served by him.
They are transportation agencies directly affected by competition with the motor transport industry--competition
which prior to the Motor Carrier Act of 1935 had proved
destructive. S. Doc. No. 152, 73d Cong;, 2d Sess., pp.
13-27. They are members of the national transportation
system which that Act was designed to coirdinate. S.
Rep. No. 482, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. No. 1645, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess. Hence they are parties in interest within
"Now § 205 (g) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act. 54
Stat. 922; 49 U. S.C. § 305 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the meaning of § 205 (h) under the tests announced in
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270
U. S. 266; Western Pacific CaliforniaR. Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., 284 U. S. 47; and Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry
Co. v. United States, supra.
The appellant railroad companies earnestly contend
that the Commission was without authority to authorize
Fleming to serve a whole State where, as here, his services
had been in fact limited to only a few points in the State.
The argument is that any rights obtained under the
"grandfather clause" should be delimited to the actual
area in which the applicant was in bona fide-operation
during the period in question. Sec. 206 (a) provides for
the issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity without proof beyond the fact that the applicant
or his predecessor in interest "was in bona fide operation
as a common carrier by motor vehicle on June 1, 1935,
over the route or routes or within the territory for which
application is made and has so operated since that time."
Sec. '208 (a) provides that such certificate "shall specify
the service to be rendered and the routes over which, the
fixed termini, if any, between which, and the intermediate and off-route points, if any, at which, and in case of
operations'not over specified routes or between fixed
termini, the territory within which, the motor carrier is authorized to operate." The authority granted Fleming
was to operate in the designated territory "over irregular routes" through specified States. It is plain from the
statute that operations need not be restricted to specified routes or between fixed termini. But the question
remains as to the power of the Commission to authorize
operation in an entire State where only a few points in
that State had been served.
"Territory" is not a word of art. The characteristics
of the transportation service involved as well as the geographical area serviced are relevant to the territorial

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

scope of the operations which may be authorized under the
"grandfather clause." While the test of "bona fide operation" within a specified "territory" includes "actual
rather than potential or simulated service" (McDonald
v. Thompson, 305 U. S. 263, 266), it does not necessarily
restrict future operations to the precise points or areas
already served. The characteristics of the transportation
service rendered may of necessity have made trips to any
specified locality irregular or sporadic. And they may
likewise have restricted prior operations to but a few points
in a wide. area which the carrier held itself out as being
willing and able to serve. The Commission has taken
the characteristics of various transportation services into
consideration in determining the scope of the territory
covered by'certificates under the "grandfather clause."
Thus, operations on irregular routes within a wide territory have been authorized in case of common carriers of
household goods. Bruce Transfer & Storage Co., 2
M. C. C. 150; William J. Wruck, 12 M. C. C. 150. Similar
broad authority has been granted common carriers of oilfield equipment and supplies. Charles B. Greer, Jr., 3
M. C. C. 483; Union City Transfer, 7 M. C. C. 717; L. C.
Jones Trucking Co., 9 M. C. C. 740. And a like result
has been reached in case of automobile transporters such
as the applicant in the instant case. George Cassens &
Sons, 1 M. C. C. 771. And see Charles E. Danbury, 17
M. C. C. 243. The general theory underlying the household goods cases was expressed in W. J. Wruck, supra,
pp. 151-152, as follows:
"Calls for service between the same points are seldom
repeated. Traffic is not regular in any given direction.
What may be infrequent but fairly regular business to or
from a certain State for a small carrier may be only
sporadic business for a large carrier; consequently, a frequency of service that might amount to 'grandfather'
clause rights in the case of the former could conceivably

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

be inadequate in the case of the latter. It would be an
impractical solution to carve out oddly shaped areas for
service based solely on the frequency of service; consideration must also be given to the general territory served
under the holding-out, even if the business in some States
may not equal that in other States in the territory."
The Commission took a somewhat similar approach to
the problem presented in the instant case. It noted that
Fleming was restricted to shipments at points where the
manufacturers had established distribution facilities; that
those facilities were limited in any given area; that Fleming's opportunity for service was therefore confined to a
very few distribution points and his operations were irregular; that less than an estimated seven per cent of all
new automobiles sold during 1935 in twenty-four western
States were transported by the driveaway method; that
distribution points in the automobile industry are constantly shifted; that allowance must be made for frequent
changes in points served by a carrier who depends for his
traffic entirely upon this one industry; and that Fleming's
future opportunity for obtaining traffic will doubtless be,
as limited as in the past. In view of the scope of his holding out and the nature and characteristics of the highly
specialized transportation service rendered, the Commission authorized continuance of his service to all points in
the enumerated States. That is a judgment which we
should respect. Certainly we cannot say that it was a
wholly inappropriate method for creating that substantial parity between future operations and prior bona fide
operations which the statute contemplates. The special
characteristics of this roving transportation service make
tenable the conclusion that Fleming's prior limited opportunity for service could not be preserved unless statewide areas, within the scope of his holding out and partially covered by his previous operations, were kept open

ALTON R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

for him. That judgment is for the administrative experts, not the courts.
Appellant railroad companies also urge that Fleming
should not have been awarded any rights under the "grandfather clause" in Washington, Oregon, and California.
Before June 1, ,1935, Fleming had made five deliveries to
three different points in Washington, four deliveries to
three different points in Oregon, and at least two deliveries to two different points in California. After June 1,
1935, and prior to the hearing in July 1936, two deliveries were made in Washington, two in Oregon, and apparently several in California. These shipments did not
appear to be merely nominal.' Thus there was evidence
that on and since June 1, 1935, Fleming had been in bona
fide operation in those States. The weighing of such evidence involves in part a judgment based on the characteristics of the highly specialized transportation service
involved. Thus, as we have said, that function is peculiarly one for the Comnission, not the courts.
Appellant railroad companies also insist that Fleming
was not in "bona fide operation" in Oregon because in
January, 1936 he obtained in that State a contract carrier
permit. The argument is that he could not obtain under
the "grandfather clause" common carrier rights in Oregon in the face of his contract carrier status there. Cf.
United States v. Maher, 307 U. S; 148. They further
urge that Fleming's operations in Nebraska (one;.of the
States through which his irregular routes were authorized)
were conducted in violation of state law. . In that connection, reliance is placed on his testimony that in
'As to California the evidence was less specific than in the other
States. Shipping bills showed three deliveries to. California aggregat-

ing five vehicles, the latest being in December, 1935. In addition, there
was testimony that shortly prior to the hearing in 1936 deliveries of
taxicabs and trucks had been made in that State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Nebraska he claimed to be the owner of the vehicles in
order to reduce license fees. The expression "in bona
fide operation" plainly "does not extend to one operating
as a common carrier on public highways of a State in
defiance of its laws." McDonald v. Thompson, supra,
p. 266. Congress has not, however, conditioned rights
under the "grandfather clause" on compliance with state
laws. Their violation is material only insofar as it may be
relevant to establishing an absence of "bona fide operation." Infractions of state law, however, may be innocent or wilful, minor or considerable. They may or may
not concern the right to operate in the State. Furthermore, the status of a carrier under state law may or may
not be identical with his status as a common or contract
carrier under the Motor Carrier Act. The question
whether his operation in a particular State was "bona
fide". is a question of fact for the Commission to determine. Such operation might well be in good faith though
state laws were infracted. And the fact that an applicant
may have to make his peace with state authorities does
not necessarily mean that his rights under the "grandfather clause" should be denied or withheld. See Earl
W. Slagle, 2 M. C. C. 127. Occasional noncompliance
with state laws does not per se establish a course of conduct which is preponderantly one of evasion. Certainly
no such course of conduct can be fairly implied in this
case. Our task is ended if there is evidence to support
the Commission's finding of bona fides. There is such evidence here.
It is urged on the cross appeal that the court below
should not have set aside the Commission's inclusion of
Arkansas in the certificate. The evidence was that Fleming had served only one locality in Arkansas-the city
of Texarkana. He had made three shipments there aggregating twenty-five vehicles. All of those shipments had
been made prior to June 1, 1935, the latest being May 12,

TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.
Syllabus.

15

1935. Though fourteen months expired between that
date and the date of the hearing, there was no evidence
that any shipments were made to any locality in Arkansas
since June 1, 1935. No explanation of that long hiatus
was proffered. But § 206 (a) requires a finding of "bona
fide operation . . . within the territory'' not only "on
June 1, 1935" but also "since that time." We cannot say
that an unexplained failure to make any shipments to
Arkansas for over a year "since that time" satisfies the
statutory command, even though the nature of the highly
specialized transportation service involved be given the
greatest weight. Cf. United States v. Maher, supra. A
mere holding out will not alone suffice to bridge the long
gap extending through and beyond one entire automobile
production year, since applicant carries the burden of
establishing his right to the statutory grant.
We have considered the other points raised by appellant
railroad companies and find them without substance.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTcE ROBERTS did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

TAYLOR v. GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 70.

Argued December 15, 16, 1941.-Decided January 12, 1942.

1. Peonage is a form of involuntary servitude, within the meaning

of the Thirteenth Amendment; and the Act of Congress of March
2, 1867 is an appropriate implementation of that Amendment.
P. 29.
2. A state statute making it a crime for any person to contract with
another to perform services of any kind, and thereupon obtain in
advance money or other thing of value, with intent not to perform
such service; and providing further that failure to perform the
service or to return the money, without good and sufficient cause,

