TULEE v. WASHINGTON.
Counsel for Parties.

668

We hold that the reissue is not for the same invention
described and claimed and intended to be secured by the
original patent, and is, therefore, void.
The decree is
Reversed.
TULEE v. STATE OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 318. Argued March 3, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.
Under the provision of the treaty of May 29, 1855, with the Yakima
Indians, reserving to the members of the tribe the right to take

fish "at all usual and accustomed places, in common with the citizens" of Washington Territory, the State of Washington has the
power to impose on the Indians equally with others such restrictions of a purely regulatory nature concerning the time and manner of fishing outside the reservation as are necessary for the conservation of fish, but it can not require them to pay license fees
that are both regulatory and revenue-producing. P. 685.

7 Wash. 2d 124, 109 P. 2d 280, reversed.

from a judgment affirming a conviction of a
member of the Yakima Tribe of Indians on a charge of
catching salmon with a net without first having o" tained
a license as required by state law.
APPEAL

Mr. Nathan R. Margold, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Mr. Kenneth R. L. Simmons were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. T. H. Little, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Washington, with whom Messrs. Smith Troy,
Attorney General, and E. P. Donnelly were on the brief,
for appellee.

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney General. of Oregon,
filed a brief on behalf of the State of Oregon, as amicus
curiae, urging affirmance.
Mn. Jusccn BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant, Sampson Tulee, a member of the Yakima tribe of Indians, was convicted in the Superior Court
for Klickitat County, Washington, on a charge of catching salmon with a net, without first having obtained a license as required by state law.1 The Supreme Court of
Washington affirmed. 7 Wash. 2d 124, 109 P. 2d 280.
The case is here on appeal under 237(a) of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. 344(a), the appellant challenging the validity of the Washington statute, as applied to him, on the
ground that it was repugnant to a treaty made between
the United States and the Yakima Indians.
In 1855, the Yakimas and other Indians owned and
occupied certain lands in the Territory of Washington,
which the United States wished to open up for settlers.
May 29, 1855, representatives of the Government met in
council with representatives of the Indians, and- after extended discussions lasting until June 11, the Indians
agreed to a treaty, under which they were to cede 16,920
square miles of their territory, reserving 1,233 square
miles for the confederated tribes represented at the meeting. As consideration for the cession by the Indians, a
cession which furthered the national program of transforming wilderness into populous, productive territory,
1

"It shall be unlawful to catch, take or fish for food fish with any

appliance or by any means whatsoever except with hook and line ...
unless license so to do has been first obtained .... " Remington's Revised Statutes of Washington, ยง 5693. "For each dip bag net license
for the taking of salmon on the Columbia River, [the license fee shall
be] five dollars. . . ." Id. (vol. 7, 1940 supp.), ยง 5703.

TULEE v. WASHINGTON.
681

683

Opinion of the Court.

the Government agreed to pay $200,000; to build certain
schools, shops, and mills and keep them equipped for
twenty years; to erect and equip a hospital; and to provide teachers and various helpers for twenty years. This
agreement was ratified and proclaimed as a treaty in 1859.
12 Stat. 951.
The appellant claims that the Washington statute compelling him to obtain a license in order to fish for salmon
violates the following provision of Article III of the
treaty:
"The exclusive right of taking fish in all the streams,
where running through or bordering said reservation, is
further secured to said confederated tribes and bands of
Indians, as also the right of taking fish at all usual and
accustomed places, in common with citizens of the Territory, and of erecting temporary buildings for curing them;
together with the privilege of hunting, gathering roots
and berries, and pasturing their horses and cattle upon
open nd unclaimed land."
The state does not claim power to regulate fishing by
the Indians in their own reservation. Pioneer Packing
Co. v. Winslow, 159 Wash. 655, 294 P. 557. Nor does it
deny that treaty rights of Indians, whatever their scope,
were preserved by Congress in the act which created the
Washington Territory and the enabling act which admitted Washington as a state. 10 Stat. 172; 25 Stat. 676.
Relying upon its broad powers to conserve game and fish
within its borders,2 however, the state asserts that its right
to regulate fishing may be exercised at places like the scene
of the alleged offense, which, although within the territory
originally ceded by the Yakimas, is outside of their reservation. It argues that the treaty should not be con' Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.519; Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S.
504, 507; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; Lacoste v. Dept.
oj Conservation,263 U. S. 545, 549.

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

strued as an impairment of this right, and that, since its
license laws do not discriminate against the Indians, they
do not conflict with the treaty. The appellant, on the
other hand, claims that the treaty gives him an unrestricted right to fish in the "usual and accustomed places,"
free from state regulation of any kind. We think the
state's construction of the treaty is too narrow and the appellant's too broad; that, while the treaty leaves the state
with power to impose on Indians, equally with others,
such restrictions of a purely regulatory nature concerning
the time and manner of fishing outside the reservation as
are necessary for the conservation of fish,8 it forecloses the
state from charging the Indians a fee of the kind in question here.
In determining the scope of the reserved rights of hunting and fishing, we must not give the treaty the narrowest
construction it will bear. In United States v. Winans,
198 U. S. 371, this Court held that, despite the phrase "in
common with citizens of the Territory," Article III conferred upon the Yakimas continuing rights, beyond those
which other citizens may enjoy, to fish at their "usual
and accustomed places" in the ceded area; and in Seufert
Bros. Co. v. United States, 249 U. S. 194, a similar conclusion was reached even with respect to places outside
the ceded area. From the report set out in the record
before us, of the proceedings in the long council at which
the treaty agreement was reached, we are impressed by
the strong desire the Indians had to retain the right to
hunt and fish in accordance with the immemorial customs
of their tribes. It is our responsibility to see that the
terms of the treaty are carried out, so far as possible, in
accordance with the meaning they were understood to
have by the tribal representatives at the council, and in a
Cf. Kennedy v.' Becker, 241 U. S. 556. See United States v. Winams, 8upra, 384.

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 685
681

Syllabus.

spirit which generously recognizes the full obligation of
this nation to protect the interests of a dependent people.
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 384; ,.ufert
Bros. Co. v. United States, supra, 198-199.
Viewing the treaty in this light, we are of the opinion
that the state is without power to charge the Yakimas a
fee for fishing. A stated purpose of the licensing act was
to provide for "the support of the state government and
its existing public institutions." Laws of Washington
(1937) 529, 534. The license fees prescribed are regulatory as well as revenue producing. But it is clear that
their regulatory purpose could be accomplished otherwise,
that the imposition of license fees is not indispensable to
the effectiveness of a state conservation program. Even
though this method may' be both convenient and, in its
general impact, fair, it acts upon the Indians as a charge
for exercising the very right their ancestors intended to
reserve'. We believe that such exaction of fees as a prerequisite to the enjoyment of fishing in the "usual and
accustomed places" cannot be reconciled with a fair
construction of the treaty. We therefore hold the state
statute invalid as applied in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER CO., INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 588.

Argued March 5, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. The finding of the National Labor Relations Board that, by a
supplementary oral contract between an employer and a labor
union, it was agreed only that new employees would be re-

