OCTOBER TERM, 19 1.

50

Counsel for Parties.

315 U. S.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. N. E. ROSENBLUM

TRUCK LINES, INC.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 52.

Argued December 16, 17, 1941.-Decided January 19, 1942.

1. A truzkman who, on July 1, 1935, and until February 1936, was
engaged in hauling exclusively for common carriers under agreements
with them, helping them to move their overflow freight' and who
was not serving the public directly but only performing part of the
complete common carrier service which those common carriers
offered to the public, is not entitled to a permit as a contract carrier
under the "grandfather" clause of § 209 (a) of the Motor CarrierAct
nf 1935. P. 54.
2. By the Act, Congress did not intend to grant multiple "grandfather"
rights on the basis of a simgle transportation service. P. 54.
3. Where the literal meaning of words in a statute produces an unreasonable result plainly at variance with the policy of the legislation,
the legislative purpose will b6 followed. P. 55.
4. The fact that "carriers" within the meaning of the Act need not
deal directly with the public but may act through brokers, does
not affect the conclusion in this case. P. 56.
36 F. Supp. 467, reversed.
APPEALS

from decrees of a District Court of three judges

which, in two cases heard and decided together, set aside.
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission denying
applications for permits under the Motor Carrier Act of
1935.

Mr. Frank Coleman, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle,
Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant AttorSney General
Arnold, and Messrs. James C. Wilson, Daniel
W. Knowlton, Nelson Thomas, and Harry C.'Blantonwere
on the brief, for appellants.
*Together with No. 53, United States et al. v. Margolies, doing business as Manhattan Truck Lines, also on appeal from the District Court
of the United States forhe Eastern District of Missouri.

U. S. v. ROSENBLUM TRUCK LINES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Gus 0. Nations, with whom Mr. M. E. Aronoff was
on the brief, 'for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are direct appeals by the United States and the
Interstate Commerce Commission from final,,decrees of
a specially constituted three-judge district court,1 which
sustained appellees' separate petitions to annul, set aside
and enjoin an order of the Commission entered July 1,
1940, denying appellees' separate applications under the
so-called "grandfather clause" of § 209 (a) of the Motor.
Carrier Act of 1935 2 (49 Stat. 543, 552, 49 U. S. C. § 309
(a)), for a permit authorizing operations as a contract
carrier by motor vehicle.
The evidentiary facts are not seriously disputed. Prior
to the critical date, July 1, 1935, and until February 1936,
appellees and their predecessors in interest 3 hauled only
for common carriers by motor vehicle, and in each case
principally for a single common carrier, between St. Louis
and Chicago, for which they were paid a lump sum on
dock to dock movements. .Appellees protected their
equipment by carrying fire, theft and collision insurance
in their own names. They also paid the operating and
maintenance costs. Cargo, public-liability, propertydamage, and similar types of insurance for the.protection
Convened pursuant to the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913 (38
Stat. 220, 28 U. S. C. §§ 47 and 47 (a)) and § 205 (h) of the Motor
Carrier Act of 1935, rearranged by the Transportation Act of 1940,
54 Stat. 899, as § 205 (g) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act.
' The Motor Carrier Act of 1935 is now designated as Part II of
the Interstate Commerce Act. 54 Stat. 919.
'In both of these cases it wag the appellee's predecessor in interest
who was operating on July 1, 1935. The predecessor of appellee in
No. 52 was Rosenblum the individ"al, and the predecessor of appellee
in No. 53 was an individual, Baulos.

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

of the general and the shipping public, were taken out by
the common carriers and in some instances charged to the
appellees. 'They occasionally paid small cargo damage
claims not covered by insurance. The drivers of appellees'
trucks were their employees. The specifici6 with which
the common carriers directed the routes to be followed is
in some doubt, but the drivers were requested to "sign
in" at certain registration stations en route.
The greater portion of the traffic of the common car.
riers which appellees served was carried in the carriers'
own vehicles. Appellees' equipment was secured on oral
arrangements to handle overflow freight. The freight so
handled was always solicited by the common carrier, accumulated at its terminal, loaded and unloaded by its
employees, and moved from consignor to consignee on that
carrier's way bills. The record is silent as to whether
appellees' trucks bore the name of the common carrier on
whose behalf they were operated.
After February 1936 appellees ceased hauling for common carriers by. motor vehicle and began hauling for
individual shippers in their own right.
The Commission found that appellees' equipment prior
to February 1936 "was operated solely under the direction
and control of the common carriers and under the latter's
responsibility to the .general public and to the shippers"
and concluded that "as to such operations applicants
[appellees] do not qualify as carriers by motor vehicle
within the meaning of the Act and are consequently not
entitled to a certificate or a permit under the 'grandfather'
clause of Section 206 (a) or 209 (a) thereof."'
The court below set aside the Commission's order, concluding that appellees were in "bona fide operation as
[a] contract carrier[s] in interstate commerce on July 1,
1935" and "in so operating assumed control, management
'24 M. C. C. 121, 125-126.

U. S. v. ROSENBLUM TRUCK LINES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

and responsibility for the hauling of cargo" and that
"there is no substantial evidence in the record to support
the order entered." '
The point of divergence between the-Commission and
the court below seems to have been whether the evidentiary facts supported the Commission's ultimate conclusion that appellees operated solely under the control of
the common carriers. Because of our views as to the
proper construction of the Act, we need not determine
whether substantial evidence supports that conclusion
of the Commission.. In any event the evidence clearly
shows that on the critical date, and from then until February 1936, appellees helped the common carriers move
their overflow freight and, as to each job, were an integral
part of a single common carrier service offered to the public
by the common carrier for whom they hauled.
The question here, as in any problem of statutory construction, is the intention of the enacting body. Congress
has set that forth for us broadly in the declaration of
policy 6 in essence it is the regulation of transportation
by motor carriers in the public interest so as to achieve
adequate, efficient and economical service. To implement
that policy Congress forbade common carriers by motor
vehicle to operate in interstate commerce without securing a certificate of public convenience and necessity
from the Commission,7 and required contract carriers to
secure a permit from that body.' Those carriers engaged
in either of such operations on the respective critical
dates and continuously thereafter were to be given the
requisite certificate or permit as of right under the
"grandfather" provisos of §§ 206 (a) and 209 (a). We
think it clear that Congress did not intend to grant
'36 F. Supp. 467.
§ 202 (a), 49 U. S. C. § 302 (a).
'§ 206 (a), 49 U. S.C. § 306 (a).
'§ 209 (a), 49 U. S. C. § 309 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

multiple "grandfather" rights on the basis of a single
transportation service. Presumably the common carriers
which appellees served were entitled to common carrier
"grandfather" rights over the entire line. It was the
common carriers who offered the complete transportation
service to the general public and the shipper. To hold
that appellees, who performed part of that complete
transportation service for those common carriers under
agreements with them, acquired contract carrier "grandfather" rights over the same line entitling them also to
serve the public is to ascribe to Congress an intent incompatible with its purpose of regulation. The result would
be to create in this case two services offering transportation to the public when there had been only one on the
"grandfather" date, without allowing the Commission
to: determine if the additional service was in the public
interest. Anl, instances can readily be imagined where
a single common carrier might utilize the services of several operators such as appellees. Automatically to grant
0ontract carrier rights to such operators might result in
.such a wholesale distribution of permits as would defeat
the very purpose of federal regulation.
Also indicative of the Congressional intent not to confer contract carrier "grandfather" rights on operators,
such as appellees, who, on the critical date, were not serving the public directly but were instruments performing
part of a common carrier service, is the fact that there
would seem to be no reason to apply to them the regulatory provisions of the Act generally applicable to contract carriers, such as the requirement that they should
secure a permit only after a showing that their operations
are "consistent with the public interest" (§ 209 (b)), or
that they should file schedules of their minimum rates
(§'218 (a)), or that the Commission should prescribe the
minimum rates (§ 218 (b)). The Act clearly contemplates that contract and common carriers will offer com-

U. S. v. ROSENBLUM TRUCK LINES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

peting types of service, for § 210 prohibits any person
from simultaneously holding a certificate and a permit
for the same route or territory unless the Commission
finds that such is in the public interest, and § 218 (b)
enjoins the Commission, in prescribing minimum rates for
contract carriers, to "give no advantage or preference: to
any such carrier in competition with any common carrier
by motor vehicle subject to this part." The declaration
of policy in § 202 (a) which stresses the avoidance of
destructive and unfair competition is referred to in the
9
sections dealing with contract carriers.
Appellees' contention that their activities on the critical date fall within the literal language of the definition
of "contract carrier" in force on the date of the order 10 and
that they are therefore entitled to contract carrier "grandfather" rights is without merit. A holding that the activities of appellees prior to February 1936 were those of
contract carriers would not accord with the intent, of. Congress. Where the plain meaning of words used in a statute produces an unreasonable result, "plainly at variance
with the policy of the legislation as a whole," we may
follow the purpose of the statute rather than the literal
words. United States v. American Trucking Associa§ 218 (b), 49 U. S. C. § 318 (b).
The Commission has tAken the position that while there may be
destructive or unfair competitio i with common carriers when truck
operators contract to do work in connection with transportation for
common carriers which serve shippers directly, "it is not the truck
operator who carries it on. Rather it is the carrier for which he
9 § 209 (b), 49 U. S. C. § 309 (b).

works, . . ."

Scott Bros. Inc., 4 M. C. C. 551, 559.

§ 203 (a) (15). The term "contract carrier by motor vehicle"
means any person, not included under paragraph (14) of this section,
who or which, under special and individual contracts or agreements,
and whether directly or by a lease or -any other arrangement, transports passengers or property in interstate or foreign commerce by
motor vehicle for compensation. (The Transportation Act of 1940,
54 Stat. 899,- amended this definition.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the.Court.

315 U. S.

tions, 310 U. S. 534, 543, and cases cited. We conclude
that the Commission rightly determined that appellees
were not contract carriers within the meaning of the Act
prior to February 1936.
Appellees make no contention that they were common
carriers during the period in question, and we are clear
that they were not, for the Congressional intent to avoid
multiple "grandfather" rights on the basis of a single
transportation service is equally applicable to prevent
appellees from being considered either as contract or
as common carriers within the meaning of the Act. The
reasonableness of this interpretation of the Act is apparent. Since appellees' operations, namely, serving
the common carriers, on the critical date did not make
them "carriers" within the meaning of the Act, and thus
subject to regulation under it, it follows that they are
free to engage in such operations without securing the
authorization of the Commission.11 But those operations
cannot be the basis for appellees' automatically securing
permits to serve the public in their own right, a service
which they were not performing on the "grandfather"
date.
The fact that carriers within the meaning of the Act
need not deal directly with the public but may act through
brokers 12 in no wise affects our conclusion. As we have
seen, Congress did not intend to confer multiple "grandfather" rights on the basis of a single transportation service to the public. That difficulty arises only when an
operator undertakes to serve a carrier who is serving the
The Commission has so held. Dixon, 21 M. C. C. 617;" Smythe
2 M. C. C. 726.
"Section 203 (18), 49 U. S. C. § 303 (18), defines "broker" substan'tially as one who. sells or offers for sale any transportation. Section
211 (a), 49.U. S. C. § 311 .(a), requires that brokers be licensed and
.that the carriers they employ have either a certificate or a permiit
issued ider the Act.

LUBETICH v. UNITED STATES.
50

Counsel for Parties.

public. It is not present when a carrier deals through a
broker.

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
LUBETICH, DOING BUSINESS AS PACIFIC REFRIGERATED MOTOR LINE, v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 322.

Argued December 17, 1941.-Decided January 19, 1942.

1. Decided upon the authority of United States v. Rosenblum Truck
Lines and United States v. Margolies, ante, p. 50. P. 59.
2. That the application was for either a common carrier certificate
or a contract carrier permit, rather than for only a contract carrier
permit, does not distinguish this case from the Rosenblum and
Margolies cases. P. 59.
3. The Commission's order denying "grandfather" rights to the applicant in this case, is not vitiated by absence of findings as to
whether the common carrier with whom the applicant's arrangements for hauling were made was acting as a broker during the
period in question and as to whether the applicant's name was
carried on his equipment. Findings on these two points were not
"quasi jurisdictional." P. 59.
39 F. Supp. 780, affirmed.

from a decree of a District Court of three judges
dismissing a petition to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission under the Motor Carrier Act of
1935.
APPEAL

Mr. Albert E. Stephan for appellant.
Mr. Frank Coleman, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. James C.
Wilson, Archibald Cox, Daniel W. Knowlton, and Neison
Thomas were on the brief, for appellees.

