OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
315 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

them over until they had their recovery before we negotiate final settlement." We are unpersuaded, therefore,
by any argument which depends upon treating the agreement signed by Duncan as a compromise.
The judgment of the Springfield Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

EX PARTE TEXXS

ET AL.

ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. -, Original.

Argued December 8, 9, 1941.-Decided January
12, 1942.

1. In Lone Star Gas Co. v. Texas, 304 U. S. 224, this Court decided
that the company, in support of its claim that gas rates fixed by
the Texas Railroad Commission were confiscatory, was entitled to
make proof of confiscation on the basis of services rendered by an
integrated system-the basis on which the Commission fixed the
rates in question; but did not decide that the rates were confiscatory or in anywise foreclose a trial of that issue in the state courts.
Pp. 12-13.
2. Leave to file a petition for a mandamus directed to the Justices
of the Supreme Court of a State, requiring them to conform their
judgment to a decision of this Court determining federal questions
earlier in the case, will not be granted where, by their return to
the order to show cause, they show that the judgment of the state
court was based not upon a misconception of this Court's decision,
as alleged and relied -upon in the petition for mandamus, but upon
a construction and application of state law. P. 14.
Motion denied.
MOTION for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus against the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices
of the Supreme Court of Texas, to bring a judgment of

EX PARTE TEXAS'
8

Opinion of the Court.

that court in conformity with a controlling mandate of
this Court. The Lone Star Gas Company was here
granted leave to intervene, 314 U. S. 582.
Mr. James P. Hart, with whom Mr. Gerald C. Mann,
Attorney General of Texas, was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Charles L. Black, with whom Messrs. Roy C. Coffee, Marshall Newcomb, Ogden K. Shannon, and Ben H.
Powell were on the brief, for the Lone Star Gas Co.,
intervenor.
Messrs. James P. Alexander, John H. Sharp, and Richard Critz submitted, pro se.
MR. JusTicE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a motion by the Attorney General and Railroad
Commission of the State of Texas for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus against the Chief Justice and
Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of Texas to bring
a judgment of that Court into conformity with the controlling mandate of this Court. The foundation of the
motion is the claim that'in the proceedings following the
remand by this Court to the Texas courts of the litigation
in Lone Star Gas Co. v. Texas, 304 U. S. 224, the Supreme
Court of Texas has misconceived the scope of our decision. The history of the litigation must therefore be
summarized.
In 1934 the Railroad Commission of Texas brought an
action in the District Court of Travis County, Under Article 6059 of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, to enforce its order of September 13, 1933, fixing the rate to be
charged by the Lone Star Gas Company, a Texas corporation operating pipe lines located in Texas and Oklahoma,

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

for gas delivered to distributing companies in Texas. The
Commission's order treated the Company's properties in
both states as an "integrated" system. In its answer the
Company attacked the order under the Commerce and
Due Process Clauses. A trial was held before a jury,
which found, from the evidence before it, that the Commission's order was "unreasonable and unjust." Accordingly, the District Court enjoined enforcement of the order. An appeal to the Court of Civil Appeals followed.
That court sustained the Commission in treating the
Company as an integrated enterprise and found against
the Company upon the issue of confiscation. The burden
was put upon the Company "to show by clear and satisfactory evidence a proper segregation of interstate and
intrastate properties and business, and to show the value
of the property employed in intrastate business or commerce and the compensation it would receive under the
rate complained of upon such valuation. Having failed
to make a proper segregation of interstate and intrastate
properties, appellee [i. e., the Company] did not adduce
the quantum and character of proof necessary to establish
the invalidity of the rate as being confiscatory, or unreasonable and unjust." 86 S. W. 2d 484, 502. The Court
therefore dissolved the injunction of the District Court
and declared the Commission's order to be "just, reasonable, and valid in every particular." 86 S. W. 2d 484, 506.
The Supreme Court of Texas refused a writ of error and
the case then came here.
We reversed the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals, and remanded the cause "for further proceedings
not inconsistent" with the opinion. 304 U. S. 224, 242.
It was held: (1) The Commission's order did not offend
the Commerce Clause. The Commission was entitled to
take into consideration the Company's producing propetties in Oklahoma and its transmission lines to Texas,
because "the proved manner in which the gas from Okla-

EX PARTE TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

8

homa was treated and handled in Texas made it an integral part of the gas supplied to the Texas communities in
appellant's intrastate business." 304 U. S. at 239. (2)
On the issue of confiscation the Court of Civil Appeals had
erred. The Company "could not be denied the right to
introduce evidence as to its property and business as an
integrated system and to have the sufficiency of its evidence ascertained by the criterion which the Commission
had properly used in the same manner in reaching its conclusion as to the Texas rate." 304 U. S. at 241-42.
When the case came back to the Court of Civil Appeals,
it held that "when viewed in the light of the over-all or
unsegregated basis and evidence the legislative rate order
is valid as a matter of law," and that the validity of the
order was established "factually from so overwhelming a
weight and preponderance of the evidence as to require
a.reversal in the interest of justice." And so it again dissolved the injunction and reinstated the Commission's
order. 129 S. W. 2d 1164. This time the Supreme Court
of Texas granted a writ of error and sent the case back to
the District Court for a new trial. 153 S. W. 2d 681.
In its extended opinion the Supreme Court of Texas
reviewed these two rulings by the Court of Civil Appeals:
(1) Since Article 6059 of the Revised Statutes of Texas,1
governing judicial review of the Commission's orders,
1 Article

6059 provides: 'If any gas utility or other party at interest be dissatisfied with the- decision of any rate, classification, rule,
charge, order, act or regulation adopted by the Commission, such dissatisfied utility or party may file a petition setting forth the particular
cause of objection thereto in a court of competent jurisdiction in

Travis County against the Commission as defendant. Said action
shall have precedence over all other causes on the docket of a different nature and shall be tried and determined as other civil causes in
said court.... In all trials under this article the burden of proof
shall rest upon the plaintiff, who must show by clear and satisfactory
evidence that the rates, regulations, orders, classifications, acts or

charges -complained of are unreasonable and unjust to it or them."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

makes the Commission's findings of fact conclusive if supported by substantial evidence, and since the findings
were supported by such evidence, the order was valid as
a matter of law and left no question for the jury. (2)
Even if Article 6059 required.a trial de novo of all issues of
fact, "the Gas Company-failed, as a matter of law, to offer
evidence sufficient to justify holding this gas rate order
confiscatory, or unreasonable and unjust." 153 S. W. 2d
at 687.
The Supreme Court of 'Texas held that Article 6059
does require a trial de novo in the District Court. It added
that "there is no escape from the conclusion that the
United States Supreme Court did consider and did pass
upon the sufficiency of the Gas Company's evidence, when
considered from the viewpoint of the Company's entire
properties, and did hold such evidence legally sufficient
to sustain the verdict of the jury finding this rate order
confiscatory." 153 S. W. 2d at 689. Later in its opinibn,
the Texas Supreme Court stated "that such opinion [of
the Supreme Court of the United States] decides that the
evidence contained in this record is sufficient, in law, to
invoke the fact finding jurisdiction of the district court.
It follows that such matter has been foreclosed by the
United States Supreme Court, and is not open for decision
by this Court, and was not open for decision by the Court
of Civil Appeals." 153 S. W. 2d at 695.
It agreed with the Court of Civil Appeals that the
trial court, to the prejudice of the Commission, had erroneously permitted the testimony of a Company Witness'
and refused to exclude various Company exhibits. Immediately following this part of its opinion the Supreme
Court of Texas wrote: "It is evident from our holdings
above that this case must be remanded to the district
court for a new trial." 153 S. W. 2d at 699.
The petitioners read the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Texas to mean that the claim of confiscation could no

EX PARTE TEXAS.
8

Opinion of the Court.

longer be contested in the Texas courts because this Court
adjudicated that claim in the Company's favor. Such
was not the ruling of this Court. The merits of the claim
of confiscation Were not reviewed. All that was decided
here was that the Company was entitled to make proof
of confiscation on the same basis-namely, that of services
rendered by an integrated system-as that on which the
Commissi6n fixed the rates. On their reading of the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Texas, the petitioners
were naturally eager for a prompt correction of the decision of that Court, even though it was not final; without
waiting for this rate controversy, already eight years old,
again to wind its measured way through the Texas courts
and then to be brought here on an indubitably federal
question, to wit, the proper construction of a mandate
of this Court.
The petitioners claim that but for a misapplication
of our mandate the Texas Supreme Court might have sustained the Court of Civil Appeals and the litigation could
finally have come io an end. Since the opinion of the
Texas Supreme Court, on its face, appeared to be susceptible of the construction given it by the petitioners, we
issued a rule to show cause. 314 U. S. 579.
In their return, the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of Texas state that that court
"would have rendered the same judgment if it had based
the same solely upon its construction of the State statute
and not at all' upon its construction of the opinion of this
Court." The return further showed that in remanding
the cause to the District Court for a new trial the Supreme
Court of Texas acted entirely pursuant to state law: "The
Court of Civil Appeals in this State has full power to set
aside findings based on conflicting evidence and believed
by it to be against the overwhelming weight and preponderance of the evidence and to remand the case for another
trial; but it is without power to set aside findings based on

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

conflicting evidence and then make its own findings and
render judgment thereon."
We read this return as a disclaimer by the judges of the
Supreme Court of Texas of the construction placed upon
their opinion by the petitioners insofar as it touches the
scope of this Court's ruling in 304 U. S. 224 and the effect
of that decision upon the. future course of this litigation.
.Specifically, we read the return as a disavowal by the
Supreme Court of Texas that its action in reversing the
Texas Court of Civil Appeals and ordering a new trial
implied that our decision adjudicated the claim of confiscation or in any wise forecloses trial of that issue.
Therefore, when the litigation goes back to the District
Court, it will not be imprisoned within an adjudication
to be attributed to this Court which this Court never
made. We must accept the return, of the Texas judges
regarding the scope of judicial review of orders of the
Texas Railroad Commission, as well as their showing regarding the distribution of judicial power within the
Texas judicial system. These are matters of local law.
The rule will therefore be discharged and the motion
denied.
So ordered.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS heard the argument and agreed

to the above disposition of the case, but through absence
was unable to join in the opinion.
MR,JusncE BLACK, MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR;
JusTicE MuRPHY concur in the result.

