OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

44

Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. JOLIET & CHICAGO RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No." 51. Argued January 8, 1942.-Decided January 19, 1942.
1. Sums paid as dividends by a transferee corporation to the stockholders of a transferor corporation, and amounts paid by the
transferee corporation as income taxes on the sums so distributed
as dividends, held, under the Revenue Act of 1928, taxable income
of the transferor corporation, although the transfer was of all
the transferor's property, by a "lease" in perpetuity without a defeasance clause, and although the dividends were paid, pursuant to
the "lease," by the transferee directly to the stockholders of the
transferor. Pp. 46, 49.
2. Article 70 of Treasury Regulations 74, promulgated under the
Revenue Act of 1928, authorizing such construction of the Act, held
valid. P. 47.
118 F. 2d 174, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 591, to review the reversal of a
judgment disallowing a claim for refund of income taxes.

Mr. Arnold Raum argued the cause, and Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. J. Louis Monarch were on a brief, for
the United States.
Mr. Arthur D. Welton, Jr., with whom Messrs. Silas H.
Strawn, Frank H. Towner, and Edward G. Ince were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By an indenture denominated a "lease," respondent in
1864 granted, demised and leased to Chicago & Alton
Railroad Co. all of its railroad property, real and personal.

U. S. v. JOLIET & CHICAGO R. CO.
44

Opinion of the Court.

The "lease" was in perpetuity upon specified terms and
conditions. The Chicago & Alton Railroad Co. covenanted and agreed, inter alia, to guarantee and pay quarteily to the holders of the fifteen thousand shares of
capital stock of respondent an annual dividend of seven
per cent on the par value of the shares; to deposit with
a designated depository specified monthly sums to be
placed to the credit of the stockholders and to be held as
a fund for the purpose of paying the dividends; to pay the
dividends without any deduction for any federal tax whatsoever; to pay all taxes which may be due to the United
States "on account of said dividend so paid from time to
time"; and to pledge to respondent thirty-seven parts out
of two hundred and fifty-seven parts of the gross receipts
of the line between the cities of Alton and Chicago for
the purpose of securing the performance of its various
covenants. The "lease" contained no defeasance clause.
The annual dividend is $7.00 per share and totals
$105,000.00. This amount has been paid directly to respondent's stockholders every year since 1864-by Chicago & Alton Railroad Co. until acquisition of the property in 1931 by the Alton Railroad Co., and since then by
the latter company. The dispute here is over federal
income taxes)for the years 1931, 1932, 1933 and 1934.
Respondent, a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of Illinois, filed its income tax return for each
of those years reporting the $105,000.00 of dividends
paid its shareholders as its income. The resulting tax
was paid each year by the-Alton Railroad Co. In addition
the latter paid each year for respondent an ae litional tax
on the amount of the income tax on $105,000.00, on the
theory that the latter constituted additional taxable income to respondent. Respondent filed claims for refund
for the additional tax paid in 1931, and for all the income
taxes paid on its behalf for the other years in question,

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

on the theory that the income on which those taxes were
paid was not realized by it. On rejection of those claims
by the Commissioner, respondent instituted suit in the
District Court. That court rendered judgment for the
petitioner. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, one
judge dissenting. 118 F. 2d 174. We granted the petition for certiorari because of the conflict between that
decision and the governing principles of Gold & Stock
TelegraphCo. v. Commissioner,83 F. 2d 465, United States
v. Northwestern Telegraph Co., 83 F. 2d 468, and Pacific
& Atlantic Telegraph Co. v. Commissioner, 83 F. 2d 469,
decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.
Respondent urges, and the court below held, that this
so-called lease .in
perpetuity without a defeasance clause
divested respondent of all right, title and interest in the
property and vested a full and indefeasible title in the
grantee. See Huck v. Chicago & Alton R.Co., 86 Ill. 352,
354-355; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Boyd, 118 Ill. 73,
7 N. E. 487. Respondent also argues that the indenture of
1864 vested all rights to payment of dividends in its stockholders and divested it of any right to, or control over, such
payments. Respondent therefore contends that a corporation which does not own or control property and
has no right to, or control over, any income from the
property cannot be in receipt of income, constructively
or otherwise.
Such considerations do not dispose of this controversy,
In Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, this Court held that a
husband's salary was taxable to him though by contract
with his wife half of it vested in her when paid. Mr.
Justice Holmes said (pp. 114-115): "There is no doubt
that the statute could tax salaries to those who earned
them and provide that the tax could not be escaped by
anticipatory arrangements and contracts however skil-

U. S. v. JOLIET & CHICAGO R. CO.
44

Opinion of the Court.

fully devised to prevent the salary when paid from vesting
even for a second in the man who earned it. That seems
to us the import of the statute before us and we think that
no distinction can be taken according to the motives
leading to the arrangement by which the fruits are attributed to a different tree from that on which they grew."
Precisely that approach was taken in Art. 70 of Treasury Regulations 74, promulgated under the Revenue Act
of 1928. It provides in part:
"Where a corporation has leased its property in consideration that the lessee shall pay in lieu of other rental
an amount equivalent to a certain rate of dividend on the
lessor's capital stock or the interest on the lessor's outstanding indebtedness, together with taxes, insurance,
or other fixed charges, such payments shall be considered
rental payments and shall be returned by the lessor corporation as income, notwithstanding the fact that the
dividends and interest are paid by the lessee directly to the
shareholders and bondholders of the lessor. The fact that
a corporation has conveyed or let its property and has
parted with its management and control, or has ceased to
engage in the business for which it was originally organized, will not relieve it from liability to the tax."
That long-standing regulation I is plainly applicable
here. It covers various kinds of conveyances and leases,
including those where the grantor or lessor has parted with
all rights of management and control over the property.
If valid, it governs this case whatever may be the legal incidents of the 1864 indenture under Illinois law. Its
validity seems clear. It is a permissible definition of
'This regulation dates from Art. 80, Treasury Regulations 33 (1914
ed.). And see Art. 102, Treasury Regulations 33 (1918 ed.). Provisions similar to those quoted in the text are contained in Art. 70,
Treasury Regulations 77, promulgated under the Revenue Act of 1932
and in Art. 22 (a)-20 of Treasury Regulations 861'romulgated under
the Revenue Act of 1934.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S

one item of gross income 2 under ยง 22 (a) of the Revenue
-Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 791, 797. Payments made directly
to shareholders by the lessee or transferee of corporate
property are properly recognized as income to the corporation by..reason of the relationship of a corporation to its
shareholders. The fact that there is an anticipatory arrangement whereby the taxpayer is not even a conduit of
the payments is no more significant in this type of case
than it was in Lucas v. Earl, supra.
The relationship between respondent and its shareholders is an abiding one. They obtain the dividend
payments because of their status as shareholders. All
questions of the rights of creditors aside, there can be
no doubt that a corporation may normally distribute its
assets among its stockholders. When it undertakes to
do so, its act is nonetheless a corporate act though its
shareholders receive new contractual rights enforceable
by them alone against the transferee. That is to say,
their rights to receive the proceeds on the disposal of corporate assets are strictly derivative in origin. The fact
that the consideration is made distributable to them directly over a long period of time rather than in one
lump payment does not alter the character of those
rights. In each case their claims to the proceeds flow
fr9m the corporation and are measured by the stake which
they have in it. For the rental or purchase payments
for the property conveyed by respondent could not lawfully be paid to another without its authority; and it
could not lawfully dispose of them to others without the
consent of its shareholders. Cf. Raybestos-Manhattan,
Inc. v. United States, 296 U. S. 60. The fact that the cor'Like definitions of gross income are contained in ยง 22 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1932 (47 Stat. 169, 178) and in ยง 22 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1934. 48 Stat. 9Ma, 686.

U. S. v. JOLIET & CHICAGO R. CO.
44

49

Opinion of the Court.

pcration may remain in existence only to maintain a
stock transfer book is immaterial. The umbilical cord
between it and its shareholders has not been cut. The distribution made is in performance of the obligation owed
by the corporation to them. For these reasons the regulation in question merely conforms to accepted legal theory. The conclusidn that the dividend payments made
to respondent's stockholders were income realized by it
likewise marks no innovation in income tax law. That
is indicated not only by Lucas v. Earl, supra, but also by
those cases which hold that, "Income is not any the less
taxable income of the taxpayer because by his command
it is paid directly to another in performance of the taxpayer's obligation to that other." Raybestos-Manhattan,
Inc. v. United States, supra, p. 64, and cases cited. The
reach of the income tax law is not to be delimited by
technical refinements, or mere formalism. Helvering v.
Clifford, 309 U. S. 331.
Since the dividend payments made to respondent's
stockholders were income realized by it, the federal income tax on those sums which was paid by the Alton
Railroad Co. was likewise income taxable to respondent.
Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716;
United States v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 279 U. S. 732.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

did not participate in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

