PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
521

Syllabus.

of employment by force and violence does not constitute
the offense, the court had already ruled specifically that
there could be no substantive offense unless the payment
of money or property had been obtained by force. But, in
any case, both requests were erroneous because they made
respondents' willingness to work the test of guilt, regardless of the intended and actual effect of the violence on the
victims in compelling them to pay the money not as
wages but in order to secure immunity from assault. The
first part of the 58th request likewise had already been
charged. The rest was plainly defective, since it required
an acquittal unless it was the aim and object of the conspiracy that "all of the conspirators should obtain money
without rendering adequate service therefor." Upon any
theory of the meaning of the statute, it was not necessary
for the Government to show that it was the object of the
conspiracy that "all the conspirators" should receive payments of money. They would be equally guilty if they
had conspired to procure the payments to some.
PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 306. Argued February 5, 1942.-Decided March 9, 1942.
1. A divorced wife when taxed on payments received from an
annuity provided by her former husband by way of settlement
in connection with their divorce can rebut the presumption sustaining the tax by merely raising doubts and uncertainties as to
whether the payments were made pursuant to a continuing obligation of the husband to support her. P. 547.
The husband, on the other hand, to avoid the tax, if laid upon
him, bears the burden of proving clearly and convincingly that
the payments were not made pursuant to any such continuing
obligation.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

2. Anticipating divorce, a husband made an agreement with his
wife for the termination of his obligation to pay for her support,
in the event that he purchased for her a certain annuity. After
their divorce (in Texas) the annuity was purchased in accordance
with the agreement and the annuity payments which she received
were taxed as her income by the federal Government. Held:
.(1) The wife's contention that the tax on the payments should
have been laid on the husband can not be based on a continuing
contractual obligation to contribute to her support, because the
agreement and its fulfillment terminated his personal obligation to
make payments. P. 547.
(2) Assuming that the power of the Texas court to make
future divisions of property as between the husband and wife is
equivalent to a power to provide permanent alimony, yet the
wife failed to rebut the presumption of correctness sustaining the
tax, not having shown that it was at least doubtful and uncertain
whether that court, as an incident to its power to require the
husband to support her, retained control over the annuity contract
or the income from it. P. 549..
3. A property settlement made for the purpose of maintaining or
supporting a divorced wife may be treated for income tax purposes as mere security for the husband's continuing obligation,
dependent on such considerations as whether it contains, or is
interrelated with, contractual obligations of the husband for her
support; whether the court has a reserved power to alter or
modify it; or whether the husband retains any substantial interest
in the property conveyed. Where the settlement carries some of
the earmarks of a security device, then the power of the court to
add to the husband's personal obligations may be especially
significant. P. 552.
4. But where the settlement appears to be absolute and outright,
and on its face vests in the wife the indicia of complete ownership,
it will be treated as that which it purports to be, in absence of
evidence tlat, it was only a security device for the husband's
continuing obligation to support. P. 552.
5. In this case the wife made no showing whatsoever that the Texas
court retained the power to reallocate the income from the annuity
contract or to control it in any way as an incident of its power
to require the husband to support the wife; nor did she show that
the court imposed any personal obligation on the husband in
respect to the settlement in question. P. 552.

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

Opinion of the Court.

6. Proof that the Texas court might add to the husband's personal
obligations as an incident to a future property settlement is no
substitute for proof that the court had the power to remake the
property settlement actually consummated. P. 553.
120 F. 2d 228, affirmed.

CERTIoRARi, 314 U. S. 593, to review a judgment
affirming a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a deficiency assessment. 42 B. T. A. 91.
Mr. Gordon S. P. Kleeberg for petitioner.
Mr. Gordon B. Tweedy, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. J.
Louis Monarch and Michael H. Cardozo, IV, were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner and her husband separated in 1913. There
was an agreement providing for monthly payments by
the husband for her support. That agreement was
amerded in 1916 so as to provide monthly payments to her
of $500 for life. Her husband, however, was given an
option to terminate the arrangement by purchasing an
annuity contract from a life insurance company which
would pay petitioner $500 a month for the rest of her life.
In 1917 petitioner obtained an absolute divorce in Texas,
her husband entering a personal appearance. Neither
alimony nor a property settlement was mentioned in the
divorce decree. There were no children. Several months
after the divorce, Mr. Pearce purchased an annuity from
an insurance company for petitioner's benefit. The annuity provided for a payment of $500 per month during
her life.
Neither petitioner nor Mr. Pearce included the $6,000
received by her under the annuity contract in their federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

income tax returns for 1935 and 1936. The Commissioner
sent deficiency notices to both of them. Each appealed
to the Board of Tax Appeals. At the hearing the Commissioner contended that the payments were income of
petitioner. The Board upheld that contention. 42
B. T. A. 91. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment of the Board, one judge dissenting. 120 F. 2d
228. We granted the petition for certiorari because of
the manner in which that court applied the rule of Helvering v. Fitch, 309 U. S. 149, and Helvering v. Leonard,
310 U. S. 80, in case the ex-wife rather than the husband
was sought to be taxed on alleged alimony payments.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reached the conclusion
that petitioner was liable by the following line of reasoning. The determination of the Commissioner that the
monthly payments were income of petitioner was presumptively correct; the burden to show error rested on
petitioner. Welch v. Helvering, 290 U. S. 111, 115. Error
nright be shown by submitting "clear and convincing
proof" (Helvering v. Fitch, supra, p. 156) that the payments were made pursuant to a continuing obligation of
her former husband to provide for her support, so as to
make the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts, 296 U. S. 1, applicable. The burden of establishing error is not sustained by a,
divorced wife merely by showing that an obligation of her
former husband might have continued despite the divorce.
Since it is doubtful and uncertain under Texas law whether
petitioner's former husband was discharged of his marital
obligation by the settlement in question, petitioner failed
to show that the presumptively correct determination that
she was liable was erroneous.
We do not think that that was a correct application, of
the rule of the Fitch and Leonard cases. Those cases hold
that the income is taxable to the former husband, not only

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

Opinion of the Court.

where it is clear that payments to his ex-wife were made
pursuant to a continuing liability created by his contract
or by local law, but also where his undertaking or local law
makes that question doubtful or uncertain. Those cases,
like Douglas v. Willcuts, supra, involved situations where
the divorced husband was sought to be taxed on payments
to his ex-wife. But the rule which they express supplies
the criteria for determining, in absence of a different statutory formula, whether payments received by the ex-wife
are properly taxable to her or to her divorced husband. If
the Commissioner proceeds against the ex-wife, she sustains her burden of rebutting his presumptively correct determination merely by showing doubts and uncertainties
as to whether the payments were made pursuant to her former husband's continuing obligation to support her. If
the Commissioner proceeds against her former husband, he
sustains his burden by submitting clear and convincing
proof that the payments were not made pursuant to any
such continuing obligation. Helveringv. Fuller, 310 U. S.
69. The other course would make the liability of the
divorced wife or the divorced husband wholly dependent
on the election of the Commissioner to proceed against one
rather than the other where, for example, local law was
uncertain. But the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts, supra,rests
on a more substantial basis. Its roots are in local law and
the undertakings of the husband. It calls for the use of
the same criteria whether the husband or the wife is sought
to be taxed.
We think, however, that petitioner has not maintained
her burden in this case. Her former husband was not
under a continuing contractual obligation to contribute
to her support. For, the agreement made in 1916 provided for the termination of his personal obligation to
make payments to her in the event that he purchased

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the designated annuity. And so far as Texas law is concerned, she has not maintained her burden. Her showing as to Texas law is illustrated by the following.
By statute in Texas, alimony may be awarded during
the pendency of a suit for a 'divorce "until a final decree
shall be made in the case." 13 Vernon's Civil Stats.,
Art. 4637. "This statute is exclusive in its very nature,
and no alimony can be decreed by any court in this state
except under its express terms." Martin v. Martin, 17
S. W. 2d 789, 791-792. It has been broadly stated in
Phillips v. Phillips, 203 S. W. 77, 79 that, "In this state
the legal duty of the husband to support his wife ceases
upon the severance of the marital bonds, nor has a court
the power to decree that a husband or his property may
be subjected to such support after divorce. Permanent
alimony is not provided for by Texas statute." And see
Pape v. Pape, 13 Tex. Civ. App. 99, 35 S. W. 479; Boyd
v. Boyd, 22 Tex. Civ..App. 200, 54 S. W. 380. It is, however, provided by statute that the divorce court shall
order "a division of the estate of the parties in such a way
as the court shall deem just and right, having due regard
to the rights of each party and their children, if any."
13 Vernon's Civil Stats., Art. 4638. That power extends
not only to community property but to the separate property of the husband. Ex parte Scott, 133 Tex. 1, 123
S. W. 2d 306; Clark v. Clark, 35 S. W. 2d 189; Berg v.
Berg, 115 S. W. 2d 1171; Keton v. Clark, 67 S. W. 2d 437.
At times the divorce court has made such a division of
the estate as apparently to impose on the husband a personal obligation to make stated payments to his wife.
Wiley v. Wiley, 33 Tex. 358. Furthermore, a divorce decree which does not settle the rights of the parties to
community property may not preclude a subsequent suit
by the wife to establish her rights in it. See Gray v.
Thomas, 83 Tex. 246, 18 S. W. 721. And the decree may

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

Opinion of the Court.

be corrected to conform to the intention of the parties.
Keller v. Keller, 135 Tex. 260, 141 S. W. 2d 308. The
power of the court to modify a property settlement previously approved, so as to give the wife an interest in
property not covered by the earlier decree, has been
denied in absence of fraud or mistake. Cannon v. Cannon, 43 S. W. 2d 134. Petitioner challenges the reliability of the latter case because on appeal the case was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction (121 Tex. 634), which
meant either disagreement with the reasoning but approval of the result, or lack of jurisdiction. 3 Vernon's
Civil Stats., Art, 1728. And see Republic Ins. Co. v.
School Dist., 133 Tex. 545, 125 S. W. 2d 270.
We need not, however, endeayor to resolve that doubt.
Nor need we speculate as to the power of the court at
some future time to order a division of property in this
case, and as an incident thereto to impose on petitioner's
husband a personal obligation, as was apparently done
by the divorce decree in Wiley v. Wiley, supra. See 6
Tex. L. Rev. 344 discussing Helm v. Helm, 291 S. W. 648.
For even though petitioner established that the divorce
court retained that broad power, not specifically reserved,
and even though we assume that the power to make a
division of property is the equivalent of a power to provide permanent alimony, she has not maintained her
burden of rebutting the presumptively correct determination of the Commissioner that the income from this annuity contract was taxable to her. In order to inaintain
that burden, she would have to show that it was at least
doubtful and uncertain whether the Texas court, as an
incident of its power to require the husband to support
his wife, retained control over this annuity contract or
the income from it. That at least is the result unless we
are to broaden the base on which the Fitch, Fuller, and
Leonard cases rest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Those cases involved so-called alimony trusts. In
each, the trust was irrevocable. In each, the husband
had an obligation to support his wife.
In the Fitch case, the trust provided that the wife was
to receive, during her life, $600 a month from the income
of the trust property; the husband, the balance. We
held that the husband had not shown by "clear and convincing proof" that "in Iowa divorce law the court has
lost all jurisdiction to alter or revise the amount of income payable to the wife from an enterprise which has
been placed in trust. For all that we know it might retain the power to reallocate the income from that property even though it lacked the power to add to or subtract from the corpus or to tap other sources of income.
If it did have such power, then it could be said that a
decree approving an alimony trust of the kind here involved merely placed upon the pre-existing duty of the
husband a particular and specified sanction." 309 U. S.
at p. 156. And in speaking of the alimony trust involved
in Douglas v. Willcuts, supra, we stated (pp. 151-152):
"It is plain that there the alimony trust, which was
approved by the divorce decree, was merely security for
a continuing obligation of the taxpayer to support his
divorced wife. That was made evident not only by his
agreement to make up any deficiencies in the $15,000
annual sum to be paid her under the trust. It was also
confirmed by the power .of the Minnesota divorce court
subsequently to alter and revise its decree and the provisions inade therein for the wife's benefit. Likewise
consistent with the use of the alimony trust as a security
device was the provision that on death of the divorced
wife the corpus of the trust was to be transferred back to
the taxpayer."
In the Leonard case, income from the trust was to be paid
to the wife for her life, which together with income from
other projerty was estimated at $30,000 a year. A separa-

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

Opinion of the Court.

tion agreement provided that the husband would pay his
wife an additional $35,000 each year during her life, so
that her aggregate net income for the maintenance of herself and her children would be $65,000 a year. The separation agreement also provided that, in the event the husband's ability to make the annual payment of $35,000 became impaired, he .mightapply to a court for a reduction
of his obligation of not less than $10,000 a year. We held
that the husband had not sustained his burden of showing
that "local law and the alimony trust" gave him "a full
discharge" from his obligation to support his wife. 310
U. S., p. 86. The trust and the undertaking in the separation agreement were integral parts of an arrangement by
which the "maintenance and support" of the wife "were
secured." p. 85. We noted that it was not clear, under New
York law, whether or not such a settlement could be remade by the court, though there was some authority which
indicated that the divorce court's reserved power might be
exercised "where the provision in the separate agreement,
approved by the decree, is for support and maintenance."
pp. 86-87. In view of that fact and the nature of the settlement, we concluded that the husband had not shown
that the -trust was not mere security for his continuing
obligation to support his wife.
In the Fuller case, it was clear, under Nevada law, that
the court retained no control over the divorce decree which
approved the trust settlement. Since there was no such
reserved powers and since the trust contained no contractual undertaking by the husband for support of the
wife, we concluded that his obligation to support had been
pro tanto discharged. We held, however, that the husband
was taxable on a $40 weekly payment which he had agreed
to make to his wife. But that fact did not make him taxable on income from the trust also, since the provision for
weekly payments and the trust "were not so interrelated
or interdependent as to make the trust a security for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

weekly payments." p. 73. We also noted (p. 76) that,
though "the divorce decree extinguishes the husband's
preexisting duty to support the wife, and though no provision of the trust agreement places such obligation on him,
that agreement may nevertheless leave him with sufficient
interest in or control over the trust as to make him the
owner of the corpus for purposes of the federal income tax,"
under the rule of Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331.
Thus, a property settlement made for the purpose of
maintaining or supporting the wife may be treated for income tax purposes as mere security for the husband's continuing obligation, dependent on such considerations as
whether it contains, or is interrelated with, contractual
obligations of the husband for her support; whether the
court has a reserved power to alter or modify it; or whether
the husband retains any substantial interest in the property conveyed. Where the settlement carries some of the
earmarks of a security device, then the power of the court
to add to the husband's personal obligations may be especially significant. See Helvering v. Leonard, supra. But
where, as here, the settlement appears to be absolute and
outright, and on its face vests in the wife the indicia of
complete ownership, it will be treated as that which it purports to be, in absence of evidence that it was only a security device for the husband's continuing obligation to support. There may be difficulty in placing a particular case
on one side of the line rather than the other. But as
stated by Mr. Justice Holmes in Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S.
161, 168, "That is the question in pretty much everything
worth arguing in the law." And see Harrisonv. Schaffner,
312 U. S. 579, 583.
As we have said, petitioner has made no showing whatsoever that the Texas court retained the power to reallocate
the income from this annuity contract or to control it in
any way as an incident of its power to require the husband

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

Opinion of the Court.

to support the wife. She has not shown that the divorce
court imposed any personal obligation on the husband in
respect to the settlement in question. And she is not aided
by those cases which enforce agreements of the husband to
make periodic payments to the wife. See Johnsonv. Johnson, 14 S. W. 2d 805. There is no such agreement here.
Proof that the Texas court might add to the husband's personal obligations as an incident to a future property settlement is no substitute for proof that the court had the
power to remake this property settlement after it was consummated. Hence there is no ground for concluding that
this settlement, which is absolute on its face, is mere
security for an obligation of a husband to support his
wife.
. "The correct ground for refusing to tax such income
to
the husband is merely that it is the lump sum which discharges him and not the future income received by the
wife." Paul, Five Years with Douglo v. Wilicuts, 53
Harv. L. Rev. 1, 17, note 44. We noted in Helvering v.
Fuller, supra, p. 74, that outright transfers of property to
the wife, though providing for her maintenance and support, were no different from cases "where any debtor, voluntarily or under the compulsion of a court decree, transfers securities, a farm, an office building, or the like, to his
creditor in whole or partial payment of his debt." We do
not think that it would be proper to extend the rule of
Douglas v. Willcuts, supra,to such a situation. The possibility that the divorce court might add to the husband's
personal obligation does not alter the result. As in the
Fullercase, the transfer of property to the wife might result only in a partial discharge of the husband's obligation.
If the husband undertook, or was directed, to make other
payments, he might be taxable on them. But the fact that
he is taxable on a part of the payments received by the wife
does not necessarily make him taxable on all. Helvering v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Fuller, supra, p. 73. Hence the statement in Helvering v.
Fitch,supra, 309 U. S. at p. 156, that it must be clear "that
local law and the alimony trust have given the divorced
husband a full discharge and leave no continuing obligation however contingent" is to be read in light of the fact
that the alimony trust in that case was deemed to be a
mere security device for the husband's continuing obligation to support. For the husband was relieved from payment of the tax on income from the property settlement in
the Fuller case though he had a continuing obligation to
pay the wife $40 a week.
If the rule of Douglas v. Willcuts, supra, is not to be extended to this type of case, then, on the showing which has
been made, the husband would have sustained his burden
in case the Commissioner had proceeded against him. Cf.
Mitchell v. Commissioner, 38 B. T. A. 1336. Clearly, then,
the wife may not escape.
Such cases as Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112, Helvering v. Eubank, 311 U. S. 122, and Harrisonv. Schaffner,
supra, are not opposed to this result. Those cases dealt
with situations where the taxpayer had made assignments
of income from property. He was held taxable on the income assigned by reason of the principle "that the power
to dispose of income is the equivalent of ownership of it
and that the exercise of the power to procure its payment
to another, whether to pay a debt or to make a gift, is within
the reach" of the federal income tax law. Harrison v.
Schaffner, supra,p. 580. But in those cases the donor or
grantor had "parted with no substantial interest in property other than the specified payments of income." Id.
p. 583. Here he has parted with the corpus. And "the tax
is upon income as to which, in the general application of
the revenue acts, the tax liability attaches to ownership."
Blairv. Commissioner,300 U. S. 5,12. Finally, there is no
barrier under the income tax laws to taxing the holder of

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

FuANx'mmuS,

J., dissenting.

an annuity on the income received, however his interest
in the fund which produces the income may be described.
Cf. Irwin v. Gavit, supra.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

The social fact that a husband is normally under a
responsibility to provide for his wife even after they are
divorced, is the basis for the rule that monies received
by a wife under a divorce settlement are presumed to
be in discharge of a continuing obligation of the husband. I therefore agree with the decision of the Court
to the extent that it reinforces this rule as a rule of policy, and not one of caprice varying with the sex of the
taxpayer against whom the Commissioner chooses to
proceed. I agree that if the Commissioner proceeds
against the wife, "she sustains her burden of rebutting
his presumptively correct determination merely by showing doubts and uncertainties as to whether the payments were made pursuant to her former husband's continuing obligation to support her," and that if, on the
other hand, the Commissioner determines that the payments are taxable to the husband, the latter sustains
his burden only "by submitting clear and convincing
proof that the payments were not made pursuant to any
such continuing obligation." But I do not agree that
the petitioner has failed to make the showing which is
required under the rule professed by the Court.
Local law may provide that the transfer of property
under a divorce settlement finally and definitively terminates a husband's obligation to support his wife, and
that, once such a settlement is made, the wife loses her
right to apply to a court for an order requiring the husband to support her. If the local law gives the settlement such effect, it is immaterial what the nature of the

OCTOBER TERM, 194i.
FRANKFnR,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

transferred property is. For, in such a case, the income
derived from the property cannot be regarded as conferring any benefit upon the husband, and it is therefore
taxable to the wife. On the other hand, local law may
provide that, even though a husband has made a complete, irrevocable transfer of property, he has nevertheless not obtained a full discharge of his marital obligations to his wife, and that, where circumstances in the
future may warrant, a court can order the husband to
make further contributions to her support. In such a
case, the husband is still under a "continuing obligation
however contingent," Helvering v. Fitch, 309 U. S. 149,
156; Helvering v. Leonard, 310 U. S. 80, 84, and, since
the income received by the wife from the property contributes to her support and thus serves to discharge the
obligation which under local law the husband still owes
her, the income should be taxable to him. "The dominant purpose of the revenue laws is the taxation of income to those who earn or otherwise create the right to
receive it and enjoy the benefit of it when paid." Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112, 119; and see Harrison v.
Schaffner, 312 U. S. 579.
The fact that the wife may, years after the settlement,
have to go to court for an order requiring the husband
to make additional payments for her support is of no
legal consequence if the husband may be required to
make such payments. A legal obligation may continue,
even though its burden is contingent upon future judicial action. A wife's receipt of income from property
settled upon her may make it unnecessary to her ever
to apply for a court order. But it does not follow that,
unless and until she goes to court for such an order, her
husband is under no legal obligation to support her. If
the income from the property should dwindle to the
point where the wife can no longer maintain herself,

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

FiRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

and the law has continued its hold upon the husband
so that he may be required to make further contributions
to her support, then plainly the husband is still under
a "continuing obligation however contingent." The determinative fact is that the law has continued its hold
upon the husband, not that it has reserved the power to
modify the particular settlement.
It is utterly immaterial whether the property transferred was an irrevocable trust, as in the Fitch and Leonard cases, or an annuity contract, as we have here. For
the annuity is taxable income, Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S.
161, and the procurement, by the husband's purchase,
of its payment to his wife renders the annuity taxable
income to him if it is in discharge of his obligation, quite
as much as if he had procured the payment by creating
a trust of his property. Harrisonv. Schaffner, supra.
In every case, the decisive inquiry is whether the husband's obligation subsists after the divorce settlement, or
whether, as a result of the settlement, he is quits of his
wife, once and for all, for better or for worse. If he is
under a continuing obligation, the property transferred,
whether it be an irrevocable trust or an annuity contract, is a security device only in the sense that it operates to secure the fulfilment of the obligation. If the
fact that the husband has divested himself of control
over the transferred property were determinative, certainly the Fitch and Leonard cases, at least, viould have
been decided the other way. For in each of these cases
the husband conveyed an absolutely irrevocable trust,
over which he had no greater control than the husband
has over the annuity in the case before us. These cases
show that if a husband is under a continuing obligation
to support his wife, income from the property is taxable
to him, not because he has retained any interest in or
control over the property, but because the income dis-

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

charges pro tanto a legal obligation which he owes and
thus confers a taxable benefit upon him. The ultimate
criterion of taxability, therefore, is not whether a state
court has reserved power to control the property transferred by a husband under a divorce settlement, but
whether "the court lacks the power to add to his personal obligations." Helvering v. Leonard, 310 U. S.
80, 87.
In law, as in life, lines have to be drawn. But the
fact that a line has to be drawn somewhere does not justify
its being drawn anywhere. The line must follow some
direction of policy, whether rooted in logic or experience.
Lines should not be drawn simply for the sake of drawing
lines.
The decisions of this Court dealing with the question
before us have turned upon whether local law was uncertain as to the existence of a continuing obligation on the
part of the husband to support the wife. The opinion of
the' Court now introduces an6ther element, namely,
whether the local law is uncertain as to the power of the
state courts to remake the particular settlement. This, it
seems to me, has no valid relation to the basic principle
of tax liability that "he who receives benefits should be
taxed." Whether a husband is benefited from the payment of monies to his divorced wife depends upon his
obligation to her which the payment of the monies served
to discharge, not upon the nature of the wife's interest in
the property he has transferred to her. To introduce such
an unwarranted refinement is to clog the administration
of the revenue laws.
But, in any event, all of the judges of the Circuit Court
of Appeals were agreed that "the law of Texas is uncertain
as to whether the taxpayer's husband discharged himself
of his marital liability by the settlement at bar." 120 F.
2d 228, 230. This general uncertainty as to Texas law is

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
543

FaNvmRTER, J., dissenting.

controverted now, not by controlling Texas authority but
by extended argumentation and speculation. The Court
suggests that, had the Commissioner gone against the husband, he would have sustained the burden as heretofore
defined, namely, of showing, "by submitting clear and convincing proof," that under local law he was under no continuing obligation. Support for the proposition is drawn
not from any Texas authority, whether statute or decision,
but from a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, Mitchell
v. Commissioner, 38 B. T. A. 1336. But, in that case
there was a division of property between husband and
wife, which included property belonging to the wife under
an earlier arrangement entirely unrelated to the husband's
marital obligations. The Board held that the income
from such property could not, therefore, be taxed to the
husband. As its opinion shows, the decision did not turn
on the Texas law of divorce: "We think that the trust income which was paid to her [the wife] was her separate
income. It was not paid in satisfaction of any legal obligation of J. A. Mitchell [the husband] and it is not taxable
to him." 38 B. T. A. at 1342.
The Court's exegesis of Texas law shows it to be no less
uncertain than was the Iowa law in the Fitch case, or the
New York law in the Leonard case. The effect of the
Court's ruling that the wife, in order to escape tax liability,
must clearly establish that the state court has reserved
the power to modify the terms of the particular property
settlement is to reject the rule of policy enunciated earlier
in its opinion. For there is no clear Texas authority, and
under the rule of the Fitch and Leonard cases, which the
Court does not purport to modify, the husband would be
unable to show, "not by mere inference and conjecture but
b 'clear and convincing proof"' (Helvering v. Leonard,
supra, at 86; see Helvering v. Fitch, supra, at 156), that
the payments made to his wife did not discharge a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

tinuing obligation which he owed her. Therefore, liability under the tax law is made actually to depend upon
whether the Commissioner elects to go against the husband
or the wife. Having closed the front door to determination of tax liability by caprice, the Court allows caprice to
enter through the back door of "presumption."
We brought this case here in order to clarify an important question arising under the federal revenue laws,
not to re-examine the correctness of the lower court's finding regarding the uncertainty of Texas law as applied to
this case. The general uncertainty of Texas law with respect to control over divorce settlements is conceded-and
that is the decisive factor for our purpose. The absence
of specific Texas authority dealing with such an annuity
settlement as we have here does not lessen or remove that
uncertainty, or justify us in making assumptions regarding the Texas law affecting such a settlement. Where
prophecy as to a state court's ruling on its local law is not
imperatively required of us, experience counsels abstention
from prophecy. No ruling of ours can make Texas law.
I believe therefore that the judgment below should be
reversed because of the ruling on federal law as to which
we all agree, and that Texas law should be left where the
Circuit Court of Appeals found it.
The CHIEF JusTIcE joins in this dissent.

