U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
283

289

Syllabus.

this particular pin lifter if it was defective, we can reasonably assume that the railroad's inspectors made some
examination of it. Yet no inspector nor anyone else was

called by the railroad t6 give testimony on the condition
of the pin lifter immediately after the accident.2 Under
these circumstances, reasonable jurors are not to be denied the right to make inferences which other reasonable
people would make: that Stogner tried in the usual way
to couple the cars; that his efforts were unsuccessful; and

that he was therefore compelled to go between the cars
to effect a coupling. And they could therefore have concluded that the pin lifter was defective. The jury's finding of this fact should not have been disturbed.
MR. JUSTICE Rmm, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
JUSTICE MURPHY join in this dissent.

and MR.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL
CORPORATION ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 8. Argued December 9, 1941.--Decided February 16, 1942.
1. Contracts made in the emergency of war between the Fleet Corporation and a shipbuilding company, for the construction of
ships for the United States, provided that the price to be paid
the builder should include the actual cost of the ships and two
elements of profit, (1) a fixed amount calculated on an agreed
Cf. Ridge v. Norfolk Southern R. Co., 167 N. C. 510, 521, 83 S. E.
762; Kirby v. Tallmadge, 160 U. S. 379, 383; Interstate Circuit v.
United States, 306 U. S. 208, 225-226.
*Together with Nd. 9, United States Shipping Board Merchant
Fleet Corporation v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, Ltd., also
on writ of certiorari, 311 U. S. 632, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U.S.

estimate of cost and (2) a "bonus for savings," of one-half the
amount by which the actual cost turned out lower than the estimate; but no obligation of the builder to make special effort to
effect such savings by increasing its efficiency was expressed in
the contracts. Held:
(1) There is no ground to imply such an obligation. P. 297.
(2) The savings clause was a non-severable part of the contract.
P. 298.
2. Whether a number of promises constitute one contract or more
than one is to be determined by inquiring whether the parties
assented to all the promises as a whole, so that there would have
been no bargain whatever if any promise or set of promises were
struck out. P. 298.
3. With respect to contracts for the building of ships, entered into
by the Fleet Corporation, on behalf of the Government, and a
shipbuilding company while the country was at war, and which
netted the company a very large profit partly by reason of the
clause granting it the right to one-half of the amounts by which
the cost of construction should be lower than the liberal estimate
provided by the contracts, held:
(1) The Government's present claim that in the negotiations
the officials acting for the Fleet Corporation were subjected to
pressure amounting to duress by the representatives of the company, so that they accepted the price stipulations against their
will, is without support in the evidence. P. 300.
(2) The circumstances that the Government stood in great need
of the ships and that it was obliged to rely upon the company's
capacity to produce them, could not have coerced the Fleet
Corporation's representatives to make 'the contracts, since the
Fleet Corporation could have compelled the shipbuilding company to undertake the work at a price set by the President, with
the burden of going to court if it considered the compensation
unreasonably low; and since the Fleet Corporation had the power
to commandeer the shipbuilding company's plants and facilities,
in accordance with authority delegated by the President pursuant
to the Acts of Congress; and it is not to be assumed that the
company or its trained organization would have been unwilling to
serve the Government in the plants if the power to take them
over were exercised. P. 303.
(3) Under its powers to raise and support armies, to provide
and maintain a navy, and to make all laws necessary and proper

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Counsel for Parties.

to carry these powers into execution, Congress has authority to
draft business organizations to support the fighting men in war.
P. 305.
4. A policy of granting the measures of profits common at the time,
adopted by the Fleet Corporation when letting contracts for the
construction of ships under authority delegated by the President
in accordance with an Act of Congress, is not subject to be in
effect nullified by the courts by refusals to enforce such contracts
on the ground that the profits granted are too high. P. 308.
113 F. 2d 301, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 632, to review judgments affirming two judgments of the District Court. See 23 F.
Supp. 676; 26 id. 259.
No. 8 was a suit in equity brought by the United

States against Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Bethlehem
Shipbuilding Corporation et al., for an accounting and to
recover sums paid under contracts for construction of
ships. The District Court dismissed the bill.
In No. 9, which was an action at law by the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation against the Fleet Corporation, the former recovered a balance found due under
"bonus for savings" clauses in the contracts.
Solicitor General Fahy argued the cause (Attorney

General Jackson, Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. Warner W. Gardner,
Melvin H. Siegel, Frederick Bernays Wiener, Oscar H.
Davis, and Paul D. Page, Jr. were on the brief; and Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea,
and Messrs. Melvin H. Siegel, Robert L. Stern, and Paul
D. Page, Jr. were on the reply brief) for petitioners.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Mr. Alfred Mc-

Cormack was on the brief, for respondents.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTM

BLACK

315 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two cases arise from a dispute between Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, Ltd., and the Government
about the amount of profits claimed by Bethlehem under
thirteen war-time contracts for building ships. The contracts were negotiated and executed in 1917 and 1918, when
Germany's destructive warfare against our ocean shipping
essential to the successful prosecution of the war made it
necessary for the United States to build the greatest possible number of ships in the shortest possible time. They
are typical products of a system of procurement heavily
relied upon by the United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation and other government purchasing agencies at the time.
On June 15, 1917, Congress gave to the President sweeping war powers, 40 Stat. 182, including (1) the power to
commandeer shipbuilding plants and facilities, (2) the
power to purchase ships at what he deemed a reasonable
price with a provision for subsequent revision by the courts
in the event the seller regarded the price set as unfair, and
(3) the power to purchase or contract for the building of
ships at prices to be established by negotiation. Acting
under authority delegated to it by the President with Congressional approval, the Fleet Corporation declined to
seek utilization of the first and second methods but chose,
under the third alternative, to make purchases through
ordinary business bargaining.
The "actual cost" to Bethlehem of building the ships
over which this dispute arises was about $109,000,000.
The generously inclusive formula 1 for determining "ac-

1Included in the detailed and comprehensive itemization of "actual
cost" were the following and "items similar thereto in principle":
"The net costs . . . of labor (including compensation of labor
by way of bonuses), and materials, machinery, equipment, and sup-

U. S. v. BETHLEHE9I STEEL CORP.
289

293

Opinion of the Court.

tual cost," not challenged by the Government here, was
not peculiar to these contracts. It was based on the standard formula used by the Fleet Corporation in its contracts
with other shipbuilders. And, as in practically all contracts of this type, there was no risk of loss.2

The total

profits claimed under the contracts by Bethlehem, and
plies . . . and other direct charges, such as insurance on the
vessels, etc.
"A proper proportion of running expenses, including ordinary
. .
repairs, and maintenance, light, heat, power, insurrentals,
ance, management, salaries (including compensation by way of
bonuses), and other indirect charges
on bonds or
"A proper proportion of interest accrued
other debts or loans existing or contracted for prior to the date of
this contract and the proceeds of which shall be used, or shall have
been or shall be invested in plant, equipment, etc., that shall be used,
in the performance of the work under this contract.
"A proper proportion of taxes of all kinds accrued during the taxable year with respect to the business or property, except any Federal
taxes.
"A proper proportion of physical losses actually sustained within
the taxable year in confiection with the construction of the vessels
under this contract, including losses from fire, flood, storm, riot, vandalism, any acts of God, acts of war, or other casualties and not compensated for by insurance or otherwise.
"A reasonable allowance, according to the condition, for depreciation of values of the property and plant of the Contractor usdd kn
connection with the work under this Contract."
Neither in the contracts nor under any relevant statutory provisiod was there any restriction on salaries %andbonuses to be paid to
executives of the shipbuilder or its affiliates. Cf. Sections 505 (c)
and 805 (c) of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1985, 1999,
2013.
Even in the case of lump sum contracts with the Government, it
is generally recognized that the real risk of loss is negligible. It is
usual in this kind of contract to set prices high enough to cover, or
otherwise specifically to provide against, unforeseen contingencies.
And where loss does occur contrary to the expectation of both parties,
Congress often passes special bills making the contractors whole.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

allowed by both courts below, were about $24,000,000 1
or a little more than 22% of the computed cost.' This
figure of $24,000,000 does not include such profitS as may
have been made by Bethlehem Steel Company, Bethlehem's parent, which sold it at the maximum prices established by the War Industries Board, 43,000 tons of steel
used in these ships.' The percentage of profits in relation
to the actual investment and working capital devoted
by Bethlehem to the building of the ships was not found
by either of the courts below.'
In No. 8, the Government filed a bill in equity against
Bethlehem and others. The bill alleged that the GovaThese ships apparently cost the Government at least a large part
of still another $4,825,415. The Government paid this amount to
Bethlehem to aid in expansion of plant facilities to build the sWipsfacilities which were turned over to Bethlehem after the war. The
Government's money was contributed under a contract commonly in
use whereby the contractor was given the option of purchasing the
additional facilities at a depreciated value. Whether the Government,
upon conveyance of the property, received any compensation at all
does not clearly appear.
'While profits on individual contracts ranged above and below 22%,
both in the proceedings below and in this Court the whole series of
contracts was regarded as a unit. The Government has made no
separate argument with respect to the individual contracts in which
more than the average profit was realized, nor has Bethlehem with
respect to the contracts in which the amount due under the half-savings clause proved to be small. The only finding of the Master in
which any separation of contracts is made shows that the profits
realized on contracts in which the estimated costs were checked by
the Fleet Corporation were higher than those on contracts in which
the Fleet Corporation accepted Bethlehem's estimates without check.
Compare the statutory method of restricting profits of afflDiates
embodied in ยง 803 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1985,
2012.
1 The contracts contained a provision, usual in Fleet Corporation
contracts, under which the Government agreed "to provide the cash
funds necessary to pay for work already done and materials already
furnished and for carrying on the work under this contract."

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of the Court.

ernment had been induced to enter into the contracts by
fraudulent representations of Bethlehem's agents; and
as an independent ground for relief, that it had been the
duty of Bethlehem to perform the contracts fairly, honestly, and economically "in the shortest practicable time"
for no more than "a fair and reasonable profit" and that
any provisions in the contract for payment of more are
"void and unenforceable." The prayer was for an accounting and a decree requiring Bethlehem to refund all
amounts previously paid to it by the Government in excess of what the court should find to be just and reasonable compensation for building the ships. Bethlehem
filed an answer and a counterclaim for damages based on
alleged breach of contract by the Fleet Corporation.
In No. 9, Bethlehem brought suit at law against the
Fleet Corporation, claiming damages for breach of the
same contracts. In an affidavit of defense and counterclaim the Fleet Corporation repeated the allegations
made by the Government in No. 8 and sought the same
relief.
The two actions were jointly referred by the District
Judge to a Master who held hearings and made findings.
In No. 8, the Master recommended that the Government's bill be dismissed, and on the authority of Nassau
Smelting Works v. United States, 266 U. S. 101, further
recommended the Bethlehem's counterclaim be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, the amount claimed being in excess of $10,000. In No. 9, he recommended that judgment
be entered for Bethlehem for $5,272,075 " with interest
at 2% from September 1, 1922. The District Judge declined to allow any interest, applying the law of Pennsylvania as he thought our decision in Erie R. Co. v.
7

The Government concedes "that $1,514,995 of the judgment

awarded . . . in the action at law is

than those now under attack."

...

due under contracts other

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, required. In all other respects
he followed the Master's recommendations and rendered
judgment accordingly. 23 F. Supp. 676; 26 id. 259.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 113 F. 2d 301.
On application of the United States and the Fleet Corporation, we granted certiorari. 311 U. S. 632.
As the case reaches us, the controversy revolves primarily around the section of the contracts which sets out
what is to be paid to Bethlehem. In all the contracts,
that section contains substantially the following
provisions:
"The price to be paid for each vessel to be constructed
and furnished in accordance with the terms of this contract . . . shall be the actual cost, plus the definite sum

for profit hereinafter in this Article provided for, based
upon an estimated actual cost to the Contractor . . .
Should the actual cost be -less than the estimated . . .
cost

. .

the Contractor shall be allowed as profit on

each vessel in addition to said fixed sum for profit . . .
one-half the amount by which such actual cost of each
vessel falls short of the estimated cost

. .

Thus, a high estimated cost would increase the probability of "savings" to be divided between Bethlehem and
the Government. And the more the estimated cost exceeded actual cost, the greater would be Bethlehem's share.
It can be seen, therefore, that the estimated cost agreed
upon by the parties is a pivotal figure.
I
The Government charged Bethlehem with fraud in submitting estimated cost figures which were adopted in the
contracts. It was alleged. that Bethlehem's agents made
two false representations: (1) that it was impracticable to
estimate closely what the cost would be and (2) that the
estimates Bethlehem submitted, and which the Fleet Corporation accepted, were fair and reasonable under the

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of the Court.

circumstances. The Master found that there was no evidence to support this charge of fraud. The District Judge
approved this finding as did the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which said that it had "carefully considered the record in
the light of this contention [of fraud]" and concluded
that "the estimates submitted by Bethlehem and prepared
for it by its representative Brown were fairly and honestly
made and as accurate as could be expected under the uncertain conditions then prevailing." And in this Court
the petitioner accepts these findings. Therefore, in considering other attacks upon Bethlehem's right to recover,
we must do so on the assumption that there was no fraud
in Bethlehem's negotiations with the Government.
II
The Government contends that even in the absence of
fraud, Bethlehem is entitled to nothing by virtue of the
half-savings clauses.
One argument is that the contracts gave Bethlehem the
benefits of participating in the savings only if Bethlehem
by special efforts increased its efficiency and brought actual
costs below the estimates agreed to in the contracts.
Neither the specific language of the half-savings provision nor its context supports this contention. On its
face, the provision contains an unconditional promise to
pay Bethlehem one-half of the difference between the
actual and estimated cost of the ships in question. That
such a method of computation would tend to discourage
careless expenditures and encourage vigorous attempts at
realizing economies in building the ships is hardly debatable. But the half-savings clause does not impose any
positive obligations upon the builder. The Master found,
upon consideration both of the terms of the contracts and
testimony on the understanding of the parties, that a
showing of savings, without more, obligated the Government to share them with Bethlehem. It cannot be main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

tained that this finding, accepted by both courts below,
is without ample support.

Nothing in the negotiations between the parties as revealed in the record indicates that they had a contrary

understanding of the contracts. Bethlehem held out
against the Fleet Corporation's early insistence upon
lump sum contracts. It continually asserted that uncertainties about final cost due to rapidly rising prices would
require it to protect itself by insisting upon a figure too
high for the Fleet Corporation's acceptance and therefore
itself proposed the cost-plus-fixed-fee-plus-half-savings
method of determining compensation. While there seems
to have been recognition that this method might induce
greater efforts at efficiency, which would be to the advantage of both parties, there is not the smallest hint that
either Bethlehem or the Government regarded the substitution of this method as imposing any positive obligations upon Bethlehem in addition to those it would have
had under lump sum contracts.
In the alternative, the Government urges that the halfsavings clauses are severable, and that if the contracts
imposed upon Bethlehem no obligation of special effort
to effect savings, these clauses were unsupported by consideration, and are therefore unenforceable. The Master
and the courts below, however, treated these clauses as
non-severable; to do otherwise would call for departure
from accepted principles of the law of contract. Whether
a number of promises constitute one contract or more
than one is to be determined by inquiring "whether the
parties assented to all the promises as a single whole, so
that there would have been no bargain whatever, if any
promise or set of promises were struck out." Williston on
Contracts (rev. ed.) ยง 863 and cases there cited. The
record makes it clear that each of the contracts here was
assented to as a single whole, and that consummation of a
bargain between the parties depended upon inclusion of

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

299

Opinion of the Court.

the half-savings clause. Furthermore, we know of no
federal or state statute or established rule of law in any
jurisdiction inconsistent with the elementary proposition
that a promise to build ships is good consideration for a
promise to pay a sum of money whether fixed in amount
or depending upon the relationship between actual and
estimated cost. Cf. Dayton Airplane Co. v. United
States, 21 F. 2d 673, 682-683.
III

The Government further argues that if the half-savings clauses must be taken as permitting Bethlehem to
participate in savings however caused, the contracts are
invalid because unconscionable. Without specifying
that it relies on the law of any particular jurisdiction, the
petitioner rests its argument on an asserted general doctrine of unconscionability at common law. Since there
is no governing constitutional or federal statutory provision, if these were contracts between private individuals, the law of ,some locality would be controlling.
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra. Whether the same rule
would apply to government contracts in general or to the
contracts of the Fleet Corporation ' in particular, we need
not decide. Nor, assuming the applicability of the
"Of the cases called to our attention by the Government, only in
Burke & James, Inc. v. United States, 63 Ct. Cls. 36, was a bonus for
savings clause held severable and invalid although regarded as "part
and parcel of the original ... contract." We agree, as did both courts
below, with the Master's statement that the Burke case is not applicable here because "the facts upon which the decision of that case
was based are so different."
0The District Court treated the contracts as governed by the law
of Pennsylvania. The Circuit Court of Appeals treated them as
governed by the law either of Pennsylvania or the District of Columbia, but did not decide which. The Fleet Corporation was organized
under the laws of the District of Columbia. Although wholly owned
and controlled by the Governmont it has been held subject to suit in

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Tompkins case to the contracts before us, would we have
to determine whether the law of the District of Columbia
or of some particular state is decisive. For, in invoking the asserted doctrine of unconscionability claimed to
be applicable here, the Government relies entirely upon
the alleged existence of two elements: duress, and profits
grossly in excess of customary standards. And for reasons we shall set out, neither of these two elements exists
here.
Duress. The word duress implies feebleness on one
side, overpowering strength on the other. Here it is suggested that feebleness is on the side of the Government
of the United States, overpowering strength on the side
of a single private corporation. Although there are,
many cases in which an individual has claimed to be a victim of duress in dealings with government, e. g., Union
Pacific R. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 248 U. S. 67,
this, so far as we know, is the first instance in which government has claimed to be a victim of duress in dealings
with an individual.
The argument by which the petitioner seeks to establish that the contracts were made under duress is essentially this: Germany's submarine warfare made it imperative that the Government secure the greatest possible
number of ships in the shortest possible time; there was
a scarcity of ships and shipbuilding facilities in the
United States; Bethlehem, the largest shipbuilder in the
world, not only had shipbuilding facilities available, but
also a trained organization; at a time when Bethlehem's
facilities and trained organization were vital to the prosecution of the war, it declined to accept terms proposed by
the Government, but insisted upon prices which some of
either state or federal courts. Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. U. S. Fleet
Corp., 258 U. S. 549; U. S. Shipping Board Merchant Fleet Corp.
v. Harwood, 281 U. S. 519.

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of the Court.

the Government's representatives thought too high; although Congress had authorized the Executive to commandeer shipbuilding facilities if necessary, Bethlehem's
organization was also needed and the Government was
without power to compel performance by an unwilling
organization; the Government therefore had to accept
contracts on whatever terms Bethlehem proposed or, doing without the ships which Bethlehem could produce,
run the risk of military defeat.
Two basic propositions underlie this argument: (1)
The Government's representatives involuntarily accepted
Bethlehem's terms. (2) The circumstances permitted
the Government no other alternative.
Upon reviewing the negotiations between the representatives of the Government and the representatives of
Bethlehem, we cannot find support for the first proposition. The Master found, and the courts below agreed, that
"the contracts resulted from negotiations in which both
parties were represented by intelligent, well informed and
experienced officers whose sole object was to make the best
trade possible, under conditions which included the uncertainties of war-time contingencies, the results from which
were not and could not have been known at the time the
contracts were made." Two of the three principal negotiators for the Fleet Corporation have testified in the proceedings before the Master. It is abundantly clear from
their testimony that, during the course of the negotiations,
they did not consider themselves compelled to accept
whatever terms the other side proposed. In the disposition of the two main differences between the negotiators,
there is no evidence of that state of overcome will which is
the major premise of the petitioner's argument of duress.
Cf. Frenchv. Shoemaker, 14 Wall. 314, 332.
One of the differences was settled by the Government's
abandonment of its earlier insistence upon a lump sum arrangement together with a guaranteed date of delivery.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

In view of the rising prices and unpredictable labor supply of the time, Bethlehem's reluctance to enter into contracts on such terms does not seem unreasonable.10 And
if the Government's abandonment of its position is to be
regarded as evidence of compulsion, we should have to find
compulsion in every contract in which one of the parties
makes a concession to a demand, however reasonable, of
the other side.
The other major difference between the negotiators was
on the matter of price. There is evidence that some of
the Fleet Corporation's representatives considered Bethlehem's demands high, but we cannot conclude that the
figure finally accepted by the Fleet Corporation was accepted because its representatives felt themselves powerless to refuse. On the contrary, Bethlehem by letter voluntarily offered to accept contracts on terms to be fixed
by the Fleet Corporation's general manager. This offer
was rejected, one of the Fleet Corporation's negotiators
testifying that it preferred to make contracts rather than
assume the attitude of dictating terms. Moreover, the
general manager of the Fleet Corporation, in whom final
authority was vested and who approved these contracts,
was of the opinion that high estimated cost figures would
be advantageous to the Government because "care must be
exercised that they be not placed at too low a figure, for if
they are, the probabilities are that the contractor will lose
interest in keeping the cost down." And one of the negotiators for the Fleet Corporation has given testimony that
he was not so much concerned with cost as with speed of
production, since "legislation was already in the offing in
the form of war profit taxes .. .to take care of extreme
10 Cf.: "Obviously no sane man would bid on a lump-sum contract
under such conditions, unless perchance he should treat the matter as
a pure gamble and include an excessive margin in his proposal for unforeseen contingencies." Report of Chief of Construction Division,
War Department Annual Reports (1919) 4147.

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of the Court.

cases." We must therefore conclude that the negotiations do not show that Bethlehem forced the Government's
representatives to accept contracts against their will.
If the negotiations do not establish duress, the Government finds it in the circumstances themselves. The petitioner concedes that the Government could have commandeered Bethlehem's plants, but it contends that, if
the plants had been commandeered, Bethlehem's organization would have been unwilling to serve the Government in them. Heavy reliance is placed on an observation
in the Master's report that "the Government did not have
power to compel performance by an unwilling organization." We shall later consider the alleged lack of power.
We now point out that the alleged unwillingness is an
assumption unsupported by findings or evidence. Since
the possibility of commandeering appears not even to have
been suggested to Bethlehem, we have no basis for knowing what its reaction would have been. We cannot assume that, if the negotiations failed to produce contracts
acceptable to both sides, Bethlehem would have refused
to contribute to the war effort except under legal compulsion. We cannot lightly impute to Bethlehem's whole
organization, composed as it was of hundreds of people,
such an attitude of unpatriotic recalcitrance in the face
of national peril.
But even if we were to assume, as we do not, an initial
attitude of unwillingness, we do not think that the Government was entirely without means of overcoming it. For,
the representatives of the Fleet Corporation, an agent of
the United States, came to Bethlehem armed with bargaining powers to which those of no ordinary private corporation can be compared. If it chose to, the Fleet Corporation could have foregone all negotiation over price,
compelling Bethlehem to undertake the work at a price set
by the President, with the burden of going to court if it
considered the compensation unreasonably low. And the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

power to commandeer Bethlehem's entire plant and facilities, in accordance with authority spetifically delegated
by the President, provided the Fleet Corporation with an
alternative bargaining weapon difficult for any company
to resist.
The Government nevertheless urges that the circumstances here are analogous to those under which courts of
admiralty have held contracts to be unenforceable. In
particular, it points to the principle that courts of admiralty "will not tolerate the doctrine that a salvor can take
the advantage of his situation, and avail himself of the
calamities of others to drive a bargain; nor will they permit the performance of a public duty to be turned into a
traffic of profit." Post v. Jones, 19 How. 150, 160. We
think this principle has no real relevance to the case
before us.
In the first place, if there was a "traffic of profit" here, it
was not the unanticipated result of an accident as in the
salvage cases. When Congress authorized the procurement of ships through ordinary commercial negotiations,
it must have known that the purchases could not be made
in a market of open competition, because existing shipbuilding facilities would be overtaxed by the construction
program. See Department of Commerce, Government
Aid to Merchant Shipping (rev. ed. 1923) 433; Hearings
before House Committee on the Merchant Marine and
Fisheries on H. R. 10500, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., passim.
And Congress must have anticipated that, in the contracts
agreed upon, profits would be expected, and that the selfinterest inherent in commercial transactions would make
itself felt. Therefore, in seeking to establish duress from
the circumstances in which these contracts were made, the
Government is relying on the identical circumstances
which were in existence at the time Congress chose the
policy of authorizing procurement of ships through com-

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of the Court.

mercial negotiation. We cannot now invalidate contracts made pursuant to a Congressionally selected policy,
on the sole ground of the coercive effect of circumstances
which Congress clearly contemplated. To do so we should
have to repudiate legislative power exercised in proper
constitutional sphere.
In the second place, the captain of a ship in distress on
the high seas who is completely at the mercy of his salvor
cannot be likened to a sovereign power dealing with an
individual contractor. We cannot regard the Government
of the United States at war as so powerless that it must
seek the organization of a private corporation as a helpless
suppliant. The Constitution grants to Congress power
"to raise and support Armies," "to provide and maintain a
Navy," and to make all laws necessary and proper to
carry these powers into execution. Under this authority
Congress can draft men for battle service. Selective Draft
Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366. Its power to draft business
organizations to support the fighting men who risk their
lives can be na less.
Profits. The general common law rule of unconscionability on which the petitioner relies is said to deny enforcement to contracts when the profits provided for are
grossly in excess of a standard established by common
practice. Whether there is such a rule, what is its scope,
and whether it is part of the body of law governing these
contracts, we need not decide. For, high as Bethlehem's
22% profit seems to us, we are compelled to admit that
so far as the record or any other source of which we can
take notice discloses, it is not grossly in excess of the standard established by common practice in the field in which
Congress authorized the making of these contracts. And
in particular, it may be'added, the Master found that the
ships built by Bethlehem cost the Government less than
comparable ships built by other shipbuilders. The Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

ernment made no attempt to establish, nor is there any
indication in the record, that the profits realized by other
shipbuilders were any less than Bethlehem's.
To establish a standard of customary profits, the petitioner points to the experience of the Navy and War Departments and other branches of the Government in connection with straight cost-plus contracts. Because 10%
was the profit specified in many such contracts, the Government asserts that it is an appropriate figure here, and
urges that the profits on these contracts, tested by such a
standard, cannot be allowed. The relevance of experience
with cost-plus contracts to the contracts here is not clear.
The Shipping Board deliberately chose to avoid cost-plus
contracts where possible, having found them unsatisfactory in practice. Moreover, the record shows that the
total cost to the Government of comparable ships under
cost-plus contracts was higher than the total cost of the
ships Bethlehem built under the contracts here in question.
Arid experience in many fields has demonstrated that the
percentage of profit actually realized under cost-plus contracts is likely to be far more than the percentage specified.
As stated in 1918 by Charles E. Hughes, later Chief Justice,
in his report to the Attorney General on the aircraft industry, "contracts of this sort lead to waste, foster abuses, and
impose an almost intolerable burden of cost accounting,
in itself a hindrance to rapid production." Report to the
Attorney General on the Aircraft Inquiry (1918) 134.
See also, Expenditures in the War Department-Camps,
House Report No. 816, 66th Cong., 2d Sess., 49-53. The
10% which the petitioner derives by reference to the costplus contracts of certain governmental departments cannot be taken as a standard of common practice. It is an
illusory figure without basis in the realities of business
experience.
If profits earned under Government contracts in general are taken as the standard of comparison, the 22%

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of the Court.

claimed here is overshadowed in too many instances for it
to be regarded as extraordinary. The Hughes report referred to above, for example, points out (pp. 136-146)
that most of the airplane production during the last war
was under contracts providing for much higher profits.
To take an example of the profits made on food products,
the Federal Trade Commission determined that, in 1917,
profits on the sales of salmon canneries, a major portion
of whose output was purchased by the Government,
ranged from 15 to 68% of cost, averaging 52%." Federal
Trade Commission, Report on Canned Salmon (1918) 63.
In the shipbuilding industry itself, even in peace times,
profits were found by a special committee of the Senate,
which investigated the munitions industry, to have been
from 25% to 37% on the cruisers built in 1927, about
22% in 1929, and of like range for other years. Senate
Report No. 944, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 4.
If the comparison is made with industrial profits, not
limited to profits on Government contracts alone, the 22%
asked for here likewise loses all claim to distinction. An
exhibit, the accuracy of which the Government has not
challenged, incorporated into the record of this case, indicates that in terms of profit on gross sales, the largest
American steel company made 49, 58, and 46% during the
years 1916, 1917, and 1918. As computed by the Federal
Trade Commission, net earnings in 1917 of the same company on all its business were 25% of total investment, and
the Commission cites instances of other steel companies
whose earnings thus measured ranged from 30 to 320%.
Federal Trade Commission, Letter on Profiteering (1918)
9. Profits of lumber producers, again in terms of return
" The Federal Trade Commission Report does not give separate
figures on sales to the Government, but points out (p. 7) that the
Government had announced its intention to purchase 80% of the 1918
pack.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

on investment, ranged as high as 121%; and of producers
of petroleum products, as high as 122%, over half of the
industry earning more than 20%. Id. 12, 13. During
the first six months of 1917, one of the two major sulphur
producers in the country sold its product at an average
price of $18.11 per ton, more than 200% above cost, which
was $5.73 per ton; the other major producer earned 236%
on its investment during the first eleven months of the
same year. Id. 11. The Federal Trade Commission's
collection of data for various other industries, a collection
which the Commission stated was "by no means a complete catalog," affords.many additional examples of the
same kind. But further confirmation should be unnecessary for a conclusion no businessman would question: that
,the profits claimed here, seen in their commercial environment, cannot be considered exceptional.
The profits claimed here arise under contracts deliberately let by the Fleet Corporation under authority delegated by the President in accordance with an act of
Congress. Neither Congress nor the President restricted
the freedom of the Fleet Corporation to grant measures of
profits common at the time. And the Fleet Corporation's
chosen policy was to operate in a field where profits for
services are demanded and expected. The futility of subjecting this choice of policy to judicial review is demonstrated by this case, coming to this Court as it does more
than twenty years after the ships were completed. In
any event, we believe the question of whether or not this
policy was wise is outside our province to decide. Under
our form of government we do not have the power to
nullify it, as we believe we should necessarily be doing,
were we to declare these contracts unenforceable on the
ground that profits granted under Congressional authority
were too high. The profits made in these and other contracts entered into under the same system may justly
arouse indignation. But indignation based on the no-

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
Opinion of the Court.

289

tions of morality of this or any other court cannot be judicially transmuted into -a principle of law of greater force
than the expressed will of Congress. 2
IV
The problem of war profits is not new. In this country,
every war we have engaged in has provided opportunities
for profiteering and they have been too often scandalously
seized. See Hearings before the House Committee on
Military Affairs on H. R. 3 and H. R. 5293, 74th Cong.,
1st Sess., 590-598. To meet this recurrent evil, Congress
has at times taken various measures. It has authorized
price fixing. It has placed a fixed limit on profits, or has
recaptured high profits through taxation. It has expressly
reserved for the Government the right to cancel contracts
after they have been made. Pursuant to Congressional
authority; the Government has requisitioned existing production facilities or itself built and operated new ones to
provide needed war materials. It may be that one or
some or all of these measures should be utilized more comprehensively, or that still other measures must be devised. But if the Executive is in need of additional laws
by which to protect the nation against war profiteering, the
Constitution has given to Congress, not to this Court, the
power to make them.
Affirmed.

The

CHIEF JusTicE

and ME.

JUSTICE JACKSON,

who as

former Attorneys General actively participated in the
prosecution of these cases, take no part in this decision.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

also takes no part in the decision.

isCf.: "It would be very dangerous, indeed, to the best interests of the
government .

.

. if .

.

. this [Court] should . . .. render decrees on

the crude notions of the judges of what is or would be morally right
between the government and the individual." Smoot's Case, 15 Wall.

36, 45-46.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MuRPHY, J., concurring.

315 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, concurring:
I concur in the opinion of the Court insofar as it relates
to duress and coercion and the non-severability of the
"bonus for savings" clauses, but desire to add a brief further statement of my views.
In voting for affirmance of the judgment, I do not wish
to be understood as expressing approval of an arrangement
like the one now under review, by which a company engaged in doing work for the Government in time of grave
national peril--or any other time-is entitled to a profit
of 22 per cent. under contracts involving little or no risk
and grossing many millions of dollars. Such an arrangement not only is incompatible with sound principles of
public management, but is injurious to public confidence
and public morale. The fact that such cases were common during the last war, as evidenced by the circumstances
recited in the opinion of the Court, provides no justification to my mind for such a practice then or now. No man
or set of men should want to make excessive profits out
of the travail of the Nation at war, and government officials entrusted with contracting authority, and the Congress bestowing such authority, should be alert to
prevent it.
The question before the Court for decision, however, is
not whether an arrangement like the one presented for
review accords with our conceptions of business morality
or with correct administration of the public business.
Having made a bargain, the Government should be held
to it unless there are valid and appropriate reasons known
to the law for relieving it from its obligations. It is the
duty and responsibility of the courts, not to re-write contracts according to their own views of what is practical
and fair, but to enforce them in accordance with the evidence and recognized principles of law.
In my opinion the elements of duress and coercion have
not been established in this case. The doctrine that

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

MURPHY, J., concurring.

"necessitous men are not free men," a doctrine evolved by
the English courts of chancery in the eighteenth century
for the protection of harassed debtors,' is not applicable
to the Government of the United States, armed as it is
with both an actual and a potential arsenal of powers adequate to protect its interests in dealings with private
persons.
I am also of opinion that the "bonus for savings" clauses
are integral parts of the contracts in question and part of
the entire consideration moving to Bethlehem in exchange
for its promise to build ships. To characterize these
clauses as severable and supported by consideration only
if Bethlehem promised to increase its efficiency is ingenious, but requires us to close our eyes to the actualities of
the record before us and to ignore fundamental contract
law.
Nor can I accept the proposition that the "bonus for
savings" clauses are properly interpreted as meaning that
Bethlehem was to receive one-half of the "savings" only
insofar as Bethlehem could prove that the "savings" were
due to its increased efficiency. Such an interpretation, it
is true, would prevent Bethlehem from benefiting by
reason of purely fortuitous "savings." However, in the
absence, as here, of fraud, mistake, or that overreaching
which we label "duress" and "coercion," contracts should
be interpreted as they are written, not as they might or
should have been written in the light of after-thought and
subsequent experience. The language of the "savings"
clauses does not limit Bethlehem's participation in "savings" to those attributable only to its own efforts. The
Master found that "Bethlehem was to participate in
savings however earned." The suggested interpretation,
ignoring the language of the contracts and the expressed
1 Vernon

v. Bethell, 2 Eden 110, 113. And see Wood v. Abrey, 3
Maddock's Chan. 216; Underhillv. Horwood, 10 Ves. Jr. 209.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FtANKURTER, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

understanding of the parties, gratuitously rewrites the
contracts to accord with notions of fairness acquired in
the light of subsequent developments.
It is understandable that one may be indignant at
Bethlehem's claim, but such indignation does not justify
the distortion of established legal principles to relieve the
Government of its approval of a hard bargain. It cannot
be left out of consideration that the Government entered
into the agreements with full understanding of their terms.
Surely there is rnuch to be said in favor of the Government's standing behind obligations, even though quite
onerous, which it incurred with knowledge of the circumstances. The possibility that the Government may be
relieved of bargains twenty-four years after agreeing to
them is not conducive to mutual trust and confidence
between citizens and their government.
The judgment should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

The Founders divided our government into three
branches, partly to prevent autocratic concentration of
power and partly to achieve appropriate division of labor
in the difficult task of government. The President has
his duties, the Congress its duties, and wp ours. What
powers the Congress should give the President in order
to obtain the most effective production of war supplies,
how the President should exercise those powers, whether
a system of private contracts for war materials is conducive to unjustifiable waste and profiteering, or whether
government production of necessary war supplies is a
wiser course--these and like matters are not our business
and upon them we should neither express nor intimate
views. However circumscribed the judicial area may be,
we had best remain within it. But the function of the
judiciary is not so limited that it must sanction the use
of the federal courts as instruments of injustice in dis-

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

-

FRANnwm, J., dissenting.

regard of moral and equitable principles which have been
part of the law for centuries. I am compelled, therefore,
to dissent from the judgment of the Court.
In the summer of 1917 the United States was at war
with Germany. The enemy's submarine was taking terrific tll of our shipping. The immediate threat to our
national security had to be met promptly. Congress enacted the Emergency Shipping Fund Act of June 15, 1917,
40 Stat. 182, conferring vast powers upon the President.
He was authorized to place orders for such ships or
material as "the necessities of the Government" may require; to modify, suspend, cancel or requisition contracts
for the building, production, or purchase of ships or material; and to take over any plants and ships constructed
or in the process of construction. If any person owning
any ship, plant, or material refused to build or sell ships
or material ordered by the Government "at such reasonable price as shall be determined by the President," he
was empowered to take possession of the ships, material,
or plant of such person.
On July 11, 1917, the President delegated all the authority vested in him by this Act to the United States
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation. A stupendous task was thereby imposed upon the Fleet Corporation. "The program of construction, as well as
operation was gigantic. It involved an expenditure of
more than three and a half billion dollars, a sum greater
than any expended by any corporation in a similar period
of time. Many of the officials and board members were
wit'-out experience in either shipbuilding or operation.
No adequate organization existed at the beginning. A
complete organization to carry out its large program had
to be created. There was a shortage'of shipbuilding skill
as well as shipbuilding facilities. The need for ships was
imperative and constantly increased during the combat
period." Report of the Select Committee on U. S. Ship-

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

ping Board Operations, H. Rep. No. 1399, 66th Cong., 3d
Sess., p. 24.
Bethlehem was the largest shipbuilding company in
the world. Its five subsidiaries and their plants were
experienced shipbuilders, with efficient and well-equipped
organizations. As the Master in this case found, "it was
understood by all parties concerned that the Fleet Corporation shipbuilding program would call for capacity
production at each of Bethlehem's shipyards." Of course
the Government had the power to take over Bethlehem's
shipyards and plants. But the United States was at war.
It needed ships-and it needed them at once. The shipyards and plants of a recalcitrant shipbuilder would not
produce the necessary tonnage, at least not in the needed
time, without an organization able to operate them at
maximum efficiency. The Master found that "A failure
to induce Bethlehem to undertake the shipbuilding program covered by, these contracts, followed by the taking
possession by the Fleet Corporation of the Bethlehem
plants, could not have accomplished the desired result.
It was Bethlehem's organization that was necessary to
insure success to the shipbuilding program of the Fleet
Corporation and, as the Government did not have power
to compel performance by an unwilling organization, if
Bethlehem demanded its price on the basis of substantial
commercial profits rather than contribute such services on
a patriotic basis, the Government was obliged to take the
contracts on such basis or not at all."
Bethlehem does not deny that in these negotiations
the Government's legal power to requisition its shipyards
was, for purposes of bargaining, an empty weapon. "It
is also true," Bethlehem admits, "that, although the Fleet
Corporation had the power to take over Bethlehem's
yards, what it really required for the carrying out of its
program was the use of Bethlehem's organization-its
knowledge of how to build ships." The representatives

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFuRTmR, J., dissenting.

of both Bethlehem and the Fleet Corporation knew that
the Government did not regard its power to requisition
plants and shipyards as a satisfactory alternative to making contracts with private shipbuilders for the construction of ships.1 It is not for us to say that the Government should not have determined upon such a policy. It
is enough that when these contracts were made, none of
the parties believed that there was open to the Government the feasible alternative which now, twenty-five
years later, this Court says was open to it.
This was the setting in which the contracts in suit were
made. Bethlehem was represented throughout the negotiations by Joseph W. Powell, its vice president and operating manager, and Harry Brown, its technical manager, described by the Master as "two of the ablest and
most experienced shipbuilders and estimators of shipbuilding costs in the United States." On behalf of the
Fleet Corporation the active negotiators were Admiral
E. T. Bowles, manager of its division of steel ship construction, and G. S. Radford, manager of its contract
"Whatever the scope and importance of the Government's requisitioning power in other situations (compare Baruch, American
Industry in War, p. 77, with Sen. Rep. No. 944, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pt. 2, pp. 4-5, 111-15), it was without significance in the Fleet Corporation's shipbuilding program. The reports of the Shipping Board
bhow that the exercise of the power was limited to the acquisition of
vessels which had been built or were being constructed; the power
does not seem to have been employed to take over the shipyards of
recalcitrant private contractors. Indeed, the policy of the Government, based upon its wartime needs, was to encourage, financially and
otherwise, the construction and maintenance of shipyards by private
interests. See 1st Annual Report of the U. S. Shipping Board (1917)
pp. 12-15; 2d Annual Report (1918) pp. 33-36, 120-22; Report
of Director General Charles Piez to the Board of Trustees of the
U. S. Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation (April 30, 1919)
pp. 13-14, 78, 123; Report of the President of the U. S. Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation to the Board of Trustees
(August 1, 1919) pp. 25-26.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKURTmm

division.

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

The Master characterized Bowles and Rad-

ford as "equally competent shipbuilding experts." However, they were not empowered to conclude contracts c-1
behalf of the Fleet Corporation. That ultimate authority belonged to Charles Piez, the vice-president and
general manager of the Fleet Corporation. Piez was a
business man who had had no previous shipbuilding experience, and the Master found that "At the time of the
negotiations relating to the contracts in controversy, the
relations between Powell and Piez were very close. Piez,
as Powell knew, had had no shipbuilding experience
whatsoever, had implicit confidence in Powell's integrity
and shipbuilding ability and experience, and was accustomed to look to him for information and assistance with
respect to matters of shipbuilding."
Following a conference in Washington on June 15, 1917,
attended by Powell and other shipbuilders, the General
Manager of the Fleet Corporation requested Bethlehem
to submit formal proposals for the construction of ships.
Throughout the entire negotiations which followed, the
Fleet Corporation tried to persuade Bethlehem to enter
into "lump-sum" contracts. Powell refused, insisting
upon the so-called "half-savings" form of contract which
he had originated. He set forth his proposals in his letter
of December 13, 1917, to the Fleet Corporation: "Because
of the unprecedented conditions surrounding the Labor
and Material market, it is impracticable to estimate within
a reasonable percentage what will be the actual cost of
construction, and it is therefore impossible to submit fixed
prices for any of these vessels, except upbn a basis so far
above estimated cost that any figure acceptable to this
Company would not be acceptable to the Emergency Fleet
Corporation. It is proposed, however, that they be constructed on the basis of actual cost plus a fee, with an
agreed upon probable cost, this Company to be paid in
addition to the fee one-half of any saving that may be

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFURTER,

J., disenting.

made below this cost figure, and with the further provision that the estimated cost figure will be increased due
to any increase in rates of wages that may be approved by
the Emergency Fleet Corporation."
After further conferences, Powell submitted a proposal,
dated December 19, 1917, specifying the estimated costs
and fixed fees of the vessels to be constructed. On the
morning of January 3, 1918, before the Fleet Corporation
had expressed any views on the proposal of December 19,
Powell handed Piez a letter, dated January 3, 1918, offering to construct a greater number of vessels than was specified in his earlier proposal. The letter concluded "that
while this company cannot undertake any capital expenditures at its expense, if the terms in our proposal do not
otherwise meet with the Emergency Fleet Corporation's
approval, we are prepared to accept the order to construct
these vessels on such terms as may be personally determined by Mr. Charles Piez, the Vice President and General Manager, and strongly urge there be no delay in placing this order, as we are making this offer because of our
knowledge of the vital emergency now confronting this
nation in connection with the requirements for additional
merchant vessels."
Upon receipt of this letter, Piez arranged a conference
between Powell, Brown, Bowles, and Radford, which occurred on the afternoon of January 3. But Bowles and
Radford did not know, and neither was informed, before
or during the conference, of the offer made to Piez in
Powell's letter of January 3. It can hardly be said, therefore, that this letter, neither addressed to nor made known
to the real negotiators for the Government, was a factor
in their negotiations.
At the conference, which lasted about five hours, Bowles
again attempted to persuade Powell to undertake the construction upon a lump-sum basis. Powell was adamant,
however, and Bowles had to acquiesce in the half-savings

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

form of contract in order to reach any agreement. Powell
insisted that the estimates previously submitted by
Bethlehem were fair and reasonable. Neither Bowles nor
Radford submitted any estimates or counter-proposals,
"their criticism being limited to the opinion expressed by
Bowles that the original and reduced estimates submitted
by Powell were too high." Powell made several reductions
in the estimates, and in response to Bowles' inquiry, Brown
assured him that the estimates were about as accurate as
could be made under the circumstances. Bowles and Radford thereupon agreed to the prices, subject to confirmation by Piez. On the same day they handed Piez the following memorandum:
"We hand you herewith the Bethlehem Shipbuilding
Corporation's proposal dated December 19, for additional
construction at their various plants, amounting in all to
19 vessels, exclusive of tugs. It may be noted that, with
the exception of three ships,- the vessels in question are
troop ships and tankers-ships of a type that only real
shipbuilders can produce satisfactorily., As is well known,
we have been having difficulty in placing such vessels.
"We wish to place on record the fact that the Bethlehem
Shipbuilding Corporation's representatives have insisted
on comparatively high prices for these vessels; that they
have only with difficulty been persuaded to quote us on
the types of ships referred to; and, that their attitude has
been characterized by an arbitrary refusal to guarantee or
stand behind delivery dates. In other words, it was difficult to persuade them to quote even a tentative delivery
date, and they refused positively to accede to a bonus and
penalty clause for delivery.
"The letter herewith, addressed to the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, in reply to their proposal, has been
prepared for your signature and is now presented with the
recommendation that it be signed. While the prices we
have agreed to, with representatives of the Bethlehem

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKYURTER,

J., dissenting.

Shipbuilding Corporation, are not satisfactory to us, nevertheless, they represent a material reduction from the
prices quoted by that Corporation. Realizing that the
Nation will need these vessels, we have been actuated by
the belief that further delay in placing the contracts should
be eliminated and we believe that we have made the best
compromise possible under very difficult conditions."
As a consequence of these negotiations, the thirteen contracts here in controversy were executed, seven on February 1, 1918, and six thereafter.
The provisions of these contracts demand careful
analysis. The contract marked No. 183, calling for the
construction by Bethlehem of three steel tank vessels each
weighing about 9,100 tons, is typical.
In order to provide the sums necessary for carrying on
the work under the contract, the Fleet Corporation agreed
to deposit in advance "such sums as may be necessary to
constitute and to keep constituted a fund from which to
finance the work, to provide for payments to be made for
materials, and for wages and salaries of persons employed
upon the work hereunder." The Fleet Corporation
agreed also to assist Bethlehem "to secure with the utmost
practicable expedition and at the minimum cost consistent
with the existing conditions, the facilities, utilities, parts,
materials and supplies required for the work under this
contract." The price to be paid for each vessel was defined to include (a) the "actual cost," plus (b) a fixed fee
of $185,000, plus (c) one-half the amount by which the
actual cost of each vessel should fall short of an estimated
cost of $1,865,000.
It wouJd be difficult to draft a more inclusive definition
of "cost" than that contained in this contract. "Actual
cost" was defined to inclUde the following items, as well as
"items similar thereto in principle": (a) the net costs of
labor (including bonuses), materials, machinery, equipment, and supplies furnished by 130tfhlce, and all other

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFuRTm,

J., dissenting.

315 U.S.

direct charges, such as insurance on the vessels, etc.; (b)
a "proper proportion" of running expenses, including rentals, cost of repairs and maintenance, light, heat, power,
insurance, management, salaries (including bonuses), and
all other indirect charges; (c) a "proper proportion" of interest accrued on bonds, loans, or other debts existing or
previously made, the proceeds of which "shall be used, or
shall have been or shall be invested in plant, equipment,
etc., that shall be used," in the performance of the contract; (d) a "proper proportion" of taxes of all kinds, except federal taxes, with respect to the business or property;
(e) a "proper proportion" of physical losses sustained in
connection with the construction of the vessels under the
contract, including losses from fire, flood, storm, riot, vandalism, acts of God, acts of war, or other casualties; and
(f) a "reasonable" allowance for depreciation of property
and plants used in connection with the construction under
the contract.
The Master found that, under the "half-savings" clause,
Bethlehem was entitled to receive one-half the difference
between the estimated cost and the actual cost, regardless
of how this difference was achieved. Bethlehem was therefore not required to show that the "savings" were attributable to its efforts to increase efficiency.
Since the estimated costs of construction specified in
the contracts are crucial in fixing the extent of Bethlehem's profits, it is necessary to consider how they were
determined. According to the explanation furnished by
Bethlehem, Brown prepared the estimated costs specified
in Bethlehem's letter of December 19, 1917, as follows:
As the basis of his estimate he took the cost of constructing Hull 253, a 9,100 ton tanker which had recently been
completed at the Fore River yard. The cost of the material in Hull 253 was about $389,000, consisting of $150,000
for the steel structure and $239,000 for the remaining
material. Brown estimated that the cost of the material

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

in a similar tanker to be constructed in 1918 would be
$817,000, including $399,000 for the steel structure and
$418,000 for the remainder. His estimate assumed an
increase in freight rates and costs of delivery of 42%. The
next item was the cost of labor, which on Hull 253 amounted to 38.75 cents per hour. Brown assumed that wage
scales would rise to 50 cents per hour, an increase of 29%,
and that efficiency would decrease about 30%. Therefore, he estimated a total labor cost ot $548,000, as compared with the actual labor cost upon Hull 253 of $326,000.
Similarly, the estimates of plant operating expenses were
computed on the basis of equally large assumed increases.
The total estimated cost of material, labor, operating expenses, and overhead amounted to $1,694,000, to which
Brown added a flat 10% allowance to cover items such as
armed guard equipment and "to make allowance for other
contingencies," making a total estimated cost of $1,863,000, or approximately $205 per ton. To this figure Powell
added an additional $10 per ton because, as he testified,
"there was an item of increased cost of steel, which represented a contract for very high-priced steel that we had to
use in connection with this program, and which amounted
to about $2.50 a ton spread over the program that we expected to undertake. That was a very rough figure.
Whatever else I put on I put on because I knew I was going
to have to trade the final contract out with Admiral Bowles
and I knew I would not get what I asked for, and if I did
not ask for more than I expected I would not get out where
I wanted to be." Brown testified that "He [Powell] took
the figures that I gave him and added $10 a ton to it" for
some reason which he could not recall.
The estimated cost finally specified in the contractfor
the construction of the three vessels was $1,865,000; the
estimated cost of such vessels proposed in Powell's letter
of December 19, 1917, was $1,983,800, a difference of $118,800, or less than 6% of the proposed estimate.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

The Master found that, during the negotiations, the
Fleet Corporation was uninformed as to the probable cost
of materials and labor, Bethlehem's overhead and operating expenses, and depreciation and similar charges. Consequently, at the conference of January 3, 1918, from
which emerged the contracts in controversy, the representatives of the Fleet Corporation did not submit any
counter-offers to Bethlehem; they merely insisted that
Bethlehem's estimates were too high. Brown's testimony
is illuminating as to the nature of the bargaining at the

conference:
"Q. Now I am asking you whether with respect to those
vessels Admiral Bowles submitted any price of his own?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. Did he ask you how your estimates were made up?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. Did he ask you to justify your estimates in any
way?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. He just objected to them repeatedly and said they
were too high?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. But did not ask you to justify them?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. Until Powell finally came down to a figure which
Bowles was willing to accept?
"A. Well, I should put it this way; to a figure which
Mr. Powell refused to go below."
The total estimated costs of construction in the thirteen
contracts in controversy amounted to $119,750,000. The
total actual costs, as defined in the contracts, were
$92,990,521. The estimated costs therefore exceeded the
actual costs by $26,759,479, or, to put it another way, the
estimated costs were almost 29% greate than actual costs.
Nowhere in the long record, as the Master found, is there
any explanation or justification for the tremendous dis-

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKunmR,

J., dissenting.

parity between the estimated costs submitted by Bethlehem, or those specified in the contracts, and the actual
costs.
Bethlehem's profits under these contracts amount to
approximately $24,000,000, or about 22% of actual costs
including extra work. In two of these contracts, Nos.
191 and 226, its profits exceed 34% and 32%, respectively.
Moreover these figures do not include the profits made by
Bethlehem Steel Company, an affiliate, on the sales to
Bethlehem at the maximum prices permitted by the War
Industries Board of 43,000 tons of steel used in the construction of ships under these contracts.
To speak of Bethlehem's profits as only 22% is in any
event misleading. The profits are 22% of "cost," and not
22% of what might fairly be described as Bethlehem's
capital investment in these contracts. For under these
contracts Bethlehem took absolutely no risk of loss; in
addition, the Government agreed to advance all sums
necessary to finance the construction of the vessels. Even
in'usurious transactions the lender takes the risk of the
borrower's insolvency. Here Bethlehem took no risks
at all.
Bethlehem has already received from the Government
the total costs of construction (including items for wage
increases and extra work), plus fixed profits of $11,962,400
(representing about 11% of the actual costs including
extra charges), plus bonuses of $8,093,157 under the halfsavings clause (over 7% of costs). It has thus received
total profits of more than $20,000,000 under these contracts. In the present suits it is seeking additional sums
of more than $7,500,000, of which about $3,800,000 represents bonuses under the contracts in question. In sustaining the judgments of the lower courts, this Court is
awarding Bethlehem further profits of about 4% on these
contracts.
The Master expressly found that it was essential that
Bethlehem undertake to build the vessels provided for in

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

the contracts, and that, since the Government needed
Bethlehem's organization, it had no satisfactory alternative. It had to make the contracts on Bethlehem's terms
or not at all. He concluded, nevertheless, that since "the
Fleet Corporation made the contracts with open eyes, although resenting the commercial attitude of Bethlehem
and condemning Bethlehem for demanding its 'pound of
flesh'," the contracts were enforceable by Bethlehem in the
absence of any proof of fraud.
The District Court concurred in the proposition that the
absence of fraud made the contracts invulnerable. But
its conclusion is contradicted by its findings: "The managers for the contractor adopted the famous Rob Roy distinction who admitted he was a robber but proudly proclaimed that he was no thief. The contractor boldly and
openly fixed the figures in the estimated cost so high as to
give them the promise of large bonus profits. The managers for the Fleet Corporation knew that the estimate was
high and why it was made high and so protested it. The
reply of the contractor's managers was, 'We will take the
contract with this promise of bonus profits incorporated
in it but not otherwise. You take it or leave it'. Whatever wrong there was in this may have been the wrong in
a daylight robbery but there was no element of deception
in it." 23 F. Supp. 676, 679.
Similarly, the affirmance of the Circuit Court of Appeals
appears to have been based upon the assumption that the
Government's failure to show fraud was fatal: "It is of
course obvious that these negotiations took place in time of
war when the need of the Government for ships was extremely urgent and the necessity of reaching an agreement
with Bethlehem, therefore, vital. It is equally clear that
Bethlehem insisted upon assuring itself a margin of profit
which in view of the necessities of the Government was so
large as to indicate an attitude of commercial greed but
little diluted with patriotic feeling. There is no doubt

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKN

TER, J., dissenting.

that this attitude on the part of Bethlehem was deeply
resented by the Government representatives but the latter
were faced with the alternative of either agreeing to Bethlehem's terms or taking possession of its shipyards and
having the Government itself construct the vessels. We
think the record clearly indicates that the Government
representatives felt that the latter course could not have
accomplished the shipbuilding program with the speed
which was essential. It was Bethlehem's existing shipbuilding o:ganization that was necessary to insure success
to the program of the Fleet Corporation. Consequently
the Government representatives, feeling as they did that
Bethlehem's organization was necessary to their program,
were obliged to accept the terms offered by Bethlehem.
This they did with full knowledge, as we have said, that
the estimated cost figures included in the contracts did not
represent close approximations but were so prepared as to
assure to Bethlehem substantial additional profits by way
of the bonus for savings. It follows that while Bethlehem may be condemned for having taken advantage of the
Nation's necessities to secure inordinate profits it cannot
be charged with having misrepresented the facts to the
Government's representatives." 113 F. 2d 301, 305-06.
Thus, not less than six times did the Circuit Court of
Appeals declare that the unconscionable terms of this contract were forced upon the Government by the dire necessities of national self-preservation: Nevertheless the Court
found itself impotent to resist the demand that the courts
themselves become the means of realizing these "inordinate profits." But law does not subject courts to such
impotence. Courts need not be the agents of a wrong that
offends their conscience if they heed the commands of
law.
In England prior to 1285 (Statute of Westminster II,
13 Edw. I, c. 50) suitors were frequently "obliged to depart
from the Chancery without getting writs, because there are
none which will exactly fit their cases, although these cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRA

URT,

J., dissenting.

fall within admitted principles."

315 U. S.

Maitland, Forms of Ac-

tion at Common Law, Lect. IV (1936 ed.) p. 51. Today
it is held that because the circumstances of this case cannot
be fitted into a neatly carved pigeonhole in the law of contracts, "daylight robbery," exploitation of the "necessities"
of the country at war, must be consummated by this
Court. It is said that familiar principles would be outraged if Bethlehem were denied recovery on these contracts. But is there any principle which is more familiar
or more firmly embedded in the history of Anglo-American
law than the basic doctrine that the courts will not permit
themselves to be used as instruments of inequity and injustice? Does any principle in our law have more universal application than the doctrine that courts will not
enforce transactions in which the relative positions of the
parties are such that one has unconscionably taken advantage of the necessities of the other?
These principles are not foreign to the law of contracts.
Fraud and physical duress are not the only grounds upon
which courts refuse to enforce contracts. The law is not
so primitive that it sanctions every injustice except brute
force and downright fraud. More specifically, the courts
generally refuse to lend themselves to the enforcement of
a "bargain" in which one party has unjustly taken advantage of the economic necessities of the other. "And
there is great reason and justice in this rule, for necessi- tous men are not, truly speaking, free men, but, to answer
a present exigency, will submit to any terms that the
crafty may impose upon them." Vernon v. Bethell, 2
Eden 110, 113. So wrote Lord Chancellor Northington
in 1761.
The fact that the representatives of the Government
entered into the contracts "with their eyes wide open"
does not mean that they were not acting under compulsion. "It always is for the interest of a party under duress to choose the lesser of two evils. But the fact that a

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

choice was made according to interest does not exclude
duress. It is the characteristic of duress properly so
called." Holmes, J., in Union Pacific R. Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 248 U. S. 67, 70. In that case a state
unconstitutionally exacted a fee for a certificate of authority to issue railroad bonds. A railroad which had
paid the fee and obtained a certificate, rather than run
the risk of subsequent invalidation of its bonds and imposition of serious penalties, was held to have been
coerced into making the payments. In Swift Company
v. United States, 111 U. S. 22, 29, the taxpayer's only alternatives were "to submit to an illegal exaction, or discontinue its business." The payment of the tax in these
circumstances was held to be under duress. See also
Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 23. The courts generally regard the dilemma of the taxpayer who must
either pay the taxes or incur serious business losses as a
species of duress. E. g., Morgan v. Palmer, 2 Barn. & C.
729; Ripley v. Gelston, 9 Johns. 201; Scottish U. & N.
Ins. Co. v. Herriott, 109 Iowa 606, 80 N. W. 665; see
Notes, 64 A. L. R. 9, 84 A. L. R. 294.
Underlying all these cases is the law's recognition of a
basic psychological truth. In Atkinson v. Denby, 7
Hurlst. & N. 934, 936, Cockburn, C. J., said that "where
the one person can dictate, and the other has no alternative but to submit, it is coercion." See also Abbott, C.
J., in Morgan v. Palmer, 2 Barn. & C. 729, 735: "But if
one party has the power of saying to the other, 'that
which you require shall not be done except upon the conditions which I choose to impose,' no person can contend
that they stand upon anything like an equal footing."
And thesq were decisions in days when law was supposed
to be much more rigid and more respectful of forms than
we now ordinarily deem just.
The fundamental principle of law that the courts will
not enforce a bargain where one party has unconscionably

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

taken advantage of the necessities and distress of the other
has found expression in an almost infinite variety of cases.
See Lonergan v. Buford, 148 U. S. 581, 589-91; Snyder v.
Rosenbaum, 215 U. S. 261, 265-66. Perhaps the most
familiar is the situation of the mortgagor who under the
pressure of financial distress conveys his equity of redemption to the mortgagee. The courts will scrutinize the
transaction very carefully, Villa v. Rodriguez, 12 Wall.
323, 339, and if it appears that the mortgagee has taken
unfair advantage of the other's position, the conveyance
will'not be enforced. Compare Vernon v. Bethell, 2 Eden
110; Close v. Phipps, 7 M. & G. 586; Richardson v. Barrick, 16 Iowa 407.
Similarly, an heir or remainderman who is compelled by
financial circumstances to sell his expectancy for a song
may recover it if the vendee has unduly exploited the
other's distress. Wood v. Abrey, 3 Maddock's Chan. 216,
219 (where the Vice-Chancellor, Sir John Leach, said: "If
a man who meets his purchaser on equal terms, negligently
sells his estate at an under value, he has no title to relief in
equity. But a Court of Equity will inquire whether the
parties really did meet on equal terms; and if it be found
that the vendor was in distressed circumstances, and that
advantage was taken of that distress, it will avoid the contract."); Underhill v. Horwood, 10 Ves. Jr. 209; M'Kinney v. Pinckard, 29 Va. 149; Butler v. Duncan, 47 Mich.
94, 10 N. W. 123; Brown v. Hall, 14 R. I. 249. In Administratorsof Hough v. Hunt, 2 Ohio 495, 502, a person
heavily in debt, in order to obtain a further loan with
which to meet debts falling due, agreed to buy land at more
than double its value. The court found that the lender
had unjustly taken advantage of the borrower's necessities and therefore rescinded the contract: "The rule in
chancery is well established. When a person is incumbered with debts, and that fact is known to a person with
whom he contracts, who avails himself of it to exact an

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

unconscionable bargain, equity will relieve upon account
of the advantage and hardship." This was written in
1826. To the same effect are Vyne v. Glenn, 41 Mich. 112,
and Bither v. Packard, 115 Maine 306, 98 A. 929.
Another class of cases in which this principle has been
applied arises where a customer of a gas or electric company pays charges which he asserts he is not obligated to
pay, rather than have his service disconnected. Payments
made in such circumstances are regarded as coerced. See
Boston v. EdisonElectric IlluminatingCo., 242 Mass. 305,
310,136 N. E. 113; Westlake & Button v. St. Louis, 77 Mo.
47; Note, 34 A. L. R. 185.
Cobb v. Charter,32 Conn. 358, illustrates another type
of controversy in which the courts have given effect to the
historic principle of duress which is now seemingly rejected as an innovation. The defendant there had possession of a chest of tools belonging to the plaintiff, a
mechanic. He refused to give up the chest, which the
plaintiff needed in order to ply his trade, unless the latter
would pay a bill for which he denied responsibility. The
plaintiff's payment of the bill in these circumstances was
held to have been made under duress. Accord: Lonergan
v. Buford, 148 U. S.581, 589-91; Fenwick Shipping Co. v.
Clarke Bros., 133 Ga. 43, 65 S.E. 140; Stenton v. Jerome,
54 N. Y. 480; Harmony v. Bingham, 12 N. Y. 99.
In Stiefler v. McCullough, 97 Ind. App. 123, 174 N. E.
823, a merchant who had to obtain a loan in order to remain in business 4greed to pay the president of a bank an
exorbitant sum in consideration for his services in procuring a loan. The court refused to enforce this agreement
as unconscionable. Similarly, in Niedermeyer v. Curators of State University, 61 Mo. App. 654, a student paid
tuition fees which he regarded as excessive, and which he
did not believe he was required to pay under his contract
with the university, only because he feared expulsion for
non-payment. This payment was held to have been made

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

under duress and hence recoverable. Cf. Baldwin v. Sullivan Timber Co., 20 N. Y. Supp. 496; Kelly v. Caplice, 23
Kan. 474.
Strikingly analogous to the case at bar are the decisions
that a salvor who takes advantage of the helplessness of
the ship in distress to drive an unconscionable bargain will
not be aided by the courts in his attempts to enforce the
bargain. Post v. Jones, 19 How. 150, 160; The Tornado,
109 U.S. 110, 117; The Elfrida, 172 U.S. 186, 193-94. In
Post v. Jones, supra, it was said that the courts "will not
tolerate the doctrine that a salvor can take the advantage
of his situation, and avail himself of the calamities of
others to drive a bargain; nor will they permit the performance of a public duty to be turned into a traffic of
profit." These cases are not unlike the familiar example
of the drowning man who agrees to pay an exorbitant sum
to a rescuer who would otherwise permit him to drown.
No court would enforce a contract made under such cir2
cumstances.
To deny the existence of duress in a Government contract by ironic reference to the feebleness of the United
States as against the overpowering strength of a single
private corporation is an indulgence of rhetoric in disregard
of fact. The United States with all its might and majesty
never makes a contract. To speak of a contract by the
United States is to employ an abstraction. We must not
allow it to become a blinding abstraction. Contracts are
made not by 130 million Americans but by some official on
their behalf. Because the national interest is represented
'The books are full of cases in which courts have refused to lend
themselves as collecting agencies of contracts made under circumstances
offensive to the conscience. See, for example, in addition to the cases
cited in the text, Johnson v. Ford, 147 Tenn. 63, 245 S. W. 531; Harris
v. Cary, 112 Va. 362, 71 S. E. 551; Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Barker, 241 Ky. 490, 497, 44 S. W. 2d 292; Caivano v. Brill, 171
Misc. 298, 11 N. Y. S. 2d 498.

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

331

FRAF'URTER, J., dissenting.

not by the power of the nation but by an individual professing to exercise authority of vast consequence to the
nation, action by Government officials is often not binding against the Government in situations where private
parties would be bound. The contracts here were not
made by an abstraction known as the United States or by
the millions of its citizens. For all practical purposes, the
arrangement was entered into by two persons, Bowles and
Radford. And it was entered into by them against their
better judgment because they had only Hobson's choice-which is no choice. They had no choice in view of the circumstances which subordinated them and by which they
were governed, namely, that ships were needed, and
needed quickly, and Bethlehem was needed to construct
them quickly. The legal alternative-that the Government take over Bethlehem-was not an actual alternative,
and Bethlehem knew this as well as the representatives of
the Government.
The suggestion is made that Bethlehem's profits under
these contracts were ,not exceptional when compared with
the profits made under similar contracts, and that the
enormous profits claimed by Bethlehem under these contracts cannot be regarded as supporting the inference that
Bethlehem took advantage of the Government's distress..
But the only contracts before us are those involved in
this litigation. There is nothing in this record which
enables us to say that although these contracts are unconscionable, all contracts made by the Government during the same period were no less unconscionable. And
8

E. g., the right to recover money paid under mistake of law, Wisconsin Central R. Co. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190, 212, and the
unavailability against the Government of the defenses of laches or neglect of duty, United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, 735, and
estoppel based on unauthorized acts of its agents, Lee v. Munroe, 7
Cranch 366; Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 U. S.
389, 408-09

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

even if this were so, it would be no argument that this
Court should give its sanction to these contracts by making
itself the instrument for realizing the unconscionable
profits. What little light the record does cast upon contemporary contracts gives no justification for regarding
these contracts as typical. The policy of Charles M.
Schwab, Director General of the Fleet Corporation, was
to make contracts providing for a maximum profit of 10%,
out of which all federal taxes would have to be paid. See
Letter of Oct. 2, 1918, to Edward N. Hurley, Chairman
of the Shipping Board, relating to contracts with the
American Shipbuilding Company.
If we are to go outside the record, the evidence is confusing and unreliable. It must be borne in mind that
Bethlehem took no risk of loss, that under the contracts
it was protected from the risks of rising costs of labor,
materials, transportation, etc., that under the contracts it
was not required to make any capital expenditures, that
the Government agreed to adv-ance all sums that should
be necessary for the performance of the contracts. It is
idle to compare the profits made by Bethlehem under
these contracts with profits made by industrial concerns
of various types under different types of contracts. Such
figures are statistical quicksand unless we are told also that
in each case the contractor was not required to make any
capital investment, that he was insured against normal
business risks, and that he was guaranteed a profit,
regardless of any change in circumstances.
We know that the policy of the Navy Department with
respect to so-called straight cost-plus shipbuilding contracts was to allow profits of 10% of actual cost. See
Annual Report of the Secretary of the Navy (1917) p. 33;
Annual Report (1918) p. 685; Annual Report (1919) pp.
572-76; Annual Report (1920) pp. 147-48. We know
that, similarly, the policy of the War Department with
respect to cost-plus contracts for the construction of can-

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFMTER,

333

J., dissenting.

tonments was to allow profits not exceeding 10% of cost.
See Annual Report of the Secretary of War (1917) vol.
1, p. 28; Annual Report (1918) vol. 1, p. 1319; Annual
Report (1919) pp. 4138-42. See also Crowell, Government War Contracts, p. 85 (in "emergency building contracts" a sliding scale of profits was employed, ranging
from cost plus 7% on contracts less than $100,000 to
cost plus 21/% on contracts more than $10,000,000).
Similarly, contracts for the construction of buildings to
house war workers were let on the basis of cost-plus 21/%
on contracts over $1,000,000, and 31;, % on contracts under
$1,000,000. See testimony of Otto M. Eidlitz, President
of the U. S. Housing Corporation, Hearings before the
subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds pursuant to S. Res. 371, 65th Cong., 3d
Sess., p. 35.
These statistics obviously do not tell the whole story of
Government contracts in the lasi war. But they indicate
plainly enough that this Court should not accept, as a
basis for decision in this case, the premise that Bethlehem's profits were conventional when compared with
profits made in comparable transactions.
It is said, further, that even if these contracts are unenforceable when measured by standards of justice and
equity enforced by the courts for centuries, nevertheless
this Court must enforce the contracts now before us because Congress and the President specifically authorized
such a traffic in profits. The suggestion is not consistent
with historical fact.
The legislative history of the Emergency Shipping Fund
Act furnishes no support for the contention that, in conferring upon the President authority to enter into contracts for the construction of ships, Congress thereby commanded the courts to enforce all contracts that were made,
without regard to their provisions and the circumstances
under which they were negotiated. On the contrary, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

debates contain many indications that Congress expected
that the shipbuilders of the nation would provide their
services for a reasonable compensation, and that the power
conferred upon the President to take over shipyards would
not be exercised. See remarks of Senator Knox, 55 Cong.
Rec. 2518; Senator Calder, 55 id. 2529; Rep. Fitzgerald,
55 id. 3018. Indeed, the Act itself specified that ships
should be built "at such reasonable price as shall be determined by the President." 40 Stat. 182, 183.
The National Defense Act, 39 Stat. 166, 213, specifically
provided that "The compensation to be paid to any individual, firm,

.. .

for its products or material, or as rental

for use of any manufacturing plant while used by the
United States, shall be fair and just." There can be no
clearer indication that Congress did not authorize or approve any policy of trafficking in profits. The fact that
Congress took care to ascertain whether the war agencies
-were letting contracts under which excessive profits were
being made, see Hearings before subcommittee of the
House Committee on Appropriations on H. R. 3971, 65th
Cong., 1st Sess., especially pp. 15-17, shows very plainly
that Congress in no way countenanced exploitation for
exorbitant private profit of the necessities of the Government.
Authority given to make contracts does not imply authority to make unconscionable contracts. Suppose that
Congress in authorizing the contracts in question had written into its legislation: "Provided,that no agency of government shall be authorized to enter into unconscionable
contracts." Can it be that because Congress did not expressly provide that "unconscionable contracts" are unauthorized it impliedly sanctioned the making of "unconscionable contracts"? Or suppose the estimated costs
in the contracts were so infled by Bethlehem that its
profits were 200% rather than 22%. Would this Court
still be bound to enforce these contracts on the ground that

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFURTER,

335

J., dissenting.

Congress had commanded their enforcement? Surely,
Congress did not impliedly repeal historic legal principles
and prohibit this Court from exercising its duty to withhold relief when the particular circumstances disclose an
unconscionable arrangement in the making of which the
Government's contracting officers had no practical
choice.
The suggestion that President Wilson authorized a
"traffic in profit" is refuted, if explicit proof be needed,
by his utterances. For example, addressing a meeting
of mine operators and manufacturers on July 12, 1917,
he spoke as follows:
"I hear it insisted that more than a just price, more than
a price that will sustain our industries, must be paid; that
it is necessary to pay very liberal and unusual profits in
order to 'stimulate production'; that nothing but pecuniary rewards will do it-rewards paid in money, not in the
mere liberation of the world.
"I take it for granted that those who argue thus do not
stop to think what that means. Do they mean that you
must be paid, must be bribed, to make your contribution,
a contribution that costs you-neither a drop of blood nor
a tear, when the whole world is in travail and men everywhere depend upon and call to you to bring them out of
bondage and make the world a fit place to live in again,
amidst peace and justice?
"Do they mean that you will exact a price, drive a bargain, with the men who are enduring the agony of this
war on the battlefield, in the trenches, amidst the lurking dangers of the sea, or with the bereaved women and
the pitiful children, before you will come forward to do
your duty and give some part of your life, in easy, peaceful fashion, for the things we are fighting for, the things
we have pledged our fortunes, our lives, our sacred honor
to vindicate and defend-liberty and justice and fair
dealing and the peace of nations? Of course you will
not.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

"It is inconceivable. Your patriotism is of the same
self-denying stuff as the patriotism of the men dead or
maimed on the fields of France, or else it is no patriotism
at all.
"Let us never speak, then, of profits and of patriotism
in the same sentence, but face facts and meet them.
"Let us do sound business, but not in the midst of a
mist.. Many a grievous burden of taxation will be laid
on this Nation, in this generation and in the next, to pay
for this war. Let us see to it that for every dollar that
is taken from the people's pockets it shall be possible to
obtain a dollar's worth of the sound stuffs they need."
Public Papers of Woodrow Wilson, Vol. 3, pp. 75-6;
55 Cong. Rec. 4995.
Mr. Justice Holmes has said that "Men must turn
square corners when they deal with the Government."
Rock Island, A. & L. R. Co. v. United States, 254 U. S.
141, 143. His admonition has particular relevance when
this Court is called upon to enforce agreements made
with the Government at war for the production of supplies essential to the prosecution of the war. During
wartime the bargaining position of Government contracting officers is inherently weak, no matter how conscientious they may be. If they are to deal on equal terms
with private contractors, particularly where the subject
matter of contracts is so intricate and so specialized as
the building of ships, they must have available to them
not only detailed information but also the time within
which to study the data and the freedopn to exercise a
real choice. In the last war, at least, this was not generally true. See Sen. Rep. No. 944, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pt. 4, p. 30. It is not difficult in these days to appreciate
the position of negotiators for the Government in time
of war and to realize how much the pressures of war deprive them of equality of bargaining power in situations
where bargaining with private contractors is the only
practicable means of securing necessary war supplies.

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

FRANKFuE
aR,

J., dissenting.

Because the Government is in such a dependent position,
and because those who deal with it on a cost-plus arrangement, or some similar basis, are assured of a profit, it
is wholly consistent with practicalities and makes no unduly idealistic demand for the law to judge the arrangements of such wartime contractors by standards not
unlike those by which a fiduciary's conduct is judged.
Those upon whom the Nation is dependent for its supplies
in the defense of its life would hardly wish to be judged by
lower standards.
The modes are vast and varied by which the Nation
obtains its war supplies. What will best supply war needs
in amplest measure in the quickest time and least wastefully-whether by private letting and, if so, under what
restrictions and safeguards; under what circumstances the
Government should do its own supplying either by taking
over old plants or building new ones or a combination of
the two; to what extent and through wbat means peacetime habits and traditions may be displaced and disregarded-these are questions of policy for the wisdom and
responsibility of the Congress and the Executive. The
very limited scope of inquiry to which a litigation on a
particular transaction is confined is hardly the basis for
judgment on such far-flung issues. If the history of this
Court permits one generalization above all others, it is the
unwisdom of entering the domain of policy outside the very
narrow legal limits presented by the record of a particular
litigation. Such intrusion into the executive and legislative domains is not conducive to the just disposition of
the immediate controversy. We are much less likely to
go wrong if we do not depart from the well-grooved path
of judicial competence.
This Court should not permit Bethlehem to recover
these unconscionable profits, and thereby "make the court
the instrument of this injustice." Thomas v. Brownville,
Ft. K. & P. R. Co., 109 U. S. 522, 526.
[Over.]

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of Douams,J.

315 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS:

On the point of duress and coercion I thoroughly agree

with the views expressed by MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

and join

in the opinion of the Court. For the reasons stated by
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, the claim that Bethlehem's profits
were unconscionable in the legal sense would likewise
fail.
There is, however, one aspect of the case on which I
take a somewhat different view.
.The United States does not contest here the right of
Bethlehem to retain its "fixed fee" of approximately $12,000,000 for the construction of the ships. The dispute
revolves around an additional sum of $12,000,000 which
Bethlehem claims under the so-called "bonus-for-savings"
provision of the contracts. That provision in the several
contracts was the same except for the amount of the fixed
fee. Thus a typical contract provided: "Should the actual cost be less than the estimated . . . cost . . . the
Contractor shall be allowed as profit on each vessel in addition to said fixed sum for profit of . . . $210,000 one-half
the amount by which such actual cost of each vessel falls
short of the estimated cost . .
I agree that the consummation of the bargain depended
upon the inclusion of this "savings" clause and that in each
instance there was but one contract, not several. My.
view, however, is that each contract was divisible or
severable. ". . . the essential feature of such a contract
is that a portion of the price is by the terms of the agreement set off against a portion of the performance and
made payable for that portion, so that when an apportioned part of the performance has been rendered a debt
for that part immediately arises." Williston on Contracts,
ยง 861 (Rev. Ed.). In other words, the whole performance
of each contract was divided "into two sets'of partial performances, each part of each set being the agreed exchange

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

for a corresponding part of the set of performances to be
rendered by the other promisor." Id., ยง 860A. (1) The
promise of the Fleet Corporation to pay the actual cost
plus the fixed fee was exchanged for Bethlehem's undertaking to construct the ships. (2) The promise of the
Fleet Corporation to pay one-half the amount by which
the actual cost fell short of the estimated cost was exchanged for Bethlehem's promise (which is implied) to
effect the savings by increasing efficiency.
Although I am clear that the contracts would not have
been made but for the inclusion of the "savings" provision,
I do not believe that there is a "necessary dependency"
between these two sets of promises within the rule of
Philadelphia, W. & B. R. Co. v. Howard, 13 How. 307,
339. And see Pollak v. Brush Electric Assn., 128 U. S.
446, 455; Fullmer v. Poust, 155 Pa. 275, 278, 26 A. 543;
Restatement, Contracts, ยง 266 (3). Precedents, to be
sure, are of little aid since each case turns on its special
circumstances. But the construction of divisibility seems
warranted by the facts, though here as in other cases
considerable reliance must be placed on implications.
Bethlehem's argument against divisibility rests on such
testimony of Piez, who represented the Fleet Corporation,
as follows: "The price had to be placed for actual cost, if
we knew the cost, plus an allowance for contingencies, plus
an allowance for incentive, plus the fee. So we start out
with the bare cost; then in order to meet any contingencies
that may happen, add some allowance for contingencies;
in order to give a proper incentive, add an incentive allowance; and then add the fee." That is to say the "savings"
clause was deemed to be valuable from the Fleet Corporation's viewpoint as an "incentive" to keep the costs down
and to expedite the work. And Powell, the author of
the "savings" clause in this case and the representative of
Bethlehem, testified that the savings to be obtained would

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of DoucLAs, J.

315 U. S.

be sufficient to "wipe out the excess profits taxes," so that
the fixed fee would be "net" to Bethlehem.
But Powell's testimony also indicated that while the
"savings" clause was an "incentive," Bethlehem was to
earn the "savings":
"Q. Then I take it that one of your great problems, as
the driving force of this organization, was to improve
your labor conditions, or first to prevent labor conditions
from getting worse and then to try to improve them?
"A. Yes.
"Q. Over what they were in December of 1917?
"A. Yes.
"Q. And if you were able to do that, then there was a
possibility of some profit in these contracts under the half
savings clause?
"A. Yes.
"Q. Was there any likelihood, or did .you at that time
foresee any likelihood, of any substantial saving in your

material items?
"A. No, I should not have expected at that time to make
any saving of any amount in the materials.
"Q. So that, if Bethlehem was to make any money out
of these contracts in excess of the fixed fee, it was your
judgment that the only way to do it was by increasing the
efficiency of the yards?
"A. Exactly."
Powell also testified:
"The estimate was a figure which we had to shoot at
that in my judgment gave us a reasonable profit or a
chance of making a substantial saving. To make that
saving, we had to operate more efficiently than what we
might say was average efficiency under conditions that
then existed. If we were going to make that saving, we
had to overcome any increased cost due to decreased efficiency, and increase efficiency beyond what it was at that
time."

U. S. v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP.
289

Opinion of

DoUGASs,

J.

And Piez testified that the provision was to give the
shipbuilders an "incentive" to "use their ingenuity to
make a larger profit."
The Special Master found that the estimates designated
as "base prices" in the contracts "would afford Bethlehem
a reasonable opportunity to effect 'savings' as a result of
its efforts and ability to increase efficiency of management
and labor as compared with average efficiency then existing." He also found that "it was understood that participation in 'savings' was supposed to represent a bonus or
additinal compensation to be earned by Bethlehem as
consideration for its special efforts and ability to reduce
cost by increasing efficiency of management and labor as
compared with efficiency then existing." Yet he further
found that "Bethlehem was to participate in savings however earned, but expected to produce savings by increased
efficiency."
My difficulty is with that last finding. If Bethlehem
was to share half of the savings "however earned," then its
right to receive the bonus might well depend on a wholly
fortuitous circumstance or it might accrue as petitioner
suggests "simply as a reward for the inaccuracy of its estimate of actual costs." Under that view Bethlehem would
be entitled to $12,000,000 additional compensation merely
because the wholesale price index fell. Yet that would be
tantamount to a gift by public officers of property of the
United States. The same result would follow if the clause
be read as containing merely a "best efforts" provision.
The contract already provided that Bethlehem "in all its
acts hereunder, shall use its best efforts to protect and
subserve the interest of the Owner." Even in the absence
of such a provision, one would be implied. United States
v. A. Bentley & Sons Co., 293 F. 229, 235; United States v.
George A. Fuller Co., 296 F. 178, 180. Hence it is difficult
for me to imply that this additional $12,000,000 was offered as a reward for performing an obligation which the

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of' DourAS, J.

315 U. S.

law would impose on the contractor in any event. Burke
& James, Inc. v. United States, 63 Ct. Cls. 36, 57. That,
too, would be a grant of public funds for which the United
States would receive no quid pro quo.
Hence it seems more reasonable to imply that Bethlehem was to render an additional performance for the additional compensation of $12,000,000: Such a construction
of the contracts avoids the difficulties I have mentioned,
as it gives the United States a quid pro quo for its promise
to pay an additional $12,000,000. Cf. Dayton Airplane
Co. v. United States, 21 F. 2d 673, 682-683. And it is supported by the testimony of the representatives of the two
contracting parties who negotiated the contracts.
In that view of the matter, Bethlehem would be put to
its proof that it effected the savings which it now claims.
Mere guesswork would not be enough. J. J. Preis & Co. v.
UnitedStates, 58 Ct. Cls. 81, 86. Precise proof of each dollar saved might not be possible. But a reasonable approximation of Bethlehem's contribution to the savings
would be necessary. Such burden of proof has been sustained in other cases involving similar contracts. Cohen,
Endel & Co. v. United States, 60 Ct. Cls. 513; F. Jacobson & Sons v. United States, 61 Ct. Cls. 420. The Circuit
Court of Appeals stated that there was "some evidence
tending to show that savings resulted, in part at least, from
increased efficiency." 113 F. 2d 301, 307. But there was
no clear showing that special efforts were made to reduce
costs and that the savings which resulted were traceable
to such efforts. The necessary findings on that issue were
not made.

