BUTLER BROS. v. McCOLGAN.
495

Syllabus.

reliance on Powell Brothers Truck Lines, Inc., 9 M. C. C.
785, 791-792, which we have discussed in United States
v. CarolinaFreight CarriersCorp., supra, and which ap-

parently treats irregular route carriers differently in this
regard from regular route carriers. Since the influence
of that view seems to have permeated the findings, we
conclude that here, as in United States v. Carolina
Freight Carriers Corp., supra, the case should be remanded to the Commission so that the basic or essential
findings required under the rule of Florida v. United
States, 282 U. S. 194, 215, may be made.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
dissent for the reasons stated in their dissenting opinion
in United States v. CarolinaFreight CarriersCorp., ante,

p. 475.
BUTLER BROTHERS v. McCOLGAN, FRANCHISE
TAX COMMISSIONER OF CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 283.

Argued February 12, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. In the application of a state statute imposing on corporations
doing business within and without the State a franchise tax measured by a percentage of the net income derived from business
within the State, a formula which is "fairly calculated" to allocate
to the State that portion of the net income "reasonably attributable" to the business done there sntisfies the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 506.
2. One who attacks a formula for determining, under a taxing statute,
the amounV of net income allocable to the State, has the burden
of showing by clear and cogent evidence that it results in extraterritorial values being taxed. P. 507.
3. A wholesale merchandise corporation operated, as a unitary business, stores in several States, including one in California. It
maintained a central buying division which served all the stores.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

315 U. S.

.In 1935, it had a substantial profit, although the California store,
on a separate accounting basis, showed a loss. The tax commissioner of California allocated to that State a percentage of the
net income, and based thereon a tax under the state Bank and
Corporation Franchise Tax Act. That percentage was determined
by averaging the percentages which (a) value of real and tangible
personal property, (b) wages, salaries, commissions and other
compensation of employees, and (c) gross sales, less returns and
allowances, attributable to the California store bore to the corresponding items of all the stores. Held:
(1) That the formula of apportionment did not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 506.
(2) The fact that the accounting system of the California
branch attributed no net income to that State did, not prove that
the tax was on extra-territorial values, since accounting practices
for income statements may vary considerably according to the
problem at hand; and a particular accounting system, though
useful or necessary as a business aid, may not fit the different
requirements when a State seeks to tax values created by business
within its borders. P. 507.
4. The ruling in Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317, relative to lack
of due process where a state supreme court finally disposed of a
case on a new point against which the defeated party had had no
opportunity or occasion to make defense, held inapplicable to the
situation in the case at bar, in which it was claimed that the
appellate court departed from provisions of the stipulation of
facts upon which the case was tried. P. 510.
17 Cal. 2d 664, .111 P. 2d 334, affirmed.

from the affirmance of a judgment against the
appellant in a suit to recover the amount of a state tax.
* APPEAL

Mr. Leland K. Neeves, with whom Mr. James S.
Moore, Jr. was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Valentine Brookes, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Messrs. Earl Warren, Attorney
General, and H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General,
were on the brief, for appellee.

BUTLER BROS. v. McCOLGAN.
501

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal (Judicial Code § 237 (a), 28 U. S. C.
§ 344 (a)) from a final judgment of the Supreme Court of
California sustaining the validity of a statute of California
against the claim that as construed and applied to appellant it violated the Fourteenth Amendment. 17 Cal. 2d
664, 111 P. 2d 334. The statute in question is the Bank
and Corporation Franchise Tax Act. 2 Gen. L., Act 8488,
p. 3851; Stat. 1929, p. 19; amended, Stat. 1931, p. 2226;
Stat. 1935, p. 965. Sec. 4 (3) of that Act provides for an
annual corporate franchise t ,x payable by a corporation
doing business within the State. The tax is measured by
the corporation's net income and is at the rate of four per
cent "upon the basis of its net income" for the preceding
year. The minimum annual tax is $25. Sec. 10 prescribes
the method for computing the net income on which the tax
is laid. It provides in part:
"If the entire business of the bank or corporation is done
within this State, the tax shall be according to or measured
by its entire net income; and if the entire business of.such
bank or corporation is not dorle within this State, the tax
shall be according to or measured by that portion thereof
which is derived from business done within this State. The
portion of net income derived from business done within
this State, shall be determined by an allocation upon the
basis of sales, purchases, expenses of manufacturer, pay
roll, value and situs of tangible property, or by reference to
these or other factors, or by such other method of allocation
as is fairly calculated to assign to the State the portion of
net income reasonably attributable to the business done
within this State and to avoid subjecting the taxpayer to
double taxation."
The tax in dispute is for the calendar year 1936. Appellant paid the minimum tax of $25, asserting that it operated

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

in California during 1935 at a loss of $82,851. The tax
commissioner made an additional assessment of $3,798.43
which appellant paid, together with interest, under protest. This suit was brought to recover back the amount so
paid on the theory that the method of allocation employed
by the tax commissioner attributed to California income
derived wholly from business done without that State.
The facts are stipulated and show the following. Appellant is an Illinois corporation qualified to do business
in California. Its home office is in Chicago, Illinois. It
is engaged in the wholesale dry goods and general merchandise business, purchasing from manufacturers and
others and selling to retailers only. It has wholesale distributing houses in seven states, including one at San
Francisco, California. Each of its houses in the seven
states maintains stocks of goods, serves a separate territory, has its own sales force, handles its own sales and all
solicitation, credit and collection arrangements in connection therewith, and keeps its own books of account. For
the period in question, all receipts from sales in California
were credited to the San Francisco house. Appellant
maintains a central buying' division through which goods
for resale are ordered, the goods being shipped by manufacturers to the houses for which they are ordered. All
purchases made by appellant for sale at its various houses
are made through that central buying division. The cost
of the gbods and the transportation charges are entered on
the books of the house which receives the goods. No
charges are made against any house for the benefit of appellant or any of its other houses by reason of the centralized purchasing. But the actual cost of operating the centralized buying division is allocated among the houses.
The greater part of appellant's other operating expenses is
incurred directly and exclusively at the respective houses.
Certain items of expense are incurred and paid by appel-

BUTLER BROS. v. McCOLGAN.
501

Opinion of the Court.

lant for the benefit of all the houses and allocated to them.
No question exists as to the accuracy of the amounts of
such expense or the method of allocation. The latter
admittedly followed recognized accounting principles.
For the year 1935 the amount of such allocated expense
charged to the San Francisco house was $100,091. For
purposes of this suit it was agreed that approximately
75% of that amount would have been incurred even
though the San Francisco house was not operated. The
accuracy and propriety of the basis of allocation of those
common expenses for 1935 were admitted. Included in
such expenses were executive salaries, certain accounting
expenses, the cost of operating a central buying division,
and a central advertising division. Except for such common expenses, each house is operated independently of
each other house. Appellant computed its income from
the San Francisco house for the period in question by
deducting from the gross receipts from sales in California
the cost of such merchandise, the direct expense of the
San Francisco house, and-the indirect expense allocated to
it. By that computation a loss of $82,851 was determined. In the year 1935, the operations of all houses of
appellant produced a profit of $1,149,677. The tax commissioner allocated to California 8.1372 per cent. of that
amount. That percentage was determined by averaging
the percentages which (a) value of real and tangible per-.
sonal property, (b) wages, salaries, commissions and other
compensation of employees, and, (c) gross sales, less returns and allowances, attributable to the San Francisco
house bore to the corresponding items of all houses of
appellant. No other factor or method of allocation was
considered. The propriety of the use of that formula is
not questioned if by reason of the stipulated facts a formula for allocation to California of a portion of appellant's
income from all sources is proper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

The stipulation also states that, in the year 1935, the
total sales made by appellant at all its houses amounted
to $66,326,000, of which $5,206,000 were made by the
San Francisco house. The purchases made for the account of that house were substantially in the same proportion to total purchases. By reason of the volume of
purchases made by appellant, "more favorable prices
are obtained than would be obtainable in respect of purchases for the account of any individual house."
The
addition of purchases "in an amount equal to the purchases made for the account of the San Francisco house
results in no more favorable prices than could be obtainable in respect of purchases in an amount equal to
the purchases which would be made" by appellant for
its other houses if the San Francisco house was not in
existence; and "a reduction in the volume of purchases
in an amount equal to the purchases made for the San
Francisco house would result in no less favorable prices
being obtainable in respect of the purchases which would
be made for the remaining houses" of appellant.
Hans Rees' Sons v. North Carolina,283 U. S. 123, constitutes appellant's chief support in its attack on the
formula employed and the tax imposed by California.
Appellant maintains that the use of the formula in question resulted in converting a loss of $82,851 into a profit
of over $93,500 and that the difference of some $175,000
has either been created out of .nothing or has been appropriated by California from other states.
We take a different view. We read the statute as
calling for a method of allocation which is "fairly calculated" to assign to California that portion of the net
income "reasonably attributable" to the business done
there. The test, not here challenged, which has been
reflected in prior decisions of this Court, is certainly not
more exacting. Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd. v. Tax
Commission, 266 U. S. 271; Ford Motor Co. v. Beau-

BUTLER BROS. v. McCOLGAN.
501

Opinion of the Court.

champ, 308 U. S. 331. Hence, if the formula which was
employed meets those standards, any constitutional question arising under the Fourteenth Amendment' is at an
end.
.One who attacks a formula of apportionment carries
a distinct burden of showing by "clear and cogent evidence" that it results in extraterritorial values being
taxed. See Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. North Carolina, 297 U. S.682, 688. This Court held in Hans Rees'
Sons v. North Carolina,supra,p. 135, that that burden had
been maintained on a showing by the taxpayer that "in
any aspect of the evidence" its income attributable to
North Carolina was "out of all appropriate proportion to
the business" transacted by the taxpayer in that State.
No such showing has been made here.
It is true that appellant's separate accounting system
for its San Francisco branch attributed no net income
to California. But we need not impeach the integrity
of that accounting system to say that it does not prove
appellant's assertion that extraterritorial values are being taxed. Accounting practices for income statements
may vary considerably according to the problem at hand.
Sanders, Hatfield & Moore, A Statement of Accounting
sysPrinciples (1938), p. 26. A particular accounting
tem, though useful or necessary as a business aid, may
not fit the different requirements when a State seeks to
tax values created by business within its borders. Cf.
Hamilton, Cost as a Standard for Price, 4 Law & Contemporary Problems 321. That may be due to the fact,
as stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis in Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113, 121, that a
State in attempting to place upon a business extending
into several States "its fair share of the burden of taxation" is "faced with the impossibility of allocating specifically the profits earned by the processes conducted
within its borders." Furthermore, the particular system

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

used may not reveal the facts basic to the State's determination. Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton, Ltd. v. Tax Commission, supra, p. 283. In either aspect of the matter,
the results of the accounting system employed by appellant do not impeach the validity or propriety of the
formula which California has applied here.
At least since Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194,
this Court has recognized that unity of use and management of a busiress which is scattered through several States
may be considered when a State attempts to impose a tax
on an apportionment basis. As stated in Hans Rees' Sons
v. North Carolina,supra,p. 133, "... the enterprise of a corporation which manufactures and sells its manufactured
product is ordinarily a unitary business, and all the factors
in that enterprise are essential to the realization of profits."
And see Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton,Ltd. v. Tax Commission,
srupra, p,282. By the same token, California may properly treat appellant's business as a unitary one. Cf. Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjean, 301 U. S.412.
There is unity of ownership and management. And the
operation of the central buying division alone demonstrates that functionally the various branches are closely
integrated. Admittedly, centralized purchasing results in
more favorable prices being obtained than if the purchases
were separately made for the account of any one branch.
What the savings were and what portion is fairly attributable to the volume contributed by the San Francisco
branch do not appear. But the concession that a reduction or addition of purchases "in an amount equal to the
purchases made for the San Francisco house" would not
result in higher or lower purchase prices respectively does
not aid appellant's case. There is no justification on this
record for singling out the San Francisco branch rather
than another and concluding that it made no contribution
to those savings. As aptly stated by the Supreme Court
of California, "If the omission of the California sales would

BUTLER BROS. v. McCOLGAN.
501

Opinion of the Court.

have no effect on the purchasing power, the omission of
sales in an equal amount wherever made would likewise
have no effect on the company's ability to purchase at a
saving. Thus, by proceeding in turn from state to state, it
could be shown that none of the sales in any of the states
should be credited with the income resulting from the purchasing of goods in large quantities." Nor are there any
facts shown which permit the conclusion that the other
advantages of centralized management (Great Atlantic &
Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjea, supra) are attributable to
other branches but not to the one in California. The fact
of the matter is that appellant has not shown the precise
sources of its net income of $1,149,677. If factors which
are responsible for that net income are present in other
States but not present in California, they have not been
revealed. At least in absence of that proof, California was
justified in assuming that the San Francisco branch contributed its aliquot share to the advantages of centralized
management of this unitary enterprise and to the net
income earned.
We cannot say that property, pay roll, and sales are inappropriate ingredients of an apportionment formula. We
agree with the Supreme Court of California that these factors may properly be deemed to reflect "the relative contribution of the activities in the various states to the production of the total unitary income," so as to allocate to
California its just proportion of the profits earned by appellant from this unitary business. And no showing has
been made that income unconnected with the unitary
business has been used in the formula.
The stipulation of facts states that, if "the Court deems
that it is bound by any inference or presumption respecting
the assessment made by the Commissioner, or that this
stipulation fails to establish any fact necessary to a decision, the case shall be reopened for the taking of further
proofs in respect therf." Appellant in its petition for

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

rehearing before the Supreme Court of California relied on
that part of the stipulation in urging that the cause be remanded for a further hearing since that Court concluded
that "appellant has not furnished any explanation of why
its California business differs so from the average that the
formula produced an erroneous result." The petition for
rehearing was denied. Appellant now asserts that it has
been denied procedural due process under the rule of
Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317. We do not agree. The
Supreme Court of California created no innovation and
sprung no surprise when it placed on appellant the burden
of establishing that the formula taxed extraterritorial
values. As we have noted, that is settldd doctrine. Appellant had a full opportunity to be heard on the issues which
it tendered.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT (F APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 238.

Argued February 2, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. Under §§ 801 and 802 of Title VIII of the Social Security Act, an
employer is required to collect the tax laid on the wage incomes of
his employees, but is liable for its payment whether or not he collects
it. P. 515.
2. This liability of the employer is a tax, and a claim thereon is entitled to priority as for a tax under § 64 (a) (4) of the Bankruptcy
Act. P. 515.
3. A tax for the purposes of § 64 (a) (4) of the Bankruptcy Act includes any pecuniary burden upon individuals or property for the
purpose of supporting the Government. P. 515.
*Together with No. 251, New York v. United States, also on writ of
certiorari, 314 U. S. 592, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

