OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

mand to the Board to ascertain the fair market value is not
necessary. Accordingly, the judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

did not participate in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SOUTHWEST CONSOLIDATED
CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 286.

Argued January 14, 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

1. Pursuant to a plan of creditors, the indenture securing bonds of
an insolvent corporation was foreclosed and its properties transferred to a new corporation in exchange for common stock and
stock purchase warrants of the latter, the common stock going
mostly to bondholders of the old corporation, but a small portion
of it, together with part of the warrants, to the old corporation's
participating unsecured creditors, the other warrants going to the
old corporation's preferrcd and common stockholders. Its nonparticipating security holders were paid cash, which was obtained
in the course of the transaction by means of a loan from a bank
which the new corporation later assumed and paid. Held, that
the transaction is not a "reorganization" under § 112 (g) (1) of
the Revenue Act of 1934. P. 198.
To constitute a "reorganization" under clause B of that section,
the assets of the transferor corporation must be acquired solely
for voting stock of the transferee. Voting stock plus some other
consideration does not meet the statutory requirement.
2. The provision of the Revenue Act of 1934, § 112 (g) (1) (B), as
amended retroactively by the Revenue Act of 1939, that in
determining whether an exchange is solely for voting stock "the
assumption by the acquiring corporation of a liability of the other
or the fact that property acquired is subject to a liability, shal
be disregarded," is inapplicable to an indebtedness arising out of
the reorganization, such as the bank loan described supra, as dis-

HELVERING v. SOUTHWEST CORP.
194

Opinion of the Court.

tinguished from a debt of the transferor antedating the transaction.
P. 198.
3. Warrants entitling the holder to buy voting common stock at so
much per share are not "voting stock" within the meaning of § 112
(g) (1) (B) of the Revenue Act of 1934. P. 200.
4. Under clause C of § 112 (g) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1934,
which requires that immediately after the transfer the transferor
or its stockholders or both be in control of the transferee corporation, and § 112 (h) which defines "control," there is no reorganization where at the critical date control is in creditors of the old
corporation by virtue of shares issued to them by the new corporation. P. 201.
5. "Recapitalization" within the meaning of clause D of § 112 (g),
supra, implies a reshuffling of a capital structure within the framework of an existing corporation, and a transaction which shifts
the ownership of the proprietary interest in the corporation is not
"a mere change in identity, form, or place of organization" within
the meaning of clause E. P. 202.
119 F. 2d 561, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 598, to review a judgment which
affirmed a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals overruling deficiency assessments.

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. J. Louis Monarch and Samuel

H. Levy were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. Chauncey Newlin, with whom Mr. Fred Simon
was on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Walter J. Brobyn, Edgar J. Goodrich, and Neil
Burkinshaw filed a brief, as amici curiae, urging
affirmance.
MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The primary problem in this case is whether the transaction in question qualified as a "reorganization" under
§ 112 (g) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1934. 48 Stat. 680,
705. Sec. 112 (g) provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

"As used in this section and section 113"(1) The term 'reorganization' means (A) a statutory
merger or consolidation, or (B) the acquisition by one
corporation in exchange solely for all or a part of its voting
stock: of at least 80 per centum of the voting stock and
at least 80 per centum of the total number of shares of all
other classes of stock of another corporation; or of substantially all the properties of another corporation, or
(C) a transfer by a corporation of all or a part of its assets
to another corporation if immediately after the transfer
the transferor or its stockholders or both are in control of
the corporation to which the assets are transferred, or
(D) a recapitalization, or (E) a mere change in identity,
form, or place of organizatic.n, however effected."
Respondent filed an income and excess profits tax return
for a part of the year 1934 and for the entire year 1935, reporting a net loss for each year. Petitioner, in determining deficiencies, made certain adjustments on the theory
that the acquisition by respondent in 1934 of all of the
assets of its predecessor, Southwest Gas Utilities Corp.,
was not a "reorganization" as defined in § 112 (g) (1). The
cost basis of the assets in the hands of the old corporation
had been about $9,000,000. They were purchased at forec]osure and receivership sales for $752,000. Respondent
used the former figure as the basis in computing gains and
losses on the acquired assets. Thus it deducted some
$75,000 as bad debts. Petitioner, in using the lower figure
as the basis, allowed that deduction only to the extent of
$1.26. Deficiencies computed on that theory showed a
net income, rather than a net loss, for each year. The
Board of Tax Appeals rejected the Commissioner's view.,
'The petition for review by the taxpayer contended that this trans-

action was a "reorganization" within the purview of § 112 (g) (I), and
therefore that the carry-over basis provided in § 113 (a) (7) was
applicable. No other issues were raised or considered by the Board
or the court below. We pass only on that question, leaving open such

other questions as may be appropriately presented to the Board.

HELVERING v. SOUTHWEST CORP.
194

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed thejudgment of the
Board. 119 F. 2d 561.
The old corporation was burdened with some $2,870,000
face amount of first lien bonds, certain unsecured claims,
and issues of preferred and common stock. There was a
default in interest on the bonds in May, 1932. A bondholders' committee was formed, which obtained the deposit of about 85% of the bonds outstanding. Members
of the committee became directors of the old corporation
and, beginning in the fall of 1932, were in control of it.
In 1934, equity receivers were appointed by the Delaware
chancery court. A plan of reorganization was formulated,
which was approved by the court. The plan called for the
formation of a new company which would acquire the
assets of the old in exchange for voting common stock and
Class A and Class B stock purchase warrants. Most of
the common stock, issued under the plan, was to go to the
bondholders; a small portion, together with the Class A
warrants, was to be issued to the unsecured creditors.
Class B warrants were to be issued to the preferred and
common stockholders. Pursuant to the plan and a court
order, the assets securing the bonds were sold by the indenture trustee at a foreclosure sale in 1934. They were
bid in by the bondholders' committee for $660,000. The
unpledged assets also were sold at public auction and were
bought in by the committee for $92,000. Respondent
was thereupon formed, and the committee transferred all
the assets of the old corporation to it. The Board found
that the fair market value of the assets at that time was
$1,766,694.98. The stock and warrants of respondent
were distributed pursuant to the plan. Non-participating security holders, owning $40,000 face amount of
obligations, received about $106,680 in cash. The cash
necessary to make this payment was obtained by a loan
from a bank. The loan was assumed by the respondent
and later repaid by it. About 49,300 shares of common

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

stock and 2,760 Class A warrants were issued to the creditors; over 18,445 Class B warrants were issued to the
stockholders. Class A warrants carried the right to buy
one share of common stock at $6 a share during 1934, the
price being increased $1 per share each year until expiration in 1938. Class B warrants carried the same right
except that the price was $10 a share during 1934 and was
increased by $5 per share each year until expiration in
1938. There were 1,760 Class A warrants and 4,623 of the
Class B warrants exercised. On the basis of the fair market value of the assets at the time they were acquired in
the reorganization, respondent computes that the Class A
warrants had a value of $29 each and the Class B warrants
a value of $25 each.
Under the statute involved in Helvering v. Alabama
Asphaltic Limestone Co., ante, p. 179, there would have
been a "reorganization" here. For, the creditors of the
old company had acquired substantially the entire proprietary interest of the old stockholders. See Helvering
v. Minnesota Tea Co., 296 U. S. 378. But clause B of
§ 112 (g) (1) of the 1934 Act effects an important change
as respects transactions whereby one corporation acquires
substantially all of the assets of another. See S. Rep. No.
558, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., Committee Reports, -Revenue
Acts 1913-1938, pp. 598-599. The continuity of interest
test is made much stricter. See Paul, Studies in Federal
Taxation (3d Series), pp. 36-41. Congress has provided
that the assets of the transferor corporation must be acquired in exchange "solely" for "voting stock" of the transferee. "Solely" leaves no leeway. Voting stock plus
some other consideration does not meet the statutory requirement. See Hendricks, Developments in the Taxation
of Reorganizations, 34 Col. L. Rev. 1198, 1202-1203. Congress, however, in 1939 amended clause B of § 112 (g) (1)
by adding, "but in determining whether the exchange is
solely for voting stock the assumption by the acquiring

HELVERING v. SOUTHWEST CORP.
194

Opinion of the Court.

corporation of a liability of the other, or the fact that property acquired is subject to a liability, shall be disregarded."
53 Stat. 871. That amendment was made to avoid the
consequences of United States v. Hendler, 303 U. S. 564.
See H. Rep. No. 855, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 18-20; S.
Rep. No. 648, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3. And it was made
retroactive so as to include the 1934 Act. 53 Stat. 872.
But, with that exception, the requirements of § 112 (g)
(1) (B) are not met if properties are acquired in exchange
for a consideration other than, or in addition to, voting
stock. Under that test, this transaction fails to qualify
as a "reorganization" under clause B.
In the first place, security holders of the old company
owning $440,000 face amount of obligatioiis were paid off
in cash. That cash was raised, during the reorganizatior,
on a loan from a bank. Since that loan was assumed by
respondent, it is argued that the requirement of clause B,
as amended in 1939, was satisfied. But, in substance, the
transaction was precisely the same as if respondent had
paid cash plus voting stock for the properties' We search
the legislative history of the 1939 amendment in vain for
any indication that it was designed to do more than to
alter the rule of the Hendler case. That case dealt with
a situation where an indebtedness which antedated the
transaction in question was assumed by the transferee.
There the debt assumed clearly was a "liability of the
other" corporation. The situation here is quite different.
The rights of the security holders against the old corporation were drastically altered by the sale made pursuant to the plan. The sale not only removed the lien
from the property and altered the rights of security holders
in it; it also limited and defined the rights of the individual creditors if they elected to take cash rather than
participate in the plan. See Weiner, Conflicting Functions of the Upset Price, 27 Col. L. Rev. 132, 137-138.
In Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., supra,

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

ante, p. 179, we regarded the several steps in a reorganization as mere "intermediate procedural devices utilized
to enable the new corporation to acquire all the assets
of the old one pursuant to a single reorganization plan."
Under that approach, part of the consideration which
respondent paid for the properties of its predecessor was
cash in the amount of about $106,680. The fact that it
was paid to the bank, rather than to the old corporation
or its creditors, is immaterial. The requirement to pay
cash arose out of the reorganization itself. It derived, as
did the requirement to pay stock, from the plan pursuant
to which the properties were acquired. It was a necessary
incident of the court decree which wiped out the liability
of the old corporation and substituted another one in its
place. Though the liability assumed had its origin in
obligations of the transferor, its nature and amount were
determined and fixed in the reorganization. It therefore
cannot be.labelled as an obligation of the "other" or predecessor corporation within the meaning of the 1939 amendment. Nor can the property be said to have been acquired
"subject to" that liability within the purview of that
amendment. The words "subject to" normally connote,
in legal parlance, an absence of personal obligation. That
seems to be the case here, for the preceding clause of the
amendment covers the case of "assumption."
In the second place, the warrants which were issued
were not "voting stock." Whatever rights a warrant
holder may have "to require the obligor corporation to
maintain the integrity of the shares" covered by the warrants (see Berle, Studies in the Law of Corporation Finance (1928), pp. 136-142), he is not a shareholder. Gay
v. Burgess Mills, 30 R. I. 231, 74 A. 714. Cf. Miles v. Safe
Deposit Co., 259 U. S. 247, 252. His rights are wholly
contractual. As stated by Holmes, J., in Parkinson v.
West End Street Ry. Co., 173 Mass. 446, 448, 53 N. E. 891,
892, he "does not become a stockholder by his contract in

HIELVERING v. SOUTHWEST CORP.
194

Opinion of the Court.

equity any more than at law." At times, his rightmay
expire on the consolidation of the obligor corporation with
another. Id. If, at the time he exercises his right, there
are no authorized and unissued shares to satisfy his demand, he will get damages, not specific performance.
Bratten v. CatawissaRailroad Co., 211 Pa. 21, 60 A. 319..
And see Van Allen v. Illinois Central R. Co., 7 Bosw. 515.
Thus, he does not have, and may never acquire, any legal
or equitable rights in shares of stock. Lisman v. Milwaukee, L. S. & W. Ry. Co., 161 F. 472, 480, aff'd 170 F. 1020.
And he cannot assert the rights of a shareholder. See Hills,
Convertible Securities, 19 Calif. L. Rev. 1, 4. Accordingly, the acquisition in this case was not made "solely"
for voting stock.2 And it makes no difference that, in the
long run, the unexercised warrants expired and nothing
but voting stock was outstanding. The critical time is
the date of the exchange. In that posture of the case, it is
no different than if other convertible securities had been
issued, all of which had been converted within the conversion period.
Nor can this transaction qualify as a "reorganization"
under clause C of § 112 (g) (1). That clause requires that,
"immediately after the transfer,"' the "transferor or its
stockholders or both" be in "control" of the transferee corporation. "Control" is defined in § 112 (h) as "the ownership of at least 80 per centum of the voting stock and at
least 80 per centum of the total'number of shares of all
other classes of stock of the corporation." Here, "control"
at the critical date was not in the old corporation or its
"stockholders." The participating creditors had received,
pursuant to the plan, rights to receive over a majority of
the stock of the new company, even though all of the war'The contrary view expressed in a letter by the Commissioner, dated
January 27, 1937 (1937 C. C. H. Vol. 3, Par. 6118), does not have the
status of a formal ruling of the Treasury, nor does it seem to reflect
an established course of administrative construction.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

rants allocated to stockholders had been issued and exercised. The contrary conclusion was reached in Commissioner v. Cement Investors, Inc., 122 F. 2d 380, 384,' on the
theory that the bondholders of the insolvent predecessor
company could be regarded as its "stockholders" within
the meaning of § 112 (g) (1) (C), since they had acquired
an equitable interest in the property and were empowered
to supplant the stockholders. We have adopted that
theory in Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co.,
supra, in determining whether the bondholders had retained a sufficient continuity in interest so as to bring the
transaction within the statutory definition of merger or
consolidation contained in the revenue acts prior to 1934.
But it is one thing to say that the bondholders "stepped
into the shoes of the old stockholders" so as to acquire the
proprietary interest in the insolvent company. It is quite
another to say that they were the "stockholders" of the old
company within the purview of clause C. In the latter,
Congress was describing an existing, specified class of security holders of the transferor corporation. That class, as
we have seen, received a participation in the plan of reorganization. For purposes of clause C, they must be
counted in determining where "control" over the new company lay. They cannot be treated under clause C as something other than "stockholders" of the old company
merely because they acquired a minority interest in the
new one. Indeed, clausd C contemplates that the old corporation or its stockholders, rather than its creditors, shall
be in the dominant position of "control" immediately after
the transfer, and not excluded or relegated to a minority
position. Plainly, the normal pattern of insolvency reorganization does not fit its requirements.
Clause D is likewise inapplicable. There was not that
reshuffling of a capital structure, within the framework of
an existing corporation, contemplated by the term "recapitalization." And a transaction which shifts the owner'No. 644, 316 U.S. 527.

UNITED STATES v. PINK.
Syllabus.

194

ship of the proprietary interest in a corporation is hardly
"a mere change in identity, form, or place of organization"
within the meaning of clause E.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS did not
eration or decision of this case.

participate in the consid-

UNITED STATES v. PINK, SUPERINTENDENT
OF INSURANCE OF THE STATE OF NEW

YORK, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 42. Argued December 15, 1941.-Decided February 2, 1942.
1. The question of the propriety, under New York practice, of
grounding a motion for summary judgment in this case on the
record in Moscow Fire Ins. Co. v. Bank of New York & Trust
Co., 280 N. Y. 286, is one of state law, upon which the decision of
the highest court of the State is final. P. 216.
2. The Moscow case is not res judicata here, since the respondent
was not a party to that suit. P. 216.
3. The affirmance here by an equally divided court of the judgment
in the Moscow case, 309 U. S. 624, although conclusive and binding upon the parties to that controversy, can not be regarded as
an authoritative determination of the principles of law there
involved. P. 216.
4. Judicial notice may here be taken of the record in this Court of
the Moscow case. P. 216.
5. The claim of the United States in this case, based on the Litvinov
Assignment-whereby the Russian Government, incidently to its
recognition by the United States in 1933, assigned certain claims
to the United States-raises a federal question. P. 217.
6. Upon review of a judgment of a state court, this Court will determine independently all questions on which a federal right is
necessarily dependent. P. 217.
7. The determination of what title the United States obtained to the
New York assets of a Russian insurance company, by virtue of
the Litvinov Assignment and the Russian decrees of 1918 and
1919 nationalizing the insurance business, involves questions of

