PALM SPRINGS CORP. v. COMM'R.
179

Counsel for Parties.

regarded under these sections of the revenue acts where
they add nothing of substance to the completed affair.
Gregoryv. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465; Helveringv. Bashford,
302 U. S. 454. Here they were no more than intermediate
procedural devices utilized to enable the new corporation
to acquire all the assets of the old one pursuant to a sifgle
reorganization plan.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

did not participate in the consid-

eration or decision of this case. -

PALM SPRINGS HOLDING CORPORATION v.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 503.

Argued January 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

Pursuant to a plan made by indenture bondholders of an insolvent corporati6n, a new corporation was formed, which acquired
more than one-half of the bond issue in exchange for shares of
its stock issued to bondholder creditors, but none of which was
issued to any present or former stockholder of the old corporation.
for any right of his qua stockholder; and the properties of the.
old corporatlion were bought in and acquired by the new corporation at trustee's foreclosure sale. Held, a "reorganization" within
the meaning of § 112 (i) (1) (A) of the Revenue Act of 1932.
Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., ante, p. 179.
P. 188.
119 F. 2d 846, reversed.

314 U. S. 598, to review a judgment sustaining a deficiency assessment which had been sustained
in part by the Board of Tax Appeals.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. John E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Thomas R.
Dempsey was on the brief, for petitioner.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor General Fahy, and Messrs. J. Louis Monarch and
Samuel H. Levy were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Thomas J. Herbert, Attorney General of Ohio,
filed a brief on behalf of that State, as amicus curiae,
in support of petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case is a companion case to Helvering v. Alabama
Asphaltic Limestone Co., ante, p. 179. This, too, was an
insolvency reorganization, though a different procedure
was employed to consummate it. The old corporation
had outstanding about $300,000 face amount of first mortgage bonds, secured by a lien on its realty. The property,
which was an hotel, was leased to an operating company..
In 1931, as a result of transactions not relevant here,
one Pinney became the sole stockholder of the old corporation and of the operating company. The furniture
and fixtures in the hotel were owned by the operating
company. They were covered by a chattel mortgage
which, together with the lease on the hotel, were assigned
and pledged as part of the security for the bond issue. In
1931, both companies were in financial difficulties and
insolvent, at least in the equity sense. A bondholders'
committee was formed, which received deposits of more
than half of the face amount of the bonds. Petitioner
was formed in 1932. Pursuant to the plan of reorganization, six shares of petitioner's preferred 'stock and four
shares of its common stock were issued to assenting bondholders for each $1000 bond. In addition, all of petitioner's remaining common stock was issued to one Lacoe,
in return for his agreement to pay the costs of incorporating petitioner, up to $1000, and for his agreement to
lend money to petitioner. Before the actual issuance of

PALM SPRINGS CORP. v. COMM'R.
185

Opinion of the Court.

any of the shares, Lacoe agreed to transfer 1,000 shares
of the common stock to Pinney, the sole stockholder of
the two companies, for his services in the reorganization
and as an inducement to him to continue as manager of
the hotel. None of the stock of petitioner, however, was
issued to any stockholder or former stockholder of either
of the companies for any rights any of them had as stockholders. In May, 1932, the indenture trustee declared
the principal of the bonds due and payable. Pursuant to
the terms of the indenture, the trustee sold all of the properties of the old corporation, including the lease and chattel
mortgage, to petitioner, the highest bidder. The bid price
was $61,800. It was satisfied by the payment of about
$18,700 in cash and by the delivery to the trustee of bonds
of a face amount of $292,000 for the balance. Foreclosure
proceedings against the old corporation and the operating
company were then instituted. At the foreclosure sale,
the furniture and fixtures, comprising all of the property
of the operating company, were bought in by petitioner.
The Commissioner, in determining a deficiency in petitioner's income and excess profits tax for the fiscal year
ended May 31, 1936, disallowed depreciation deductions
on both the realty and personal property on the basis
of cost to the old corporation and operating company.1

'Sec. 113 (a) (7) of the 1932 Act (47 Stat. 169, 198) provides in
part:
"(a) BASIS (UNADJUSTED) or PROPERTY.-The basis of property
shall be the cost of such property; except that"(7) TRANSFERS TO CORPORATION WHERE CONTROL, OF PROPERTY REMAINS IN SAME PERSONS.-If the property was acquired after December 31, 1917, by a corporation in connection with a reorganization, and
immediately after the transfer an interest or control in such property
of 50 per centum or more remained in the same persons or any of them,
then the basis shall be the same as it would be in the hands of the-:
transferor, increased in the amount of gain or decreased in the amount

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

He used as the basis the cost of the assets to petitioner
plus the cost of additions. The Board of Tax Appeals
sustained the Commissionet-'s determination with respect
to the personal property but rejected it with respect to
the realty. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the
Commissioner on both points. 119 F. 2d 846.
Though the petition for certiorari raised the question,
petitioner now concedes that the acquisition of the furniture and fixtures from the operating company was not
a "reorganization" within the meaning of § 112 (i) (1) (A)
of the Revenue Act of 1932. So we do not reach that
issue. As respects the assets acquired from the old corporation, we think there was a "reorganization" within the
meaning of § 112 (i) (1) (A) of the 1932 Act. That
provision is the same in the 1932 Act as in the 1928 Act,
which was involved in Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic
Limestone Co., supra. That case is determinative of this
controversy. The transaction fits the literal language of
the statute. The new corporation acquired the assets
directly at the trustee's and the foreclosure sales. The
legal procedure employed by the creditors is not material.
The critical facts are that the old corporation was insolvent
and that its creditors took steps to obtain effective comof loss recognized to the transferor upon such transfer under the law
applicable to the year in which the transfer was made."
That provision is applicable here. See, § 114 (a), § 113 (b), § 113 (a)
(12) of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 680. The property here inVolved was acquired after February 28, 1913, in a taxable year prior
to January 1, 1934, as required by § 113 (a) (12). Respondent argues
that this transaction was not a "reorganization" within the meaning of
§ 113 (a) (7). And he points out that "control" was not in the participating creditors since the majority of the new common stock had
been distributed, for a consideration other than an exchange of bonds,
to Lacoe and Pinney. But he does not contend that, assuming there
was a "reorganization," an "interest" in the property of 50 per cent or
more did not remain in the same persons (the bondholders) immediately after the transfer.

BONDHOLDERS COMMITTEE v. COMM'R. 189
185

Syllabus.

mand over its property. For the reasons stated in Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., supra, the creditors at that time acquired the equivalent of the proprietary
interest of the old equity owner. Accordingly, the continuity of interest test is satisfied.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

BONDHOLDERS COMMITTEE, MARLBOROUGH
INVESTMENT CO., FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS,
v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 128.

Argued January 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

1. Where property formerly owned by an insolvent corporation,
subject to a deed of trust securing bonds, but which it has conveyed to another, is acquired through action of its bondholders
by a newly formed corporation, partly through foreclosure of the
mortgage and partly by purchase for cash from others to whom
the legal title has passed by mesne conveyances, there is no "reorganization" within the meaning of § 112 (i) (1) (A) and (B) of the
Revenue Act of 1932, as between the old and the new corporations-although, pursuant to the plan, all of the stock of the new corporation
is issued to the bondholders of the old-since the property had ceased
to be property of the old corporation. P. 192.
2. Section 113 (a) (7) of the Revenue Act of 1932 authorizes a
carry-over of the basis of the properties in the hands of the transferor, not their basis in the hands of one who may have occupied
an earlier position in the chain of ownership. P. 192.
3. The reorganization provisions here in question cover only intercorporate transactions. P. 193.
'*Together with No. 129, Marlborough House, Inc. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari, 314 U. S. 590,
to the Circuit Court. of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

