HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
386

Syllabus.

of paying a minimum wage to its employees. The tippaying public is entitled to know whom it tips, the redcap or the railroad. A plan like that before us, which
covertly diverts tips from employees for whom the giver
intended them to employers for whom the giver did not
intend them and to whom any kind of tip doubtless would
not have been voluntarily given, seems to me to contain an
element of deception. And I think an interpretation of
the F. L. S. A. which permits employers to benefit from
such a plan does not accord with the meaning of the
language used by Congress.

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 64.

Argued December 12, 1941.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. The procedure adopted by Florida, whereby a person under sentence of imprisonnent or death, who claims that his conviction
resulted from some fundamental unfairness amounting to a denial
of due process of law, may apply to the Supreme Court of the
State, even though that court has affirmed his conviction, for
permission to apply to the trial court for a writ of error coram
nobis, and who thus is afforded a full opportunity to have a jury
pass upon his claim, provided that he first make an adequate
showing of its substantiality, is a procedure which meets the
requirements of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 415.
According to decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida defining
this procedure, a naked allegation that a constitutional right has
been invaded is not sufficient; a petitioner must make a full disclosure of the specific facts relied on, not merely his conclusions
as to the nature and effect of such facts; the proof must enable
the appellate court to "ascertain whether, under settled principles
pertaining to such writ, the facts alleged would afford, at least,
prima facie, just ground for an application to the lower court
for a writ of error coram nobis"; and in the exercise of its
discretion in matters of this sort, the court should look to the

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

reasonableness of the allegations of the petition and to the probability of their truth.
2. A person who, with others, had been convicted of murder in
Florida, and whose sentence of death had been affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, petitioned that court for leave, to
apply to the trial court for a writ of error coram nobis, claiming
that his conviction had been secured by means of false testimony
delivered at the trial by an accomplice who was coerced thereto
by state officials and who, four years later, on the eve of his own
electrocution for participation in the same crime, had made affidavits exonerating the petitioner. The Supreme Court of Florida,
on the basis of the petition and accompanying affidavits and the
records of prior cases arising out of the same crime, concluded
that the petitioner had failed to make the showing of substantiality
which according to the local procedure was necessary in order to
obtain the extraordinary relief furnished by the writ of error
coram nobis; and this Court, upon an independent examination of
the affidavits on which the claim was based, has no doubt that
the finding of insubstantiality was justified. P. 421.
146 Fla. 593, 1 So. 2d 628, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 557, to review a judgment denying a petition for leave to apply to a trial court for a
writ of error coram nobis in a case of murder.
Mr. Carlton C. Arnow, with whom Mr. P. Guy Crews

was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph E. Gillen, Assistant Attorney General of
Florida, with whom Messrs. J. Tom Watson, Attorney
General, and Woodrow M. Melvin were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.

After the Supreme Court of Florida had affirmed his
conviction for murder, the petitioner applied to that court
for leave to ask the trial court to review the judgment of
conviction. The basis of his application was the claim

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

that the testimony of two witnesses implicating him was
perjured, and that they had testified falsely against him
because they were "coerced, intimidated, beaten, threatened with violence and otherwise abused and mistreated"
by the police and were "promised immunity from the electric chair" by the district attorney. After twice considering the matter, the Supreme Court of Florida denied the
application. 146 Fla. 593, 1 So. 2d 628. We brought the
case here, 313 U. S. 557, in view of our solicitude, especially
where life is at stake, for those liberties which are guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The guides for decision are clear. If a state, whether
by the active conduct or the connivance of the prosecution, obtains a conviction through the use of perjured
testimony, it violates civilized standards for the trial
of guilt or innocence and thereby deprives an accused of
liberty without due process of law. Mooney v. Holohan,
294 U. S. 103. Equally offensive to the Constitutional
guarantees of liberty are confessions wrung from an accused by overpowering his will, whether through physical
violence or the more subtle forms of coercion commonly
known as "the third degree." Brown v. Mississippi, 297
U. S. 278; Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S. 227; Lisenba v.
California,314 U. S. 219. In this collateral attack upon
the judgment of conviction, the petitioner bases his claim
on the recantation of one of the witnesses against him.
He cannot, of course, contend that mere recantation of
testimony is in itself ground for invoking the Due Process
Clause against a conviction. However, if Florida through
her responsible officials knowingly used false testimony
which was extorted from a witness "by violence and
torture," one convicted may claim the protection of the
Due Process Clause against a conviction based upon such
testimony.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

And so we come to the circumstances of this case.
On November 25, 1936, as a result of an attempted robbery, John H. Surrency and his wife, Mayme Elizabeth,
were murdered. On December 16, 1936, Hysler was indicted for the murder of John Surrency; he was tried on
January 21, 1937, was convicted on February 12, 1937,
with recommendation of mercy, and was thereafter sentenced to imprisonment for life. On February 3, 1938, his
sentence was affirmed by the Florida Supreme Court.
132 Fla. 200, 181 So. 350. The record in the case was more
than 3000 pages. On January 15, 1937, Hysler, together
with two others, James Baker and Alvin Tyler, was
indicted for the murder of Mrs. Surrency. A severance
having been granted as to Tyler and Baker, Hysler was
placed on trial on March 15, 1937, and on April 5 was
found guilty without recommendation of mercy. On
April 23, 1937, he was sentenced to death. On April 24
he sued out a writ of error to the state Supreme Court,
which on February 3, 1938, sustained the sentence, and
on June 3 denied a rehearing. The record on this second
trial was some 2500 pages. 132 Fla. 209, 181 So. 354.
Surrency kept a restaurant near Jacksonville, and on
the fatal day was returning from one of his regular and
well-known trips to that city to get checks cashed.
Hysler had known Baker in connection with Hysler's
illicit whiskey business. Baker and Tyler were friends.
The principal evidence in both trials against Hysler was
their testimony. They testified with circumstantiality
that Hysler induced them to hold up Surrency, furnished
them a car, a pistol, and some whiskey, gave them detailed
instructions for carrying out the plan, and by prearrangement was in the vicinity of the place of its execution.
While their testimony doubtless was the foundation of
Hysler's convictions, the testimony both of numerous
witnesses and Hysler himself sheds much confirming light

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

on the story told by Baker and Tyler. A careful concurring opinion affirming the conviction now challenged
concluded thus: "From the evidence it is difficult to see or
understand how the jury in the Court below could have
rendered a verdict other than guilty. We have thoroughly considered each assignment and failed to find
error in the trial of the cause in the lower court." 132 Fla.
209, 235, 181 So. 354, 364.
Accordingly, the date for the execution was set by the
Governor of Florida for the week of February 20, 1939.
In the meantime, however, an application for a writ of
habeas corpus by Hysler was made to the Supreme Court
of Florida, partly on the ground of insanity. This was
denied by that Court on February 20, 1939. 136 Fla.
563, 187 So. 261. Tyler broke jail and has apparently remained a fugitive from justice. Baker was tried after
Hysler, was convicted of murder in the first degree, and
sentenced to death. His conviction was affirmed by the
Florida Supreme Court on March 14, 1939, and a rehearing denied on April 11, 1939. 137 Fla. 27, 188 So. 634.
We have now reached the final chapter of this unedifying story in the administration of criminal justice. On
April 10, 1941, more than four years after Hysler's conyiction for the murder of Mrs. Surrency, he petitioned
the Supreme Court of Florida for permission to apply to
-1the Circuit Court of Duval County, Florida (the court
before: which he was originally tried), for writ of error
coram nobis. This common law writ, in its local adaptation, is Florida's response to the requirements of
Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, for the judicial correction of a wrong committed in the administration of
criminal justice and resulting in the deprivation of life
or liberty without due process. See Lamb v. Florida,
91 Fla. 396, 107 So. 535; Skipper v. Schumacher, 124 Fla.
384, 169 So. 58; Jones v. Florida, 130 Fla. 645, 178 So.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

404. In brief, a person in Florida who claims that his
incarceration is due to "failure to observe that fundamental fairness essential to the very concept of justice,"
Lisenba v. California, supra, at p. 236, even after his
sentence has been duly affirmed by the highest court of
the State, has full opportunity to have a jury pass on
such a claim provided he first makes an adequate showing
of the substantiality of his claim to the satisfaction of
the Supreme Court of Florida. The decisions of that
Court show that a naked allegation that a constitutional
right has been invaded is not sufficient. A petitioner
must "make a full disclosure of the specific facts relied
on," and not merely his conclusions "as to the nature and
effect of such facts." The proof must enable the appellate court to "ascertain whether, under settled principles
pertaining to such writ, the facts alleged would afford, at
least prima facie, just ground for an application to the
lower court for a writ of error coram nobis." Washington v. Florida., 92 Fla. 740, 749, 110 So. 259, 262; see
Skipper v. Schumacher, 124 Fla. 384, 405-08, 169 So. 58;
Skipper v. Florida, 127 Fla. 553, 554-55, 173 So. 692.
The latest formulation by the Florida Supreme Court
of its function in considering an application for leave to
apply to the trial court for a writ of error coram nobis
is found in McCall v. Florida, 136 Fla. 349, 350, 186 So.
803 (1939): "In the exercise of its discretion in matters
of this sort the court should look to the reasonableness
of the allegations of the petition and to the existence of
the probability of the truth thereof. This duty we have
met and we are convinced that to grant the petition would
be no less than a trifling with justice."
Such a state procedure of course meets the requirements of the Due Process Clause. Vindication of Constitutional rights under the Due Process Clause does not
demand uniformity of procedure by the forty-eight
States. Each State is free to devise its own way of secur-

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411 '

Opinion of the Court.

ing essential justice in these situations. The Due Process
Clause did not stereotype the means for ascertaining
the truth of a claim that that which duly appears as the
administration of intrinsic justice was such merely in
form, that in fact it was a perversion of justice by the law
officers of the State. Each State may decide for itself
whether, after guilt has been determined by the ordinary
processes of trial and affirmed on appeal, a later challenge to its essential justice must come in the first instance, or even in the last instance, before a bench of
judges rather than before a jury.
Florida then had ample machinery for correcting the
Constitutional wrong of which Hysler complained. But
it remains to consider whether in refusing him relief the
Supreme Court of Florida denied a proper appeal to its
corrective process for protecting a right guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Hysler's claim before the Supreme Court of Florida was
that Baker repudiated his testimony insofar as it implicated Hysler and that he now named another man as the
instigator of the crime. Considering the fact that this
repudiation came four years after leaden-footed justice
had reached the end of the familiar trail of dilatory procedure, and that Baker now pointed to an instigator who
was dead, the Supreme Court of Florida had every right
and the plain duty to scrutinize this repudiation with a
critical eye, in the light of its familiarity with the facts
of this crime as they had been adduced in three trials,
the voluminous records of which had been before that
Court.'
The Florida Supreme Court had before it four affidavits by Baker. The affidavits must be considered here
'In denying Hysler's application, the Supreme Court of Florida specifically stated that it was taking judicial cognizance of its own records.
146 Fla. 593, 594-95, 1 So. 2d 628.

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

as they were before that Court-in their entirety. One
was made on April 7, 1941; the second on April 8 between
six and seven in the evening; another between eightthirty and nine of the same night; the fourth, the next
day. The most striking feature of this series of retractions is that, in his first and spontaneous new account
of the happenings that led to the murders on November
25, 1936, Baker does not attribute to coercion or inducements made by state authorities his testimony at the
trials that Hysler was the instigator of the crimes. On
the contrary, according to Baker's new story, after the
killing of the Surrencys, Tyler and he "agreed between
them while they were in Cracker Swamp in the Marietta
section of Duval County, that they would lay the blame
of the planning of the robbery of the Surrencys upon
Clyde Hysler because they had had considerable liquor
dealings with Clyde Hysler and knew him well, and for
the reason that the Hyslers bore a bad reputation in
Duval County, and for the further reason that Clyde
Hysler's father had plenty of money and they thought
that by laying the planning of the robbery of the Surrencys on Clyde Hysler that his father and his other relatives would put up sufficient money to get Clyde Hysler
out of the trouble and that by laying it on to Clyde
Hysler, that he, James Baker, and Alvin Tyler would
escape the death penalty . . ."
There is no suggestion whatever in this explanation of
what is now claimed to have been a false accusation that
it was induced from without. Baker gives five reasons
for having fixed the blame on Hysler-an explanation to
which he had adhered for more than four years-but all
these reasons make Baker and Tyler the spontaneous concocters of the alleged false charge. It was not until the
next day, that Baker, under leading questions, suggested
that his account of the crime, contemporaneous with it,

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

was induced by the hope of getting "life instead of the
chair." 2 Even in this second affidavit there is no hint
that the prosecutor had any knowledge of the falsity of
his implication of Hysler.3 Only after a third session did
Baker, in an ambiguous reply to another leading question,
convey a suggestion of the prosecutor's knowledge of the
use of force preceding Baker's original testimony. This
2 ,Q.

Then it was a definite promise from Mr. Harrell, the State's

Attorney to keep you from burning?
A. He said that he would see that I would get life, but that he would
see that I didn't stay at the chain gang but three years.
Q. You say he played off sick to keep from prosecuting you?
A. Yes, sir, Mr. Simpson his assistant and Mr. Hallows prosecuting,
the Judge had ordered him to handle the Hysler case straight through,
cause Mr. Hollows was not familiar with the case.
Q. Do you know whether or not Mr. Harrell had gone out of office
and Mr. Hallows had taken office?
A. Yes, sir, I think he had and that was why the Judge wanted him
to carry this thing on through, but I don't be sure.
Q. Is there anything else you want to say along that line about
those threats or beatings?
A. No, sir, that is all I can think of right now."
"'Q. Now what threats or promises did they make you to testify
and implicate Clyde Hysler?
A. Well, Mr. Griffen and them didn't, they didn't make no promises,
Mr. Hulbert did talk to me, that he would get me life imprisonmentlife instead of the chair.
Q. Mr. Hubbert talked to you and made promises that you would
get life instead of the chair?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. What policeA. That's what it was, police officers and John Harrell.
Q. John W. Harrell, the State's Attorney at that time?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Did Mr. Harrell tell you that he would help you get a life sentence if you would testify against Clyde Hysler?
A. He said he wouldn't burn me, that he, Mr. Acosta and Mr.
Carson would get me out in three years time."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

is the only testimony that bears on the complicity of the
prosecutor in the alleged coercion of Baker's testimony:
"Q. Baker do you know whether or not Mr. Harrell
[the State's Attorney] knew if you was beat up to make
you testify?
A. Yes, sir, he knows I couldn't set down, none of the
sheriff's force knew it at the time, they knew it later when
I made it in front all of the officers.
Q. When you made that statement you couldn't set
down?.
A. Yes, sir, and I can't set down good, and I wish you
and those men could see that now.
Q. No, we want care to see-that's all you want to say.
A. (Baker nodding his head indicating yes.)"
In his final affidavit on April 9, Baker returns to the
alleged promise of the State's Attorney that he would not
"burn" him. But there is this time no suggestion that
the prosecutor induced or knew of any false testimony
by Baker.
We have seen that, according to Baker's first statement
on April 7, his attribution of Hysler's responsibility was
spontaneous and uncoerced. The circumstances of the
case reinforce this and cast a proper scepticism upon
Baker's subsequent claims of coercion. According to the
affidavits of the two lawyers who represented Hysler at
his trials, they examined Baker and Tyler "at great
length" in the presence of counsel for the two accomplices
and "said witnesses were particularly questioned as to
who was involved in said case, and said witnesses denied
that anyone was involved in said case other than the defendants named in the indictment; that said witnesses
further denied that any statements previously made by
them to law enforcement officers were made under duress
or with any hope or expectation of reward." And the
present Chief Justice of Florida, in his separate opinion
on Baker's appeal, characterized Baker's confession as

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

"entirely free and voluntary." 137 Fla. 27, 29, 188 So.
634, 635.
In addition to these four affidavits by Baker, there were
four subsidiary affidavits by others. Their want of significance is sufficiently attested by the fact that on the
motion for rehearing of this cause before the Florida Supreme Court, reliance was placed exclusively upon the
Baker affidavits and no reference whatever was made to
these subsidiary affidavits. Nor was reliance upon them
made here.
The essence of Hysler's claim before the Supreme Court
of Florida was that his conviction was secured by unconstitutional means, that Baker was coerced to testify
falsely by responsible state officials. The Court had to
judge the substantiality of this claim on the basis of all
that was before it, namely, the petition with its accompanying affidavits and the records of prior cases arising
out of the same crime. The Court concluded that
Hysler's proof did not make out a prima facie case for
asking the trial court to reconsider its judgment of conviction. However ineptly the Florida Supreme Court
may have formulated the grounds for denying the application, its action leaves no room for doubt that the Court
deemed the petitioner's claim without substantial foundation. We construe its finding that the "petition" did not
show the responsibility of the state officials for the alleged
falsity of Baker's original testimony to mean that the
petitioner had failed to make the showing of substantiality which, according to the local procedure of Florida,
was necessary in order to obtain the extraordinary relief
furnished by the writ of error coram nobis.' And our
'The opinion of the Florida Supreme Court on petitioner's motion
for rehearing states, inter alia, that: "The allegations of the petition
do not show that the prosecuting attorney had any guilty knowledge
of the alleged maltreatment of the witness [Baker], or that the

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

independent examination of the affidavits upon which
his claim was based leaves no doubt that the finding of
insubstantiality was justified. It certainly precludes a
holding that such a finding was not justified.
The State's security in the just administration., of its
criminal law must largely rest upon the competence of
its trial courts. But that does not bar the state Supreme
Court from exercising the vigilance of a hardheaded consideration of appeals to it for upsetting a conviction.
That in the course of four years witnesses die or disappear, that memories fade, that a sense of responsibility
may become attenuated, that repudiations and new incriminations like Baker's on the eve of execution are not
unfamiliar as a means of relieving others or as an
irrational hope for self-these of course are not valid
considerations for relaxing the protection of Constitutional rights. But they are relevant in exercising a hardy
judgment in order to determine whether such a belated
disclosure springs from the impulse for truth-telling or
is the product of self-delusion or artifice prompted by the
instinct of self-preservation.
Our ultimate inquiry is whether the State of Florida
has denied to the petitioner the protection of the Due
Process Clause. The record does not permit the conclusion that Florida has deprived him of his Constitutional
rights.
Petitioner also claims that Florida has denied him the
"equal protection" of its law. This contention is plainly
without substance. If Hysler had been singled out for
invidious treatment by the Florida Supreme Court, he
could properly complain here. Compare Yick Wo v.
alleged falsity of the testimony of the witness Baker was known to
the prosecuting officer. The petition does not show that any alleged
maltreatment of witness was inflicted by any officer of. the trial court
or that same was known to any officer of the trial court." 146 Fla.
593, 594, 1 So. 2d 628.

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; McFarland v. American Sugar
Co., 241 U. S. 79. But it is not a fact that the Florida
Supreme Court has granted such applications in other
cases but not in Hysler's. See, e. g., Skipper v. Florida,
127 Fla. 553, 173 So. 692; McCall v. Florida, 136 Fla. 349,
186 So. 803.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting, with whom
DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur.

MR. JUsTIcE

The application denied by the Supreme Court of Florida
alleges that Tyler and Baker, the accomplices in the murder for which Hysler was convicted, confessed and gave
false testimony against Hysler because they were "coerced,
intimidated, beaten, threatened with violence and otherwise abused and mistreated," and because they were
promised life sentences instead of the electric chair.
Sworn statements of Baker made in a state prison in the
presence of prison officials were presented in support of
these allegations, as, were corroborative affidavits of four
others. Tyler, a fugitive. from justice, is unavailable to
the petitioner as an additional source of verification.
The Florida Supreme Court has stated that the petition
does not assert that "the alleged falsity of the testimony of
the witness Baker was known to the prosecuting officer."
In Mooney v. Holohan,294 U. S. 103, this Court held that
the use by a State of testimony known by its "prosecuting
authorities" to be false is a denial of due process of law.
I do not, however, regard this as a proper occasion to determine whether the rule of Mooney v. Holohan applies only
where the guilty knowledge is that of "the prosecuting
officer" and not any other responsible official. For even
if every representative of the State believed that the confessions of Tyler and Baker were true in every detail, other
allegations of the petitioner make out a denial of due

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

process on independent grounds, upon which the scope of
Mooney v. Holohan has no bearing. In those cases in
which this Court held that a conviction based on confessions wrung from the accused or his accomplices by thirddegree methods was offensive to the guarantees of the due
process clause, there are no indications that the knowledge
of any of the state officials involved as to the truth or
falsity of the confessions was deemed relevant.' And if
the allegations of Hysler's petition are true, that is, if
Tyler and Baker were held incommunicado and tortured
into supplying the controlling testimony at Hysler's trial,
his conviction is tainted with a measure of brutality which
I had supposed was sufficient, without more, to establish a
violation of Constitutional rights. I am therefore unable
to agree with the statement of the Florida Supreme Court
that "if all petitioner alleges in his petition had been true
and had been fully made known to the trial court and to
the jury which tried the defendant-petitioner, it would
not have precluded, the entry of the judgment upon a
verdict of guilty of Murder .. ." Nor do I go along with
the intimations of approval of that statement to be found
in the opinion which this Court has just handed down.
The opinion of this Court does not rest solely on the
ground that Hysler's allegations, if true, fail to establish
a denial of due process. The Court finds in the opinion
of the Florida Supreme Court a determination that
"Hysler's proof" was insufficient "to make the showing of
substantiality which, according to the local procedure of
Florida, was necessary in order to obtain the extraordinary
relief furnished by the writ of error coram nobis." But
"Hysler's proof" is nowhere mentioned in the opinion below, and of the eight reasons there given for denying
Hysler's petition, the only one which touches in any
E. g., Brown v. Mississippi,297 U. S.278; Chambersv. Florida,309

U. S. 227.

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

BLAcK,

J., dissenting.

way upon the credibility of his allegations accepts them
as true.
To be convinced that the Florida Supreme Court did
not pass on the credibility of Hysler's allegations but
merely decided that these allegations, however fully
proved, would not make out a violation of due process, I
should need to look no further than the opinion below.
But more support for this interjretation of Florida's denial
of Hysler's petition is amply available in other decisions of
its highest court. In Washington v. State, 92 Fla. 740, 749,
110 So. 259, 262, for example, the Florida Supreme Court
said the issue to be determined when such a petition is
before it is "whether . . . the facts alleged"-not the
proof-"would afford, at least prima facie, just ground for
an application to the lower court for a writ of error coram
nobis." That is not to say that the Florida Supreme
Court will not deny a petition when the facts alleged are
so patently incredible that further pursuit of the remedy
would be a frivolous imposition upon the trial court.
Thus, in McCall v., State, 136 Fla. 349, 350, where the
allegations of the petitioner denied his guilt for the first
time, were without any supporting affidavits, and were
"positively and directly contradicted" by himself and other
witnesses at the trial, the court denied the petition, stating
that to grant it "would be no less than a trifling with justice." Even under such circumstances, however, the court
explicitly pointed out that it had looked into "the probability of the truth" of the allegations. And where there
is a color of plausibility in the allegations, the court has
been meticulous to give the petitioner ample opportunity
to prove them. In Chambers v. State, for example, Mr.
Justice Buford, who spoke for the court in its opinion on
Hysler's petition said: "The petition for leave to file writ
of error coram nobis presents allegations which, if true,
would constitute ground for issuing the writ. It is not

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

the province of this Court to determine whether or not
such allegations are true. The determination of such
question may be had in the circuit court under issues duly
made for that purpose." 111 Fla. 707, 713, 152 So.
437.
It must also be borne in mind that if the proof accoinpanying a petition for leave to apply for a writ of error
coram nobis had to be so full as to establish conclusively
the truth of the allegations, petitioners who required the
amplifying or corroborative evidence of inaccessible or
unwilling witnesses would be effectively barred from
access to this remedy, for they would never have the
opportunity to utilize the compulsory process which a
trial of the facts would afford. In the light of Florida's
liberal treatment of other petitioners in other cases,' and
the unambiguous explanation its courts have given where
petitions have been denied, I cannot impute to the
Florida Supreme Court, on the basis of its opinion in this
case, a decision that Hysler's "proof" was inadequate to
support his allegations.
Although it is at best not clear that the court below
has canvassed the issue of credibility, this Court has not
hesitated to do so. In the opinion just announced, there
has even been a recital of considerations relevant in determining whether the disclosure made by Baker "springs
from the impulse for truth-telling or is the product of
self-delusion or artifice prompted by the instinct of selfpreservation." And the Court has apparently concluded
that Hysler's allegations are so patently incredible that
due process does not require a hearing. Where, as here,
allegations that controlling testimony was extorted by
'See Nickels v. State, 86 Fla. 208, 98 So. 497, 502, 99 So. 121;
Lamb v. State, 91 Fla. 396, 107 So. 535; Washington v. State, 92 Fla.
740, 110 So. 259; Chambers v. State, 111 Fla. 707, 151 So. 499; 113
Fla. 786, 152 So. 437; 117 Fla. 642, 158 So. 153.

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

third-degree methods are supported by sworn statements
and not denied by anyone, a summary rejection of them
without hearing by the court of first instance would raise
serious questions of compliance with the Constitutional
requirement of a fair trial.' Under such circumstances,
I should suppose this Court would be particularly reluctant to make the original and only disposition itself of
what it treats as a major issue of the case:. the credibility
of Hysler's allegations.
The Supreme Court of Florida declined even to consider the credibility of these allegations, proceeding on
the assumption--erroneous if tested by principles which
I believe decisions of this Court have affirmed 4-- that, if
true, they would be insufficient to impugn the conviction.
Having corrected this erroneous assumption, this Court,
in my opinion, should allow the Florida courts to make
their own disposition of the issue they have not considered. We granted certiorari because of a "solicitude,
especially where life is at stake, for those liberties which
are guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment." That solicitude would seem to call
for remanding this case for further consideration below.
I cannot see why it should impel this Court to sustain
the conviction upon a gratuitous disposition of an issue
which the state court might resolve otherwise.
In cases raising no issue of life or death this Court
has not hesitated to remand to the lower court for further
proceedings where ambiguities in the opinion below beclouded the ground of decision
The vital issues here
'Cf. Mooney v. Holohan, supra; Smith v. O'Grady, 312 U. S. 329.
' See cases cited in footnote 1, supra, and Canty v. Alabama, 309
U. S. 629; White v. Texas, 310 U. S. 530; Lomax v. Texas, 313 U. S.
544; Vernon v. Alabama, 313 U. S. 547.
6 Villa v. Van Schaick, 299 U. S. 152; State Tax Comm'n v. Van
Cott, 306 U. S. 511; Minnesota v. National Tea Co., 309 U. S. 551.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

and the manner of treatment below compel me to believe
that a like procedure should be followed now. Because
the basis for my belief can best be shown by reference
to the record, I am adding excerpts from the petition
and accompanying exhibits as well as the whole of the
opinion of the Florida Supreme Court in an appendix.
APPENDIX.

I. Excerpts from Hysler's petition for leave to apply
for a writ of error coram nobis:
"* . Alvin Tyler and James Baker who were co-defendants of the petitioner, Clyde Hysler, and upon whose
testimony the State of Florida relied upon for a conviction of petitioner was coerced, intimidated, beaten,
threatened with violence and otherwise abused and mistreated in order to compel/ the said witnesses, Tyler and
Baker to give testimony at the trial of said cause against
petitioner and to implicate said petitioner in the killing
of Mrs. Mamie Surrency; and further that the said witnesses, Tyler and Baker were promised immunity from
the electric chair, by John W. Harrell and further
promised if they would implicate Clyde Hysler in said
murder and testify against him during the trial of said
cause that he as State's Attorney of the Fourth Judicial
Circuit of Florida together with other law enforcing
officers of Duval County, Florida would see that he did
not get the chair, and that they would procure a pardon
and have him released from the State Penitentiary after
serving three (3) years of his sentence, all of which is
more particularly described by reference to a statement
and affidavit made by the said James Baker on the 7th
day of April, A. D. 1941, also by further affidavit and
statement made by the said James Baker on the 8th day
of April, A. D. 1941, and also by statement and affidavit
made by the said James Baker on the 9th day of April,
A. D. 1941, said affidavit being marked 'A-b and c' respectively and hereby made a part of this petition as
fully as though set out herein in haec verba. And for
further reason that said affidavits show that the said petitioner was not implicated in the murder of the said Mrs.

HYSLER p. FLORIDA.
411

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Mamie Surrency but that one Joe Peterson, Sr. was the
person implicated in said murder and not the petitioner,
Clyde Hysler, all of which is set out herein more fully
in the affidavits herein above referred to and further substantiated by photostatic copies of the following affidavits,
to-wit; affidavit of one Ed. Mosley; affidavit of one
A. J. Mooney; affidavit of one Mrs. Ruby Crews and affidavit of one Rudolph J. Dowling, said photostatic copies
being marked .d-e-f and g' respectively, and each of said
affidavits being hereto attached and hereby made a part
of this petition as fully as though set out herein in haec
verba.
"That the said witnesses, Alvin Tyler and James Baker
immediately after and following their arrest were held
incommun-cado for a long period of time without being
allowed the benefit and advice of counsel, without being
allowed to see or confer with their friends or relatives and
without being allowed to confer with the attorneys for
the petitioner; that said witnesses, Tyler and Baker were
removed from the Duval County Jail and confined in the
State Penitentiary at Raiford, Florida with instructions
to allow no one to communicate with them for a long
period of time immediately following their arrest, and it
became necessary for the attorneys for petitioner to procure an order of the Circuit Court of Duval County for
permission to confer with said witnesses several weeks
after their arrest, and then only in company with, and in
the presence of the attorneys appointed by the Court to
represent said witnesses and said attorneys for petitioners
made diligent effort to ascertain from said witnesses facts
about which they would testify to in trial of said petitioner, and thereby used diligent effort in trying to procure the information as set out herein by the respective
affidavits by the witness, James Baker, but said witness
Baker was afraid to divulge the truth to the attorneys for
the petitioner as set out herein in the said affidavits, a-b
and c hereto attached, and that said petitioner was denied
a fair and impartial trial by reason of the coercion and
intimidation of the witnesses, Alvin Tyler and James
Baker and the hope of reward promised them as hereinabove set forth, and has by reason thereof denied equal

OCTOBER TERM, '1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

protection of the law as guaranteed to him by the 14th
Amendment to the United States Constitution and was
thereby denied due process of the law as guaranteed by
the 5th Amendment of the United States Constitution.
"That had the said witnesses, Tyler and Baker not been
intimidated, coerced and promised immunity from the
electric chair by the law enforcement officers in Duval
County as described in affidavits 'a-b and c' hereto attached, and by John W. Harrell as herein above described,
and the said witnesses had been left free to testify and
tell the truth as to- the said Joe Peterson, Sr. being the
person involved in the murder of the said Mrs. Mamie
Surrency instead of the petitioner, said testimony would
have prevented the rendition of the judgment, verdict
and sentence of petitioner in this cause, and if another
trial be had of this cause, this petitioner would be
acquitted.
"That petitioner further alleges that the affidavits of
the witness, James Baker, being affidavits hereto attached
and marked 'a-b and c' and made by the said James Baker
freely and voluntarily on his part and without any suggestion of prompting on the part of petitioner or any one
on his behalf, and that the statements contained in said
affidavits were made in the presence of several prison
officials at Raiford, Florida after said James Baker made
a voluntarily request to see and talk with the attorney for
petitioner."
II. Excerpts from exhibits accompanying Hysler's petition: (These are from the transcript of three conferences
held in a Florida prison on April 7 and 8, 1941. Baker
was under oath. Where the statements are not in narrative form, the questioner is Hysler's attorney.)
"... James Baker . . . deposes and says:
"That after the killing of Mr. and Mrs. Surrancy near
Grand Crossing in Jacksonville, Florida on the 23rd day
of November 1936, that he and Alvin Tyler, the man who
was with him at the time 6f the said killing agreed between them while they were in Cra*ker Swamp in the

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

BLcx, J., dissenting.

Marietta section of Duval County, that they would lay
the blame of the planning of the robbery of the Surrancys
upon Clyde Hysler because they had had considerable
liquor dealings with Clyde Hysler and knew him well, and
for the reason that the Hyslers bore a bad reputation in
Duval County, and for the further reason that Clyde
Hysler's father had plenty of money and they thought
that by laying the planning of the robbery of the Surrancys on Clyde Hysler that his father and his other
relatives would put up sufficient money to get Clyde
Hysler out of the trouble and that by laying it on to Clyde
Hysler that he, James Baker and Alvin Tyler would escape
the death penalty, that in truth and fact, that Clyde
Hysler was not implicated in the planning of the robbery
and had nothing to do with the killing of Mr. and Mrs.
Surrancy, but that one Joe Peterson, Sr. was the man who
planned the robbery and hired the said James Baker and
Alvin Tyler to perform the robbery after being advised
by the said Joe Peterson that it would be no trouble, and
that Mr. Surrancy did not carry a gun, and all they would
have to do would be to point the pistol at him and take
the money, that affiant further deposes and says:
"That Clyde Hysler was in no way responsible for the
attempted robbery of Mr. and Mrs. Surrancy; that he had
nothing to do with it, and the man who planned the robbery and was supposed to protect us in the robbery was
Joe Peterson and not Clyde Hysler; that Joe Peterson
was in the immediate vicinity when the attempted robbery
and the killing of the Surrancys took place, and had it
not been that Joe Peterson planned the robbery and hired
Alvin Tyler and myself to rob Mr. Surrancy they would
probably have still been living and we would not be in
any trouble."
"Q. Now Baker, I don't want you to tell me anything
except the truth, I want you to tell me if Joe Peterson
was the man that got you into all of this instead of Clyde
Hysler.
A. Yes, sir, he is the man.
Q. Then you and Alvin Tyler planned to lay this all
on Clyde Hysler in order to try to get out of it yourself
or to get a life sentence instead of the chair?

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

A. Yes, sr.
"Q. You recall what officers brought you over here?
A. Mr. Gene Griffen and Mr. Dick Barker and some
more officers.
Q. Now what threats or promises did they make you
to testify and implicate Clyde Hysler?
A. Well, Mr. Griffen and them didn't, they didn't make
no promises, Mr. Hulbert did talk to me, that he would
get me life imprisonment-life instead of the chair.
Q. Mr. Hubbert talked to you and made promises that
you would get life instead of the chair?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. What policeA. That's what it was, police officers and John Harrell.
Q. John W. Harrell, the State's Attorney at that time?
A.--Yes, sir.
Q. Did Mr. Harrell tell you that he would help you
get a life sentence if you would testify against Clyde
Hysler?
A. He said he wouldn't burn me, that he, Mr. Acosta
and Mr. Carson would get me out in three years time.
Q. Was Detective Cannon and-you was talking about
and Inspector AcostaA. The two men that arrested me, yes sir.
Q. Now from the time you was arrested, Baker, how
long was you kept to yourself before you was allowed to
talk to your lawyer or your friends?
A. From the time I was arrested until the 21st of January, till we went back and had my trial set.
Q. The day you were arraigned in Circuit Court for
the trial?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. You was held to your self without being allowed to
communicate ' with any of your friends or your lawyer?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. When was you arrested?
A. It was on the 23rd-24--26--when was Thanksgiving Day-just a few days.
Q. You was arrested just a few days after Thanksgiving?

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

411

A. Yes, sir.

"Q. Did any of those officers threaten you?
A. They carried me in a dark roomQ. That was here?
A. No, sir, that was in Jacksonville, they carried me
out to Marietta and whipped me.
Q. What was that with?
A. Something covered up in canvas, I don't know what
it was and a piece of hose and something looked ]ke a
pine limb.
Q. You remember any of those names?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Who were they?
A. Mr. Woods, R. L. Woods, and Mr. Carson slapped
me two or three times and gave them the black jack to
beat me with....
Q. That was in the presence of Mr. Woods, Carson and
Acosta?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. That was to try to make you implicate Mr. Hysler
in the robbery of Mr. Surrency and Mrs. Surrency?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. And if it hadn't been for the beatings and threats
and the promises to get you out of here in three years as
you have stated above would you have implicated Mr.
Hysler in the case at all?
A. No, sir, cause I told them I didn't no anything about
it; and another thing, between Mr. Hysler's first trial and
last one, Mr. Harrell came down to the County Jail after
I was allowed to see people, I said, don't you know that if
you burn Mr. Hysler you will have to burn me too, and
he said he could burn the whole Hysler family and don't
burn me cause he and Mr. Sidney Hulbert, Mr. Carson and
Mr. Cannon and some more officers was going to run the
County as long as they were running it.

"Q. Baker, how many times did the officers threaten
you and beat you after you were arrested?

A. They beat me about three o'clock in the morning to
ten o'clock before they got me to say anything.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BMcx,J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

Q. It was the police made you tell the sheriff's office?

A. Yes, sir.
Q. Was you afraid not to tell them what they wanted
you to, afraid they would beat you some more?
A. Yes, sir, if them-I said two words they would slap
me, before the sheriff bunch got there they had sent out
and bought me dinner, give me $5.00 or $6.00 dollars in
money, and said don't tell any body about me being
whipped, if anyone asked me, tell them no.
Q. Then it was a definite promise from Mr. Harrell, the
State's Attorney to keep you from burning?
A. He said that he would see that I would get life, but
that he would see that I didn't stay at the chain gang but
three years.

"Q.Baker what about the remarks you wanted to
make?
A. Where they kicked me.
Q. That at Jacksonville police station?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Who was that?
A. Mr. Carson, thats who had me at that time, he taken
m.iown there where a bunch of police was shooting pool.
Q. What all did they do to you?
A. Those officers down there asked him if he made me
tell him what they Wanted to know, and Mr. Carson-Mr.
Carson said not yet, and they said, turn him loose with
us about 25 minutes and we will make him say anything
they wanted me to say, and he told them to take me and
hold me until they went up into the office and make a
call, and while he was gone to make a call they carriedi
me back into a room and put a coat over my head and went
to beating me, I got scars on me now, I want to show them
to you and its what you call risons, you can get your doctor
and he will tell you what was caused from blowsQ. You still have scars on you from that beating?
A. YesQ. Was those beatings that caused those scars on you to
tell on Clyde Hysler?
A. To make me tell anything.
Q. Did they mention Clyde Hysler's name to you while
they were beating you?

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
411

435

BLACK, J., dissenting.

A. Yes, sir.
Q. Do you know the names of those officers?
A. No, sir, those were new officers to me, they were speed
cops, had those things on their shoulders.
Q. Did any of them tell you that Clyde Hysler was
mixed up in the killing or such as that?
A. They said they knew he was in it-and after I told
how it was they made me implicate him.
Q. Implicate him?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. As a matter of fact, Hysler was not mixed in it but
it was Joe PetersonA. They had me hand cuffed behind my back and I
was chained and beat me, . . .
"Q. Baker do you know whether or not Mr. Harrell
knew if you was beat up to make you testify?
A. Yes, sir, he knows I couldn't set down, none of the
sheriff's force knew it at the time, they knew it later when
I made it in front all of the officers.
Q. When you made that statement you couldn't set
down.
A. Yes, sir, and I can't set down good, and I wish you
and those men could see that now."
III. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Florida on
motion for rehearing: (No opinion accompanied the original denial of Hysler's petition.)
"Buford, J.:
On motion for hearing on application for an order for
leave to apply to the Circuit Court of Duval County for a
writ of error coram nobis to review the judgment of conviction of petitioner of the offense of Murder in the First
Degree heretofore entered in that Court, on grounds stated
in the petition, we have denied the petition for reasons
as follows:
(a) This Court may take judicial cognizance of its own
records and the record lodged in this Court on the writ of
error to the judgment of conviction of the petitioner shows
ample evidence to support the judgment of conviction
without the aid of the testimony given on that trial by
the witness James Baker.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

(b) Writ of error coram nobis will not lie because of
false testimony given at the trial by important witness.
Lamb v. State, 91 Fla. 396, 107 Sou. 535.
(c) Matters properly presentable for writ of coran
nobis are such as would have prevented conviction and
not such as may have caused a different result. Chesser
v. State, 92 Fla. 754, 109 Sou. 906.
(d) If witness Baker swore falsely at defendant's trial,
that fact was known to petitioner at the time of the trial.
Washington v. State, 95 Fla. 289, 116 Sou. 470; Pike vs.
State, 103 Fla. 594, 139 Sou. 196.
(e) The allegations of the petition do not show that
the prosecuting attorney had any guilty knowledge of the
alleged maltreatment of the witness, or that the alleged
falsity of the testimony of the witness Baker was known
to the prosecuting officer.
(f) The petition does not show that any alleged maltreatment of witness was inflicted by any officer of the
trial 'court or that same was known to any officer of the
trial court.
(g The records of this Court, of which we take judicial
cognizance, show that petitioner was convicted on trial
held subsequent to the trial and confiction of the witness
Baker of the offense of Murder in the first degree without
recornmendation to mercy, and that both trials were conducted on behalf of each defendant by able, diligent and.
faithful counsel.
(h) If all petitioner alleges in his petition had been
true and had been fully made known to the trial court
and to the jury which tried the defendant-petitioner, it
would not have precluded the entry of the judgment upon
a verdict of guilty of Murder in the first degree having
been returned by the jury.
So it is, the petition is insufficient to require us to grant
same and for such reasons the same was denied and the
petition for rehearing is likewise denied.
So ordered.
Terrell, J. Thomas and Chapman, J. J.Concur.
Brown, C. J. Dissents."

