HELVERING v. LIMESTONE CO.
148

Syllabus.

ever there was an intrusion by this Court into a field that
belongs to Congress, and which it has seen fit not to enter,
this is it. And what is worse, the decision is purely destructive legislation-the Court takes power away from
the states but is, of course, unable to transfer it to the
federal government.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ALABAMA ASPHALTIC LIMESTONE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 328. Argued January 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.
1. Pursuant to a plan of its creditors, an insolvent corporation was
adjudged bankrupt; its assets were sold by the bankruptcy trustee,
bid in by the creditors' committee, and acquired by a new corporation in exchange for its stock, all of which was issued to
creditors of the old corporation in satisfaction of their claims, the
old stockholders being eliminated. Non-assenting minority creditors were paid in cash. Operations were not interrupted by the
reorganization and were carried on subsequently by substantially
the same persons as before. Held:
(1) A "reorganization" within the meaning of ยง 112 (i) (1) of
the Revenue Act of 1928; so that, in computing depreciation and
depletion for the year 1934, the assets of the new corporation, so
acquired, had the same basis that they had when owned by the
old corporation. Pp. 181, 183.
(2) The continuity of interest test was satisfied since the creditors had effective command over the disposition of the property
from the time when they took steps to enforce their demands
against their insolvent debtor by the institution of bankruptcy
proceedings. At that time they stepped into the shoes of the old
stockholders. P. 183.
(3) The transaction here met the statutory standard of a "reorganization" even though at the time of acquisition by the new
corporation the property belonged to the committee and not to the
old corporation, since the acquisition by the committee was an
integrated part of a single reorganization plan. P. 184.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

2. The full priority rule of Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Boyd, 228
U. S. 482, applies to proceedings in bankruptcy as well as to
equity receiverships. P. 183.
3. The *full priority rule gives creditors, whether secured or unsecured, the right to exclude stockholders entirely from a
reorganization plan when the debtor is insolvent. P. 183.
119 F. 2d 819, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 508, to review a judgment affirming a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 41 B. T. A.
324, which overruled a deficiency assessment.

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
GeneralFahy, and Messrs. J. Louis Monarch and Samuel
H. Levy were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James A. O'Callaghanfor respondent.
Messrs. Walter J. Brobyn, Edgar J. Goodrich, and
Neil Burkinshaw filed a brief, as amici curiae, urging
affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.'
Respondent, in 1931, acquired all the assets of Alabama
Rock Asphalt, Inc., pursuant to a reorganization plan consummated with the aid of the bankruptcy court. In computing its depreciation and depletion allowances for the
year 1934, respondent treated its assets as having the same
basis which they had in the hands of the old corporation.
The Commissioner determined a deficiency, computed on
the price paid at the bankruptcy sale.1 The Board of
Tax Appeals rejected the position of the Commissioner.
41 B. T. A. 324. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
119 F. 2d 819. We granted the petition for certiorari bePetitioner now takes the position that the new basis should be
measured by the market value of the assets rather than the bid price.
See Bondholders Committee v. Commissioner, post, p. 189.

HELVERING v. LIMESTONE CO.
179

Opinion of the Court.

cause of the conflict between that decision 2 and Commissioner v. Palm Springs Holding Corp., 119 F. 2d 846, decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and Helvering v. New PresidentCorp., 122 F. 2d 92,
decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.
The answer to the question 8 turns on the meaning of
that part of ยง 112 (i) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1928 (45
Stat. 791, 818) which provides: "The term 'reorganization'
means (A) a merger or consolidation (including the acquisition by one corporation of . . . substantially all the
properties of another corporation ....
The essential facts can be stated briefly. The old corporation was a subsidiary of a corporation which was in
receivership in 1929. Stockholders of the parent had
financed the old.corporation taking unsecured notes for
their advances. Maturity of the notes was approaching
and not all of the noteholders would agree to take stock
for their claims. Accordingly, a creditors' committee was
formed, late in 1929, and a plan of reorganization was proposed to which all the noteholders, except two, assented.
The plan provided that a new corporation would be formed
which would acquire all the assets of the old corporation.
The stock of the new corporation, preferred and common,
would be issued to the creditors in satisfaction of their
claims. Pursuant to the plan, involuntary bankruptcy
proceedings were instituted in 1930. The appraised value
of the bankrupt corporation's assets was about $155,000.
Its obligations were about $838,000, the unsecured notes
with accrued interest aggregating somewhat over $793,000.
'And see Commissioner v. Kitselman, 89 F. 2d 458, and Commissioner v. Newberry Lumber & Chemical Co., 94 F. 2d 447, which are

in accord with the decision below.
*If there was a "reorganization," the respondent was entitled to use
the asset basis of the old corporation as provided in ยง 113 (a) (7).

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

The bankruptcy trustee offered the assets for sale at public auction. They were bid in by the creditors' committee
for $150,000. The price was paid by $15,000 in cash, by
agreements of creditors to accept stock of a new corporation in full discharge of their claims, and by an offer of
the committee to meet the various costs of administration,
etc. Thereafter, respondent was formed and acquired all
the assets of the bankrupt corporation. It does not appear whether the acquisition was directly from the old
corporation on assignment of the bid or from the committee. Pursuant to the plan, respondent issued its stock
to the creditors of the old corporation--over 95% to the
noteholders and the balance to small creditors. Nonassenting creditors were paid in cash. Operations were not
interrupted by the reorganization and were carried on
subsequently by substantially the same persons as
before.
From the Pinellas case (287 U. S. 462) to the LeTulle
case (308 U. S. 415) it has been recognized that a transaction may not qualify as a "reorganization" under the
various revenue acts though the literal language of the
statute is satisfied. See Paul, Studies in Federal Taxation
(3d Series), pp. 91 et seq. The Pinellas case introduced
the continuityof interest theory to eliminate those transactions which had "no real semblance to a merger or consolidation" (287 U. S. p. 470) and to avoid a construction
which "would make evasion of taxation very easy." Id.
-P. 469. In that case, the transferor received in exchange
for its property cash and short term notes. This Court
said (id. p. 470): "Certainly, we think that to be within
the exemption the seller must acquire an interest in the
affairs of the purchasing company more definite than that
incident to ownership of its short-term purchase-money
notes." In the LeTulle case, we held that the term of the
obligation received by the seller was immaterial. "Where
the consideration is wholly in the transferee's bonds, or

HELVERING v. LIMESTONE CO.
179

Opinion of the Court.

part cash and part such bonds, we think it cannot be said
that the transferor retains any proprietary interest in the
enterprise." 308 U. S. pp. 420-421. On the basis of the
continuity of interest theory as explained in the LeTulle
case, it is now earnestly contended that a substantial ownership interest in the transferee company must be retained
by the holders of the ownership interest in the transferor.
That view has been followed by some courts. Commissioner v. Palm Springs Holding Corp., supra; Helvering v.
New President Corp., supra. Under thaf test, there was
"no reorganization" in this case, since the old stockholders
were eliminated by the plan, no portion whatever of their
proprietary interest being preserved for them in the new
corporation. And it is clear that the fact that the creditors were for the most part stockholders of the parent
company does not bridge the gap. The equity interest in
the parent is one step removed from the equity interest
in the subsidiary. In any event, the stockholders of the
parent were not granted participation in the plan qua
stockholders.
We conclude, however, that it is immaterial that the
transfer shifted the ownership of the equity in the property from the stockholders to the creditors of the old corporation. Plainly, the old continuity of interest was
broken. Technically that did not occur in this proceeding
until the judicial sale took place. For practical purposes,
however, it took place not later than the time when the
creditors took steps to enforce their demands against their
insolvent debtor. In this case, that was the date of the
institution of bankruptcy proceedings. From that time
on, they had effective command over the disposition of
the property. The full priority rule of Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, applies to proceedings in
bankruptcy as well as to equity receiverships. Case v. Los
Angeles Lumber Products Co., 308 U. S. 106. It gives
creditors, whether secured or unsecured, the right to ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

elude stockholders entirely from the reorganization plan
when the debtor is insolvent. See In re 620 Church St.
Bldg. Corp., 299 U. S. 24. When the equity owners are
excluded and the old creditors become the stockholders
of the new corporation, it conforms to realities to date their
equity ownership from the time when they invoked the
processes of the law to enforce their rights of full priority.
At that time they stepped into the shoes of the old stockholders. The sale "did nothing but recognize officially
what had before been true in fact." Helvering v. New
Haven & S. L. R. Co., 121 F. 2d 985, 987.
That conclusion involves no conflict with the principle
pf the LeTulle case. A bondholder interest in a solvent
company plainly is not the equivalent of a proprietary
interest, even though upon default the bondholders could
retake the property transferred. 'The mere possibility of
a proprietary interest is, of course, not its equivalent.
But the determinative and controlling factors of the
debtor's insolvency and an effective command by the
creditors over the property were absent in the LeTulle
case.
Nor are there any other considerations which prevent
this transaction from qualifying as a "reorganization"
within the meaning of the Act. The Pinellas case makes
plain that "merger" and "consolidation" as used in the
Act includes transactions which "are beyond the ordinary
and commonly accepted meaning of those words." 287
U. S. p. 470. Insolvency reorganizations are within the
of financial readjustments embraced in those terms
family
as used in this particular statute. Some contention,
howthe
statudid
not
meet
ever, is made that this transaction
tory standard because the properties acquired by the new
corporation belonged at that time to the committee and
not to the old corporation. That is true. Yet, the separate steps were integrated parts of a single scheme.
Transitory phases of an arrangement frequently are dis-

PALM SPRINGS CORP. v. COMM'R.
179

Counsel for Parties.

regarded under these sections of the revenue acts where
they add nothing of substance to the completed affair.
Gregoryv. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465; Helveringv. Bashford,
302 U. S. 454. Here they were no more than intermediate
procedural devices utilized to enable the new corporation
to acquire all the assets of the old one pursuant to a sifgle
reorganization plan.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

did not participate in the consid-

eration or decision of this case. -

PALM SPRINGS HOLDING CORPORATION v.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 503.

Argued January 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

Pursuant to a plan made by indenture bondholders of an insolvent corporati6n, a new corporation was formed, which acquired
more than one-half of the bond issue in exchange for shares of
its stock issued to bondholder creditors, but none of which was
issued to any present or former stockholder of the old corporation.
for any right of his qua stockholder; and the properties of the.
old corporatlion were bought in and acquired by the new corporation at trustee's foreclosure sale. Held, a "reorganization" within
the meaning of ยง 112 (i) (1) (A) of the Revenue Act of 1932.
Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., ante, p. 179.
P. 188.
119 F. 2d 846, reversed.

314 U. S. 598, to review a judgment sustaining a deficiency assessment which had been sustained
in part by the Board of Tax Appeals.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. John E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Thomas R.
Dempsey was on the brief, for petitioner.

