WRIGHT v. LOGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

WRIGHT

ET AL.

V.

LOGAN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 229.

Argued January 9, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

1. The right of a farmer to be adjudged a bankrupt under § 75 (s)
of the Bankruptcy Act is not conditioned upon the diligence with
which he has sought to obtain a composition or an extension under
§75 (a)- (r). P. 141.
2. Any right to redeem from a mortgage foreclosure and sale which a
farmer-debtor has at the time of applying for adjudication under
§ 75 of the Bankruptcy Act continues to be part of his assets and
subject to the administration of the bankruptcy court. P. 142.
119 F. 2d 354, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 592, to review a judgment which

affirmed a judgment of the bankruptcy court dismissing
bankruptcy proceedings by farmer-debtors and upholding
the full force and effect of foreclosure proceedings in a

state court.
Mr. Elmer McClain, with whom Mr. William Lemke
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Harold F. Lindley, with whom Mr. Paul F. Jones
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE BAcK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioners are Illinois farmers. Pursuant to a
state court foreclosure decree, forty acres of their farm land
were sold to W. S. Logan, the mortgagee. The state court
master executed and delivered to Logan a certificate of
sale, but a deed was not given at that time. By Illinois
statute, mortgagors are given the right to redeem for

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

twelve months after the date of foreclosure sale; and if
this right is not exercised, creditors are given a similar
right for an additional three months thereafter. Ill. Rev.
Stat. (1941) c. 77, §§ 18, 20. On May 3, 1934, a day before
the expiration of fifteen months from the sale, the petitioners filed in Federal District Court a petition for extension of time in which to pay their debts, under § 74 of the
Bankruptcy Act. 11 U. S. C. § 202. Prior to that time
there had been an oral agreement which the Appellate
Court of the Third District of Illinois subsequently (January 15, 1937) held to have the effect of keeping the petitioners' right of redemption alive. 288 Ill. App. 481, 6
N. E. 2d 265. The forty acres were included in the petitioners' schedule of assets submitted in the § 74 proceedings, and Logan was listed as a creditor. The District
Court refused to grant the proposed extension, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 75 F. 2d 687.
Thereafter, April 5, 1935, the petitioners filed an amendment seeking composition or extension of their indebtedness as authorized by sub-paragraphs (a) to (r) of § 75 of
the Bankruptcy Act. 11 U. S.C. § 203. Finding that the
petition was filed in good faith and was in accordance with
the requirements of the Act, the judge referred the matter
to a conciliation commissioner. Subsequent efforts to effect a composition or extension having failed, on March 2,
1940, the petitioners filed an amendment alleging this failure and asking that the court adjudicate them bankrupt
under 75 (s), which provides: "Any farmer failing to obtain the acceptance of a majority in number and amount
of all creditors whose claims are affected by a composition
or extension proposal . . . may amend his petition or answer asking to be adjudged a bankrupt."
Although the petitioners' allegations brought them
squarely within the language of 75 (s), the District Court
ordered that the amended petition be denied; that the proceedings be dismissed; that the mortgagee's successors in

WRIGHT v. LOGAN.
139

Opinion of the Court.

interest" be permitted to exercise rights as owners under
the foreclosure; that the deed issued to the mortgagee by
the state master in chancery after the bankruptcy proceedings had begun be given full force and effect; and that
possession of the forty acres be surrendered to the respondents. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, 119 F. 2d
354, holding that 75 imposes upon farmer debtors duties
corresponding to the privileges conferred; that if a farmer
debtor fails to prosecute his composition proceedings to a
conclusion within a reasonable time, the court can deny
him the privilege of adjudication under 75 (s); and that,
although these farmer debtors had filed under other subsections of 75, they had already enjoyed all the benefits
to which they would have been entitled under 75 (s), and
therefore were not entitled to obtain a repetition of those
benefits by what the court thought was a mere formal
change in their petition. Because of an asserted conflict
with Cohanv. Elder, 118 F. 2d 850, and because of the importance of the issue in farmer debtor cases, we granted
certiorari.
Section 75 (s) does not by its language condition a farmer's right to adjudication upon the diligence with which
he has sought to obtain composition or extension under subsections (a) to (r). It "applies explicitly to a case
of a farmer who has failed to obtain the acceptance or a
majority in number and amount of all creditors whose
claims are affected by a proposal for a composition of an
extension of time to pay his debts." John Hancock Ins.
Co. v. Bartels,308 U.S. 180,184. That was the situation
of the farmers here. And "the Act must be liberally construed to give the debtor the full measure of the relief
afforded by Congress . . . lest its benefits be frittered

away by narrow formalistic interpretations which disregard the spirit and the letter of the Act." Wright v. Union
'W. S. Logan, the original mortgagee, died while the proceedings
pending. The respondents here are devisees under his will.

were

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Central Ins. Co., 311 U. S. 273, 279. Farmers cannot be
deprived of the benefits of the Act because a court may believe that they have received the equivalent of what it
prescribes. Cf. Borchard v. California Bank, 310 U. S.
311. We think the Bartels, Wright, and Borchard cases
control our conclusion here, and that the court below was
in error in dismissing the applications for adjudication under 75 (s).
In the memorandum accompanying the District Court's
order directing the petitioners to surrender possession of
the disputed forty acres, there is no discussion of their
right to redeem. We therefore treat the order as based on
the holding that the petitioners' lack of diligence deprived
them of the benefits of 75 (s) and that the equivalent of
the benefits of 75 (s) had already been conferred anyway.
Because we consider such a holding erroneous, we find it
unnecessary to pass upon other questions discussed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, concerning survival of the petitioners' right to redeem. It is nevertheless appropriate to
point out at this time that whatever right of redemption
the petitioners had when they first applied for adjudication
under 75 continued to be a part of their assets, subject to
administration by the bankruptcy court. For 75 (n) subjects all of the farmer debtor's assets, specifically including
rights of redemption, to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court, and provides that "the period of redemption shall
be extended . . . for the period necessary for the purpose
of carrying out the provisions of this section." 11 U. S. C.
(Supp. II) § 203 (amendment of August 28, 1935, 49 Stat.
942). See Wright v. Union CentralIns. Co., 304 U. S. 502,
513-516.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to the
District Court for proceedings in conformity with this
Reversed.
opinion.
MR. JusicE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

