PURCELL v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

PURCELL ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF MARYLAND, ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 803.

Argued February 11, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. Where most of a short railway was included in the limits of a government flood control reservoir, and continued operation of the
remaining portions would serve no practical purpose, and the cost
of relocating and rebuilding the line, and the increased expenses of
operating it if relocated, would not be justified by public convenience
and necessity, the Interstate Commerce Commission was authorized
by § 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act to permit abandonment
of the line in its entirety. P. 383.
2. In such a case it was proper for the Commission to consider the
cost of relocation even though it would be paid not by the railway
company but by the Government; for, in determining such applications, the interests of those served by the existing line are balanced
against the interests of the carrier and the transportation system,
and operation of that system without waste was one of the objects
of the Transportation Act of 1920. P. 384.
41 F. Supp. 309, affirmed.

from a decree dismissing a bill to annul an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission permitting
abandonment of a railwayiine.
APPEAL

Messrs. Clarence W. Miles and Joseph Sherbow, with

whom Messrs. Benjamin C. Howard, Jr. and William B.
Rafferty were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. James C.

Wilson, with whom Solicitor GEneral

Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Mr. Daniel
W. Knowlton were on the brief, for the United States et al.;

and Mr. C. M. Clay, with whom Messrs. Charles R. Webber
and John E. Evans, Sr. were on the brief, for the Confluence & Oakland Railroad Co. et al., appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

315 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

A federal district court, composed of three judges in
accordance with 28 U. S. C. § 47, dismissed the appellants'
bill, which prayed for the annulment of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. 41 F. Supp. 309.
The order permitted the Confluence and Oakland Railroad
Company, as owner, and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, as lessee, to abandon a railroad line approximately 20 miles long and to discontinue service entirely
in the area now served: a semi-mountainous section along
the Youghiogheny River between Confluence and Oakland Junction, Pennsylvania, and Kendall, Maryland.
The appellants, who also appeared as protestants before
the Interstate Commerce Commission, are the Public Service Commission of Maryland and the McCullough Coal
Corporation, a coal mining company which alleges it will
be forced out of business if railroad service is discontinued.
The application to the Commission for abandonment
was not made because the line had been operating at a loss.
On the contrary, the Commission concluded that there was
no evidence that the line had theretofore been a burden
on the Baltimore and Ohio system, of which it was a part;
or that a predictable decline in the volume of traffic would
make it one in the future, if it were allowed to continue
in existence undisturbed. 244 I. C. C. 451, 458; 247
I. C. C. 399, 401. But continued undisturbed existence
would be an impossibility in view of a flood control project
already begun by the War Department under authority of
an Act of Congress. 52 Stat. 1215-1216. This project
entails the construction of a dahn which will create a
reservoir covering an area in which twelve miles of the
line are now located. It is conceded that unless a new connecting section is built, the sections of the line not to be
inundated-a detached six mile segment above the dam,

PURCELL v. UNITED STATES.
381

Opinion of the Court.

and a one mile segment connecting with the main line of
the Baltimore and Ohio below it-would serve no practical
purpose justifying continued operation.
The appellants do not challenge the statutory authority
of the War Department to submerge the line as it proposes
to do. Nor do they suggest that the Commission could or
should take any action to deter completion of the project.
Nevertheless, they contend that since "the sole reason for
the abandonment was the flood control project, the application should have been denied forthwith by the Commission because of lack of jurisdiction to grant an abandonment on. such ground." But under § 1 (18) of the
Interstate Commerce Act the standard prescribed for the
Commission in cases of this kind is whether "the present
or future public convenience and necessity permit of such
abandonment." 49 U. S. C. § 1 (18). It is difficult to
imagine what consideration of present or future public
convenience could reasonably impel the Commission to
decline to authorize abandonment of a line admittedly
doomed to be rendered inoperable regardless of what action
the Commission might take. And the appellants suggest
none. We must dismiss the appellants' contention on this
point as without merit."
The appellants make the further argument that, even if
the Commission did not err in permitting abandonment of
the line, its order cannot stand because of the failure to
1Where

projected inundation of a line made discontinuation of

operations over it compulsory, the Commission has consistently given
its authorization for abandonment. See Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co.
Abandonment, 212 I. C. C. 597, 598: "It is apparent from the record
that under the circumstances stated above the proposed abandonment
is compulsory, and will not result in public inconvenience." In some
such situations the Commission has attached the condition of relocation. E. g., St. Louis-S. F. Ry. Co. Trustees Abandonment, 244 I. C. C.
485. In others, it has not. E. g., Southern Ry.Co. Abandonment, 217
I. C. C. 764.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

impose a condition that substitute service be provided by
relocating the line.' After hearing testimony on the
probable cost of relocation and the probable cost of maintaining a relocated line, the Commission concluded that
"considering the expenditure necessarily incident to 'hat
relocation and the increased costs of operating the line
that will be caused thereby, . . . we are not justified by
the public convenience and necessity in taking action
herein that will require the relocation of the line." The
appellants do not contest the Commission's finding, amply
supported by evidence, that the relocated line would require increased operating expenses. If the Commission
had based its conclusion on this finding alone, there would
seem to be no adequate ground for setting its order aside
in judicial proceedings. The Commission did consider relocation costs, however, and the appellants contend that
this was an improper consideration which invalidates its
order.
In making this attack on the order, the appellants contend that under the statute authorizing the War Department to construct flood control projects, the cost of relocation would have to be borne by the Government
rather than the railroad. Cost thus borne would not
affect the financial condition of the railroad itself, the
appellants urge, and therefore there could be no such
weakening of the railroad's capital structure as would adversely affect the transportation system. Hence, the
argument continues, in that balancing of the interests of
those now served by the present line on the one hand, and
the interests of the carrier and the transportation system
on the. other, which a proper disposition of abandon' The Commission is empowered to attach conditions by § 1 (20) of
the Interstate Commerce Act which provides in part: "The commission . . . may attach . . . such terms and conditions as in its
judgment the public convenience and necessity may require." 49
U. S. C. § 1 (20).

PURCELL v. UNITED STATES.
381

Opinion of the Court.

ment applications requires, Colorado v. United States,
271 U. S. 153, the former interests must prevail.
As the court below pointed out, however, "an uneconomic outlay of funds would not be in the interests of
transportation even though the money be derived from
the national government." This Court has recognized
that operation of the national railway system without
waste was one of the purposes the Transportation Act of
1920 was intended to further. Texas v. United States,
292 U. S. 522, 530; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. &
S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 277. And a stated purpose
of the Transportation Act of 1940, in the light of which
Congress prescribed that the "Act shall be administered
and enforced" is "to promote ... adequate, economical,
and efficient service and foster sound economic conditions in transportation and among the several carriers."
54 Stat. 899. When materials and labor are devoted to
the building of a line in an amount that cannot be justified
in terms of the reasonably predictable revenues, there is
ample ground to support a conclusion that the expenditures are wasteful whoever foots the bill. The fostering
care of the railroad system intrusted to the Commission is
not so circumscribed as to leave it without authority to
pass on the economic advisability of relocation in a situation where someone other than the carrier provides the
money. The weight to be given to cost of a relocated
line as against the adverse effects upon those served by
the abandoned line is a matter which the experience of
the Commission qualifies it to decide. And, under the
statute, it is not a matter for judicial redecision. Nor is
there any indication in the Flood Control Act of 1938 that
Congress desires to take away from the Commission any
of the powers to make decisions of this kind which the
Interstate Commerce Act had previously granted it.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

