UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807 OF INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS,
CHAUFFEURS, STABLEMEN & HELPERS OF
AMERICA ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 131.

Argued January 7, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.

Section 2 of the Federal Anti-Racketeering Act provides, inter alia,
that "any person" who, in connection with or in relation to any act
affecting interstate commerce or any article or commodity moving
in such commerce, obtains or attempts to obtain by use or threat of
force, violence or coercion, the payment of money, "not including,
however, the payment of wages by a bona fide employer to a bona
fide employee," shall be guilty of a felony. Held:
1. That the legislative history of the Act shows that it was intended to suppress terroristic activities of professional gangsters,
and not to interfere with traditional labor union activities. P. 530.
2. The exception is not limited to those who had acquired the
status of employees prior to the time when they obtained, or attempted or conspired tb obtain, the payment. P. 531.
3. The exception is applicable to an agreement by members of a
city union of truck drivers, who, for the purpose of obtaining employment at union wages in connection with "over-the-road" trucks
entering the city, agree to tender their services in good faith to each
truck owner and to do the work if he accepts their offer, but agree
further that, should he refuse it, they will nevertheless, for the protection of their union interests, require him to pay them the wages,
even by resort to threats and violence. P. 534.
The test of the applicability of the exception in such case is whether
the objective of the conspirators was to obtain "the payment of
wages by a bona fide employer to a bona fide employe," and not
*Together with No. 132, Local 807 of InternationalBrotherhood of
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Stablemen & Helpers of America et al. v.
United States, also on writ of certiorari, 314 U. S. 596, to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Argument for the United States.

315 U. S.

whether the intent of the truck owner in making payment was to
pay for services rather than for protection. P. 532.
4. Labor union activities such as those disclosed by the record
in this case are not beyond the reach of federal legislative control;
and the use of violence such as that here disclosed is subject to the
ordinary criminal law. P. 536.
118 F. 2d 684, reversed.
CROSS-PETITIONS for certiorari, 314 U. S. 592, to review
a judgment reversing convictions of a labor union, and
individual members of it, on charges of conspiracy to violate § 2 (a) and other sections of the Federal AntiRacketeering Act of June 8, 1934.

Assistant Attorney General Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Richard H. Demuth and
Charles H. Weston were on the brief, for the United
States.
The provision of the statute exempting "wages paid by
a bona-fide employee" confers immunity where compensation is paid for services rendered pursuant to a genuine
employer-employee relationship, but not where payments
are made to secure protection against unlawful interference with business operations, whatever the guise in which
such payments are made. In determining which of these
situations exists, the test is not whether some service has
been rendered but whether, under all the circumstances,
the payments have been made for labor or for protection.
A mere applicant for employment is not an "employee";
nor is money which is paid to him "wages." The reason
which the court gave for adopting this construction was
that it would be an absurd result if the statute gave immunity to wage payments where the employment had
originally been procured by coercion but failed to give immunity to payments where coercion had been used by persons unsuccessfully seeking employment. Those who use
coercion to secure genuine employment are engaged in a
legitimate labor objective; their activities, although per-

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

523

Argument for the United States.

haps constituting breaches of the peace, do not partake of
the nature of extortion. But it is difficult, if not impossible, to conceive of a situation in which a person can succeed in obtaining money from a prospective employer by
a mere proffer of services and without entering upon a
genuine employment relationship unless his activities do
partake of the nature of extortion. For an employer who,
under threat of violence, pays a person whose proffered
services he rejects must be paying only for protection
against violence.
The proviso in § 6 does not, like the wage exemption, directly grant any immunity. It applies only if "rights" expressed in "existing statutes of the United States" are in
some manner impaired. Section 6 of the Clayton Act is
inapplicable because the rights it confers are limited to
certain relief against prohibitions of the "antitrust laws."
Likewise, there was no infringement in this case of the
right to strike, picket, boycott, or to assemble peaceably,
given protection by § 20 ofthe Clayton Act. For the same
reason, the provisions of the Norris-LaGuardia Act limiting the jurisdiction of federal courts with respect to such
activities are inapposite. There was also no impairment
of the public policy declared in the Norris-LaGuardia Act,
since there was no interference or coercion by employers
with defendants' right to organize or to select collectivebargaining representatives.
Furthermore, the proviso in § 6 is inapplicable because
the defendants' activities were not directed toward a legitimate objective.
The legislative history of the statute is not opposed to
our contentions.
The Anti-Racketeering Act is patently constitutional.
The Act does not deprive the States of power to punish
acts of violence which may likewise constitute offenses under the Act. Federal legislation enacted pursuant to the
commerce power of Congress does not bar complemen-

.524

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

tary state legislation unless Congress has manifested a
purpose to preempt the entire field; and the Anti-Racketeering Act is obviously not a preemption of, the entire field
of regulation.
The Act applies to Local 807. The word "person" when
used in federal legislation may include juristic as well as
natural persons.
This is not a case where the language of the statute is
ambiguous. Indeed, it would be difficult to frame language
more clearly confined to payments made as compensation
for labor actually performed than the words "wages paid
by a bona-fide employer to a bona-fide employee." The
mention of "wages" alone would have conveyed the
thought, since the word "wages" is universally defined as
the payment of compensation for services.
Mr. Louis B. Boudin, with whom Messrs. Edward C.
Maguire and James D. C. Murray were on the brief, for
Local 807 of International Brotherhood of Teamsters, etc.,
et al.; and Messrs. James D. C. Murray and Edward C.
Maguiresubmitted for William Campbell et al.-respondents in No. 131 and petitioners in No. 132.
MR. JusTICE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes here on cross-petitions for certiorari
to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the conviction of Local 807 and 26 individuals on
charges of conspiracy to violate §§ 2 (a), 2 (b) and 2 (c)
of the Anti-racketeering Act of June 18, 1934.' The
'48 Stat. 979, U. S. C., Title 18, § 420 (a). Local 807 and the 26
individuals were also convicted of conspiracy to violate § 1 of the
Sherman Act (26 Stat. 209, U. S. C. Title 15, § 1). The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed the convictions under this indictment as
well, but the Government does not seek review of this part of its
judgment.

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

Government asks that the judgments of conviction be
reinstated. In their cross-petition the defendants seek
dismissal of the indictment. We do not regard this as a
correct disposition of the case. Since the correctness of
the views concerning the meaning of the statute on which
the trial court submitted the case to the jury goes to the
root of the convictions and their reversal by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, we shall confine our consideration of
these cases to that issue. Consequently, we are concerned
only with whether the defendants were tried in a manner
consistent with the proper meaning and scope of the pertinent provisions of § 2 of the Act, which provide:
"Any person who, in connection with or in relation to
any act in any way or in any degree affecting trade or
commerce or any article or commodity moving or about
to move in trade or commerce"(a) Obtains or attempts to obtain, by the use of or
attempt to use or threat to use force, violence, or coercion,
the payment of money or other valuable considerations,
or the purchase or rental of property or protective services,
not including, however, the payment of wages by a bonafide employer to a bona-fide employee; or
"(b) Obtains the property of another, with his consent,
induced by wrongful use of force or fear, or under color
of official right; or
"(c) Commits or threatens to commit an act of physical
violence or physical injury to a person or property in
furtherance of a plan or purpose to violate sections (a)
or (b); ..
. The proof at the trial showed that the defendant Local
807 includes in its membership nearly all the motor truck
drivers and helpers in the city of New York, and that
during the period covered by the indictment defendants
Campbell and Furey held office in the Local as delegates
in charge of the west side of Manhattan and the other de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

fendants were members. Large quantities of the merchandise which goes into the city from neighboring states
are transported in "over-the-road" trucks, which are usually manned by drivers and helpers who reside in the localities from which the shipments are made and who are
consequently not members of Local 807. Prior to the
events covered by this indictment, it appears to have
been customary for these out-of-state drivers to make
deliveries to the warehouses of consignees in New York
and then to pick up other merchandise from New York
shippers for delivery on the return trip to consignees in
the surrounding states,
There was sufficient evidence to warrant a finding that
the defendants conspired to use and did use violence and
threats to obtain from the owners of these "over-theroad" trucks $9.42 for each large truck and $8.41 for each
small truck entering the city. These amounts were the
regular union rates for a day's work of driving and unloading. There was proof that in some cases the out-ofstate driver was compelled to drive the truck to a point
close to the city limits and there to turn, it over to one
or more of the defendants. These defendants would
then drive the truck to its destination, do the unloading,
pick up the merchandise for the return trip and surrender
the truck to the out-of-state driver at the point where
they had taken it over. In other cases, according to the
testimony, the money was demanded and obtained, but
the owners or drivers rejected the offers of the defendants
to do or help with the driving or unloading. And in
several cases the jury could have found that the defendants either failed to offer to work, or refused to work for
the money when asked to do so. Eventually many of the
owners signed contracts with Local 807 under -whose
terms the defendants were to do the driving and unloading within the city and to receive regular union rates for
the work. No serious question is raised by the evidence

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

as to the ability of the defendants to perform the labor
involved in these operations.
The first count of the indictment was based upon §2 (a)
of the Act and charged a conspiracy "to obtain the payment of money . . . [from the owners] by the use of,

attempt to use and threat to use, force, violence and
coercion." The second count accused the defendants of
conspiring to obtain the property of the owners "with their
consent induced by wrongful use of force and of fear,"
in violation of § 2 (b). The third and fourth counts
alleged a conspiracy to violate §2 (c), in that the defendants agreed "to commit and threatened to commit acts of
physical violence and of physical injury to the persons and
property" of their victims, in furtherance of the general
scheme to violate §§ 2 (a) and 2 (b). Local 807 and all
of the individual defendants were convicted on the first
count; the Local and 17 individuals on the second; and
the Local and 11 individuals on the third and fourth.
The question in the case concerns that portion of §2 (a)
which excepts from punishment any person who "obtains
or attempts to obtain, by the use of or attempt to use or
threat to use force, violence, or coercion, . . . the payment of wages by a bona-fide employer to a bona-fide
employee." ' The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed because it believed that the trial court had failed to instruct
the jury properly with respect to this exception.
To ascertain the limits of the exception is a difficult
undertaking. Always assuming the presence of violence
and threats, as we must in the face of this record, three
interpretations of varying restrictive force require consideration: (1) The exception applies only to a defendant
'This exception does not appear in § 2 (b). But we agree with the
Circuit Court of Appeals that it too is subject to the exception. The
trial judge's instructions show that he shared this view. And the
definition of terms in § 3 (b) was apparently intended to achieve this
result.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

who has enjoyed the status of a bona fide employee prior
to the time at which he obtains or attempts to obtain the
payment of money by the owner. (2) Assuming that this
is incorrect and that the exception may affect a defendant
who has not been a bona fide employee prior to th4 time
in question, it does not apply if the owner's intention in
making the payment is to buy "protection" and not to
buy service, even though the defendant may intend to perform the service or may actually perform it. We understand this to be the position adopted by the Government
in its brief and argument in this Court. (3) Assuming
that both (1) and (2) are incorrect, the exception is not
applicable to a defendant who obtains the payment of
money if the owner rejects his genuine offer of service.
We understand this to be the theory of the dissenting
judge below.
Confronted with these various interpretations, we turn
for guidance to the legislative history of the statute. Pursuant to a Senate Resolution of May 8, 1933,1 a sub-conmittee of the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce
which became known as the Copeland Committee, undertook an investigation of "rackets" and "racketeering" in
the United States. After conducting hearings in several
large cities, the committee introduced 13 bills, of which
S. 2248 was one.4 -As introduced, as reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee, and as passed without debate
by the Senate,' S. 2248 embodied very general prohibiS. Res. 74, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.
'See 78 Cong. Rec. 457, 73d Cong., 2d Sees.
S. Rep. No. 532, 73d Cong., 2d Sess. The report included a memorandum from the Department of Justice in which it was stated: "The
provisions of the proposed statute are limited. so as not to include the
usual activities of capitalistic combinations, bona fide labor unions, and
ordinary business practices which are not accompanied by manifestations of racketeering."
*78 Cong. Rec. 5735, 73d Cong,, 2d Sess.

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

tions against violence or coercion in connection with interstate commerce and contained no specific mention of
wages or labor. After the bill had passed the Senate,
however, representatives of the American Federation of
Labor expressed fear that the bill in its then form might
result in serious injury to labor," and the measure was
redrafted by officials of the Department of Justicb after
conferences with the President of the Federation. In the
course of this revision, the bill assumed substantially the
form in which it was eventually enacted. In particular,
the exception concerning "the payment of wages by a
bona-fide employer to a bona-fide employee" was added,
and a proviso preserving "the rights of bona-fide labor
organizations" was incorporated in what became § 6 of the
Act as finally passed.8 In its favorable reports on this
revised bill,9 the House Committee on the Judiciary set
forth without comment a letter from the Attorney General
to the Committee, dated May 18, 1934. In this letter the
Attorney General informed the Committee that the draft
of the substitute bill had been "definitely approved" by the
President of the American Federation of Labor and his
counsel. The letter continued:
"We believe that the bill in this form will accomplish the
purposes of such legislation and at the same time meet
the objections made to the original bill.
"The original bill was susceptible to the objection that
it might include within the prohibition the legitimate and
bona fide activities of employers and employees. As the
' 78 Cong. Rec. 5859, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.
'"Provided, That no court of the United States shall construe or
apply any of the provisions of this Act in such manner as to impair,
diminish, or in any manner affect the rights of bona-fide labor organizations in lawfully carrying out the legitimate objects thereof, as such
rights are expressed in existing statutes of the United States." U. S. C.,

Title 18, § 420 (d).
H. Rep.. No. 1833, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

purpose of the legislation is not to interfere with such
legitimate activities but rather to set up severe penalties
for racketeering by violence, extortion, or coercion, which
affects interstate commerce, it seems advisable to definitely
exclude such legitimate activities.
"As the typical racketeering activities affecting interstate commerce are those. in connection with price fixing
and economic extortion directed by professional gangsters,
we.1have inserted subparagraphs (a) and (b), making such
activities unlawful when accompanied by violence and
affecting interstate commerce."
The substitute was agreed to by both the House and
Senate without debate, when assurances were given that
the approval of organized labor had been obtained.10
Thereafter, while the bill awaited the signature of the
President, Senator Copeland submitted a report I in which
he referred to S. 2248 as one of eleven bills which had been
enacted "to close gaps in existing Federal laws and to
render more difficult the activities of predatory criminal
gangs of the Kelly and Dillinger types."
This account of the legislative proceedings obviously
does not provide specific definition of "wages," "bonafide employer," or "bona-fide employee," as those terms
are used in § 2 (a). But it does contain clear declarations
by the head of the Department which drafted the section
and by the sponsor of the bill in Congress, first, that the
elimination of terroristic activities by professional gangsters was the aim of the statute, and second, that no
interference with traditional labor union activities was
intended.
It may be true that professional rackets have sometimes assumed the guise of labor unions, and, as the
Circuit Court of Appeals observed, that they may have
078 Cong. Rec. 10867, 11402-11403, 11482, 73d Cong., 2d Sew.

"' S. Rep. No. 1440, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

"covered their practices by the pretence that the tribute
collected was pay for services rendered." And it may
also be true that labor organizations of good repute and
honest purpose can be misdirected and become agencies
of blackmail. Nevertheless, Congress plainly attempted
to distinguish militant labor activity from the other and
to afford it ample protection. With this legislative purpose uppermost in mind, we return to test the three
theories of interpretation of § 2 (a) to which we have
referred.
(1) We hold that the exemption is not restricted to a
defendant who has attained the status of an employee
prior to the time at which he obtains or attempts or conspires to obtain the money. In the first place, we agree
with the observation of the court below that "practically
always the crux of a labor dispute is who shall get the
job, and what the terms shall be . . ."

To. exclude this

entire class of disputes from the protection of the exception would be unjustifiably to thwart the purpose of Congress as we understand it. In the second place, the structure and language of § 2 (a) itself is persuasive against so
narrow an interpretation. It does not except "a bona
fide employee who obtains or attempts to obtain the payment of wages from a bona-fide employer." Rather, it
excepts "any person who . . . obtains or attempts to
obtain . . . the payment of wages from a bona-fide em-

ployer to a bona fide employee." Certainly, an outsider
who "attempts" unsuccessfully by violent means to
achieve the status of an employee and to secure wages for
services falls within the exception. And where, as here,
the offense charged is conspiracy to violate the section, the
defendants are entitled to immunity if their objective is
to become bona fide employees and to obtain wages in that
capacity, even though they may fail of their purpose.
(2) The Government contends, as we have said, that
the test is "whether, under all the circumstances, it ap-

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

pears that the money has been paid for labor or for protection." If the defendants do not offer to work, or if they
refuse to work, or if their offer to work is rejected by the
owners, the Government argues that any payment made
to them must be for protection rather than for services.
And even if the defendants actually perform some work,
it is said, this circumstance should be regarded as relevant
but not controlling in determining "the one crucial issue
in every case such as this-namely, whether the money
was paid for labor or for protection."
We take this to mean that the intent of the owners
in
making the payment is to be regarded as controlling. We
cannot agree. The state of mind of the truck owners cannot be decisive of the guilt of these defendants. On the
contrary, their guilt is determined by whether or not their
purpose and objective was to obtain "the payment of
wages by a bona-fide employer to a bona-fide ,employee.".
And, of course, where the defendants are charged with conspiracy as they were here, it is particularly obvious that
the nature of their plan and agreement is the crux of the
case. The mischief of a contrary theory is nowhere better
illustrated than in industrial controversies. For example, the members of a labor union may decide that they
are entitled to the jobs in their trade in a particular area.
They may agree to attempt to obtain contracts to do the
work at the union wage scale. They may obtain the contracts, do the work, and receive the money. Certainly
Congress intended that these activities should be excepted
from the prohibitions of this particular Act, even though
the agreement may have contemplated the use of violence.
But it is always an open question whether the employers'
capitulation to the demands of the union is prompted by
a desire to obtain services or to avoid further injury or
both. To make a fine or prison sentence for the union
and its members contingent upon a finding by the jury

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

that one motive or the other dominated the employers'
decision would be a distortion of the legislative purpose.
We are told, however, that under this view such a common law offense as robbery would become an innocent
pastime, inasmuch as it is an essential element of that
crime that the victim be moved by fear of violence when
he parts with his money or property. This objection mistakes the significance of this requirement of proof in the
case of robbery. Its true significance is that it places an
added burden upon the prosecutor rather than upon the
accused. That is, the prosecutor must first establish a
criminal intent upon the part of the defendant and he
must then make a further showing with respect to the victim's state of mind. The effect of this rule is to render
conviction of robbery more, rather than less, difficult.
There is no such restrictive evidentiary requirement in
prosecutions under this Act. If the objective that these
defendants sought to attain by the use of force and threats
is not the objective to which the exception in § 2 (a) affords
immunity, they are guilty and nothing further need be
shown concerning the actual motive of the owners in
handing over the money. On the other hand, if their
objective did enjoy the protection of that exception, they
are innocent and their innocence is not affected by the
state of mind of the owners. We shall consider in a moment, in point (3) below, the legal consequences which
flow from the owners' actual rejection of proffered services. But it needs to be emphasized here that for the
owners to reject an offer of services amounts to an overt
act on their part. It is conduct or behavior as distinct
from intention or state of mind. It is an event which
alters the external situation in which the defendants find
themselves. The latter must then decide whether they
will continue to push their demands for the money.
Whether or not they are guilty of an offense under this

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Act if they choose to do so we shall presently discuss.
But that decision must be made in terms of their motives
and purposes and objectives rather than those of the
owners.
We do not mean that an offer to work or even the actual
performance of some services necessarily entitles one to
immunity under the exception. A jury might of course
find that such an offer or performance was no more than
a sham to disguise an actual intention to extort and to
blackmail. But the inquiry must nevertheless be directed
to whether this was the purpose of the accused or whether
they honestly intended to obtain a chance to work for
a wage.
(3) There remains to be considered the difficult issue
which divided the court below. The whole court agreed
that the payment of money to one who refuses to perform
the services is not "the payment of wages by a bona-fide
employer to a bona-fide employee," within the meaning
of § 2 (a); it also agreed that payments to one who has
been permitted actually to perform the services do fall
within the exception. But it divided over the question
whether the payment of money to one whose sincere offer
to work is rejected constitutes the payment of "wages" to
a "bona-fide employee." Since the offence charged here
is conspiracy, these questions must be put somewhat differently. Thus, there is no conspiracy to violate the Act
if the purpose of the defendants is actually to perform the
services in return for the money, but there is a punishable
conspiracy if their plan is to obtain money without doing
the work. The doubtful case arises where the defendants
agree to tender their services in good faith to an employer
and to work if he accepts their offer, but agree further
that the protection of their trade union interests requires
that he should pay an amount equivalent to the prevailing
union wage even if he rejects their proffered services.

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

We think that such an agreement is covered by the
exception. The terms "wages," "bona-fide employee" and
"bona-fide employer" are susceptible of more than one
meaning, and the background and legislative history of
this Act require that they be broadly defined. We have
expressed our belief that Congress intended to leave unaffected the ordinary activities of labor unions. The proviso in § 6 safeguarding "the rights of bona-fide labor
organizations in lawfully carrying out the legitimate objects thereof," although obscure indeed, strengthens us
somewhat in that opinion.12 The test must therefore be
whether the particular activity was among or is akin to
labor union activities with which Congress must be taken
to have been familiar when this measure was enacted.
Accepting payments even where services are refused is
such an activity. The Circuit Court has referred to the
"stand-by" orchestra device, by which a union local requires that its members be substituted for visiting musicians, or, if the producer or conductor insists upon using
his own musicians, that the members of the local be paid
the sums which they would have earned had they performed. That similar devices are employed in other
trades is well known. It is admitted here that the stand-by
musician has a "job" even though he renders no actual
service. There can be no question that he demands the
payment of money regardless of the management's willingness to accept his labor. If, as it is agreed, the musician would escape punishment under this Act even
though he obtained his "stand-by job" by force or threats,
it is certainly difficult to see how a teamster could be
punished for engaging in the same practice. It is not our
province either to approve or disapprove such tactics.
But we do believe that they are not "the activities of
See note 8, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

predatory criminal gangs of the Kelly and Dillinger types"
at which the Act was aimed, and that on the contrary they
are among those practices of labor unions which were
intended to remain beyond its ban.
This does not mean that such activities are beyond
the reach of federal legislative control. Nor does it
mean that they need go unpunished. The power of
state and local authorities to punish acts of violence is
beyond question. It is not diminished or affected by
the circumstance that the violence may be the outgrowth
of a labcr dispute. The use of violence disclosed by
this record is plainly subject to the ordinary criminal
law.
As we have said, the evidence with respect to the crucial issues was conflicting. Thus, the jury might have
believed that in some instances the defendants refused
to do any driving or unloading when requested to do so,
that in other cases they did not offer to work, that in
other cases their offers were rejected, and that in still
other cases they actually did some or all of the driving
and unloading. In the early stages, written contracts
were not in existence; later, a number of the owners
signed contracts and the defendants performed the services for which they called.
The jury's task was difficult. The trial lasted six
-::s. The jury required two days in which to reach
a vetdict, and twice during that period it sought further
irqtxuctions from the court, particularly with reference
to the law relating to labor activity. In such circumstances, where acts of violence naturally would influence
the minds 'of the jury, the instructions were of vital
importance, especially as they affected the question of
whether the payments which the defendants conspired
to obtain fell within the exception contained in § 2 (a).
The trial judge made a number of statements which were

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

Opinion of the Court.

relevant to this issue, but we agree with the Circuit
Court that the following were decisive:
"If the jury find that the sums of money paid by the
truck operators were not wages so paid in return for
services performed by such defendants, but were payments made by the operators in order to induce the defendants to refrain from interfering unlawfully with the
operation of their trucks, then the sums in question may
not be regarded as wages paid by a bona fide employer
to a bona fide employee.
"The fact that any defendant may have done some
work on a truck of an operator is not conclusive as to
whether payments received by such defendants were
wages; the jury may consider the performance of work
by a defendant as evidence of the nature of the relationship between the defendant and the operator as establishing the status of a bona fide employer and a
bona fide employee. If, however, what the operator,
was paying for was not labor performed but merely for
protection from interference by the defendants with the
operation of operator's trucks, the fact that a defendant
may have done some work on an operator's truck is not
conclusive."
These instructions embody the rule for which the Gov-ernmentcontends, and which we think is erroneous for
the reasons we have given. Under them the jury was
free to return a verdict of guilty if it found that the motive
of the owners in making the payments was to prevent
further damage and injury rather than to secure the
services of the defendants. Whether or not the defendants were guilty of conspiracy thus became contingent
upon the purposes of others and not upon their own aims
and objectives. Moreover, the charge failed correctly to
explain the legal consequences of proof that the owners
had rejected bona fide offers by the defendants to perform

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

the services. As we have said, the jury was bound to
acquit the defendants if it found that their objective and
purpose was to obtain by the use or threat of violence the
chance to work for the money but to accept the money
even if the employers refused to permit them to work.
While the 48th, 49th and 58th instructions requested by
the defendants, all of which were refused, do not constitute a complete exposition of the rules which we regard as
applicable to this case, they cover a good deal of the ground
and should have been granted. The 48th states that "it
is not an offense under the Anti-Racketeering Act for
anyone to obtain employment by the use or threat of
violence if the intention is to actually work for the pay
received, and to give an honest day's work for a day's
wage.". The 49th declared that "it is not the purpose
of the Anti-Racketeering Act to prevent labor unions
from attempting to obtain employment for their members, . . . and that the use of violence or the threat of
violence for such purposes, while punishable under the
laws, is not punishable under the Anti-Racketeering Act."
The 58th requested charge read as follows:
"I charge you that in order that the defendants herein
may be convicted under any one of the four counts of the
Anti-Racketeering indictment, you must find a conspiracy
under such counts; and that in order to sustain the charge
of conspiracy under any one of the counts under the AntiRacketeering indictment, the proof must show not only
that individual defendants obtained money without rendering adequate service, but that it was the aim and object
of the conspiracy that . . . [they]1" should obtain money
without rendering adequate service therefor."
" The words "all of the conspirators," rather than "they," appeared
in the requested instruction as submitted to .4he trial judge. We
think that as so expressed the charge would have been erroneous,
but that with this change it states the correct rule.

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

Since the instructions denied, and the misleading instructions actually given, go to what is indeed the heart of
the case, we hold that the convictions cannot stand and
that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting:

I think the judgment should be reversed, and the convictions affirmed, subject only to an examination of the
sufficiency of the evidence as to some of the respondents,
and to a consideration of whether the union itself is a
"person" within the meaning of the statute.
Respondents, who are members of a labor union, were
convicted of conspiracy to violate the Anti-Racketeering
Act. They, or some of them, lay in wait for trucks passing
from New Jersey to New York, forced their way onto the
trucks, and by beating or threats of beating the drivers
procured payments to themselves from the drivers or their
employers of a sum of money for each truck, $9.42 for a
large truck and $8.41 for a small one, said to be the equivalent of the union wage scale for a day's work. In some
instances they assisted or offered to assist in unloading
the trucks; and in others they disappeared as soon as the
money was paid, without rendering or offering to render
any service.
The Anti-Racketeering Act condemns the obtaining or
conspiracy to obtain the payment of money or delivery of
property by "the use of . . . force, violence, or coercion . . ." To this definition of the offense Congress
added two-and only two--qualifications. It does not
embrace the "payment of wages by a bona fide employer
to a bona fide employee," and the provisions of the Act are

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

not to be applied so as to "affect the rights of bona fide
labor organizations in lawfuilly carrying out the legitimate
objects thereof, as such rights are expressed in existing
statutes of the United States."
There is abundant evidence in the record from which
the jury could have concluded that respondents, or some
of them, conspired to compel by force and violence the
truck drivers or their employers to pay the sums of money
to respondents or some of them; that the payments
were made by the drivers or truck owners to purchase
immunity from the violence of respondents and for no
other reason; and that this was the end knowingly
sought by respondents.
I can only conclude that such conduct accompanied
by such a purpose constitutes a violation of the statute
even though the defendants stood ready to unload the
trucks in the event that they were hired to do so. Unless the language of the statute is to be disregarded, one
who has rejected the proffered service and pays money
only in order to purchase immunity from violence is
not a bona fide employer and is not paying the extorted
money as wages. The character of what the drivers or
owners did and intended to do-pay money to avoid a
beating-was not altered by the willingness of the payee
to accept as wages for services rendered what he in fact
intentionally exacted from the driver or owner as the
purchase price of immunity from assault, and what he
intended so to exact whether the proffered services were
accepted or not. It is no answer to say that the guilt
of a defendant is personal and cannot be made to depend
upon the acts and intention of another. Such an answer if valid would render common law robbery an innocent pastime. For there can be no robbery unless the
purpose of the victim in handing over the money is to
avoid force. Precisely as under the present statute, the

UNITED STATES v. LOCAL 807.
521

STONE, C. J.,

dissenting.

robber's use of force and its intended effect on the victim are essential elements of the crime both of which
the prosecutor must prove. Under this statute when
both are present the crime is complete, irrespective of
other motives which may actuate the offender, if he is
also aware, as we must take it the jury found, that the
money is not in fact paid as wages by a bona fide employer. It is a contradiction in terms to say that the
payment of money forcibly extorted by a payee who is
in any case a lawbreaker, and paid only to secure immunity from violence, without establishment of an employment relationship or the rendering of services, is a
good faith payment or receipt of wages.
Even though the procuring of jobs by violence is not
within the Act, and though this includes the "stand-by"
job where no actual service is rendered, the granted immunity, unless its words be disregarded, does not extend
to the case where the immediate objective is to force
the payment of money regardless of the victim's willingness to accept and treat the extortioner as an employee.
It was for the jury to say whether such was the objective of respondents and whether they were aware that
the money was paid because of their violence and not
as wages.
When the Anti-Racketeering Act was under consideration by Congress, no member of Congress and no labor
leader had the temerity to suggest that such payments,
made only to secure immunity from violence and intentionally compelled by assault and battery, could be regarded as the payment of "wages by a bona fide employer" or that the compulsion of such payments is a
legitimate object of a labor union, or was ever made so
by any statute of the United States. I am unable to
concur in that suggestion now. It follows that all the
defendants who conspired to compel such payments by
force and violence, regardless of the willingness of the

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

315 U.

S.

victims to accept them as employees, were rightly
convicted.
If I am right in this conclusion, there was no error in
the instructions to the jury. All the counts of the indictment were for conspiracy to violate the statute. The jury
was told that to convict it must find conspiracy or agreement by respondents to violate the statute and that they
must have the purpose or intention to commit the crime
which it defined. As I have said, the intention to commit
the offense includes the intention to use force and violence
on the victim and the intention that the victim shall pay
because of it. The jury was then instructed that the
offense defined by the statute was the obtaining of money
or property by force and violence but that "the jury may
not find the defendants guilty on any count of the AntiRacketeering Act indictment if the money which they
are charged with having obtained from truck owners
through the use of force and violence or threats of force
and violence was paid as wages, and if the defendants who
received the money were bona fide employees and the
truck operators who paid the money were bona fide employers . . . If the jury find that the sums of money
paid by the truck operators were not wages so paid in return for services performed by such defendants, but were
payments made by the operators in order to induce the
defendants to refrain from interfering unlawfully with
the operation of their trucks, then the sums in question
may not be regarded as wages paid by a bona fide employer
to a bona fide employee . . . If, however, what the operator was paying for was not labor performed but merely
for protection from interference by the defendants with
the operation of the operator's trucks, the fact that a
defendant may have done some work on an operator's
truck is not conclusive."
Respondents' 48th and 49th requests were rightly refused. So far as they involved a ruling that the obtaining

PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER.
521

Syllabus.

of employment by force and violence does not constitute
the offense, the court had already ruled specifically that
there could be no substantive offense unless the payment
of money or property had been obtained by force. But, in
any case, both requests were erroneous because they made
respondents' willingness to work the test of guilt, regardless of the intended and actual effect of the violence on the
victims in compelling them to pay the money not as
wages but in order to secure immunity from assault. The
first part of the 58th request likewise had already been
charged. The rest was plainly defective, since it required
an acquittal unless it was the aim and object of the conspiracy that "all of the conspirators should obtain money
without rendering adequate service therefor." Upon any
theory of the meaning of the statute, it was not necessary
for the Government to show that it was the object of the
conspiracy that "all the conspirators" should receive payments of money. They would be equally guilty if they
had conspired to procure the payments to some.
PEARCE v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 306. Argued February 5, 1942.-Decided March 9, 1942.
1. A divorced wife when taxed on payments received from an
annuity provided by her former husband by way of settlement
in connection with their divorce can rebut the presumption sustaining the tax by merely raising doubts and uncertainties as to
whether the payments were made pursuant to a continuing obligation of the husband to support her. P. 547.
The husband, on the other hand, to avoid the tax, if laid upon
him, bears the burden of proving clearly and convincingly that
the payments were not made pursuant to any such continuing
obligation.

