BONDHOLDERS COMMITTEE v. COMM'R. 189
185

Syllabus.

mand over its property. For the reasons stated in Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., supra, the creditors at that time acquired the equivalent of the proprietary
interest of the old equity owner. Accordingly, the continuity of interest test is satisfied.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

BONDHOLDERS COMMITTEE, MARLBOROUGH
INVESTMENT CO., FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS,
v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 128.

Argued January 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

1. Where property formerly owned by an insolvent corporation,
subject to a deed of trust securing bonds, but which it has conveyed to another, is acquired through action of its bondholders
by a newly formed corporation, partly through foreclosure of the
mortgage and partly by purchase for cash from others to whom
the legal title has passed by mesne conveyances, there is no "reorganization" within the meaning of § 112 (i) (1) (A) and (B) of the
Revenue Act of 1932, as between the old and the new corporations-although, pursuant to the plan, all of the stock of the new corporation
is issued to the bondholders of the old-since the property had ceased
to be property of the old corporation. P. 192.
2. Section 113 (a) (7) of the Revenue Act of 1932 authorizes a
carry-over of the basis of the properties in the hands of the transferor, not their basis in the hands of one who may have occupied
an earlier position in the chain of ownership. P. 192.
3. The reorganization provisions here in question cover only intercorporate transactions. P. 193.
'*Together with No. 129, Marlborough House, Inc. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari, 314 U. S. 590,
to the Circuit Court. of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

4. Section 112 (b) (5) of the Revenue Act, supra, includes transfers
by individuals, but requires that the transferor remain in control,
it being inapplicable where the transferor is bought out for cash.
P. 193.
5. The cost of assets bid in by a mortgage creditor on foreclosure
is to be determined by the fair market value of the property.
P. 193.
118 F. 2d 511, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 590, to review judgments which
reversed decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals, 40
B. T. A. 882, overruling deficiency assessments.
Mr. William Z. Kerr, with whom Mr. Stephen V. Carey
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. J. Louis Monarch and Samuel
H. Levy were on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The primary question involved in these cases is whether
the transaction in question qualified as a "reorganization"
under that portion of § 112 (i) (1) of the Revenue Act of
1932 (47 Stat. 169, 196). which provides: "The term
'reorganization' means (A) a merger or consolidation
(including the acquisition by one corporation of
substantially all the properties of another corporation).
"
In 1927, the Marlborough Investment Co. issued its
bonds in the principal amount of $500,000. They were
secured by its apartment building in Seattle and the personal property therein. There was a default in May,
1932. A bondholders' committee was formed and there
were deposited with it more than 97% of the total of over
$450,000 face amount of the bonds then outstanding. In
view of Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co.,

BONDHOLDERS COMMITTEE v. COMM'R. 191
189

Opinion of the Court.

ante, p. 179, the precise mechanics whereby the reorganization was consummated are not material. Suffice it to say,
that pursuant to a plan of reorganization formulated by
the committee under the broad powers accorded it in the
deposit agreement, there was a foreclosure and sale; the
committee was the successful bidder at the price of
$340,425, which was paid by the surrender of deposited
bonds plus cash; Marlborough House, Inc. was formed
by the bondholders; it acqulired the property from the
committee and issued all of its stock to the depositing
bondholders; and non-assenting bondholders were paid
in cash their pro rata share of the purchase price. In
determining the income tax liability of the committee'
for a part of 1933, and of the new corporation for a part
of 1933 and for 1934 and 1935, the Commissioner used as
the basis for computing depreciation the price bid at the
foreclosure sale. The Board of Tax Appeals found that
neither the fair market value of the deposited bonds plus
the cash expended in partial payment, nor the fair market
value of the property, was in excess of $340,425, at the
date of the foreclosure sale or when the committee took
possession. The Board held that, since the new corporation had acquired the property in connection with a "reorganization," it was entitled to use the basis in the hands
of the old corporation, less depreciation. 40 B. T. A. 882.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 118 F. 2d 511.
For the reasons stated in Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic Limestone Co., supra, this transaction clearly
would have been a "reorganization" within the meaning of
§ 112 (i) (1) but for one fact. That fact is that the prop'The committee took possession of the property and managed it for
a part of the year 1933, prior to the date when the new corporation
acquired it. The Board held that the committee was taxable as a
corporation on the income received during that period by it. The
committee did not petition for review of that determination by the
Circuit Court"of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

erty was not acquired by the committee or the new corporation from Marlborough Investment Co.2 In December, 1928, several years prior to the insolvency reorganization, Marlborough Investment Co., the issuer of the bonds,
had transferred the property to another corporation. As a
result of mesne conveyances the property was held in May,
1932 by State Developers, Inc. and one Cooley. While
the foreclosure proceedings were pending, that corporation
and Cooley executed and delivered a quitclaim deed to the
property, in consideration of the payment of the cash sum
of $10,025, which was furnished by the committee.
In view of these circumstances, there was no "reorganization" within the meaning of § 112 (i) (1). The parenthetical part of clause A which is relevant here covers "the
acquisition by one corporation" of substantially all of the
properties "of another corporation." Clause B covers certain transfers "by a corporation" of all or a part of its
assets "to another corporation" where the transferor or its
stockholders continue in control. These were not "properties" of Marlborough Investment Co. It had long since
cIeased to own them. It was not the "transferor." Furthermore, § 113 (a) (7) authorizes a carry-over of the basis of
the properties I in the hands of the "transferor," not their
basis in the hands of one who may have occupied an earlier
position in the chain of ownership. Hence it is immaterial
'Though respondent apparently did not urge this point before the
Board or the court below, it may, of course, support the judgment
here by any matter appearing in the record. LeTulle v. Scofield,
308 U. S. 415, 421, and cases cited.
'By § 114 (a), the basis upon which depreciation is allowed is the
adjusted basis provided in § 113 (b) for the purpose of determining
gain or loss. By § 113 (b), such adjusted basis is the basis determined
under § 113 (a). By § 113 (a), the basis of property shall be "cost,"
with enumerated exceptions. One of those exceptions is contained in
§ 113 (a) (7), set forth in Palm Springs Holding Corp. v. Commissioner, ante, p. 185, note 1.

BONDHOLDERS COMMITTEE v. COMM'R. 193
189

Opinion of the Court.

that under the rule of Helvering v. Alabama Asphaltic
Limestone Co., supra, the bondholders had succeeded to all
of the proprietary interest in Marlborough Investment Co.
The property whose basis is in controversy here was not
acquired from it. Nor was there a "reorganization" as between the committee or the new corporation on the one
hand and State Developers, Inc. and Cooley on the other.
Cooley was an individual. The "reorganization" provisions in question cover only inter-corporate transactions.
Sec. 113 (a) (8) provides for a carry-over of the basis of
the properties in the hands of the "transferor" if the property was acquired by a corporation after December 31,
1920, by the issuance of its stock or securities "in connection with a transaction" described in § 112 (b) (5). See.
112 (b) (5) includes transfers by individuals; ' but it requires that the transferor remain in control. Cooley and
State Developers, Inc. were bought out for cash.
It is argued that, if the committee's acquisition of the
properties is to be treated as a purchase rather than a "reorganization," the cost to the committee should be measured by the amount of the cash advanced by the committee, plus the face value of the deposited bonds. There is no
foundation for that contention. The basis of assets bid in
by a mortgage creditor on foreclosure is to be determined
by the fair market value of the property. See Art. 193,
Treasury Regulations 77; Helvering v. New President
Corp., 122 F. 2d 92, 96-97. Although the Commissioner
used the bid price in ascertaining the basis, the Board
found that the market value of the assets did not exceed
that amount. Respondent therefore suggests that a re'Sec. 112 (b) (5) provides in part: "No gain or loss shall be recognized if property is transferred to a corporation by one or more persons
solely in exchange for stock or securities in such corporation, and imme-

diately after the exchange such person or persons are in control of the
corporation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

mand to the Board to ascertain the fair market value is not
necessary. Accordingly, the judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

did not participate in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SOUTHWEST CONSOLIDATED
CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 286.

Argued January 14, 15, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

1. Pursuant to a plan of creditors, the indenture securing bonds of
an insolvent corporation was foreclosed and its properties transferred to a new corporation in exchange for common stock and
stock purchase warrants of the latter, the common stock going
mostly to bondholders of the old corporation, but a small portion
of it, together with part of the warrants, to the old corporation's
participating unsecured creditors, the other warrants going to the
old corporation's preferrcd and common stockholders. Its nonparticipating security holders were paid cash, which was obtained
in the course of the transaction by means of a loan from a bank
which the new corporation later assumed and paid. Held, that
the transaction is not a "reorganization" under § 112 (g) (1) of
the Revenue Act of 1934. P. 198.
To constitute a "reorganization" under clause B of that section,
the assets of the transferor corporation must be acquired solely
for voting stock of the transferee. Voting stock plus some other
consideration does not meet the statutory requirement.
2. The provision of the Revenue Act of 1934, § 112 (g) (1) (B), as
amended retroactively by the Revenue Act of 1939, that in
determining whether an exchange is solely for voting stock "the
assumption by the acquiring corporation of a liability of the other
or the fact that property acquired is subject to a liability, shal
be disregarded," is inapplicable to an indebtedness arising out of
the reorganization, such as the bank loan described supra, as dis-

