CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.

357

Syllabus.

CUDAHY PACKING CO., LTD. v. HOLLAND, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 245. Argued February 4, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.
1. The Fair Labor Standards Act does not confer upon the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, authority
to delegate the power to sign and issue subpoenas duces tecum.
Pp. 358, 367.
2. The Act gives to the Administrator all the powers with respect to
subpoenas which are conferred upon the Federal Trade Commission,
and no more. P. 360.
3. Section 4 (c) of the Act, providing that "The principal office of the
Administrator shall be in the District of Columbia, but he or his
duly authorized representative may exercise any or all of his power
in any place," means only that the Administrator and his representatives may exercise either within or without the District of Columbia
such powers as they respectively possess; and this construction is
fully supported by the'legislative history. P. 360.
4. An unlimited authority in an administrative officer, charged with
the duty of gathering data and of making investigations, to delegate
the exercise of the subpoena power is not lightly to be inferred, in
view of the oppressive use which may be made of it when indiscriminately delegated and when the subpoenas are not returnable
before a judicial officer. P. 363.
5. It is fair to infer that in granting authority to delegate the power
of inspection, and in omitting to grant authority to delegate the
subpoena power, the Act shows a legislative intention to withhold the
latter. P. 364.
6. The entire history of the legislation controlling the use of subpoenas
by administrative officers, and particularly the legislative history
of the Fair Labor Standards Act, indicates a Congressional purpose
not to authorize by implication the delegation of the subpoena
power. P. 364.
7. The structure of the Trade Commission Act lends no support to the
view that as incorporated in the Fair Labor Standards Act it gives
to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division an implied

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

power to delegate the signing and issuance of subpoenas to persons
undesignated by the statute, a power not granted to or exercised
by the Commission or its members. P. 366.
119 F. 2d 209, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 592, to review a judgment sustaining a judgment of the District Court which required the
present petitioner to produce books, papers and records relating to wages and hours, as demanded by a subpoena issued by a regional director of the Wage and Hour Division
of the Department of Labor, but which postponed the
question whether other books and records, relating to purchases and shipments, which were specified in the subpoena, should also be produced.

Messrs. Stephen C. Hartel and Leopold Stahl, with
whom Messrs. Robert E. Sher and James V. Hayes were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Richard S. Salant, and Irving J.
Levy, and Miss Bessie Margolin were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Of the several questions raised by this record only one
requires our attention: Whether under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201, et seq.,
the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the
Department of Labor has authority to delegate his statutory power to sign and issue a subpoena duces tecum.
On application of respondent, pursuant to § 9 of the
Act, the District Court for Eastern Louisiana ordered
petitioner to show cause why it should not be compelled
to obey a subpoena duces tecum. The subpoena, issued
by a regional director of the Wage and Hour Division.

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

359

Opinion of the Court.

commanded the production at New Orleans, Louisiana,
before a specified officer of the Division, of all books,
papers, and records showing for a period of eighteen
months after the effective date of the Wage and Hour
provisions of the Act the hours worked by employees each
working day and each working week, all wages paid, all
purchases made and shipments received, and all goods
sold, shipped, delivered, transported, or offered for sale
at petitioner's Shreveport, Louisiana, plant.
The District Court denied petitioner's motion to dismiss
the proceeding for want of jurisdiction, and ordered it to
produce the demanded books, papers, and records relating
to wages and hours, but left undecided, until again presented to the court in the 'course of investigation, the
further question whether the books and records relating to
purchases and shipments specified in the subpoena should
be produced. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed, 119 F. 2d 209, specifically ruling that the
subpoena was validly issued and that the court had jurisdiction to enforce it., We granted certiorari, 314 U. S. 592,
on a petition which presented as a ground for reversal the
want of authority in the regional director to issue the
subpoena and, as a reason for allowing the writ, the conflict
on this point of the decision below with that of the Circuit
.Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in Lowell Sun Co.
v. Fleming, 120 F. 2d 213, certiorari granted, 314 U. S.
599.
By § 11 of the Act the Administrator and his designated
representatives are authorized to conduct investigations
which he may deem necessary "to determine whether any
person has violated any provision of this Act, or which may
aid in the enforcement of the provisions of this Act." The
Act does not define the Administrator's power to issue
subpoenas or specifically authorize him to delegate it to
others. But, for the purposes of any hearing or investigation, § 9 of the Act makes applicable to the powers and

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

duties of the Administrator, the Chief of the Children's
Bureau,1 and the industry committees, 2 the subpoena
provisions of §§ 9 and 10 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. 15 U. S. C. §§ 49 and 50. The Administrator
is thus given all the powers with respect to subpoenas
which are conferred upon the Federal Trade Commission,
and no more. Under § 9 of the Trade Commission Act
the Commission may require the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and production of documents by subpoena; and any members of the Commission may sign
the subpoenas. The Commission may apply to any district court within whose jurisdiction an investigation is
carried on for an order compelling compliance with a
subpoena.
The Administrator argues that he is given authority to
delegate to regional directors the signing and issuance
of subpoenas by § 4 (c) of the present Act, and that, in
any case, this authority is to be implied from the structure
of the Act and the nature of the duties which are imposed
upon him. Section 4 (c) provides: "The principal office
of the Administrator shall be in the District of Columbia,
but he or his duly authorized representative may exercise
any or all of his powers in any place." On its face this
seems no more than a definition of the geographical or
territorial jurisdiction of the Administrator and his representatives. The designation of the District of Columbia
as the location of the Administrator's principal office is
qualified by the provision that either the Administrator
or his representative may exercise "his powers" in "any
place." Only if such is its meaning does § 4 (c) comport
with the structure and related provisions of the Act.
1

The Chief of the Children's Bureau administers the child labor
provisions of the Act.
2The function of the industry committees and their relation to the
Administrator are discussed in Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,
312 U. S. 126.

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

361

Opinion of the Court.

If, as the Administrator contends, the section is to be
read as authorizing delegation of the subpoena power, that
authority is without limitation. He may confer the power
on any employee appointed under § 4 (b), whom "he
deems necessary to carry out his functions and duties,"
or even on those who render the voluntary and uncompensated service which he may accept under that section. Moreover, if so read, § 4 (c) likewise gives the Administrator unrestricted authority to delegate every other
power which he possesses, and would render meaningless
and unnecessary the provisions of § 11 authorizing the
Administrator to delegate his. power of investigation to
designated representatives.
If such is the meaning of the Act, he could delegate at
will his duty to report periodically to Congress (§ 4 (d)),
to appoint industry committees and their chairmen, to
fix their compensation and prescribe their procedure (§ 5),
to approve or disapprove their reports by orders whose
findings of fact, if supported by substantial evidence, are
conclusive (§ 10), tQ define certain terms used in the Act
(§ 13), to provide by regulations or orders for the employment of learners and handicapped workers (§ 14), as well
as other duties. A construction of the Act which would
thus permit the Administrator to delegate all his duties,
including those involving administrative judgment and
discretion which the Act has in terms given only to him,
can hardly be accepted unless plainly required by its
words.
The Administrator seeks to meet this difficulty by construing § 4 (c) as authorizing the delegation of some but
not all of his administrative functions. But we cannot
read "any or all" as meaning "some." And in any case
if only some functions can be delegated, we are afforded no
legislative guide for determining which may and which
may not be delegated. We think that the words of the
section, read in their statutory setting, make it reasonably

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

plain that its only function is to provide that the Administrator and his representatives may exercise either within
or without the District of Columbia such powers as each
possesses. This construction is fully supported by the
legislative history of § 4 (c).8
'S. 2475, passed by the Senateon July 31, 1937 (81 Cong. Rea. 7957),
and sent to the Conference Committee, provided for a Labor Standards
Board, and contained § 3 (e), which read: "The principal office of the
Board shall be in the District of Columbia, but it may meet or exercise
any or all of its powers at any other place." Section 12 (b) of this bill
also specifically authorized the Board to delegate its subpoena power.
The House Committee on Labor, to which the Senate bill was referred,
amended it.to provide for an Administrator instead of a Board (see
82 Cong. Rec. 1391), but it included a § 3 (d) corresponding to § 3 (e)
of the Senate bill, save for the substitution of the Administrator for
the Board. Section 11 (b) of the bill sponsored by the House Committee also authorized any employee designated by the Administrator to subpoena witnesses. This bill, however, was recommitted
to the Committee by the House on December 17, 1937 (82 Cong. Rec.
1835), and the Committee reported out a new bill on April 21, 1938 (83
Cong. Rec. 5680), which placed the administration in charge of the
Secretary of Labor rather than an Administrator, contained no section
comparable to § 3 (e) of the Senate bill or § 3 (d) of the recommitted
House bill, and in § 7 applied §§ 9 and 10 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to the powers and duties of the Secretary. The bill with
these changes passed the House on May 24, 1938 (83 Cong. Rec. 7449)
and went to the Conference Committee.
The Conference put the Administrator rather than the Secretary
in charge of Administering the Act, and included the present § 4 (c).
The Conference also retained the House bill's adoption by reference of
§§ 9 and 10 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, but extended their
operation to investigations as well as hearings, and made them applicable to the powers and duties of the Administrator, the Chief of the
Children's Bureau, and the industry committees. 83 Cong. Rec.
9247-8.
The inclusion of § 4 (c), closely resembling § 3 (e) of the Senate bill
and § 3 (d) of the recommitted House bill, both of which gave separate
specific authority to delegate the subpoena power, indicates that the
purpose of the Conference, and of Congress in adopting the Act, was
not to grant a general substantive power of delegation, including that

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

363

Opinion of the Court.

The Administrator also urges that his authority to delegate the subpoena power is to be inferred from the nature
of his duties and from the fact that under § 11 he may
through designated representatives gather data and make
investigations authorized by the Act. He points to the
wide range of duties imposed upon him, the vast extent
of his territorial jurisdiction, and the large number of
investigations required for the enforcement of the Act.
From this he argues that Congress must have intended
that he should be permitted to delegate his authority to
sign and issue subpoenas. But this argument loses force
when examined in the light of related provisions of the
Act and of the actual course of Congressional legislation
in this field.
Unlimited authority of an administrative officer to delegate the exercise of the subpoena power is not lightly to
be inferred. It is a power capable of oppressive use, especially when it may be indiscriminately delegated and
the subpoena is not returnable before a judicial officer.
Under the present Apt, the subpoena may, as in this case,
be used to compel production at a distant place of practically all of the books and records of a manufacturing
business, covering considerable periods of time. True,
there can be no penalty incurred for contempt before there
is a judicial order of enforcement. But the subpoena is
in form an official command, and even though improvidently issued it has some coercive tendency, either'because of ignorance of their rights on the part of those
whom it purports to command or their natural respect for
over subpoenas, but to define the places where powers otherwise granted
should be exercised. The addition in § 4 (c) of the phrase "'or his
designated representative," the equivalent of which did not appear in
either the House or Senate bills, must be taken merely as recognizing
that the Administrator or his subordinates could exercise elsewhere
than in the District of Columbia the powers which each had under
other provisions of the Act.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

what appears to be an official command, or because of,
their reluctance to test the subpoena's validity by litigation. All these are cogent reasons for inferring an intention of Congress not to give unrestricted authority to
delegate the subpoena power which it has in terms granted
only to the responsible head of the agency.
The subpoena power differs materially in these respects
from the power to gather data and make investigations
which is expressly made delegable by § 11. Without the
subpoena that power is, in effect, a power of inspection
at the employer's place of business to be exercised only
on his consent. It is much less burdensome than the requirement of his selection of great numbers of books and
papers and their production at other places. Because of
these differences, it seems to us fairly inferable that the
grant of authority to delegate the power of inspection,
and the omission of authority to delegate the subpoena
power, show a legislative intention to withhold the latter.
Moreover, if a subpoena power in the regional directors
were to be implied from their delegated authority to investigate, we should have to say that Congress had no
occasion expressly to grant the subpoena power to the
Administrator, who also has the power to investigate, and
that the grant to him was superfluous and without
meaning or purpose.
The entire history of the legislation controlling the use
of subpoenas by administrative officers indicates a Congressional purpose not to authorize by implication the
delegation of the subpoena power. The Interstate Commerce Act, 4 the National Labor Relations Act,' and the
Federal Trade Commission Act," whose subpoena provisions were adopted by the present Act and by the Pack25 Stat. 859, 49 U. S. C. § 12.
'49 Stat. 456, 29 U. S. C. § 161 (1).

038 Stat. 722, 15 U. S. C. § 49.

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

365

Opinion of the Court.

ers and Stockyards Act,' all fail to grant authority to delegate the issuance of subpoenas. It appears that none of
the agencies administering these acts has construed the
authority of its head to include the power to delegate the
signing and issuance of subpoenas.8 On the other hand,
Congress, in numerous cases, has specifically authorized
delegation of the subpoena power.9 In others it has
granted the power to particularly designated subordinate
officers or agents, thus negativing any implied power in
the head to delegate generally to subordinates." The
142 Stat. 168, 7 U. S. C. § 222.
'See Monograph of the Attorney General's Committee on Administratlive Procedure, Part 11, Interstate Commerce Commission, Sen.
Doc. No. 10, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 26. Id., Part 5, National Labor
Relations Board, pp. 18-19; Id., Part 6, Federal Trade Commission,
Sen. Doc. No. 186, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 18; also Final Report of
the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure
(1941), Appendix K, pp. 414, 419. Apparently the actual issuance
of subpoenas, though not their signing, is delegated to subordinates in
some of these agencies. We are not concerned here with the validity
of such a practice, since both the signing and issuance of subpoenas
is delegated by the Administrator.
I Veterans Administration Act, 49 Stat. 2033, 38 U. S. C. § 131; Rail-

road Unemployment Insurance Act, 52 Stat. 1107, as amended, 45
U. S. C. § 362 (a) (m); Walsh-Healey (Public Contracts) Act, 49

Stat. 2038, 41 U. S. C. § 39; Merchant Marine Act, 52 Stat. 954, 46
U. S. C. § 1124 (a); Federal Power Act, 49 Stat. 857, 16 U. S. C. §
825f (b); Securities Act of 1933, 48 Stat 85, 15 U. S. C. § 77s (b);
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 900, 15 U. S. C. § 78u (b);
Public Utility Holding Company Act, 49 Stat. 831, 15 U. S. C. § 79r

(c).
Communications Act, 48 Stat. 1096, 47 U. S. C. § 409; Bureau of
Marine Inspeciion and Navigation Act, 49 Stat. 1382, 46 U. S. C.
§ 239 (e); Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 1021, 49 U. S. C.
§ 644; Motor Carrier Act, 49 Stat. 550, 49 U. S. C. § 305 (d); Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Comp. Act, 44 Stat. 1438, 33 U. S. C.
§ 927.
The grant of the subpoena power by the Fair Labor Standards Act
to the Chief of the Children's Bureau and to the industry committees

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

suggestion that the Administrator is given authority to
delegate the subpoena power because the applicable Trade
Commission Act authorizes individual members of the
Commission as well as the Commission itself to sign subpoenas overlooks the fact that the Administrator alone
occupies a position under this Act corresponding to that
of the Commissioners under their Act. The structure of
the Trade Commission Act lends no support to the view
that the Administrator has an implied power to delegate
the signing and issuance of subpoenas to persons undesignated by the statute, a power not granted to or exercised
by the Commission or its members.
All this is persuasive of a Congressional purpose that
the subpoena power shall be delegable only when an authority to delegate is expressly granted. That purpose
has been emphasized here not only by the authority expressly given to delegate the power to conduct investigations, and in the adoption by reference of the subpoena
provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which
contain no authority to delegate, but by the legislative
history of the present Act, which shows that the authority
to delegate the subpoena power was eliminated by the
Conference Comnittee from the bills which each House
had adopted." Such authority expressly granted in the
bill which passed the Senate, was rejected by the Conference Committee. It also discarded the provisions
of the House bill which committed the administration of
the Act to the Secretary of Labor, who has a general power
of delegation under Rev. Stat. § 161, 5 U. S. C. § 22, and
placed in his stead the Administrator, who was given only
the subpoena powers of the Federal Trade Commission
incorporated in the House bill.
is not of this class, however, since they perform functions which the
Administrator does not control and could not exercise himself. In
these respects they occupy an independent status under the Act.
" See note 3, supra.

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

367

DouGLAS, J., dissenting.

We cannot assume that Congress was of the opinion
that the present agency, when appropriately organized
for the purpose, would be any the less able to function
without the power in the Administrator to delegate the
signing and issuance of subpoenas than the Federal Trade
Commission, the Interstate Ccmmerce Commission, and
other agencies which have not been given and do not
assert the power. Nor can we assume, as the Government
argues, that Congress is wholly without design in withholding the power in this case and granting it in others,
or even if it had been, that it is any part of the judicial
function to restore to the Act what Congress has taken out
of it. Even though Congress has underestimated the
burden which it has placed upon the Administrator,
which is by no means clear, we think that the legislative
record establishes that Congress has withheld from him
authority to delegate the exercise of the subpoena power,
and that this precludes our restoring it by construction.
Reversed.
MR. JusTicE DOUGLAs, dissenting:

We have here the narrow but important question as to
the power of the Administrator to delegate his power to
issue a subpoena. That problem does not involve questions as to the scope of the subpoena issued or the fact
that it required documents in Shreveport to be produced
at New Orleans. Statements in the opinion of the Court
as to the "oppressive use" of the subpoena introduce
issues wholly irrelevant to the single question before us.
Those issues would not be changed one iota had the Administrator himself signed this subpoena. And if the
policy underlying the opinion is a desire to see a more
restrictive and discriminating use of the subpoena power,
the requirement that the Administrator alone exercise
the power seems idle. For his duties under this Act are

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

manifold and far flung. The Act extends to thousands
upon thousands of persons and businesses. It is estimated
that the Act covers 15,500,000 persons employed by more
than 360,000 employers in 48 States, the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin
Islands. The Administrator has 13 regional directors and
one territorial representative. He has about 2200 employees. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1941, there
were 41,399 complaints received, 48,449 plant inspections
made, 1,749 cases litigated, 6,000 subpoenas issued.
The problem of enforcement is intricate and exacting.
If the Administrator must issue subpoenas, it seems hardly
likely that he can do anything but sign them in blank. If
he tried to do anything but formulate the general policy
to govern the exercise of the subpoena power, he could
perform little more than ministerial acts. Certainly he
cannot be expected to relieve his regional offices of all
questions as to where hearings shall be held, what documents are necessary for a hearing, what asserted violations should be investigated, which employer will make
full and free disclosure, which will act only under the
compulsion of a subpoena, and similar minutiae of daily
administration. The Administrator in Washington can
hardly exercise an independent judgment as to what the
range or course of a particular investigation should be in
remote Alaska or Puerto Rico. At least, he cannot do so
unless the processes of law enforcement are to come to a
standstill. Yet those matters control the nature, scope
and content of subpoenas issued. Such functions must of
necessity rest largely *ith the investigating and enforcement representatives of this kind of an administrative
agency.
It would seem that his functions in this regard must of
necessity largely lie in the formulation of a general policy
which is to govern the exercise of the subpoena power.
He has formulated that policy. The instructions to his

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

369

DoUGLAS, J., dissenting.

subordinates direct a discriminating and sparing use of
the subpoena power,1 a restriction of the scope' of subpoenas duces tecum, and a regard for the convenience of
those whose records are sought.' Delegation is a matter
of degree. An authority need not be delegated completely
or not at all. It is sufficient that the administrative officer
supervise and direct the execution of his duties. So far
as the subpoena power is concerned, it would seem that
the Administrator has satisfied all statutory demands in
this situation by his selection of the limited group which
can issue subpoenas, by formulating the policy to guide
them, and by ratifying a subpoena issued by his subordinate.
We need not, however, rest on that alone. The subpoena power is the concomitant of the power to investigate. Congress has specifically provided that the power
to make and conduct investigations may be delegated.
Sec. 11 (a) provides in part:
'The Administrator's Confidential Manual provides:
"The use of subpoenas should be restricted entirely to cases where
difficulties have been met with in -he course of inspection. If the
evidence or documents sought have been refused or if the witnesses
from whom information is requested refuse to be frank or require
protection from coercion by their employer, the use of subpoenas will
be helpful and proper. Inspectors must, however, first make an
inspection of the plant and make a real attempt to secure the necessary
information in the usual way prior to the issuance of subpoenas.
The subpoena power should be used sparingly and only when all other
means have failed."
"The inspector must limit the demand in the subpoena to those
records and those periods of time which are indispensable for his
inspection." Id.
' "The person subpoenaed must be given a reasonable time to produce
the records or to appear. The place at which he is requested to appear
should be accurately described and be reasonably nearby. The time
at which he is to appear should be a reasonable hour and on. fixed
so that any possible interference with the individual's business will be
reduced to a minimum." Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

"The Administrator or his designated representatives
may investigate and gather data regarding the wages,
hours, and other conditions and practices of employment
in any industry subject to this Act, and may enter and
inspect such places and such records (and make such
transcriptions thereof), question such employees, and investigate such facts, conditions, practices, or matters as he
may deem necessary or appropriate to determine whether
any person has violated any provision of this Act, or
which may aid in the enforcement of the provisions of this
Act."
But now we are told that that power when delegated is
only a power to be exercised with the employer's consent;
that if resistance is encountered, the only one who can
sign the subpoena to obtain that data is the Administrator. The power to delegate the authority to make investigations is certainly the greater of the two powers.
In fact, the decision to make the investigation is the significant and controlling one. Once that is made, the decision to issue a subpoena under this Act must rest with
the regional offices if it is to be an informed one. Without the subpoena power the power to investigate will
often be an empty one.
Hence, in view of the nature of the Administrator's
functions and the fact that the power to make investigations can be delegated, the lesser but companion power to
delegate the issue of subpoenas should be implied as an
incident of the office.
A subpoena of course exerts a coercive influence. So
does an investigation. So does all law enforcement.
And any power, including the judicial power, may be
abused. But as I have said, we have here no question of
abuse of power. We cannot assume that the Administrator would haul a business into court where the representative of the Administrator abused the subpoena power.
At least, we should assume that where the Administrator

CUDAHY PACKING CO. v. HOLLAND.
357

371

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

seeks enforcement of the subpoena and stands behind his
subordinate who has issued the subpoena, the subpoena
is as much the Administrator's as if he had signed it.
Cf. Norrisv. United States, 257 U. S. 77, 82.
The reasons for holding that authority to delegate this
power is an incident of the office are certainly no less
cogent than those underlying the cases which hold that
an administrative officer may delegate the function of
holding hearings without express statutory authority.
As stated by Chief Justice Hughes in Morgan v. United
States, 298 U. S. 468, 481, "Assistants may prosecute inquiries. Evidence may be taken by an examiner." Such
a delegation has been approved under the Fair Labor
Standards Act. Southern Garment Mfrs. Assn. v. Fleming, 122 F. 2d 622. Can it be that the power to hold
hearings and take evidence is so unimportant as compared with the power to sign subpoenas that the power
to delegate the one but not the other can be implied?
Can it be that the requirements of "practicable administrative procedure" (Morgan v. United States, supra, p.
481) are relevant and controlling in the one instance but
not in the other? Both the power to conduct hearings
and the power to issue subpoenas are intermediate steps
in administrative procedure. The findings of the examiner are advisory only; this kind of subpoena is a command without legal sanction unless supported by a court
decree. But the function of the examiner is not simply
ministerial. The role which he fills is significant. The
very essence of a fair hearing may depend on his conduct.
If that function may be delegated without express statutory authority, it should follow a fortiori that the lesser
subpoena power may also be delegated by reason of the
requirements of "practicable administrative procedure."
The legislative history of this Act does not stand in the
way. There is no indication whatsoever that the choice
of the House bill as against the Senate bill was in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

way influenced by the presence in the latter of an express
power of the proposed Board to delegate its subpoena
power. The controversy centered on the question as to
where administration of the Act should be lodged. See
H. Rep. No. 1452, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. No.
2182, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.; S. Rep. No. 884, 75th Cong.,
1st Sess. As a matter of fact, if we are to speculate as to
the intent of Congress on this point, we must assume
that all delegation of the subpoena power was not precluded. The provisions of §§ 9 and 10 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act were "made. applicable to the
jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Administrator."
§ 9. The Federal Trade Commission Act lodges the subpoena power in the Commission. § 9. But it also proyides that any member of the Commission may sign subpoenas. § 9. If the Commission has a limited power of
delegation, it is hard to see why the Administrator has
none. Logical difficulties prevent literal incorporation
of the whole of § 9 into the Fair Labor Standards Act.
But it certainly is impossible to deduce that a more
stringent rule governs the Administrator than the Commission.
Nor can it be inferred that, because Congress has expressly granted delegation of the subpoena power under
some statutes but not under others, the power may
not be implied. The omission of that power in a particular statute may be an historical accident or a matter
of design. Whether or not the power can fairly be implied as an incident of a particular office must depend on
the nature of that office, the other statutory provisions
which govern it, and the legislative history of its creation. The farthest we need go here is to say that where
the legislative history is inconclusive the power to delegate is not necessarily precluded.
A requirement that the Administrator himself exercise
the subpoena power at this stage of the enforcement of

I. C. C. v. RAILWAY LABOR ASSN.
Counsel for Parties.

357

the law may well retard the social and economic program which the Act inaugurated. We should be alert
to prevent sheer technicalities from interposing delay in
a law enforcement program. If the subpoena power is
abused, Congress and the courts are open to remedy it.
Meanwhile, the subpoena power should be treated sympathetically and regarded as a necessary legal sanction
to obtain compliance with the law by those who, having
lost the battle in the legislature, seek a delaying action
in the courts.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR.,
and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in this
dissent.
JUSTICE BYRNES,

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION
RAILWAY LABOR EXECUTIVES ASSN.

ET AL. V.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 223. Argued February 3, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.
Under § 1 (18)-(20) of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate

Commerce Commission, in authorizing the abandonment of a railway line, has authority to attach terms and conditions for the benefit
of employees who will be displaced by the abandonment. P. 376.
38 F. Supp. 818, 824, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges setting aside in part a report and order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 242 I. C. C. 9.

Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton

was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mr. Frank Karr, with whom Messrs. J. R. Bell

