OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

386

Syllabus.

WILLIAMS

ET AL.

315 U.S.

v. JACKSONVILLE TERMINAL
CO.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 112. Argued January 6, 1942.-Decided March 2, 1942.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 requires employers to pay to
every employee engaged in interstate commerce not less than the
prescribed minimum hourly wage. When the Act became effective,
the respondent terminal companies gave notice to redcaps in their
employ of the establishment of a so-called accounting and guarantee
system, whereby each redcap was required to account for the tips
he received and was guaranteed a compensation which, including
tips, would not be less than the statutory minimum. Held:
1. The employment of the redcaps, prior to the notice, was at will.
Their continuing to work, after the notice, created a new contract.
P. 397.
2. The establishment of the accounting and guarantee system was
not inconsistent with provisions of the Railway Labor Act forbidding (except as provided) changes of pay or working conditions of
employees "as a class as embodied in agreements," since those provisions apply only 'o collective bargaining agreements. P. 398.
3. Redcaps were not embraced in a certain collective bargaining
agreement relied on in one of these proceedings. P. 400.
4. There having been no collective bargaining agreement previously
in effect, the establishment of the accounting and guarantee system
did not violate § 2 of the Railway Labor Act, even though the company had received from the accredited representative of the redcaps
a request to negotiate such an agreement. P. 402.
5. The accounting and guarantee system, as applied to the specific
situations here involved, constituted compliance with the minimum
wage requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 403.
*Together with No. 1023, October Term, 1940, Pickett, GeneralChairman of the Brotherhoodof Railway & Steamship Clerks, etc., v. Union
Terminal Co., also on writ of certiorari, 314 U. S. 701, to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,-argued January 6, 7, 1942.

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Counsel for Parties.

6. The words "pay wages" in § 6 of the Act are not to be interpreted as limited to money passing from the terminal company to the
redcap. P. 407.
7. The petitioners here are without standing to assert that in its
operation the accounting and guarantee system violates §§ 2 and 6
(7) of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 408.
8. A temporary modification of the accounting practice of the terminal company in one of these cases, during which period redcaps
were not required to report tips unless they amounted to less than
the statutory minimum wage, did not show that the accounting and
guarantee system had been abandoned in favor of the former system
of nonaccountability for tips. P. 409.
118 F. 2d 324, 328, affirmed.
In No. 112, certiorari was granted, 314 I. S. 590, to
review the affirmance of an order (35 F. Supp. 267)
granting the defendant's motion for summary judgment
in a suit to recover wages and liquidated damages under
the Fair Labor Standards Act.
In No. 1023, certiorari was granted, 314 U. S. 701,
on petition for rehearing of an order denying certiorari,
313 U. S. 591, to review the reversal of a judgment for
the plaintiffs in a suit to recover wages and liquidated
damages under the Fair Labor Standards Act, 33 F.
Supp. 244.
Mr. Frank F. L'Engle for petitioners in No. 112.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Robert L. Stern argued
the cause for the Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division, U. S. Department of Labor, as amicus curiae,
in No. 112; and Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Warner W. Gardner, Irving J. Levy, and
John E. Skilling were on the brief for the Administrator,
as amicus curiae, in Nos. 112 and 1023.
Mr. John Dickinson, with whom Mr. Julian Hartridge
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 112.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

Mr. Charles M. Hay, with whom Messrs. S. D. Flanagan and E. D. Franey were on the brief, for petitioner
in No. 1023.
Messrs. Robert G. Payne and John Dickinson argued
the cause, and Mr. Payne was on the brief, for respondent in No. 1023.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question presented by both these cases is whether a
railroad company operating a terminal subject to the Railway Labor Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
is required by those statutes, in the absence of a negotiated agreement respecting wages, to pay "redcaps" a
fixed minimum hourly wage irrespective of the tips from
passengers received by the redcaps, or whether an accounting and guarantee plan which leaves all tips with the
redcaps and assures them that each will receive at least
the minimum wage is valid.
The Fair Labor Standards Act is not intended to do
away with tipping. Nor does it appear that Congress
intended by the general minimum wage to give the tipping
employments an earnings-preference over the non-service
vocations. The petitioners do not dispute the railroad's
contention that, during the entire period, each redcap
received as earnings-cash pay plus tips-a sum equal to
the required minimum wage. Nor is there denial of increased pay to the redcaps on account of the minimum
wage guarantee of the challenged plan as compared with
the former tipping system. The guarantee also betters
the mischief of irregular income from tips and increases
wage security. The desirability of considering tips in
setting a minimum wage, that is, whether tips from the
viewpoint of social welfare should be counted as part of

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

389

Opinion of the Court.

that legal wage, is not for judicial decision.1 We deal here
only with the petitioners' assertion that the wages Act
requires railroads to pay the redcaps the minimum wage
without regard to their earnings from tips.
The cases have a common background. Prior to October 24, 1938, the effective date of the Fair Labor Standards Act, the redcaps at the terminals in question performed their familiar tasks without reward other than
the tips of the passengers, and, although subject to considerable supervision by the terminals,2 were not officially
considered employees. On September 29, 1938, the Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under § 1 of the
Railway Labor Act, 45 U. S. C. § 151, ruled that redcaps in
cities of over 100,000 population were employees within
that Act. 229 I. C. C. 410.
Subsequent to that ruling, the parallel series of events
culminating in the two controversies now before us, while
differing in details, followed the same general pattern. In
No. 112, nothing further occurred until the Fair Labor
Standards Act became effective. At that time, the Jacksonville Terminal, in supposed compliance with the Act,
began paying its redcaps in cash the amount by which
the statutory minimum wage exceeded each redcap's receipts in tips. This system, in some form, was used at the
terminal until July 1, 1940.
'See Anderson, Tips and Legal Minimum Wages, XXXI American
Labor Legislation Review 11; Gilson, Tips and Social Insurance, id.
67; Needleman, Tipping as a Factor in Wages, Monthly Labor Review,
December 1937, p. 1303.
For example, the terminals forbade the collection of charges for
redcap services, issued instructions for the meeting of sick or disabled
passengers, provided equipment for that purpose, and required that
redcaps be uniformed- and suitably dispersed about the terminal at
such hours and in such places as their services would be needed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

In the belief that the Act required payment of the minimum wage without deduction of tips, the redcaps, by their
representative, Williams, brought an action against the
terminal in United States District Court for the recovery
of unpaid minimum wages between October 24, 1938, and
July 1, 1940, and an equal additional amount as liquidated
damages. Jurisdiction of the action was conferred by
§ 24 (8) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (8), and
by § 16 (b) of the F. L. S. A., 29 U. S. C. § 216 (b). 8 The
terminal answered and moved for summary judgment.
Upon consideration of the exhibits, depositions, and stipulated facts the trial judge granted the motion, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 118 F. 2d 324. Because of the importance of the question whether the tips
could be treated as payment of the statutory wage, the
petition of the redcaps' representative for certiorari was
granted. 314 U. S. 590.
Section 6 of the Act requires every employer to pay
each employee engaged in interstate commerce wages at
'"(b) Any employer who violates the provisions of section 6 or
section 7 of this Act shall be liable to the employee or employees
affected in the amount of their unpaid minimum wages, or their unpaid overtime compensation, as the case may be, and in an additlonal amount as liquidated damages. Action to recover such liability
may be maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction by any one
or more employees for and in behalf of himself or themselves and
other employees similarly situated, or such employee or employees may
designate an agent or representative to maintain such action for and

in behalf of all employees similarly situated. The court in such action
shall, in addition to any judgment awarded to the plaintiff or plaintiffs, allow a reasonable attorney's fee to be paid by the defendant,
and costs of the action." June 25, 1938, c. 676, § 16 (b), 52 Stat.
1069.

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

the prescribed rates per hour.' Violation of that requirement renders the employer liable for the unpaid wages
and for liquidated damages, recoverable in an action by
the employees' designated agent or representative.5 Since
the terminal admitted by stipulation that Williams was
the redcaps' authorized representative ad litem, that the
redcaps were its employees, and that they were engaged
in interstate commerce, the sole issue was whether the
payment required by § 6 of the Act had been made.
The evidence, taken most favorably to the redcaps, discloses the following. About October 24, 1938, the effec4

"(a) Every employer shall pay to each of his employees who is
engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce wages
at the following rates"(1) during the first year from the effective date of this section,
not less than 25 cents an hour,
"(2) during the next six years from such date, not less than 30
cents an hour,
"(b) This section shall take effect upon the expiration of one
hundred and twenty days from the date of enactment of this Act."
June 25, 1938, c. 676, § 6, 52 Stat. 1062, 29 U. S. C. § 206.
"As used in this Act ... (b) 'Commerce' means trade, commerce,
transportation, transmission, or communication among the several
States or from any State to any place outside thereof.
"(e) 'Employee' includes any individual employed by an employer.
"(in) 'Wage' paid to any employee includes the reasonable cost, as
determined by the Administrator, to the employer of furnishing such
employee with board, lodging, or other facilities, if such board, lodging, or other facilities are customarily furnished by such employer to
his employees." June 25, 1938, c. 676, § 3, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C.
§ 203.
'See note 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

tive date of the Act, the terminal issued a written notice
to each redcap:
"Jacksonville, Florida,
"Oct. 24th, 1938.
"To Red Cap ................
I
"Jacksonville Terminal Company:
"In view of the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, effective October 24, 1938, and in consideration
of your hereafter engaging in the handling of hand baggage
and traveling effects of passengers or otherwise assisting
them at or about stations or destinations, it will be necessary that you report daily to the undersigned the
amounts received by you as tips or remuneration for such
services.
"The carrier hereby guarantees to each person continuing such service after October 24, 1938 compensation
which, together with and including the sums of money
received as above provided, which [sic] will not be less
than the minimum wage provided by law.
"You are privileged to retain subject to their being
credited on such guarantee all such tips or remuneration
received by you except such portion thereof as may be
required of you by the undersigned for taxes of any character imposed upon you by law and collectible by the
undersigned.
"All the matters above referred to are subject to the
right of the carrier to determine from time to time the
number and identity of persons to be permitted to engage
in said work and the hours to be devoted thereto, to establish rules and regulations relating to the manner, method
and place of rendition of such service, and the accounting
required.
"JACKSONVILLE TERMINAL COMPANY,

"By J. L.

WILKES,

"President-General Manager."

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

On November 3rd L. L. Wooten, the General Chairman
of the Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks,
received the redcaps' designation of the Brotherhood as
their bargaining representative. November 4th he saw a
copy of the terminal's notice. In the meantime he had
written Wilkes on October 25th that in view of the I. C. C.
decision he considered the redcaps covered by the collective labor agreement of February 1, 1937, between the
Brotherhood and the terminal, and within the union's
jurisdiction. After the designation the Brotherhood,
continually protesting the invalidity of the existing accounting and guarantee system,' attempted negotiations
with the terminal for a redcap contract. Eventually,
June 16, 1939, a contract limited to hours of service and
working conditions was signed. Meanwhile the redcaps
continued their accustomed activities, made the reports,
kept the tips, and acceptel the sums proffered them by
the terminal. At first, no receipts for wage payments
were required at Jacksonville; later, receipts were introduced expressly reserving the redcaps' right to sue for additional amounts under the Act.' On July 1, 1940, the
terminal inaugurated a new system of charging passengers
ten cents per parcel for redcap service, and paying the redcaps an hourly wage. An agreement with the Brotherhood reducing this arrangement to writing and ending the
controversial accounting and guarantee system was signed
August 9th.
'The system was so described because the redcaps made a daily accounting of the number of hours worked, and the amount of tips
collected, and because the terminal guaranteed the overall receipt of
the minimum wage by paying the redcaps semi-monthly any shortage
between the total tips and the minimum.
'The receipt stated:
"It is my understanding that by signing this receipt I do not forfeit or
release my right to sue for such additional amount as may be due
under Section 16 (b) of the Act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

No. 1023 is a similar proceeding brought against the
Union Terminal Company by Pickett, the agent of fortyfive redcaps working in the Dallas terminal. At the trial,
the evidence, consisting of an agreed statement of facts,
some exhibits, and some uncontradicted testimony, indicated, and the trial judge found, that the redcaps were
employees of the terminal and were engaged in interstate
commerce. He further found that prior to the Fair Labor
Standards Act the redcaps were paid by the tips of the
public, that no other contract was made on or since October 22, 1938, and that the question of tips as wages was
still an open one. On the ground that tips of the public
were not wages paid by the employer, he gave judgment
in favor of the redcaps. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed, 118 F. 2d 328, and certiorari was denied. 313
U. S. 591. Because of the importance of the issues presented, on petition for rehearing certiorari was granted.
314 U. S. 701.
Since the basic elements of Pickett's case are no longer
in dispute, the crucial issue again is whether the minimum
wages were paid. It was shown that, after the I. C. C.
ruling that redcaps were employees, the redcaps notified
the Dallas terminal on October 11, 1938, that the Board
of Adjustment of the Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks was their authorized representative under the
Railway Labor Act, and Pickett, as General Chairman of
the Board, asked for a conference in order to negotiate an
agreement. On October 22d, the terminal delivered to
each redcap a lefter, signed by Buckner, the terminal's
vice-president and general manager, in the same terms
as the notice used at the Jacksonville terminal.
Two days later, on October 24th, the effective date of
the wage law, Pickett, on behalf of the redcaps and at

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

their request, protested this proposal in a letter to Buckner,8 concluding:
"This letter is formal notice to the carrier, made for
and on behalf of each employee concerned as a protest
against the method proposed by the carrier to meet its
"The entire letter is as follows:
"I have a copy of a circular issued by your Company dated at
Dallas, Texas, on October 22, 1938, and which was handed to each employee to whom it was addressed: i. e., redcaps, the general tenor of
which is to require the individual employee to report to the carrier
the amount that he receives in tips from the public and which information the carrier intends to employ, in compiling its records to indicate that it has complied with Section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards
Act:
"In other words, the carrier contemplates crediting tips and other
moneys paid to its employees by persons other than itself to relieve
itself of the obligations imposed by the following quoted section of
the law:
"'Fair Labor Standards Act:
"'Section 6-(a). Every employer shall pay to each of his employees
who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce wages at the following rates"'(1) during the first year from the effective date of this section,
not less than 25 cents an hour.'
"The above section of the law which is quoted in part for the purpose of this notice, clearly sets forth that every employer who engages
in commerce shall pay to each his employees during the first year after
the effective date of the law 25 cents per hour.
"An examination of the law in its entirety does not authorize the
carrier to depend upon others to discharge its obligation with respect
to the law, in payment of wages imposed thereby.
"This letter is formal notice to the carrier, made for and on behalf
of each employee concerned as a protest against the method proposed
by the carrier to meet its obligation under the said law, and since it
appears that the carrier has acted in the premise without authority of
law or upon order of the Administrator, we are accordingly filing -this
notice of protest, for the reasons set forth herein."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

obligation under the said law, and since it appears that the
carrier has acted in the- premise without authority of law
or upon order of the Administrator, we are accordingly
filing this notice of protest, for the reasons set forth
herein."
No action was ever taken to recall or revoke the letter
of protest and the individual redcaps never told the company that they accepted the terms of its letter of October
24th.
On December 26th, 1938, Pickett submitted to Buckner
a proposed general agreement covering the hours of service
and working conditions of the redcaps, but not their wages.
After protracted consideration of the matter by both the
terminal and the union, Buckner wrote Pickett on December 6, 1939, as follows:
"As I told you and as you know, this case as to whether
or not the railroads will be allowed credit for tips received
up to $2.40 per day, is in the Court and as soon as same
is decided we will be glad to negotiate an agreement with
the Clerks Union, of which you are the General Chairman
for this Company."
On January 1, 1940, although the wage dispute was not yet
settled, a working agreement of the limited type Pickett
had proposed was signed. On March 6, 1940, the accounting and guarantee system was abandoned by the
terminal, presumably for the ten cents per parcel charge,
and the followipg day this action was commenced.
Throughout the entire preceding period the redcaps had
performed their usual duties, had filed slips showing the
hours worked and, except for a brief period, the tips received, had kept the tips, and had accepted the money
paid by the terminal pursuant to its guarantee. Never,
however, was the demand for additional pay abandoned,
and no redcaps were discharged for refusing to expressly
consent to the terminal's action.

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

Effect of Terminals' Notice. The terminal coinpanies
instituted the accounting and guarantee system by the
written notice, quoted above, to each redcap as the Act
became effective. It is accepted here by all parties that,
both prior and subsequent to the notice, the redcaps were
employees of the railroads 9 engaged in a service "so closely
related to physical transportation" in interstate commerce as to come under § 6 (1) of th Interstate Commerce
Act. Stopher v. Cincinnati Union Terminal Co., 246
I. C. C. 41, 45. As such employees, before the notice they
were permitted by agreement to come upon the terminal
property, render supervised service to the companies'
customers and receive pay for performing this portion
of the terminals' transportation business by retaining all
tips received. This employment of the redcaps was at will
and subject to the employers' conclusions as to the desirability of continuing their employment. In businesses
where tipping is customary, the tips, in the absence of an
explicit contrary understanding, belong to the recipient.
Polites v. Barlin, 149 Ky. 376, 149 S. W. 828; Zappas v.
Roumeliote, 156 Iowa 709, 137 N. W. 935; Manubens v.
Leon, [1919] 1 K. B. 208. Where, however, an arrangement is made by which the employee agrees to turn over
the tips to the employer, in the absence of statutory interference, no reason is perceived for its invalidity.0 The
employer furnishes the facilities, supervises the work and
'In the Matter of Regulations Concerning Class of Employees and
Subordinate Officials to be Included within Term "Employee" Under
the Railway Labor Act, Ex parte No. 72 (Sub.-No. 1), 229 I. C. C.
410; cf. Cole v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 211 N. C. 591, 191 S. E.
353; Booker v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 82 Pa. Super. 588.
" On the general question of the validity of a contract to turn over
tips, see the following cases: Harrisonv. Kansas City Terminal Ry.
Co., 36 F. Supp. 434, 438; Gloyd v. Hotel La Salle Co., 221 Ill. App.
104; In re Farb, 178 Cal. 592, 174 P. 320; Setree v. Falkner, 5 Labor
Cases 60,779, 2 P. H. Labor Service 22,547 (Ohio App.).

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

may take the compensation paid by travelers for the service, whether paid as a fixed charge or as a tip. A tip to
a redcap is compensation for service. It is customarily
given and always expected when such service is rendered.
With the effective date of the Act the employers became
bound to pay a minimum wage to their employees, the
redcaps. Accordingly, the latter were notified that
future earnings from tips must be accounted for and considered as wages. Although continuously protesting the
authority of the railroads to take over the tips, the redcaps"
remained at w-,k subject to the requirement. Such protests -tere unavailing against the employers. Although
the new plan was not satisfactory to the redcaps, the notice
transferred to the railroads' credit so much of the tips as
it affected. By continuing to work, a new contract was
created. This result follows because the employer, after
notice, may keep all earnings arising from the business.
Labatt, Master & Servant, (2d ed.) Vol. 5, § 2037; Restatement, Agency, § 388. If the redcap did not accept
the terms offered, he would be a volunteer and not an
employee. As a volunteer he could probably keep his
tips, but would not be entitled to a contractual wage.
Restatement, Contracts, § 55. No such gift of services
to the terminals is here claimed.
Railway Labor Act. Petitioners assert that, whatever
may be the authority to issue orders for the accounting
and guarantee plan, these railroads could not validly
exercise the power because of the Railway Labor Act.
48 Stat. 1185. The applicable provisions are quoted in
the note below."
48 Stat. 1187-88, § 2. "First. It shall be the duty of all carriers,
their officers, agents, and employees to exert every reasonable effort
to make and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, and
working conditions, and to settle all disputes, whether arising out of
the application of such agreements or otherwise, in order to avoid any

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

The object of the Act is to avoid interruption to commerce through the promotion of free association among
employees for the purpose of settling disputes between
them and the carriers. § 2. To assure continued operations, changes by the carriers in agreements reached
through collective bargaining, pending negotiations, are
prohibited. Independent individual contracts are not
affected by the Act. It is to be noted that § 2, First to
Sixth, inclusive, relied upon by petitioners, is largely concerned with the organization of employees, freedom from
carrier interference in such organization, the choice of
representatives for collective bargaining, and the manner
interruption to commerce or to the operation of any carrier growing
out of any dispute between the carrier and the employees thereof.
"Second. All disputes between a carrier or carriers and its or their
employees shall be considered, and, if possible, decided, with all expedition, in conference between representatives designated and
authorized so to confer, respectively, by the carrier or carriers and
by the employees thereof interested in the dispute."
"Seventh. No carrier, its officers or agents shall change the rates
of pay, rules, or working conditions of its employees, as a class as embodied in agreements except in the manner prescribed in such agreements or in section 6 of this Act." 45 U. S. C. § 152.
Id., 1197. "SEc. 6. Carriers and representatives of the employees
shall give at least thirty days' written notice of an intended change
in agreements affecting rates of pay, rules, or working conditions, and
the time and place for the beginning of conference between the representatives of the parties interested in such intended changes shall be
agreed upon within ten days after the receipt of said notice, and said
time shall be within the thirty days provided in the notice. In every
case where such notice of intended change has been given, or conferences
are being held with reference thereto, or the services of the Mediation
Board have been requested by either party, or said Board has proffered
its services, rates of pay, rules, or working conditions shall not be
altered by the carrier until the controversy has.,been finally acted
upon as required by section 5 of this Act, by th6 Mediation Board,
unless a period of ten days has elapsed after termination of conferences
without request for or proffer of the services of the Mediation Board..'
"
45 U. S. C. § 156.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

of entering into and carrying on such negotiations. Section 2, Seventh, note 11, supra, forbids changes of pay or
working conditions of employees "as a class as embodied
in agreements" except as provided in § 6, note 11, supra.
The crucial § 6 is phrased so as to leave no doubt that
only agreements reached after collective bargaining were
covered. Section 2, Seventh, first appeared in the 1934
amendments to the Railway Labor Act, and § 6 was likewise then amended by adding "in agreements" to that
section's former requirement of notice of "an intended
change affecting rates of pay, rules or working conditions."
Compare § 6, 44 Stat. 582, with § 6, 48 Stat. 1197. These
additions point squarely to limiting the bargaining provisions of the Railway Labor Act to collective action.1 2
In No. 112, the Jacksonville case, petitioners find such
an agreement in the contract of February 1, 1937, the
"Revised Agreement Between the Jacksonville Terminal
Company and Employees Herein Named Represented by
the Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks,
Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employees."
The scope of that agreement is limited to the hours of
service and working conditions of certain groups of employees, in none of which do redcaps appear."8 Wages
are not covered. When the contract was .negotiated, the
redcaps were not thought of as employees engaged in
Cf. VirginianRy. Co. v. Federation,300 U. S. 515, 548-549; Labor

Board v. Jones & Laughlin,301 U. S. 1, 44-45.
'The closest are groups (2) and (3) described as follows:
"Group (2) Other office and station employees-such as office boys,
messengers, chore boys, train announcers, gatemen, baggage and parcel room employees, train and engine crew callers, telephone switchboard operators, elevator operators, office, station and warehouse
watchmen and janitors.
"Group (3) Laborers employed in and around stations, storehouse, and warehouses."

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

transportation service.'
Evidently the redcaps only authorized the contracting Brotherhood to represent them
after the notice.'
Neither party to the agreement took
any steps in regard to the redcaps under the 1937 agreement until after the disputed plan was instituted.
Thereafter, when the Brotherhood first claimed that the
redcaps were covered by the 1937 Clerks' contract, the
suggestion was promptly repudiated in writing by the
terminal company. Finally, after the authorization, the
Brotherhood did immediately begin negotiations for
the redcaps and ultimately secured a collective contract,
June 16, 1939, which covered hours of service and working conditions and which embodied much that was in the
Clerks' contract. Subsequently a wage agreement of
August 9, 1940, became a part of this earlier working
agreement. While no finding as to its coverage appears
in the record, we are clear from the 1937 contract, its
practical application by the parties and the new arrangements ultimately concluded, that the redcaps were not
within its terms.
A different approach to this particular problem is made
by petitioner in No. 1023, the Union Terminal case. The
" Ex parte No. 72 (Sub.-No. 1), supra, n. 9; Stopher v. Cincinnati
Union Terminal Co., 246 I. C. C. 41.
The General Chairman of the Brotherhood testified:
"Q. Does that organization have the authority, or were they appointed by the redcaps, or the plaintiffs in this case, the redcaps employed by the Jacksonville Terminal Company, to negotiate contracts
and wage agreements for them with a Jacksonville Terminal Company?
"A. It wa8.
"Q. At or about what time?
"A. About November 3rd, was when the official authorizations were
turned over to me.
"Q. What year?
"A. 1938."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Dallas redcaps do not rest their argument upon any collective agreement. Their contention is that, since the
Brotherhood of Clerks, their then accredited representative for the purposes of the Railway Labor Act, had
asked the terminal on October 11, 1938, for a conference
to negotiate an agreement for working conditions and
other related subjects, the subseqtr.nt act of the terminal
in establishing the accounting and guarantee plan violated the Railway Labor Act and was therefore ineffective
to change the existing arrangements by which the redcaps retained the tips as their own. This, it is urged,
would result in a recovery of the minimum wage without
credit to the carrier for the tips. Petitioner relies upon
the first six paragraphs of § 2 of the Railway Labor Act,
48 Stat. 1187, and particularly § 2, First, note 11, supra,
placing the duty on the carrier to "make . . . agreements . . . in order to avoid any interruption . . . to

the operation of any carrier."
The Brotherhood and the terminal did negotiate and
finally concluded, effective January 1, 1940, their first collective working agreement covering the redcaps. Because the carrier was, by the Act, placed under the duty
to exert every effort to make collective agreements, it does
not follow that, pending those negotiations, where no
collective bargaining agreements are or have been in effect,
the carrier cannot exercise its authority to arrange its
business relations with its employees in the manner shown
in this record. As we have stated in discussing the Jacksonville case, the Railway Labor Act dealt with collective
bargaining agreements only, and not with the employment of individua6ls. This conclusion is pertinent in considering the effect of the Dallas request for collective
bargaining.
The institution of negotiations for collective bargaining
does not change tie authority of the carrier. The prohibi-

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

tions of § 6 against change of wages or conditions pending
bargaining and those of § 2, Seventh, are aimed at preventing changes in conditions previously fixed by collective bargaining agreements. Arrangements made after
collective bargaining obviously are entitled to a higher
degree of permanency and continuity than those made
by the carrier for its own convenience and purpose.
Minimum Wages. We stated in the discussion of the
notice given by the terminals to their employees that its
effect was to transfer the tips covered by the notice to
the credit of the terminals. But this terminal credit in
the hands of the redcaps, assert petitioners in both cases,
cannot be utilized as cash paid to the employee by the
employer. 6 It is urged that the terminals have worked
out a scheme to largely relieve themselves of wage payments to redcaps and to let travelers pay "amounts which
the law requires should be paid by the employer itself,"
and that the accounting difficulties make the plan not only
undesirable but contrary to the policy of the statute as
likely to foster false reports of tips by redcaps in order
to reach the minimum and save the terminals from any
guarantee payments.
Section 6 prescribed that "Every employer shall pay to
each of his employees . . . wages at the following rates.
. . ." Wages are defined only by the direction to include
"In No. 112, petitioners say: "We are dealing here only with Fair
Labor Standards Act and not any other Act, statute or ruling of any
commission. It is the mandatory requirement of the act 'that the
employer shall pay.' The act contains no word, or words, or phrases
suggesting any guarantee of payment."
In No. 1023, petitioners say: "We, of course, do not want to be
understood as contending that 25 cents received in tips will not purchase as much as 25 cents received in wgges, but we do say that Congress had the right to say what means should be employed to carry
out the purposes of the act, and that Congress has said, and for very
good reasons, that the purposes of the act can best be accomplished by
a direct wage payment from the employer to the employee."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

in that word the "reasonable cost . . . to the employer of
furnishing such employee with board, lodging, or other
facilities. . . ." What the word "wages" connotes in
addition to the items specified, we must deduce from other
provisions of the act in the light of its legislative purpose.
Obviously, "pay wages" ordinarily means for the employer
to hand over money or orders convertible into money at
face. The absence of the word "tip" from the statutory
extension of the ordinary meaning of wages makes it quite
clear that not every gratuity given a worker by his employer's customer is a part of his wages. If Congress
had had it in mind to include in wages all tips, the words
were readily available for expressing the thought. Such
a conclusion, however, does not foreclose a decision that
in certain specific situations the so-called tips may be in
reality the employee's compensation for his services, and
therefore wages.
The diverse interests of employers and employees have
variously influenced legislators to include, exclude, or
ignore tips in the specification of wage items in enactments
where the wage base was important. For example, the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act,' which also applies to employment in the District of
Columbia,18 specifically includes tips for computation of
compensation. Workmen's compensation acts are usually
construed as including tips in wages or remuneration, with
a tendency to make the inclusion of tips as wages turn
upon the conteiplation of the parties, express or implied,
in wage contracts. 9 State minimum wage acts are gen"March 4, 1927, c. 509, § 2 (13), 44 Stat. 1425; 33 U. S. C. § 902

(13).

" Act of May 17, 1928, c. 612, 45 Stat. 600.
" Compare Hartford Co. v. IndustrialAccident Comm'n, 41 Cal. App.
543, 183 P. 234; Gladys Gross' Case, 132 Me. 59, 166 A. 55; Powers's
Case, 275 Mass. 515, 176 N. E. 621; Sloat v. Rochester Taxicab Co.,

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinio4 of the Court.

erally silent as to tips." Under the N. R. A. the inclusion
of tips in wages on. a plan similar to the accounting and
177 App. Div. 57, 163 N. Y. S.904, aff'd mem. 221 N. Y. 491, 116 N. E.
1076; Bryant v. Pullman Co., 188 App. Div. 311, 177 N. Y. S. 488,
aff'd mem. 228 N. Y. 579, 127 N. E. 909; Kadison v. Gottlieb, 226 App.
Div. 700, 233 N. Y. S.485; Lloyds Casualty Co. v. Meredith, 63 S.W.
2d 1051 (Tex. Civ. App.); Federal UnderwritersExchange v. Husted,
94 S. W. 2d 540 (Tex. Civ. App.); Penn v. Spiers & Pond, Ltd., [1908]
1 K. B. 766 (C. A.); Great Western Ry. Co. v. Helps, [1918] A. C. 141
(H. L.) with Begendorf v. Swift & Co., 193 App. Div. 404, 183 N. Y. S.
917; Anderson v. Horling, 214 App. Div. 826, 211 N. Y. S. 487. But
cf. Industrial Comm'n v. Lindvay, 94 Colo. 531, 31 P. 2d 495; Makris
v. Top Hat Restaurant,Inc., 16 N. J. Misc. 26, 195 A. 857; Coates v.
Warren Hotel, 18 N. J. Misc. 363, 13 A. 2d 787, where gratuities were
excluded by statute. Unemployment compensation is apparently following the same trend. Compare Matter of Feinberg, 258 App. Div.
834, 15 N. Y. S. 2d 766 with Alexander Hamilton Hotel Corp. v. Board
of Review, 127 N. J. L. 184, 21 A. 2d 739. See Wage and Hour Manual
(1941 ed.) 191.
"See 2A C. C. H. Labor Law Serv. (3d ed.), 2 P. H. Labor Serv.,
passim. Probably this is due to the fact that in most states the statute
does not fix the minimum, but merely authorizes some board or official
to do so by orders, occupation by occupation. Such orders as relate
to trades in which tipping is common seem to take tips into consideration in setting the minimum wage for that trade, and quite naturally,
therefore, are apt expressly to forbid crediting of tips against the
minimum.
E. g., New York State Dept. of Labor, Minimum Wage Standards,
Directory Order No. 5, Restaurant Industry, effective June 3, 1940,
provides: "SERVICE EMPLOYEES Basic Rate. The basic minimum wage
for service employees in New York City shall be at the rate of 20
cents per hour .... NoN-SFmvICE EMPLOYEES Basic Rate. The
basic minimum wage for non-service employees in New York City
shall be at the rate of 29 cents per hour . . .from June 3, 1940
through March 2, 1941 and 30 cents thereafter .... GRATUITIES. In
no event shall gratuities from patrons or others be counted as part of
the minimum wage. SERvic EMPiOE. 'Service employee' means
any employee whose duties relate solely to the serving of food to patrons
seated at tables and to the performance of duties incidental thereto,
and who customarily receive gratuities from such patrons." See also,

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

guarantee plan here involved, was proposed.2' In the approved codes, tips were not expressly credited toward
wages, but the relatively lower minimums for those cus-

tomarily receiving tips may indicate that tips were given
weight although not expressly mentioned.22 The federal
social security laws define wages for old age benefits 23 and
social security taxes 24 as "all remuneration for employment, including the cash value of all remuneration paid
in any medium other than cash." The regulations of the
Social Security Board state, "The following are excluded
from the computation of 'wages': . . . Tips or gratuities
paid directly to an employee by a customer of an employer,
and not in any way accounted for by the employee to the
employer." 25 The Railroad Retirement Act, § 1 (h),26
New York State Dept. of Labor, Minimum Wage Standards, Directory
Order No. 6, Hotel Industry, effective Nov. 25, 1940; New Hampshire
Bureau of Labor, Minimum Wage Division, Mandatory Order
No. 3, Restaurant Occupation, effective Nov. 1, 1938; District of
Columbia Minimum Wage Board, Order No. 4, Public Housekeeping
Occupation, effective May 8, 1938, and reprinted in the Annual Report
of the Board for 1939, pp. 27 ff.
Proposed Code of Fair Competition for the Hotel Industry, submitted Sept. 6, 1933, by the American Hotel Association, Art. III (C)
(e); Proposed Code of Fair Competition for the Barber Shop Trade,
as revised for public hearing on Jan. 8, 1934, submitted by the Barbers'
Industrial Recovery Association, Art. IV (1); Restaurant Industry
Code of Fair Competition, submitted Sept. 12, 1933, by the National
Restaurant Association, Art. IV, § 6.
' See Needleman, Tipping as a Factor in Wages, supra, note 1, at
1319.
Aug. 10, 1939, c. 666, § 209 (a), 53 Stat. 1373; 42 U. S. C. § 409 (a).
"I. R. C. §§ 1426 (a), 1607 (b), 53 Stat. 1383, 1392; 20 U. S. C.
§§ 1426 (a), 1607 (b).
5
Reg. 2, Art. 14, Social Security Board, 2 F. R. 1280; 20 C. F. R.
§ 402.14. See also S. S. T. 301, 1938-1 Cum. Bull. 455.
'Act of June 24, 1937, c. 382, § 1 (h), 50 Stat. 309; 45 U. S. C.
§ 228a (h).

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.

407

Opinion of the Court.

386

and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, § 1 (i)27
exclude tips from "compensation" within the meaning of
their provisions. The Railroad Retirement Board has
determined that all earnings of the redcaps, accounted for
to the carriers under the plan here in question, are "money
remuneration" and therefore "compensation" under the
acts and not forbidden "tips." 2 We can therefore examine the Fair Labor Standards Act with the safe assumption that the word "wages" has no fixed meaning either
including or excluding gratuities.
To interpret "pay wages" as limited to money passing
from the terminal to the redcap would let construction
of an important statute turn on a narrow technicality.
It, of course, can make no practical difference whether
the redcaps first turn in their tips and then receive their
minimum wage or are charged with the tips i.ceived up
to the minimum wage per hour.29
2Act
of June 25, 1938, c. 680, § 1 (i), 52 Stat. 1095; 45 U. S. C.
§ 351 (i).
' Opinion No. 1941, R. R. 35, U. I. 11, approved by the Board
on September 18, 1941, B. 0. 41-397, 3 Railroad Retirement Law

Bulletin

-.

The former plan is substantially the tag system put into effect by
agreement of the red caps and the carrier at Jacksonville following
the termination of the accounting and guarantee system..The important provisions are:
"1. Red Caps will be paid the hourly wage established by the
Hours and the Wage Law, or orders of the Administrator, at the
minimum set in such orders or law.
"3. Daily records of each Red Cap's hours, tags sold, and money
re-remitted, will be kept by the Company; at the end, of each '15
day period or pay roll period, all money received from sale of checks,
etc., by Red Caps will be totaled, wages paid io'
Red Caps, deducted,
after one (1) cent per parcel or tag has been set aside for Company
expenses, the remaining nine (9) cents used to pay wages of Red

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Congress approached the problem of improving labor
conditions by the establishment of a minimum wage in
certain industries. It required that workers in these industries receive a compensation at least as great as that
fixed by the Act. Except for that requirement, the employer was left free, in so far as the Act was concerned,
to work out the compensation problem in his own way.
Other courts are in accord with our view. Harrison v.
Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co., 36 F. Supp. 434; Harrison
v. Terminal Railroad Assn. of St. Louis, 4 C. C. H. Labor
Cases 1f 60,346; Ryan v. Denver Union Terminal Co., id.,
60,618.
The other arguments of petitioner have been considered, but we find only two that require mention.
First. It is said that if the carriers take credit for the
tips as compensation for redcap service, it would be in
effect a charge by the terminals for a transportation
service, and therefore, since the terminals have filed no
covering tariff, a violation of § 6 (7) of the Interstate
Conun4erce Act, 34 Stat. 587, 49 U. S. C. § 6 (7).30 Furthermore, petitioners assert § 2 of the same act, prohibiting special rates, is violated because by the carrier's regulations the indigent receive the redcap service without
charge. Neither contention, if true, would avail petitioners. Sections 8, 9 and 10 of the Interstate Commerce
Caps, and Captains, other than the ten (10)

cents per hour for

Captains covered in Item 2.
"If the sum total of nine (9) cents per parcel handled and or tags
.sold is greater than the wages paid to Red Caps for that period, the
remaining funds will be divided among all Red Caps on the basis of
hours worked during the pay roll period, so that all Red Caps will
share alike for each hours service, from this fund. If the nine (9)
cents per parcel handled is not sufficient to pay wages outlined in
item (1) of this agreement, the Terminal Co. agrees to pay the
as outlined in item 1."
wages
"0 Cf. Stopher v. Cincinnati Union Terminal Co., 246 I. C. C. 41.

WILLIAMS v. TERMINAL CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

Act provide for damages to persons injured by unlawful
acts and punishment of the carrier or its agents. There
is nothing in the sections to indicate that petitioners
would have aright of action.'
Second. It is urged in the Dallas case that the terminal
from March 1, 1939, to October 15, 1939, voluntarily
abandoned the accounting and guarantee system in favor
of the old system of non-accountability for tips. We find
nothing in the modified accounting practice during that
period to support such a conclusion. Rather the terminal seems only to have simplified its bookkeeping and
partially relieved the redcaps of clerical duties. Prior
to March 1, 1939, and after October 15th, the redcaps had
to make a daily report of both hours worked and tips received regardless of amount, on a printed time slip furnished by the terminal for the purpose. Between March
1st and October 15th, the time slips furnished by the
company contained no provision for reporting tips, but
only for reporting hours.2 But the redcaps were instructed
" Brownlee v. Southern Ry. Co., 192 I. C. C. 119, 121. The Commission stated: "It is well settled that a carrier is entitled to compensation for any transportation service rendered, and that where a
service has been rendered for which no tariff authority exists and
the beneficiary of such service has paid the sum claimed by the
carrier, we are empowered to order the payment of reparation only
in the event the sum paid by the shipper amounted to an unjust
or unreasonable exaction for the service received." See also Twin
Coach Corp. v. Erie R. Co., 203 I. C. C. 393, 395; Cities Service Oil
Co. v. Erie R. Co., 237 I. C. C. 387, 389.
"Mr. Flanagan:
"We next offer in evidence PLAINTIf's ExHBIT 'C', which is also
a time slip but a little different from the one just read, and it reads:
"'The Union Terminal Company. Date ................ Hours
on duty from ...... M. to ...... M., showing four of those lines.'
"And then says: 'Total hours worked' . ........ , and then a
blank line to be signed by the Red Cap and right under it the words,
'Red Cap.'
"I call attention to the fact that on this slip there is no provision
for reporting the tips."

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

315 U. S.

that should any of them, during any work period, receive
in tips less than 25 cents per hour, the statutory minimum
hourly wage, he should report it to the terminal and the
terminal would pay the difference between the tips received and the minimum wage. Thus the only effect of
the change was to eliminate the superfluous reporting of
tips equalling or exceeding the minimum wage-a step
toward more efficient administration, not elimination, of
the accounting and guarantee system.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting, with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur.

I think the judgments should be reversed. It appears
to me that the question in these cases is: Upon whom does
the statute impose the duty of paying a minimum wage,
the employer or someone else? There is no ambiguity in
the congressional mandate that "Every employer shall
pay to each of his employees . . . wages . . . not less

than 30 cents an hour." I am unable to agree that tips
given to redcaps by travellers are "wages" paid to the
redcaps by the railroad.
The employers here could have openly charged a fee for
the services performed by redcaps. It appears that they
have now adopted such a system. It is said that there
is no practical difference between a system under which
the railroads openly impose a charge on the public and
one under which the redcaps accept from travellers socalled tips, treated by the railroad as a part of the redcaps'
wages. Generally, the traveller who pays a railroad
charge knows he is paying it to the railroad. One who
gives a redcap a tip does not necessarily know that he is
thereby helping the railroad to discharge its statutory duty

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
386

Syllabus.

of paying a minimum wage to its employees. The tippaying public is entitled to know whom it tips, the redcap or the railroad. A plan like that before us, which
covertly diverts tips from employees for whom the giver
intended them to employers for whom the giver did not
intend them and to whom any kind of tip doubtless would
not have been voluntarily given, seems to me to contain an
element of deception. And I think an interpretation of
the F. L. S. A. which permits employers to benefit from
such a plan does not accord with the meaning of the
language used by Congress.

HYSLER v. FLORIDA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 64.

Argued December 12, 1941.-Decided March 2, 1942.

1. The procedure adopted by Florida, whereby a person under sentence of imprisonnent or death, who claims that his conviction
resulted from some fundamental unfairness amounting to a denial
of due process of law, may apply to the Supreme Court of the
State, even though that court has affirmed his conviction, for
permission to apply to the trial court for a writ of error coram
nobis, and who thus is afforded a full opportunity to have a jury
pass upon his claim, provided that he first make an adequate
showing of its substantiality, is a procedure which meets the
requirements of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 415.
According to decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida defining
this procedure, a naked allegation that a constitutional right has
been invaded is not sufficient; a petitioner must make a full disclosure of the specific facts relied on, not merely his conclusions
as to the nature and effect of such facts; the proof must enable
the appellate court to "ascertain whether, under settled principles
pertaining to such writ, the facts alleged would afford, at least,
prima facie, just ground for an application to the lower court
for a writ of error coram nobis"; and in the exercise of its
discretion in matters of this sort, the court should look to the

