LUBETICH v. UNITED STATES.
50

Counsel for Parties.

public. It is not present when a carrier deals through a
broker.

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
LUBETICH, DOING BUSINESS AS PACIFIC REFRIGERATED MOTOR LINE, v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 322.

Argued December 17, 1941.-Decided January 19, 1942.

1. Decided upon the authority of United States v. Rosenblum Truck
Lines and United States v. Margolies, ante, p. 50. P. 59.
2. That the application was for either a common carrier certificate
or a contract carrier permit, rather than for only a contract carrier
permit, does not distinguish this case from the Rosenblum and
Margolies cases. P. 59.
3. The Commission's order denying "grandfather" rights to the applicant in this case, is not vitiated by absence of findings as to
whether the common carrier with whom the applicant's arrangements for hauling were made was acting as a broker during the
period in question and as to whether the applicant's name was
carried on his equipment. Findings on these two points were not
"quasi jurisdictional." P. 59.
39 F. Supp. 780, affirmed.

from a decree of a District Court of three judges
dismissing a petition to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission under the Motor Carrier Act of
1935.
APPEAL

Mr. Albert E. Stephan for appellant.
Mr. Frank Coleman, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. James C.
Wilson, Archibald Cox, Daniel W. Knowlton, and Neison
Thomas were on the brief, for appellees.

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This is a companion case to United states v. N. E.
Rosenblum Truck Lines, Inc., and United States v. Margolies, ante, p. 50. It is a direct appeal from the final
decree of a specially constituted three-judge district
court' dismissing appellant's petition to set aside an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission denying appellant's application under the "grandfather" clauses of
§§ 206 (a) and 209 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935 2
for operating authority as -a "common" or "contract?.
carrier by motor vehicle.
The Commission's findings show that appellant's
method of operations was substantially the same as that
of appellees in the Rosenblum and the Margolies cases.
Appellant operated between Los Angeles and Seattle and
held permits from the States of California, Oregon, and
Washington. Between June 1935 and January 1938 most,
if not all, of the traffichandled by appellant was solicited
and billed by other motor carriers and moved in appellant's vehicles only between the terminals of those other
carriers. From April 1937 until January 1938 appellant
hauled exclusively for a single common carrier, Hendricks
Refrigerated Truck Lines, Inc. The goods moved on
Hendricks' bills of lading and its tariff rates were applied.
Appellant requested loading instructions from, and reConvened pursuant to the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913 (38
Stat. 220, 28 U. S. C.. §§ 47 and 47 (a)) and § 205 (h) of the Motor
Carrier Act of 1935, rearranged by the Transportation Act of 1940,

54 Stat. 899, as § 205 (g) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act.
'The Motor Carrier Act of 1935 is now designated as Part II of
the Interstate Commerce Act. 54 Stat. 919.
'Since the evidence upon which these findings were made is not
included in the record before us, appellant may not here attack them..
Mississippi ValleV Barge Co. v. United States, 292 U. S. 282, 286, and
cases cited.'

LUBETICH v. UNITED STATES.
57

Opinicn of the Court.

ported loadings to, Hendricks. Appellant received the
total revenue less ten percent on southbound loads and
the total revenue on northbound loads. On "express"
traffic he received a flat rate of eighty cents per hundred
pounds. Shippers' claims generally were paid in the
first instance by Hendricks and then charged back to
appellant.
In January 1938 appellant engaged a solicitor of his
own, established terminals and apparently discontinued
the operations previously conducted in connection with
other carriers.
On the basis of its findings the Commission concluded
that the service performed "was not the fulfillment of
engagements in consequence of a holding out to the general public but was primarily the hauling of traffic for
motor common carriers." 4
While the application in the instant case is for a common carrier certificate, or, in the alternative, for a contract carrier permit, rather than for a contract carrier
permit as in United States v. N. E. Rosenblum Truck
Lines, Inc. and United States v. Margolies, that difference
is without legal significance. The question in both situations is whether the applicant was a carrier, either common or contract, within the meaning of the Act, prior' to
June 1935 and continuously thereafter to the date of the
hearing. For the reasons set forth in the Rosenblum and
Margolies cases, the decision below must be affirmed.
We have considered and found without substance appellant's argument that findings as to whether Hendricks
was acting as a broker during the period in question and
as to whether appellant's name was carried on his equipment were "quasi jurisdictional" and that the absence of
findings on those points renders the order void. Neither
finding was here essential to the existence of authority
'24 M. C. C. 141 at 147, 150.

60

OCTOBER :TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

315 U. S.

to enter the order, and hence was not "quasi jurisdictional." Cf. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
293 U. S. 454, 462-463; Floridav. United States, 282 U. S.
194, 214-215. One of the findings of the Commission,
which appellant may not attack,' was that appellant
hauled "for Hendricks, a common carrier by motor
vehicle," and the Commission was satisfied from the evidence before it that Hendricks, and not the appellant,
was the carrier in respect to the operations in which appellant was engaged. It was therefore immaterial
whether Hendricks acted as a broker in connection with
some other operations. Whether appellant's name was
on his equipment can only be a factor b-:aring on the
ultimate issue. It is in no sense "quasi juriL'ictional."
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the concideration

or decision of this case.
GLASSER v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued November 13, 14, 1941.-Decided January 19, 1942.
1. Jud. Code § 275 provides that jurors in a federal court shall have
the qualifications of jurors in the highest court of the State. Acts
of the State of Illinois providing for jury service by women became
effective before a grand jury in a federal court in that State was
drawn from a box from which the names of women had been excluded. Under the state legislation, the making of state lists including women could be delayed for some time later. Held that
the jury was not illegally constituted, in view of the short time
See Note 3, ante.
* Together with No. 31, Kretske v. United States, and No. 32,

Roth v. United States, also on writs of certiorari, 313 U. S. 551, to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit

