LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 685
681

Syllabus.

spirit which generously recognizes the full obligation of
this nation to protect the interests of a dependent people.
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 384; ,.ufert
Bros. Co. v. United States, supra, 198-199.
Viewing the treaty in this light, we are of the opinion
that the state is without power to charge the Yakimas a
fee for fishing. A stated purpose of the licensing act was
to provide for "the support of the state government and
its existing public institutions." Laws of Washington
(1937) 529, 534. The license fees prescribed are regulatory as well as revenue producing. But it is clear that
their regulatory purpose could be accomplished otherwise,
that the imposition of license fees is not indispensable to
the effectiveness of a state conservation program. Even
though this method may' be both convenient and, in its
general impact, fair, it acts upon the Indians as a charge
for exercising the very right their ancestors intended to
reserve'. We believe that such exaction of fees as a prerequisite to the enjoyment of fishing in the "usual and
accustomed places" cannot be reconciled with a fair
construction of the treaty. We therefore hold the state
statute invalid as applied in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Reversed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER CO., INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 588.

Argued March 5, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

1. The finding of the National Labor Relations Board that, by a
supplementary oral contract between an employer and a labor
union, it was agreed only that new employees would be re-

686-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

315 U. S.

quired to join the union, was, supported by substantial evidence.
P. 690.
2. The conclusion of the Board that the closed-shop agreement between the employer and a labor union in this case was not valid
under § 8 (3) of the National Labor Relations Act, because prior
to such agreement the union--although then the collective bargaining representative of a majority of the employees--had been assisted
by Qo6peration of the employer constituting unfair labor practice,
was supported by substantial evidence. P. 694.
The evidence supports the Board's ruling that the employer, contrary to a collective bargaining agreement, coerced old employees
to join certain unions with which' the employer had no closed-shop
contracts; in violation of the freedom of employees to organize,
guaranteed by the Labor Act.
3. An order of the Board requiring the employer in this case to
cease and desist from encouraging membership in such union and discouraging membership in another; from giving effect to the closedshop provision of the contract; from giving effect to the remainder
of the contract, when any other labor organization shall be certified
as exclusive bargaining representative; from interfering with its employees' rights to self-organization; and requiring reinstatement with
back pay of certain employees, posting of notices of compliance, and
notification of the Board, was supported by the evidence and the
findings, and was valid and enforceable. Pp. 689, 698.
4. A finding by the Board that a clause of a contract between an
employer and a labor union, whereby new employees would be required'to join the udion, was abandoned and not subsequently revived, held supported by substantial evidence. P. 696.
5. Shortening the period for which the Board ordered compensation
to be paid to employees wrongfully discharged or refused employment
is not justified by the delays in disposing of this case. P. 698.
120 F. 2d 611, reversed.
CERiomit

, 314 U. S. 600, to review a judgment re-

fusing enforcement of and setting aside an order of the
National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs.,Richard S. Salant, Ernest A. Gross, and
Morris P. Glushien were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Lawrence C. Spieth for the Electric Vacuum
Cleaner Co., Inc., and Mr. Herbert S. Thatcher, with

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 687
685

Opinion of the Court.

whom Mr. Joseph A. Padway was on the brief, for the
International Molders' Union, Local 430, et al.,
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The basic question for determination by this review is
the right of the respondent employer, the Electric
Vacuum Cleaner Company, Inc., to cooperate with
unions, representing an uncoerced majority of its employees, to secure new members. The right is challenged
because exercised prior to a closed shop agreement.
The other respondents are various unions, all affiliated
with the American Federation of Labor, which we shall
call the Affiliates. Since June 22, 1935, these unions
have been recognized by the employer as the duly chosen
agents of the employees for collective bargaining. On
that date, the Affiliates and the employer entered into a
written contract covering hours and working conditions
for the period ending June 23, 1936. A similar contract
extended the arrangements to June 23, 1937. In making
the latter contract, the Affiliates satisfied the employer of
their right to represent the workers, by exhibiting authorization cards totaling 771 out of the 809 employees affected.
These cards gave the Affiliates "full power and authority"
to conclude for the signer "all agreements as to hours of
labor, wages and other employment conditions." They
were to "remain in full force and effect for one year from
date and thereafter, subject to thirty (30) days written
notice of my desire to withdraw such power and authority
to act for me in the matters referred to herein." We
assume that the cancellation clause is ineffective prior
to twelve months from the date of the card and that all
cards were dated just prior to the termination of the first,
or 1935, contract.
In March 1937, when the contract and the individual
powers of attorney still had several months to xun, the

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

United Electrical and Radio Workers of America (hereafter called United), affiliated with the Committee for Industrial Organization, began an effort to organize the plant.
The Board, ' on adequate evidence, found that about
sixty employees immediately signed United cards, that on
March 19th a meeting of United was held at the Post Office
bluilding in East Cleveland, attended by a "large number
of gmployees," and that on March 28th another United
meeting was held "by a large number of persons, for the
purpose of securing formal resignations from the A. F. of
L. Affiliates." It is undisputed that a United charter was
issued to the interested employees for a Local 720, and
that on April 2nd the Local notified the employer by
letter that a majority of its employees had resigned their
memberships in the Affiliates and had "affiliated" themselves with United. Local 720 claimed in the letter the
right to negotiate grievances "under the existing contract," i. e., that expiring June 23, 1937. This letter was
not received by the employer until April 5th.
Prior to the receipt of this letter, and during a shutdown
of the plant by the employer, which had begun on Monday, March 22, 1937, pursuant to a request of the Affiliates,
dated March 20th, the employer and the Affiliates had
entered into an oral arrangement on Saturday, April 3rd,
pursuant to which the employer notified its employees it
was reopening its plant Monday, April 5th, under the
oontract expiring the subsequent June 23rd, and added
but only those employees who are members of the crafts
tnder contract with us will be employed." Eventually, a
closed shop clause appeared in a bilateral written contract, superseding the one expiring June 23rd, executed as
of May 20, 1937, in the following form:
Article III (d) "The Employer agrees to employ only
members of the Unions in good standing in their respective
Unions, and should the Employer require more employees

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 689
685

Opinion of the Court.

than those now employed, the Employer will secure such
employees through the Unions, if however, the Unions
are unable to furnish such employees, the Employer may
secure them elsewhere, it being understood, however, that
such employees so secured shall become members of
the Union."
On the reopening of the plant, no one was permitted to
return to work who did not present a clearance card from
the Affiliates. The refusal of the company to reemploy
certain members of United Local 720 gave rise to charges
of unfair labor practices, which were sustained by the National Labor Relations Board. 18 N. L. R. B. 591. The
employer was ordered to cease and desist from discouraging 'membership in United and encouraging membership in the Affiliates; from giving any effect at any time to
paragraph (d) of Article III of the May 20, 1937, agreement, quoted above, requiring a closed shop; from giving
any effect to the remainder of the May 20, 1937, agreement upon certification of any other labor organization
than the Affiliates as exclusive collective bargaining representative, and from in any manner interfering with its
employees' rights to self-organization. The order required affirmative action by the employer, for certain employees, to the extent of reinstatement and back pay, with
the usual provisions for posting notices of compliance and
notification of the Board. Some other charges, and a petition for investigation and certification of bargaining representatives, were dismissed without prejudice.1
The respondents successfully contested an enforcement
petition. The Circuit Court of Appeals set aside the order, 120 F. 2d 611, on the ground that the refusal to permit
Certain clauses of the order relating to reimbursement of federal,
state and local work-relief projects are abandoned by the Board and
should be eliminated. Republic Steel Corp. v. Labor Board, 311

U.S.7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

members of the United to resume their work was justified
because, at the time, a valid closed shop contract, in favor
of the Affiliates, under § 8 (3) of the statute, set out below,
was in effect.2 Deeming the issues important in the administration of the Act, we granted certiorari. 314 U. S.
600.
In addition to the facts just stated, the Board found
there was an oral provision, pertaining to a closed shop, included in the 1935 and 1936 contracts. This was to the
effect, the Board concluded, that all employees hired after
thedate of the first contract (referred to as new employees)
should be required, after a work-probation period of two
weeks, to become members of the appropriate Affiliate
union. Respondents contend the oral addition was somewhat different, and that, under it, not only Were new employees compelled to join the Affiliates, but old employees
(those employed before the first contract) who were, or
who became, members of the Affiliates were required to
maintain their membership unimpaired. Respondents'
position was upheld by the Circuit Court -of Appeals for
this and other reasons. The freedom of old employees,
under the earlier contracts, to join or not, as they wished,
is acknowledged by all.
'49 Stat. 452, c. 372, § 8: "It shall be an unfair labor practice for an
employer- . . . (3) By discrimination in regard to hire or tenure
of employment or any term or condition of employment to encourage

or discourage membership in any labor organization: Provided, That
nothing in this Act, or . .. any other statute of the United States,
shall preclude an employer from making an agreement with a labor organization (not established- maintained, or assisted by any action defined in this Act as an unfair labor practice) to require as a condition
of employment membership therein, if such labor organization is the
representative of,the employees as'provided in section 9 (a), in the
appropriate collective bargaining unit covered by such agreement when
made." 29 U. S. C. § 158 (3).

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 691
685

Opinion of the Court.

The Court relied heavily upon the authorizations to
bargain,8 furnished the Affiliates by the old employees, as
indicating the old employees who were members must
maintain that status until the year was up. Assuming
that every old employee furnished a power of representation for collective bargaining not revocable during the
year, it need not be inferred the employee also was bound
thereby not to switch his union allegiance. If the employee were forced to await the expiration of the year before changing membership, the first bargainingrepresentative might have a contract for the ensuing year executed
before a new representative could be organized and empowered to act. There is nothing in this record to compel
such interpretation of the authorizations. With respect to
the contract between the employer and the Affiliates, the
Board cites the evidence of several, including a letter from
the employer's president, written before any controversy
arose, to the effect that the oral provision was that new
employees must join the Affiliates. From this evidence,
the Board was fully justified in reaching its determination
that nothing more was agreed. Labor Board v. Automotive MaintenanceMach. Co., 315 U. S. 282; LaborBoard v.
Falk Corp., 308 U. S. 453, 461; LaborBoard v. Greyhound
Lines, 303 U. S. 261,,271. There is a difference between
being bound to retain the same bargaining representative
"I, the undersigned ....
hereby authorize my Craft Organization
...to represent me and, in my behalf, to negotiate and conclude all
agreements as to hours of labor, wages and other employment c6nditions....
"The full power and authority to act for the undersigned as described herein supersedes any power or authority heretofore given to
any person or organization to represent me, and shall remain in full
force and effect for one year from date and thereafter, subject to thirty
(30) days written notice of my desire to withdraw such power and
authority to act for me in the matters referred to herein."

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

for a specified period, and being bound not to become a
member of a different union during the term of the contract. The first situation, not the second, arose from the
earlier contracts.
The commencement of the United campaign for membership, in March, brought cooperative action between
the employer and the Affiliates to strengthen the latter's
position. Under the oral contract, as defined by the ruling
of the Board, now approved here, new employees could
properly be required to become members of the Affiliates,
but old employees could neither be required to become
members nor to maintain their membership.. The Board
found that, to forestall defections of old employees from
the Affiliates to the United, the employer "summoned old
employees to the office and there sought to, and in many
instances was able to, coerce them into joining the A. F. of
L. Affiliates." In the office were representatives of the
Affiliates as well as the employer. A number of old men
were called before this group. It is not clear from the
record which ones had been members of the Affiliates and
lost their standing, or which ones had never been memberm
There were instances of each type.' Vitosky had been a
member. Ramsey had not. Both Vitosky and Ramsey
were old employees, each in service long prior to the first
contract. Vitosky and four others signed affiliate cards on
demand, and returned to work. Ramsey refused to sign,
and was discharged. Upon the report of Ramsey's disCharge reaching the workshops, there was a one day sitdown strike. Respondents urge that Ramsey's discharge
was the result of an error. This issue need not be resolved,
as there is evidence that some old men, in violation of the'
collective bargaining agreement, were required to maintain or renew their membership in the Affiliates prior to
the closed shop agreement of April 3rd. Such facts are
adequate to support the Board's ruling of coercion of em-

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 693
685

Opinion of the Court.

ployees by the employer in order to maintain the membership of the Affiliates. Without a closed shop contract
covering the employees involved, this company effort to
maintain a union violates provisions protecting the freedom of employees to organize as they may wish. 49 Stat.
452, §§ 7,8 (1), 8 (3); 29 U. S. C. §§ 157, 158 (1),
158 (3).

Furthermore, upon the adjustment of this sit-down
strike, which took place Friday, March 19th, after the
occurrences just described, the Affiliates requested, and the
employer ordered, a shutdown of the entire plant, which
lasted from March 22nd to April 5th. The Board found
that this shutdown was for the purpose of preventing
"further proselyting" among members of the Affiliates by
the United. A vice-president of the employer testified to
such facts, learned by him in conference with officials of
the Affiliates who stated, they needed the time to "get their
lines in order." Assistance to a union by a shutdown, like
any other employer assistance, is forbidden.'
Respondents assert that'whatever employer assistance
was rendered the Affiliates was justified, even under an
interpretation of the contract which restricts the oral
portion to a requirement that new members join the
Affiliates. The assistance, it is urged, was rendered to
collective-bargaining representatives, selected freely by
a majority of the employees and possessed of unrestricted
and unrevoked powers to negotiate generally over labor
conditions, including the closed shop clause of April 3rd
and the new closed shop contract of May 20, 1937. Under
this view, since the discharges took place after a valid
closed shop amendment, they were in conformity with
§ 8 (3) of the Labor Act.
"Labor Board v. Lund, 103 F. 2d 815; Labor Board v. National
Motor Bearing Co., 105 F. 2d 652.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

An examination of the proviso of § 8 (3) will demonstrate the error of this position. That proviso reads, so
far as pertinent, as follows:
"Provided, That nothing in this Act . .. shall preclude an employer from making an agreement with a
labor organization (not established, maintained, or
assisted by any action defined in this Act as an unfair
labor practice) to require as a condition of employment
membership therein, if such labor organization is the
representative of the employees as provided in section
9 (a), in the appropriate collective bargaining unit covered by such agreement when made."
Under the findings already sustained, the Affiliates were
assisted and maintained by the coperation of the employer in dealing with the old employees. Such acts
encouraged the labor organization, in violation of the
portion of § 8 (3) preceding the proviso, set out in note 2.
Consequently, when the closed shop agreement was
adopted, April 3rd, it was invalid because entered into
with a labor organization assisted by an employer, in the
precise words of § 8 (3) quoted above. Cf. I. A. of M. v.
Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72, 81. Being invalid, the discharges violated §§ 7, 8 (1) and (3).
Respondents, however, take the position that the Congressional purpose embodied in the Labor Act is not
served by such literalness. As they see the situation,
freedom to organize must necessarily be qualified after uncoerced employees obtain validly chosen majority representatives. Previously untrammeled rights, they argue,
must be subjected to the modicum of interference here
practiced, in order that the Congressional object of industrial peace may be realized. We think, however, that the
Board's interpretation of the applicable language is correct. The provision for a closed shop, as permitted by § 8

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 695
685

Opinion of the Court.

(3), follows grammatically a prohibition of discrimination
in hiring. These words of the exception must have been
carefully chosen to express the precise nature and limits
of permissible employer activity in union organization.
To permit employer interference prior to the execution of
a closed shop contract, as soon as a bare majority of employees had properly selected their representatives, would
go far to restore the type of company-union co~rdination
in labor matters which the act forbids.'
Since we have held that assistance was given the Affiliates by the unfair labor practice of encouraging membership in those unions, it follows that the closed shop agreement of April 3rd, requiring old employees to be members
of the Affiliates, was madewith an asisted labor organization and could be held invalid. I. A. of M. v. Labor
Board, 311 U. S. 72, 75. Howlong that invalidity continues is an inference of fact for the fair determination of
the Board. Cf. H. J. Heinz Co. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S.
514, 522. Consequently, the refusal of the employer to
permit the employees to work without clearance from the
Affiliates could be found a forbidden interference and discrimination. § 8 (1) and (3). Labor Board v. Link-Belt
Co., 311 U. S. 584, 601. Further, the Board's conclusion
that the infirmities of the April 3rd arrangement were destructive of the May 20th contract proceeds naturally
from its decision as to the effect of the employer activities
prior to April 3rd. The force of the unfair practices was
not necessarily dissipated .so quickly.
There is an illuminating comment in the Senate Report on the
Labor Bill. S. Rep. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 12:
"The assertion that the bill favors the closed shop is particularly
misleading in view of the fact that the proviso in two respects actually
narrows the now existent law regarding closed-shop agreements.
While today an employer may negotiate such an agreement even with
a minority union, the bill provides that an employer shall be allowed

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

The employer calls our attention to provisions of the
order reinstating employees, which it feels erroneous. So
far as this objection is based on an interpretation of the
1936 oral contract to require old employees to maintain
their membership, it is answered by prior portions of this
opinion. The employer's refusal to admit these old employees to work on and after April 5th is properly remedied by reinstating them in their position and granting
them back pay.
There is a different basis, however, for the objection to
the reinstatement of the new employees. This is that,
under any interpretation of the oral clause of the 1936 contract, these men must become members of the Affiliates,
and therefore the employer's refusal to take them back on
their jobs is proper, even though the April 3rd arrangement
is invalid. The Board answers that the April 3rd arrangement was an abandonment of the earlier oral clause,
and that, consequently, the discharges made pursuant to
the later invalid closed shop arrangements are improper.
The abandonment, the Board finds, was intentional, and

therefore the subsequent invalidation of the later arrangement did not revive the vitality of the earlier oral
contract.
This finding of abandonment of the 1936 membership
clause was an inference drawn by the Board from the
circumstances surrounding the adoption of the April 3rd
arrangement.

It is an inference the Board is entitled to

to make a closed-shop contract only with a labor organization that
represents the majority of employees in the appropriate collectivebargaining unit covered by such agreement when made.
"Secondly, the bill is extremely careful to forestall the making of
closed-shop agreements with organizations that have been 'established, maintained, or assisted' by any action defined in the bill as an
unfair labor practice. And of course it is clear that no agreement
heretofore made could give validity to the practices herein prohibited

by section 8."

LABOR BOARD v. ELECTRIC CLEANER CO. 697
685

Opinion of the Court.

make when .supported by material evidence. To the.,
Board, the Congress has entrusted the appraisal of the
evidence and the drawing of such inferences. 49 Stat.
454, § 10 (e); Labor Board v. Waterman S. S. Co., 309
U. S. 206, 209; Labor Board v. Link-Belt Co., 311 U. S.
584, 597. The lack of positive evidence of the abandon-'
ment is natural. It was found abandoned by the Board
because of the actions of the parties, the employer and the
Affiliates, looking to the creation of a new, all embracing
closed shop contract. While the Board found the 1936
oral clause had covered only new employees, the Affiliates.
issued a notice to their members, dated March 31st, saying the "solution to the problem [i. e., "the situation that
resulted in the closing of the plant"] is proper enforcement of the present agreement, and that no,one be allowed
to resume work unless affiliated with these organizations."
On April 3, 1937, the employer notified its employees that
in 1936 "it was agreed that we employ only persons
affiliated with said crafts" (the, Affiliates). Such interpretation of the old clause, varying so radically from that
adopted by the Board, is nof conducive to clear-cut evidence of the purpose of the substitute closed ,shop
arrangement of April 3rd. Considered against the background of coercion of old employees, the strike difficulties
and the closing of the plant, all affected at least by the
United's membership campaign, we are not willing to say
that the Board's. finding that "In Substance, though not
in form, the arrangement effected between the respondent
and the A. F. of L. Affiliates on or about April 3, 19374
was an abandonment of the oral agreement as insufficient
to meet theexigencies of the situation and its replacement
by a closed-shop agreement," is unsupported by substantial evidence.
We have noted the employer's objection to the burden
of back pay placed upon it because of the Board's alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Statement of the Case.

315 U. S.

delay in entering the final order. Handling of complaints
as quickly as is consistent with good administration is of
course essential. It is important both to the employer,
who may have to pay back wages, and to the employee,
who must live without his job. Unfortunately, this cause
took from June 10, 1937, to December 31, 1939. There is
nothing in the record, beyond a failure of the Board to file
an intermediate report, which would tend to justify us,
however, in shortening the period for compensation.
This error was admitted and corrected by the Board. We
cannot penalize the employees for this happening.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed with directions to enforce the order of the Board
except as to reimbursement of federal, state and local
work-relief projects.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is

of the opinion the judgment

should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 120 F. 2d 611.

MILES ET AL. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF TENNESSEE.

No. 272.

Argued February. 10, 1942.-Decided March 30, 1942.

Section 6 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act prevents a state
court from enjoining, on the ground of the inconvenience or expense
to the railroad, a resident citizen of the State from prosecuting or
furthering an action under the Act (or receiving the proceeds of any
judgment therein) in a state court of another State which has jurisdiction under the Act. P. 705.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 602, to review a decree of injunction. The highest court of the State had refused a review
by certiorari.

