BAKERY DRIVERS LOCAL v. WOHL.
Opinion of the Court.
BAKERY & PASTRY DRIVERS & HELPERS LOCAL 802 OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS ET AL. v. WOHL ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 901, October Term 1940. Argued January 13, 1942.-Decided
March 30, 1942.
1. Members of a labor union of drivers, engaged in the distribution

of baked goods, in an endeavor to induce peddlers to work but six
days a week and to hire an unemployed union member one day a
week, peacefully picketed bakeries from which the peddlers ob-

tained their goods, and places of business of the peddlers' customers, carrying placards with the peddlers' names and a true statement of the union's grievances. Held, that a state court injunction
against such picketing was an unconstitutional invasion of the
right of free speech. Pp. 772, 775.
2. The right of free speech does not depend in such a ease on whether
or not a "labor dispute," as defined by the state statutes, is in-

volved. P. 774.
284 N. Y. 788,31 N. E. 2d 765, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 548, to review the affirmance of
a judgment sustaining an injunction. A petition for rehearing of the judgment of reversal, id., was granted, 314

U. S. 701.
Mr. Edward C. Maguire, with whom Mr. Samuel J.
Cohen was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Arthur Steinberg, with whom Mr. Joseph Apfel
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioners are a labor union and certain of its officers. The union membership consists of truck drivers
occupied in the distribution of baked goods. The respondents Wohl and Platzman are, and for some years have

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

been, peddlers of baked goods. They buy from bakeries
and sell and deliver to small retailers, and keep the difference between cost and selling price, which in the case of
Wohl is approximately thirty-two dollars a week, and in
the case of Platzman, about thirty-five dollars a week. Out
of this each must absorb credit losses and maintain a delivery truck which he owns-but has registered in the
name of his wife. Both are men of family. Neither has
any employee or assistant. Both work seven days a week,
Wohl putting in something over thirty-three hours a week,
and Platzman about sixty-five hours a week. It was found
that neither has any contract with the bakeries from whom
he buys, and it does not appear that either had a contract
with any customer.
The conflict between the union and these peddlers grows
out of certain background facts found by the trial court
and summarized here. The union has for some years been
engaged in obtaining collective bargaining agreements
prescribing the wages, hours, and working conditions of
bakery drivers. Five years before the trial, there were in
New York City comparatively few peddlers or so-called
independent jobbers--fifty at most,'consisting largely of
men who had a long-established retail trade. About four
years before the trial,' the social security and unemployment compensation laws, both of which imposed taxes on
payrolls, became effective in the State of New York.
Thereafter, the number of peddlers of bakery products increased from year to year, until at the time of hearing they
numbered more than five hundred. In the eighteen
months preceding the hearings, baking companies which
operated routes through employed drivers had notified the
union that, at the expiration of their contracts, they would
no longer employ drivers, but would permit the drivers to
purchase trucks for nominal amounts, in some instainces
fifty dollars, and thereupon to continue to distribute their
baked goods as peddlers. Within such period, a hundred

BAKERY DRIVERS LOCAL v. WOHL.
769

Opinion of the Court.

and fifty drivers, who were members of the union and had
previously worked under union contracts and conditions,
were discharged and required to leave the industry uiless
they undertook to act as peddlers.
The peddler system has serious disadvantages to the
peddler himself. The court has found that he is not.covered by workmen's compensation insurance, unemployment insurance, or by the social security system. of the
State and Nation. His truck is usually uninsured against
public liability and property damage, and' hence commonly carried in the name of his wife or other nominee.
If, injured while working, he usually becomes a public
'charge, and his family must be supported by charity or
public relief.
The union became alarmed at the aggressive inroads of
this kind of competition upon the employment and living
standards of its members. The trial court found that if
employers with union 'contracts are forced to adopt the
"peddler" system, "the wages, hours, working conditions,
six-day week, etc., attained by the union after long years
of struggle will be destroyed and lost." In the spring of
1938, the union made an effort in good faith to persuade
the peddlers to become members, and those who desired
were admitted to membership and were only required to
abide by the same constitution, by-laws, rules and regulations as were all other members. That, however, included
a requirement that no union member should work more
than six days per week.
These particular peddlers were asked to join the union,
and each signed an application, but neither joined. The
union then determined to seek an understanding with
peddlers who failed to join the union that they work only
six days a week and employ an unemployed union member
one day in a week. The union ditl not insist that th6 relief
man be paid beyond the time that he actually worked, but

772

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

asked that he be paid on the basis of the union's daily wage,
which fixed a scale for part of a day if but part of a day was
required for the service of the route. For some ten weeks,
Wohl employed arelief driver, who was paid $6.00 per day,
the normal day's wage for a full day being $9.00.
When Wohl and Platzman finally refused either to join
the union or to employ a union relief man; and continued
to work seven days each week, the union took the measures
which led to this litigation. On the twenty-third of January, 1939, the union caused two pickets to walk in the
vicinity of the bakery which sold products to Wohl and
Platzman, each picket carrying a placard, one bearing the
name of Wohl and the other that of Platzman, and under
each name appeared the following statement: "A bakery
route driver works seven days a week. We ask employment for a union relief man for one day. Help us spread
employment and maintain a union wage hour and condition. Bakery & Pastry Drivers & Helpers Local 802, I. B.
of T. Affiliated with A. F. L." The picketing on that day
lasted less than two hours. Again, on the twenty-fifth
of January, the union caused two pickets to display the
same placards in the same vicinity for less than an hour;
and on the same day a picket with a placard bearing, the
name of Wohl over the same statement, picketed for a
very short time in the vicinity of another bakery from
which Wohl had purchased baked products. It was also
found that a member of the union followed Platzman as he
was distributing his products and called on two or three
of his customers, advising them that the union was seeking
to persuade Platzman to work but six days per week and
employ a union driver as a relief man, and stating to one
that, in the event he continued to purchase from Platzman,
a picket would be placed in the vicinity on the following
day, with a placard reading as set forth above. It does
not appear that this threat was carried out.

BAKERY DRIVERS LOCAL v. WOHL.
769

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court found that the placards were truthful
and accurate in all respects; that the picketing consisted
of no more than two pickets at any one time and was done
in a peaceful and orderly manner, without violence or
threat thereof; that it created no disorder; that it was not
proved that any customers turned away from such bakeries
by reason of the picketing; and it was not established that
the respondents sustained any monetary loss by reason
thereof.
The trial court issued injunctions which restrained the
union and its officers and agents from picketing either the
places of business of manufacturing bakers who sell to the
respondents or the places of business of their customers.
14 N. Y. Supp. 2d 198. The judgment was affirmed without opinion by the Appellate Division of the First Department, two Justices thereof dissenting with opinion, 259
App. Div. 868, 19 N. Y. S. 2d 811; and was affirmed without opinion by the Court of Appeals, 284 N. Y. 788, 31 N.
E. 2d 765. This Court denied a petition for a writ of
certiorari because it did not appear that the federal question presented by the petition had necessarily been decided
by the Court of Appeals. 313 U. S. 572. The Court of
Appeals later certified that such question had been passed
upon, a petition for rehearing was granted, the writ of
certiorari granted, and the judgment summarily reversed.
313 U. S. 548. We later granted another petition for rehearing, 314 U. S. 701, and have since heard argument.
The controversy in the trial court centered about the
issue as to whether a labor dispute was involved within
the meaning of New York statutes. The trial court found
itself constrained to hold that no labor dispute was involved, and seemed to be of the impression that therefore
no Constitutional rights were involved. It concluded as
a matter of law that the respondents "are the sole persons
required to run their business and therefore they are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

subject to picketing by a union or by the defendants who
seek to compel them to employ union labor." The trial
court refused the petitioners' request for a finding that
"it was lawful for the defendants to truthfully advise the
public of its cause, whether in the vicinity of the places of
business of bakers who sold to the plaintiffs, or otherwise."
Likewise, it refused a request to find "that it was a constitutional right of the defendants to advise the public,
accurately and truthfully and without violence or breach
of the peace, that defendants worked seven days a week,
and that the defendants were seeking to secure employment from the plaintiffs for unemployed members of the
union, one day a week."
So far as we can ascertain from the opinions delivered
by the state courts in this case, those courts were concerned
only with the question whether there was involved a labor
dispute within the meaning of the New York statutes, and
assumed that the legality of the injunction followed from
a determination that such a dispute was not involved. Of
course that does not follow: one need not be in a "labor
dispute" as defined by state law to have a right under the
Fourteenth Amendment to express a grievance in a labor
matter by publication unattended by violence, coercion,
or conduct otherwise unlawful or oppressive.
The respondents say that the basis of the decision below
was revealed in a subsequent opinion of the Court of Appeals, where it was said with regard to the present case
that "we held that it was an unlawful labor objective to
attempt to coerce a peddler employing no employees in his
business and making approximately thirty-two dollars a
week, to hire an employee at nine dollars a day for one day
a week." Opera-on-Tourv. Weber, 285 N. Y. 348, 357, 34
N. E. 2d 349, certiorari denied, 314 U. S. 615. But this
lacks the deliberateness and formality of a certification,'
Compare Ex Parte Texas, 315 U. S. 8.

BAKERY DRIVERS LOCAL v. WOHL.
769

775

DouGLAS, J., concurring.

and was uttered in a case where the question of the existence of a right to free speech under the Fourteenth
Amendment was neither raised nor considered.
We ourselves can perceive no substantive evil of such
magnitude as to mark a limit to the right of free speech
which the petitioners sought to exercise. The record in
this case does not contain the slightest suggestion of embarrassment in the task of governance; there are no findings and no circumstances from which we can draw the inference that the publication was attended or likely to be
attended by violence, force or coercion, or conduct otherwise unlawful or oppressive; and it is- not indicated that
there was an actual or threatened abuse of the right to free
speech through the use of excessive picketing. A state is
not required to tolerate in all places and all circumstances
even peaceful picketing by an individual. But so far as
we can tell, respondents' mobility and their insulation
from the public as middlemen made it practically impossible for petitioners to make known their legitimate grievances to the public ,whose patronage was sustaining the
peddler system except by the means here employed and
contemplated; and those means are such as to have slight,
if any, repercussions upon the interests of strangers to the
issue.
The decision of the Court of Appeals must accordingly
be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JusTicE, DOUGLAS,

concurring:

If the opinion in this case means that a State can prohibit picketing when it is effective but may not prohibit it
when it is ineffective, then I think we have made a basic
departure from ThornhiU v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88. We

776

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DoumALs, J., concurring.

315 U. S.

held in that case that "the dissemination of information
concerning the facts of a labor dispute must be regarded as
within that area of free discussion that is guaranteed by
the Constitution." p. 102. While we recognized that
picketing could be regulated, we stated (p. 104-105):
"Abridgment of the liberty of such discussion can be justified only where the clear danger of substantive evils
arises under circumstances affording no opportunity to test
the merits of ideas by, competition for acceptance in the
market of public opinion." And we added (p. 105): "But
no clear and present danger of destruction of life or property, or invasion of the right of privacy, or breach of the
peace can be thought to be inherent in the activities of
every person who approaches the premises of an.employer
and publicizes the facts of a labor dispute involving the latter." For that reason we invoked the test, employed in
comparable situations (Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S.
296, 307; Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252) that the
statute which is the source of the restriction on free speech
must be "narrowly drawn to cover the precise situation
giving rise to the danger." p. 105.
We recognized that picketing might have a coercive effect: , "It may be that effective exercise of the means of
advancing public knowledge, may persuade some of those
reached to refrain from entering into advantageous relations with the business establishment which is the scene
of the dispute. Every expression of opinion on matters
that are important has the potentiality of inducing action
in the interests of one rather than another group in
society." p. 194.
Picketing by an organized group is more than free
speech, since it involves patrol of a particular locality and
since the very presence of a picket line may induce action
of one kind or another, quite irrespective of the nature of
the ideas which are being disseminated. Hence those as-

BAKERY DRIVERS LOCAL v. WOHL.
769

-DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

pects of picketing make it the subject of restrictive regulation.
But since "dissemination of information concerning the
facts of a labor dispute" is constitutionally protected, a
State is not free to define "labor dispute" so narrowly as
to accomplish indirectly what it may not accomplish directly. That seems to me to be what New York has done
here. Its statute (Civil Prsctice Act, ยง 876a), as construed and applied, in effect eliminates communication
of ideas through peaceful picketing in connection with a
labor controversy arising out of the business of a certain
class of retail bakers. But the statute is not a regulation
of picketing per se-narrowly drawn, of general application, and regulating the use of the streets by all picketeers.
In substance it merely sets apart a particular enterprise
and frees it from all picketing. If the principles of the
Thornhill case are to survive, I do not see how New York
can be allowed to draw that line.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in

