COLUMBIA RIVER CO. v. HINTON.

143

Opinion of the Court.

COLUMBIA RIVER PACKERS ASSOCIATION, INC.
v. HINTON ET A.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 142.

Argued January 12, 13, 1942.-Decided February 2, 1942.

A dispute between a processor of fish on the one hand, and independent
fishermen and their association on the other, concerning only the
terms upon which the fishermen will sell fish to the processor, and
in no way involving the employer-employee relationship, is not a
"labor dispute" within the meaning of the Norris-LaGuardia Act,
which declares that no court of the United States shall, except upon

certain specified conditions, have jurisdiction to issue an injunction
"in a case involving or growing out of a labor dispute."
117 F. 2d 310, reversed.

P. 145.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 600, to review a decree which reversed a decree of injunction granted by the District
Court, 34 F. Supp. 970, in a suit by the above-named
packers association to enjoin numerous fishermen and
their association or union, the respondents herein, from
an alleged attempt to monopolize the fish industry in
Oregon, Washington and Alaska, in violation of the Sherman Act.

Messrs. Jay Bowerman apd Ralph E. Moody for
petitioner.
Mr. Ben Anderson, with whom Messrs. Lee Pressman,
Joseph Kovner, arfd Anthony Wayne Smith were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner filed a bill for an injunction charging
that the respondents attempted to monopolize the fish
industry in Oregon, Washington, and Alaska, in violation
of the Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 209. The Norris-La-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

Guardia Act declares that no federal court shall, except
under certain specified circumstances, have jurisdiction to
issue an injunction in any case which involves or grows
out of a "labor dispute." 1 The jurisdictional requirements were not present here. But the District Court
held that, since this case did not involve or grow out of
a "labor dispute," these. requirements were irrelevant;
and, finding that the respondents had violated the Sherman Act to the injury of the petitioner, issued the injunction sought. 34 F. Supp. 970. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed, holding that a "labor dispute" was involved and that the District Court was therefore without
jurisdiction to enjoin. 117 F. 2d 310. To review this
question, we granted certiorari. 314 U. S. 600.
The petitioner has plants for processing and canning
fish in Oregon, Washington, and Alaska. It distributes
its products in interstate and foreign commerce. Its supply of fish chiefly depends upon its ability to purchase
from independent fishermen. The dispute here arose
from a controversy about the terms and conditions under
which the respondents would sell fish to the petitioner.
The respondents are the Pacific Coast Fishermen's
Union, its officers and members, and two individuals who,
like the petitioner, process and sell fish. Although affiliated with the C. I. 0., the Union is primarily a fishermen's
association, composed of fishermen who conduct their operations in the Pacific Ocean and navigable streams in
Washington and Oregon and some of their employees.
The fishermen own or lease fishing boats, ranging in value
from $100 to $15,000, and carry on their business as indeno court of the United States ...shall have jurisdiction
to issue any restraining order or temporary or permanent injunction in
a case involving or growing out of a labor dispute, except in a strict
conformity.with the provisions of this Act. . . ." 47 Stat. 70.
'Two of the respondents, although members of the Union, are not
fishermen. They are buyers for processors.

COLUMBIA RIVER CO. v. HINTON.
143

Opinion of the Court.

pendent entrepreneurs, uncontrolled by the petitioner or
other processors.
The Union acts as a collective bargaining agency in the
sale of fish caught by its members. Its constitution and
by-laws provide that "Union members shall not deliver
catches outside of Union agreements," and in its contracts
of sale it requires an agreement by the buyer not to purchase fish from nonmembers of the Union. The Union's
demand that the petitioner assent to such an agreement
precipitated the present controversy. Upon the petitioner's refusal, the Union induced its members to refrain
from selling fish to the petitioner, and since the Union's
control of the fish supply is extensive, the petitioner
was unable to obtain the fish it needed to carry on its
business.
We think that the court below was in error in holding
this controversy a "labor dispute" within the meaning of
the Norris-LaGuardia Act. That a dispute among businessmen over the terms of a contract for the sale of fish
is something different from a "controversy concerning
terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the
association . . .of persons . . .seeking to arrange terms
or conditions of employment" calls for no extended discussion. This definition and the stated public policy of
the Act-aid to "the individual unorganized worker . . .
commonly helpless . . . to obtain acceptable terms and
conditions of employment" and protection of the worker
"from the interference, restraint, or coercion of employers
of labor"-make it clear that the attention of Congress
was focussed upon disputes affecting the employer-employee relationship, and that the Act was not intended
to have application to disputes over the sale of commodities.'
Cf. ยง 6 of the Clayton Act:

"....

the labor of a human being is

not a commodity or article of commerce."

38 Stat. 731. The Norris-

LaGuardia Act, manifesting "the purpose of the Congress further to
extend the prohibition of [ยง.20 of] the Clayton Act," New Negro

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

We recognize that by the terms of the statute there niay
be a "labor dispute" where the disputants do not stand
in the proximate relation of employer and employee.
But the statutory classification, 4 however broad, of parties and circumstances to which a "labor dispute" may
Alliance v. Grocery Co., 303 U. S. 552, 562, cannot be taken as having
erased the distinctions betweeh an association of. commodity sellers
and an association of employees. Specific recognition by Congress of
associations of fishermen as sellers of commodities has been given in
an act "Authorizing associations of producers of aquatic products."
48 Stat. 1213.
"Section 13 of the Act provides:
"When used in this Act, and for the purposes of this Act"(a) A case shall be held to involve or to grow out of a labor dispute
when the case involves persons who are engaged in the same industry,
trade, craft, or occupation; or have direct or indirect interests therein;
or who are employees of the same employer; or who are members of
the same or an affiliated organization of employers or employees;
whether such dispute is (1) between one or more employers or associations of employers and one or more employees or associations of
employees; (2) between one or more employers or associations of
employers and one or more employers or associations of employers;
or (3) between one or more employees or associations of employees
and one or more employees or associations of employees; or when the
case involves any conflicting or competing interests in a 'labor dispute'
(as hereinafter defined) of 'persons participating or interested' therein
(as hereinafter defined)..
"(b) A person or association shall be held to be a person participating or interested in a labor dispute if relief is sought against him or it,
and-if he or it is engaged in the same industry, trade, craft, or occupation in which such dispute occurs, or has a direct or indirect interest
therein, or is a member, officer, or agent of any association composed
in whole or in part of employers or employees engaged in such industry,
trade, craft, or occupation.
"(c) The term 'labor dispute' includes any controversy concerning
terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the association or
representation of persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing,
or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, regardless
of whether or not the disputants stand in the proximate relation of
employer and employee." 47 Stat. 73.

COLUMBIA RIVER CO. v. HINTON.
143

Opinion of the Court.

relate does not expand the application of the Act to
include controversies upon which the employer-employee relationship has no bearing. Our decisions in
New Negro Alliance v. Grocery Co., 303 U. S. 552, and
Milk Wagon Drivers' Union v. Lake Valley Co., 311 U. S.
91, give no support to the respondents' contrary contention, for in both cases the employer-employee relationship was the matrix of the controversy.
The controversy here is altogether between fish sellers
and fish buyers. The sellers are not employees of the
petitioners or of any other employer, nor do they seek
to be. On the contrary, their desire is to continue to
operate as independent businessmen, free from such
controls as an employer might exercise. That some of
the fishermen have a small number of employees of their
own, who are also members of the Union, does not alter
the situation. For, the dispute here, relating solely to
the sale of fish, does not place in controversy the wages
or hours, or other terms and conditions of employment,
of these employees.
We are asked to consider other contentions pressed by
the respondents, which it is said would support the reversal below. But the Circuit Court neither canvassed
nor passed upon these contentions. It will be free to do
so upon remand.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

took

