PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT CO.

637

Syllabus.

PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT HERMANOS, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 96.

Argued: February 6, 9, 1942.-Decided March 16, 1942.

1. The principle which accords great weight to the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico in matters of local law applies where
the question respects the power of that court to appoint a receiver
and is dependent upon a construction of local statutes; and a fortiori
where the question concerns merely the propriety of an exercise of
that power. P. 646.
2. A decision of the Supreme Court of Puerto 10o affirming its power
to place a receiver in control of the property of a corporation the
dissolution of which it had decreed for violations of a law forbidding corporations to hold more than 500 acres of land, is entitled
to great weight as an exposition of the local law and, not being
plainly incorrect, should not have been reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, although § 182 of the local Code of Civil Procedure
upon which the insular court relied appears to conflict with §§ 27-30
of the Private Corporation Law. P. 646.
3. The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, having decreed the forfeiture
of the charter, and the dissolution and winding up of a corporation,
which in violation of the law and its charter restrictions had acquired
more than 500 acres, of land, appointed a receiver of all its property,
which was operated as a unit in the production of sugar, and directed him to manage the property as a going concern until Puerto
Rico should exercise its statutory option either to confiscate the
real estate unlawfully held or to have it sold at public auction.
Held:
(1) That the appointment was discretionary, for the purpose of
preventing confusion and needless litigation which might result if the
directors of the corporation should attempt to convey interests
in the property pending the exercise of the option. P. 646.
(2) That as the receivership was to be terminated upon the exercise of the option, it was sufficiently definite in time; nor was it
too broad in not being restricted to the land in excess of the 500
acre maximum, since to separate the land from the machinery and
other personalty pending the exercise of the option would have
resulted in economic waste. P. 647.
118 F. 2d 752, reversed.

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 589, to review the reversal of a
decree of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico appointing a
receiver. For earlier phases of the litigation see 106 F.
2d 754; 309 U. S. 543.

Mr. William CattronRigby, with whom Messrs. George
A. Malcolm, Attorney General of Puerto Rico, and Nathan
R. Margold were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henri Brown for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE BYRNES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

By Joint Resolution of May 1, 1900, the Congress provided that "every corporation hereafter authorized to
engage in agriculture [in Puerto Rico] shall by its charter
be restricted to the ownership and control of not to exceed
five hundred acres of land."
This limitation was carried over into the present Organic Act of Puerto Rico,
enacted on March 2, 1917.2 In 1935, the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico enacted two laws to provide the
means of enforcing the Congressional prohibition. Act
No. 33 conferred upon the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico
exclusive original jurisdiction over quo warranto proceedings instituted for violations of the 500-acre law.' Act
No. 47 authorized the Attorney General of Puerto Rico,
or any district attorney, to bring such quo warranto proceedings in the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico against any
corporation violating the Organic Act, and provided further that when any corporation is "unlawfully holding
. . . real estate in Puerto Rico, the People of Puerto
Rico may, at its option, through the same proceedings,
institute in its behalf the confiscation of such property,
§ 3, 31 Stat. 715.

39, 39 Stat. 951, 964, U. S. C., Title 48, § 752.
'Act of July 22, 1935, Laws of Puerto Rico, Special Session, 1935,
S§

p. 418.

PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT CO.
637

Opinion of the Court.

or the alienation thereof at public auction, within a term
of not more than six months counting from the date on
which final sentence is rendered."'
This is a quo warranto proceeding brought in 1937
against respondent corporation by the Attorney General
of Puerto Rico under these statutes. The complaint
alleged that respondent corporation was organized in 1927
under the laws of Puerto Rico for the purpose of acquiring and working sugar cane farms and plantations, that its
articles of incorporation restricted it to the acquisition
of 500 acres, that it nevertheless had acquired, and that
it owned and was working at the time of the filing of the
complaint, some 12,188 acres of land. The answer conceded that the 500-acre restriction was contained in the
articles and that the respondent had nevertheless acquired the 12,188 acres, but interposed several defenses.
On July 30, 1938, the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico entered judgment for the petitioner. It ordered "the forfeiture and cancellation" of the license and articles of
incorporation of respondent, "the immediate dissolution
and winding up of the affairs" of the corporation, and the
payment of a $3000 fine and costs. On the same day,
petitioner moved that a receiver be appointed to handle
the dissolution and disposition of the respondent's property, pursuant to subsections 4 and 5 of § 182 of the Puerto
Rico Code of Civil Procedure.'
-Act of August 7, 1935, Laws of Puerto Rico, Special Session, 1935,
pp. 530-532.
"Section 182.-(564 Cal.) A receiver may be appointed by the
court in which an action is pending or has passed to judgment, or by
the judge thereof:
"1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim,
or between partners or others jointly owning or jointly interested in
any, property or fund, on the application of the phdintiff, or of any
party whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

The motion for the appointment of a receiver was held
in abeyance pending an appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit. That court reversed the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, on the
ground that Acts Nos. 33 and 47 exceeded the authority
of the Legislative Assembly under the Organic Act. 106
F. 2d 754. We granted certiorari, and on March 25, 1940
reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and
reinstated that of the Supreme Court of the Island. 309
U. S. 543.
The mandate of this Court reached the clerk of the
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico on May 13. On the same
day, the Attorney General entered a request for a hearing
on petitioner's pending motion for the appointment of a
receiver. The respondent then filed its answer, and briefs
were submitted by both parties. In its answer and brief,s
respondent raised numerous objections to the appointment of a receiver. Chief among these objections were:
(a) that on March 28, 1940, respondent corporation had
been dissolved by vote of its stockholders, and its property
conveyed to a partnership consisting of all the stockholders, so that nothing remained to be done; and (b)
thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund
is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured.
"2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
"3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execution, when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, or when the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in
satisfaction of the judgment.
"4. In the case when a corporationhas been dissolved, or is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights.
"5. Inali other coes where receivers have heretofore been appointed
by the u8ages of courts of equity." (1933 ed., italics added.)

PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT CO.
637

641

Opinion of the Court.

that the statutes applicable to this case are certain sections of the Private Corporations Law 6 rather than § 182
"'Section 27.-Corporate existence pending dissolution. All corporations, whether they expire through the limitation contained in
articles of incorporation or are annulled by the Legislature, or otherwise dissolved, shall be continued as bodies corporate for the purpose
of prosecuting and defending suits by or against them, and of enabling
them to settle and close their affairs, to dispose of and convey their
property and to divide their capital; but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which they were established.
"See. 28 (as amended by Act No. 24 of 1916, p. 68).-Director8as
trustees pending dissolution. Upon the dissolution in any manner of
a corporation, the directors shall be the trustees thereof pending the
liquidation, with full power to settle the affairs, collect the outstanding
debts, sell and convey the property and divide the moneys and other
property among the stockholders, after paying its debts, so far as
such moneys and property shall suffice. They shall have power to
meet and to act under the bylaws of the corporation, and, under regulations to be made by a majority of the said trustees, to prescribe the
terms and conditions of the sale of such property, or may sell all or
any part for cash, or partly on credit, or take mortgages and bonds
for part of the purchase price for all or any part of the said property.
In case of a vacancy or vacancies in the board of directors of such
corporation existing at the time of dissolution or occurring subsequently
theieto, the surviving directors or director shall be the trustees or
trustee thereof, as the case may be, with full power to settle the
affairs, collect the outstanding debts, sell and convey the property and
divide the moneys and other property among the stockholders, after
paying its debts, as far as such moneys and property shall enable
them, and to do and perform all such other acts as shall be necessary
to carry out the provisions of this Act relative to the winding up of
the affairs of such corporation and to the distribution of its assets.
"See. 29.-Powers and liabilities of Trustees in Liquidation. The
directors constituted trustees as aforesaid shall have power to sue for
and recover the Aforesaid debts and property by the name of the
corporation and shall be suable by the same name, or in their own
names or individual capacities for the debts owing by such corporation, and shall be jointly and severally responsible for such debts to

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

of the Code of Civil Procedure,' that under the terms of
the former "the directors shall be the trustees . .. pending the liquidation" of any dissolved corporation, and
that the court was consequently without jurisdiction to
appoint a receiver under § 182. The insular court resolved all the issues in petitioner's favor, appointed a
receiver of all the property of the respondent, and directed
the receiver to handle the property as a going-concern
until the People of Puerto Rico should exercise the option
granted to them by § 2 of Act No. 47 of August 7, 1935
either to confiscate the real estate unlawfully held by
respondent or to have it sold at public auction.8
the amount of the money and property of the corporation which
shall come to their hands or possession as such trustees.
"Sec. 30.-Judicialappointment of liquidators. When any corporation shall be dissolved in any manner whatever, the district court
having jurisdiction of the place where its principal office in the Island
of Porto Rico is situated, on application of any creditor or stockholder, may at any time either continue the directors as trustees as
aforesaid, or appoint one or more persons to be liquidators of such
corporation to take charge of the assets and effects thereof, to collect
the debts and property due and belonging to, the corporation, with
power to prosecute and defend in the name of the corporation, or
otherwise, all suits necessary or appropriate for the purposes aforesaid, or to appoint an agent or agents under them, or to do other acts
that might be done by such corporation if in being that may be necessary for the final settlement of its unfinished business, and the powers
of such trustees or receivers may be continued so long as the courts
shall think necessary for such purpose." (Appendix to Code of Commerce of Puerto Rico (1932 ed.) 327, at 355.)
'See note 5, supra.
'Section 2 provides, in part:
"When any corporation by itself or through any other subsidiary
or affiliated entity or agent is unlawfully holding, under any title, real
estate in Puerto Rico, The People of Puerto Rico may, at its option,
through the same proceedings, institute in its behalf the confiscation
of such property, or the alienation thereof at public auction, within a

PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT CO.
637

Opinion of the Court.

From this order, respondent took a second appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, making the two contentions
which have been noted as well as many others which require no discussion here. The Circuit Court- of Appeals
disposed of -reveral of these contentions unfavorably to
the respondent. However, it reversed the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, on the gound that the
order appointing the receiver was "improvidently issued."
118 F. 2d 752. In the opinion of the Circuit Court,
§§ 27, 28 and 30 of the Private Corporation Law are unquestionably applicable to the dissolution of a corporation
by court order as a result of a violation of its charter and
the laws, although the insular court had declared them
"applicable only to a voluntary dissolution agreed upon
by the shareholders .of a corporation or by expiration of
the term fixed for its duration." With respect to § 182
of the Code of Civil Procedure, upon which the lower court
relied, the Circuit Court of Appeals determined that it
permitted the appointment of a receiver only "upon proper
showing by an interested party, agreeably to the usages
of courts of equity." It concluded that the option granted
by Act No. 47 of 1935 did not afford the People of Puerto
Rico an interest sufficient for this purpose. It observed
that the option relates only to the excess acreage, whereas
the order had sought to place the receiver in charge of all
the property of the respondent, both real and personal.
If the People of Puerto Rico should elect to have the land
sold at public auction,' the Circuit Court asserted, a master
can be appointed for that purpose, and in the meantime a
term of not more than six months counting from the date on which
final sentence is rendered.
"In every case, alienation or confiscation shall be through the corresponding indemnity as established in the law of eminent domain."
'According to the Circuit Court's opinion, on August 28, 1940, after
the order appointing the receiver had been entered, the Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

notice of lis pendens which was filed with the Registry of
Property will prove adequate to protect the People's
interest.
The Circuit Court's opinion leaves it uncertain whether
it mean-t to hold that the insular court wholly lacked power
to appoint a receiver for a judicially dissolved corporation,
or merely that it abused its discretion in this case. In any
event, the questions for our determination seem to be
these: (1) does it lie within the power of the Supreme
Court of Puerto Rico to appoint a receiver for the assets
of a corporation whose dissolution has been judicially
ordered because it has violated its articles of incorporation
and the laws of Puerto Rico and the United States; (2) did
that court abuse its discretion in appointing a receiver
under the circumstances of this case; and (3) did the scope
of the order exceed the court's authority?
First. Whether or not it is within the power of the
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico to place a receiver in control of the property of a corporation which has been
dissolved for violation of law, is a question whose answer must be found in the statutes of the Island. As
we have said, § 182 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides: "A receiver may be appointed by the court in
which an action is pending or has passed to judgment,
General filed with the insular court the following statement: "Therefore, The People of Puerto Rico elects to have all the lands in the
possession of the respondent sold at public auction, and prays this
Court to order the sale at public auction of the said real property by
the receiver already appointed by this Court, after the same is
assessed in conformity with the provisions of the Condemnation Proceedings Act now in force." In the Circuit Court, the respondent
argued that the option provided by Act No. 47 could not be exercised
in this manner but only by an Act of the Legislative Assembly. We
share the Circuit Court's view that this and other problems relating
to the actual exercise of the option must first be passed upon by
the Puerto Rican Supreme Court.

PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT CO.
637

Opinion of the Court.

or by the judge thereof: . . . (4) In the case when a
corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in immediate danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights. (5) In all other cases where receivers
have heretofore been appointed by the usages of courts
of equity." It seems hardly debatable that, if nothing
more were shown, these provisions would strongly support the assertion of power by the insular court to appoint a receiver for respondent's property. But respondent urges that the provisions of §§ 27, 28, 29 and
30 of the Private Corporations Law compel the opposite
conclusion. Section 27 provides that "all corporations,
whether they expire through the limitation contained in
articles of incorporation or are annulled by the Legislature, or otherwise dissolved, shall be continued as bodies
corporate for the purpose of prosecuting and defending
suits by or against them, and of enabling them to settle
and close their affairs, to dispose of and convey their
property and to divide their capital; but not for the
purpose of continuipg the business for which they were
established." Section 28 declares that "upon the dissolution in any manner of a corporation, the directors shall
be the trustees thereof pending the liquidation." And
§ 30 authorizes the appropriate district court of Puerto
Rico, "on application of any creditor or stockholder,
. . . at any time either [to] continue the directors as
trustees as aforesaid, or [to] appoint one or more persons to be liquidators of such corporation to take charge
of the assets and effects thereof . . ." Again, if nothing
more than these sections were before us, we think it clear
enough that, upon the dissolution of a corporation "in
any manner," the directors would remain in charge of
the assets as trustees until some "creditor or stockholder" moved a district court-not the Suprerae Court
of the Island-to remove them.

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U. S.

A frank recognition that the statutes appear on their
face to conflict and to overlap permits us to avoid the
lngthy and technical arguments which have been advanced by both parties in this Court and in the courts
below. The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico resolved this
conflict in favor of its power to appoint a receiver, by
holding that the pertinent sections of the Private Corporations Law do not apply to judicially ordered dissolutions but that § 182 of the Code of Civil Procedure
does apply. In recent years we have had occasion to
announce that the decisions of the courts of Puerto Rico
with respect to the interpretation of the Island's statutes
and to matters of local law are to be accorded the greatest weight. Bonet v. Yabucoa Sugar Co., 306 U. S. 505;
Bonet v. Texas Company, 308 U. S. 463. We cannot say
that an interpretation placed by the Supreme Court of
Puerto Rico upon statutes whose meaning is so open to
doubt is plainly incorrect. Accordingly, though the interpretation suggested by the Circuit Court of Appeals
may be equally plausible, it erred in reversing the judgment of the insular court.
Second. Assuming that under § 182 the insular Supreme Court has the power to appoint a receiver for a
judicially dissolved corporation, the question remains
whether it has abused its discretion in appointing a receiver in this case. The Circuit Court of Appeals, after
indicating its belief that the power to appoint a receiver
is a drastic one and that it should be sparingly employed,
concluded that its use was not warranted by the circumstances of this case. -Its reasoning was that the sole
interest of the petitioner was its option either to confiscate the excess acreage or to have it sold at public auction.
"The People do not need a receiver to protect the option.
If and when the time comes for the court to decree a
sale of the land at public auction a master can be appointed to carry through the sale. The land will still

PUERTO RICO v. RUBERT CO..
637

Opinion of the Court.

be there. Meanwhile, the interest of the People is protected by a lis pendens notice which was entered in the
Registry of Property shortly after the institution of the
quo warranto proceedings, which notice the corporation
unsuccessfully sought to have cancelled." 118 F. 2d 752
at 759-760.
It may be true that the procedure suggested by the Circuit Court would have been adequate to the needs of the
case. It may even be true that an injunction restraining
the directors of respondent from disposing of the property
pending the People's choice would have been sufficient.
But the same considerations that compel restraint on the
part of appellate courts where the question is one of power,
apply with double force where the question merely concerns the propriety of its exercise. The Supreme Court of
Puerto Rico was in the best position to determine what
the situation demanded. The attempted transfer of the
corporate assets on March 28, 1940 may have been a bona
fide effort to comply with the earlier decree of dissolution,
as respondent insist4. But the fact that the transfer was
made to a partnership whose members had been the stockholders of the dissolved corporation might suggest a disposition on the part of the directors to obstruct the effective
exercise of the option afforded the People by Act No. 47.
Certainly it would not have been unreasonable for the insular court to suspect that this was so. No doubt the lis
pendens notice would prevent the directors from conveying an interest in any of the property which would be
superior to that of a purchaser at a subsequent public auction conducted pursuant to Act No. 47. But the sale and
resale of the property, or its encumbrance, could only result in confusion, misunderstanding and needless litigation. It was clearly within the discretion of the Supreme
Court of the Island to avert these difficulties.
Ttird: Respondent insists and the Circuit'Court held,
finally, that the order was too broad to be sustained. It is

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

315 U.S.

argued that it was not confined to the land which was actually in excess of the 500-acre maximum but included all
the properties of the respondent, and that it authorized the
continued operation of the business by the receiver for an
indefinite period. To treat the latter objection first, an examina don of the order appointing the receiver reveals that
paragraph 7 specifically contemplates the exercise of its
option by the People of Puerto Rico. A fair reading of the
order requires us to conclude that the period of the receivership was definite enough, since it was clearly regarded as
a preliminary to the exercise of the option. The receiver
was expressly directed to surrender the properties when.
ever the People had indicated its choice. As to the provision of the order consigning the whole of respondent's
properties to the receiver, it is enough to say that everyone
concedes that the properties constitute a working unit in
growing, cutting and grinding sugar. To separate the land
from the machinery and other personalty pending the People's election between alternative procedures would have
been inexcusable economic waste. It was altogether
proper for the Supreme Court to recognize these realities
and to permit the receiver to preserve the enterprise as a
going concern pending a final settlement. Nothing in
§ 182, upon which it relied for authority to appoint the receiver, requires that it limit the receivership in the manner
suggested by respondent.
The order of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico should
be sustained in full.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS are of the
opinion that the court below correctly held, for reasons
stated in 4etail in Judge Magruder's opinion, 118 F. 2d
752, that the appointment of a receiver by the Insular
court, in the circumstances of this case, was an abuse of
discretion, and that it was the duty of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, in the exercise of its appellate authority, to set
the appointment aside.

