OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Per Curiam.

KOLOD

ET AL.

390 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES.

ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 133. Certiorari denied October 9, 1967.-Rehearing and
certiorari granted and case decided January 29, 1968.
After the petition for writ of certiorari in this case was filed, petitioners' counsel, as alleged in their petition for rehearing, learned
of a government agency's electronic monitoring of a petitioner's
conversations at his place of business. The Solicitor General
sought to justify nondisclosure by the Government on the basis
of the Justice Department's determination that the eavesdropped
information was not arguably relevant to this prosecution. Held:
This Court cannot accept the Department's ex parte determination of relevancy in lieu of such a determination in an adversary
District Court proceeding, to be confined to the content of any
electronically eavesdropped conversations at petitioner's place of
business and the pertinence thereof to petitioners' subsequent
convictions.
Rehearing and certiorari granted; 371 F. 2d 983, vacated and
remanded.

Edward Bennett Williams, Harold Ungar and W. H.
Erickson for petitioners.
Solicitor General Griswold, former Solicitor General
Marshall, Assistant Attorney General Vinson, Beatrice

Rosenberg and Sidney M. Glazer for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for rehearing is granted and the order
denying petitioners' petition for the writ of certiorari,
389 U. S. 834, is set aside. The petition for rehearing
alleges that petitioners' counsel was informed after the
petition for the writ of certiorari was filed that petitioner
Alderisio's conversations were monitored through electronic surveillance conducted by a government agency
at Alderisio's place of business in Chicago. The Court
invited the Solicitor General to respond to the petition

KOLOD v. UNITED STATES.
136

Per Curiam.

for rehearing. 389 U. S. 966. The Solicitor General
responded that the petition should be denied because
the case did not come within ". . . the policy of the
Department of Justice to make disclosure to the courts
if it finds (1) that a defendant was present or participated in a conversation overheard by unlawful electronic
surveillance, and (2) that the government has thereby
obtained any information which is arguably relevant to
the litigation involved." The Solicitor General stated
that "As a result of his inquiries and examination, he is
satisfied that there is nothing that is arguably relevant
to the present case," that is, "no overheard conversation
in which any of the petitioners participated is arguably
relevant to this prosecution."
We read the response as admitting that Alderisio's
conversations were overheard by unlawful electronic
eavesdropping but as justifying nondisclosure on the
basis of the Department's determination that the information obtained was not arguably relevant to this prosecution. We cannot accept the Department's ex parte
determination of relevancy in lieu of such determination
in an adversary proceeding in the District Court. Accordingly we grant the petition for certiorari as to each
of the petitioners Alderisio and Alderman,* vacate the
judgment of the Court of Appeals, and remand the case
to the District Court for a hearing, findings, and conclusions on the nature and relevance to these convictions
of any conversations that may be shown to have been
overheard through unlawful electronic surveillance of
petitioner Alderisio's place of business in Chicago. In
such proceedings, the District Court will confine the
evidence presented by both sides to that which is material to questions of the content of any electronically
eavesdropped conversations at petitioner Alderisio's place
*Petitioner Kolod died in August 1967 and the petition for certiorari as to him is dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Per Curiam.

390 U. S.

of business in Chicago, and of the relevance of any such
conversations to petitioners' subsequent convictions. The
District Court will make such findings of fact on these
questions as may be appropriate in light of the further
evidence and of the entire existing record. If the District Court decides, on the basis of such findings, that
the convictions of the petitioners were not tainted by the
use of evidence improperly obtained, it will enter new
final judgments of convictions based on the existing record as supplemented by its further findings, thereby
preserving to all affected parties the right to seek further
appropriate appellate review. If, on the other hand, the
District Court concludes after such further proceedings
that the conviction of a petitioner was tainted, it would
then become its duty to accord such petitioner a new
trial. Hofla v. United States, 387 U. S. 231, 233-234.
The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted, the
judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the
case is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

