OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

as required by section 1000 of the Revised Statutes, under an
act of Congress of July 20,. 1892. 27 Stat. 252.
The motion must be denied. Our ruling has uniformly been,
and has been enforced in repeated instances that that act has
no application to proceedings in this court.
Afotion denied.

HATFIELD v. KING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 221. Submitted May 2,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

This case having been decided below on demurrer, and having been brought
tQ this court on appeal, and it appearing that the appearance of one of
the defendants below was improvidently entered, and certain charges
having been made involving the conduct of counsel, the case was remanded, for reasons stated, to the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of West Virginia, to be dealt with, 184 U. S. 162, notwithstanding that
while it was pending here that State was divided into two districts, 31
Stat. 736, c. 105, and ordinarily the case would fall within the Southern
District. On motion to change the decree to that effect, the _court, in
view of the terms of the act and the situation of the case, declined to -

modify it.

Tmi case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.. Holmes Conrad for appellants.
'MR.

CmEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case a decree was entered in favor of King on June 2,
1900, in the Circuit Court for the District of West Virginia,
from which an appeal was allowed to .this court, and the case
docketed, and the record filed, January 3, 1901. Subsequently
certain motions were made, on the submission of which it was
contended by appellants that the decree against them 6ught to
be set aside because they had not had the hearing in thatecourt

HATFIELD v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

to which they were entitled by law; that they were not served
with process; and that counsel, unauthorized by them, had entered their appearance. The matter was submitted November 11, 1901, and decided February 24, 1902. Hlaftld v._Ying,
184 U. S. 162. Our decree remanded the cause "to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of West
Virginia, with directions to set aside the decree as well as the
appearance of defendants, and to proceed thereafter in accordance with law; and also to make a full investigation, in such
manner as shall meein to it best, of the various charges of misconduct presented in the motions filed in this court, and to take
such action thereon as justice may require."
In the course of the opinion it was said: "It is fitting that
this investigation should be had in the first place in the court
where the wrong is charged to have been done and before the
judge who, if the charges are correct, has been imposed upon
by counsel, and it may be wise that both examination and
cross-examination be had in his presence."
After the case had been docketed, and on January 22, 1901,
an act was approved, which divided the State of West Virginia
into two judicial districts, called the Northern and Southern
Judicial Districts, and provided that the District Judge of the
District of West Virginia in office at the time the act took
effect should be the District Judge for the Northern Judicial
District of West Virginia as thereby constituted. 31 Stat. 736,
c. 105.
By the eighth section of the act it was provided that causes
and proceedings then pending in the courts of. the District of
West Virginia, which would have been cognizable in the courts
of the Northern Judicial District as created by the act, were
transferred to that district; and similarly as to pending causes
and proceedings falling within the new Southern District.
This proviso was added: "Provided, that all motions and
causes submitted and .all causes and proceedings, both civil
and criminal, including proceedings in bankruptcy now pending in said judicial district of West Virginia as heretofore constituted, in which the evidence has been taken in whole or in
part before the present district judge of the judicial district of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

West Virginia as heretofore constituted, or taken in whole or
in part and submitted and passed upon by the said district
judge, shall be proceeded with and disposed of in said northern judicial district of West Virginia as constituted by this
act." .
We think it sufficiently appears from the record that this
case, when decided below, was pending in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of West Virginia, at Charleston, in the county of Kanawha, a county included in the Southern District, created by the act; and it involved lands situat d
in counties now in that District.
The decree entered by this court, February 24, 1902, remanded the cause to the Northern District of West Virginia,
that the decree of the Circuit Court might be set -aside, and
certain proceedings be .taken. A motion is now made to
amend that decree so that the case may be sent to the Southern District, not only in respect of final hearing and decree on
the merits therein, but also as to matters involved on the motions treated of in our previous opinion, which we considered
it best should be passed on by the judge who rendered the
original decree,the orrectuess of which view is confirmed by
observations of counsel.
The motions were twofold, to reverse the decree and to remand the cause for further proceedings in accordance with
law, and also to proceed against certain persons as for contempt of court. We concluded that an investigation ought to
be had, and that it ought to take place in the court where the
wrong was asserted to have been done, and before the judge
who had been imposed upon, if the charges were correct, as to
which we expressed no opinion. And we did not feel constrained by the terms of the act to remand the case to the
Southern District; but on the contrary, as by the proviso, motions and causes submitted, in which the evidence had been
taken in whole or in part, that is to say, matters in gremio,
were -to be proceeded with and disposed of in the Northern
Judicial District, we regarded that proviso as broad enough
to permit the course taken by us in the order made. While it
may be said that a suit is pending even after decree rendered,

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.
Statement of the Case.

yet the words "now pending," used in the eighth section, literally apply to cases remaining unheard and undecided, and no
particular provision was therein made in reference to cases pending on appeal. Nevertheless it is true that if there had been
nothing more in this case than a decree by this court, affirming
or reversing the decree below, the case would have been remanded to the district in which the property in controversy
was situated, and in which the case would have been brought
if the new District had then existed. But, as will have been
seen, the case was not determined on its merits here, and proceedings were thought necessary to be taken independent of
the ultimate disposition of the case. Therefore we entered the
decree of February 24, and, upon further reflection, have concluded that it should not be amended.
Aotion denied.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

took no part in the consideration and

disposition of this motion.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK

.

MOYSES.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT Or THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 203. Argued and submitted April 7,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

The bankruptcy law of 1898 is not unconstitutional because it provides that
others than traders may be adjudged bankrupts; and that this may be
done on voluntary petition.
Nor is it unconstitutional for want of uniformity because of its recognition
of exemptions by the local law.
The notices provided for by the act are sufficient under the Constitution of
the United States, and the discharge of the debtor under proceedings at
his domicil authorized by Congress is valid throughout the United States.

THIS was an action brought by the Hanover National Bank
of New York against Max Moyses in the Circuit Court of the

