OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

sired. Without even a suggestion, he insisted on making, prior
to the examination, a statement which was reduced to writing
and by him signed and sworn to, and after the examination was
over and he had been placed in jail, he had an interview with
the magistrate and volunteered a further statement. Affirmatively and fully it appears that all that he said in the matter
was said voluntarilV, without any inducement or influence of
any kind being brought to bear upon him. Indeed, it is not
claimed by counsel that there was any improper influence, his
contention being only that the provisions of the statute with
respect to'a statement pending an examination were not complied with in respect to these statements. The statements were
properly admitted in evidence. These are the only matters
called to our attention. No errors appear in them, nor do we
perceive any plain error otherwise in the record. The proof
of defendant's guilt is clear and satisfactory, and the judgment
is

Aflrmed.

JENKINS v. NEFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT. OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 198. Argued March 20, 1902.-Decided June 2, 1902.

Section 55 of the Laws of 1893, ch. 196, simply places trust companies on
an equality with banks, whether corporate or individual, in respect to
the matter of interest, atid does not give to trust companies power to
loan, discount or purchase paper.
It is well settled that the findings of fact in astate court, are conclusive
on this court in a writ of error.
In the record in this case there is no evidence of such a discrimination.

Tuis case is before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, and is brought to review a
final order of that court affirming an assessment of the shares
of stock in the First National Bank of Brooklyn. Under the
practice prevailing in that State a writ of certiorari was issued

JENKINS v. NEFF.
Opinion of the Court.

out of the Supreme Court on August 13, 1897, on the petition
of the stockholders of the First National Bank of the city of
Brooklyn, now plaintiffs in error, direfted to the board of assessors of the city of Brooklyn, requiring them to return all
their proceedings relative to the assessment of the shares of
stock of said bank. A return having been made the assessment was on October 6,.1899, confirmed, with some modifications not material to the present controversy. This order was
affirmed by the Appellate Division of that court on January 9,
1900. 4-7 N. Y. App. Div. "Sup. Ct. Rep. 394. On appeal to
the Court of Appeals the order was by that court also affirmed,
163 N. Y. 320, and the record remitted to the Supreme Court.
-Yr. Seymour D. 17tompson and

fr". Frank 17avey Field

for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. James McKenna for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
The right of the State to tax these shares of stock is not denied,
but the contention of plaintiffs in error rests onrthe applicability
of that part of section 5219, Revised Statutes, which reads
"that the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is as:
sessed upon other moneyed capital in the bands of individual
citizens of such State." The purpose of this legislation was
thus stated in MAfercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138,
155:
"A tax upon the -money of individuals, invested in the form
of shares of stock in national banks, would diminish their value
as an investment and drive the capital so invested from this
employment, if at the same time similar investments and similar employments under the authority of state laws were exempt from an equal burden. The main purpose, therefore, of
Congress in fixing limits to state taxation on investments in
the shares of national banks, was to render it impossible for
the State, in levying such a tax, to create and foster an unequal and unfriendly competition by favoring institutions or

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

individuals carrying on a similar business and operations and
investments of a like character. The language of the act of
Congress is to be read in the light of this policy."
The laws of New York in reference to taxation of the shares
of stock in national banks are like those in respect to the taxation of shares of stock in state banks, and there are many of
the latter in the State. So it is not suggested that the State
makes any discrimination between state banks and national
.banks, but it is contended that the statutes of New York, in
reference to the taxation of trust companies, are essentially different; tlat these trust companies are practically carrying on
a banking business; that an enormous amount of moneyed capital is invested in them, and that as a result not merely a theoretical but a practical and burdensome discrimination is made
against the moneyed capital invested in national. banks. Coinmenting upon this, it was said by Mr. Justice Woodward, de-'
livering the opinion of the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court in the case at bar:
"It is conceded on the part of the relators that the stock of the
First National Bank was assessed upon the same principle applied in the assessment of the stock of the state banks doing business in their immediate vicinity, and that this was done under
the provisions of section 24 of the tax law of 1896. In order
to pronounce this provision of the law invalid we must, therefore, convict the legislature not alone of hostility to the national
banks, but of hostility toward its own creations; we must
reach the conclusion that the State of New York is seeking, by
an exercise of its taxing power, to advance one class of moneyed
corporations at the expense of another, both of which have
been created by the legislature and both of ,which are engaged,
presumptively, in promoting the interests of the people. There
are no presumptions in favor of this idea, and there ,isno evidence in the case to show that any of the state institutions have
ever complained of an inequality in taxation."
Further, in ffereantile Bank v. ew York, 8upra, decided in
1887, the New York statutes in reference to the taxation of
shares of stock of national banks were challenged on the ground
of discrimination in favor of moneyed capital otherwise invedted,

JENKINS 9. NEFF.
Opinion of the Court.

and several instances of such investment were called to the
attention of the court, among them that of trust companies,
and it received, as stated in the opinion, "separate consideration." It was held that the system of taxation prevailing in
respect to them was not such as to vitiate the statutory methods of taxation of the shares of stock in national banks. It
must be borne in mind that for a score of years prior to that
decision there had been a series of cases coming to this court
from different States, principally from New York, involving
statutes with reference to state taxation of national banks, and
that during these years changes had been going on in the legislation of the different States in order to conform to the rules
laid down by this court in its successive opinions.
Counsel for'plaintiffs in error insist that that case is not controlling, and for several reasons: One, because two amendments have been made in the legislation of New York, which
it is said give full banking powers to trust companies, save in
respect to the power of issuing circulating notes. The first is
found in chap. 696, Laws of 1893, which added an eleventh subdivision to section 156 of the banking law (chap. 689, Laws
1892), and which in terms authorizes trust companies: "11. To
exercise the powers conferred on individual banks and bankers
by section 55 of this act, subject to the restrictions contained
in said section."
Section 55, referred to, provides:
"Every bank and individual banker doing business in this
State may take, receive, reserve and charge on every loan or
discount made, or upon any note, bill of exchange, or other
evidence of debt, interest at the rate of six per cent per annum;
and such interest may be taken in advance, reckoning the days
for which the note, bill or evidence of debt has run." 2 Stats.
1892, 1869, c. 689.
This legislation simply places trust companies on an equality
with bank-s, whether corporate or individual, in respect to the
matter of interest, and does not give to trust companies power
to loan, discount or purchase paper. Whatever powers trust
companies had in respect to these matters were given by statutes which were in existence before the decision in tffercantile

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank v. Vew York. That which was in the mind of the legislature was evidently equality in respect to interest and usury.
The doctrine that legislative recognition is equivalent to legislative grant is not pertinent. In order-to come within the
scope of that doctrine there should be in the language a clear
recognition of a corporate entity or corporate power.actually
existing or claimed to exist. A grant of corporate life or corporate power is not made by implication, and the same rule
pbtains in respect to the matter of recognition. If the language
of the legislature is satisfied, has full scope and effect, without
reading in'to it either a grant or a recognition of corporate life
or power, neither will be implied. And here so clear is it that
the legislature was not contemplating the grant or recognition
of any hitherto unauthorized power to loan, discount or purchase paper, but had simply the thought of giving equality in
the matter of interest and usury, that it is inadmissible to hold
that thereby an additional power, either of loan or discount or
purchase, was given to trust companies.
The other change in the, legislation referred to is found in
section 163 of chapter 689 of the Laws of 1892, which provides
that "every trust company incorporated by a special law shall
possess the powers of trulst companies incorporated under this
chapter, and shall be subject to such provisions of this chapter
as are not inconsistent with the special laws'relating to such
specially chartered company." But this gives no new powers
to trust companies generally, but simply grants to such companies, incorporated under special laws, the powers of trust companies incorporated under the general statute, and subjects
them to the same restrictions, unless inconsistent with their
special charters. Clearly, there has been no change in the
legislation of New York in respect to the powers of trust companies which calls for any limitation of the decision in .fereantile Bank v. New York.
Again, it is insisted that that case was submitted oh an agreed
statement of facts which neglected to disclose fully the mannerin which trust companies carried on their business, and also
that whatever*might have been the facts at that time the testimony here presented shows that almost the entire volume of

JENKINS ?". NEFF.
Opinion of the Court.

the business of the trust companies is banking, pure and simple,
and but a small fraction of it is the peculiar and ordinary business of trust companies; but that decision rested mainly upon
the powers granted by the statufes of New York to trust companies, and it was held that, tested by such powers, they were
not in any proper sense of the term banking institutions.
Further, although there is in the record quite an amount of
testimony as to the assets and business of trust companies in
Brooklyn, yet the case was determined by the Supreme and
Appellate Courts of New York upon findings of fact-which
findings do not sustain the contention of plaintiffs in error in
this respect-and it is well settled that the findings of fact in
the state courts are .on a writ of error conclusive with us.
Hedrick v. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad,167 U. S. 673, 677,
and cases cited therein; Bement v. National Harrow Co., ante,70. In other words, we apply the law to the 'facts settled in
the state courts, and We do not search the record to see if there
be not disclosed by the testimony .some other matters not embraced in the findings which may affect the conclusion.
Still, again, even if we were to pass beyond the findings of
fact and, searching the record, should be of the opinion that
the testimbny justified the contention of the plaintiffs in error
that trust companies are mainly using their funds in the carrying on of a purely banking business-and this under an assumption of powers not in fact bestowed by the legislation of the
State'-what effect would such conclusion have upon the question
before us ? It is to be presumed that if trust or other companies
are exercising powers not conferred by law the State will take
the proper steps to keep them within their statutory limits, and
a neglect for a limited time'to do so cannot be considered as an
assent by the State to such an improper assumption of power.
It is not to be assumed that the State is acting in bad faith;
that it has so legislated that upon the face of the statutes a uniform rate of taxation upon all moneyed capital is provided, while
at the same time it has designedly -placed the grants of some
corporate franchises in such form as to permit the use of. moneyed capital in certain ways with peculiar and less stringent
rates of taxation. Certainly there is nothing in this case to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

indicate any want of good faith on the part of the State of
New York. Whatever may have been the practices of trust
companies, however much they may in fact have used their
funds in a strictly banking business, there is no suspicion of a
purpose on the part of the State to discriminate against national
banks by permitting trust companies to do a banking business
without being subject to the same rate of taxation that is enforced against moneyed capital invested in such banks. Counsel for plaintiffs in error notice several reports of the commissioners of taxes and assessments of the city of New York for
years following the commencement of this suit in respect to
the relative taxation of banks and trust companies, and it was
stated on the argument that, as a consequence perhaps of these
reports, legislation has been had with a view of correcting any
supposed discrimination.
In reference to some other suggested differences between
banks and trust companies in respect to the matter of taxation
we make a further extract from.-the opinion of iMr. Justice
Woodward, which in general we approve (p. 402):
"It may not, in view of the importance of this question, be
out of place to suggest that the statute under which the trust
companies are organized does not compel the capital to be invested in United States bonds; it may be invested in 'bonds
and mortgages on unincumbered real property in this State
worth, at least double the amount loaned thereon, or in the
stocks or bonds of this State, or of the United States, or of any
coufity or incorporated city of this State duly authorized by
law to be issued.' The Banking Law, Laws of 1892, chap.
689, sec. 159. If the capital of the trust companies should be
invested in bonds and mortgages or other securities not exempt from taxation, there would be no inequality in the premises; and as they are not allowed the privilege of issuing notes
to be circulated as money upon the security of their United
Stites bonds, which is the real justification for the taxation
which is assessed upon the shareholders of the national banks,
we fail to find in the record any evidence of such a discrimination against the national banks as would justify us in holding
that the law under which the trust companies operate, and the

JENKINS v. NEFF.
Opinion of the Court.

statutes under which they are taxed, can have the effect of invalidating an otherwise valid statute. The fact that in a given
instance, by reason of an exercise of a discretion as to the particular kind of securities purchased, a trust company may have,
a real or imaginary advantage over investors in the shares of a
national bank isnot a sufficient foundation for declaring an
assessment invalid. It is essential, if the law of the State is
to be declared invalid under the limitations expressed in the
United States statute, that the enactment of the legislature
shall evidence a disposition to evade or override the spirit of
the limiting statute; and this is clearly not the case where it
provides for equal taxation upon its own state banks, and
where it does not require its trust companies, which; it may be
conceded, come into 'a limited competition 'with the investors
in the shares of national banks, to invest their capital in such a
way as to necessarily exempt them from taxation upon a portion of their capital stock. If the State refused to allow its
trust companies to invest in United States securities there
might be a far greater cause for grievance. Trust companies
are not organized primarily for banking purposes; they are designed for other purposes, as pointed out in the .Afercantile
Bank case, and it was never the purpose of the Federal government to interfere with the policy of the State in reference to
the formation and development of such corporations as it should
judge expedient, even though it should be found necessary to

invest them with some of the powers of banking -associations
as an inducement to perform the other duties and obligations
imposed by the State. As was said in the Afercantile Bank
case in reference to savings banks, 'ho)wever large, therefore,
may be the amount of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals, in the shape of deposits in savings banks as now organized which the policy of the State exempts from taxation for
its own purposes, that exemption cahnot affect the rule for the
taxation of shares in national banks, provided they are taxed at
a rate not greater than other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens' otherwise subject to taxation."'
While we have not discussed all the questions raised by counsel in their elaborate brief and argument, we have sufficiently

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

indicated our views upon the general questions involved in the
case, and, finding no error, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of this case.

CHESAPEAKE AND POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY v. MANNING.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 363. Argued March 10, 11, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.
The Court of Appeals made a complete disposition of the controversy in
this case, and all that was left for the Supreme Court was the ministerial
duty of entering a final injunction in the language of the preliminary order, witli the proviso that it should operate until such time in the future
as the defendant should voluntarily withdraw from business in the District of Columbia; and this was clearly a final decree.
Courts always presume that a legislature in enacting statutes acts advisedly
and with full knowledge of the situation, and they must accept its action
as that of a body having full power to act, and only acting when it has
acquired sufficient information to justify its action.
While a legislature may prescribe regulations for the management of business of a public nature, even though carried on by private corporations,
with private capital, and for private benefit, the language of such regulations will not be broadened by implication.
The decree as directed by the Court of Appeals was erroneous, and cast a
burden upon the defendant to which it was not subjected by the legislation of Congress.

ONT July 14, 1898, the.appellees commenced this suit in the

Supreme Court of the District of Colmbia, to restrain the defendant from discontinuing its telephone service to them.
Their bill alleged that the defendant was a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, and for a
long time past engaged in the business of furnishing telephone

