EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

EMISHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 347. Argued March 19, 20, 1902.-Decided Mfay 19, 1902.

A certificate under section six of the act of 1891 should contain a proper
statement of the facts on which the question or proposition of law arises.
The entire record should not be transmitted and a decision asked on the
whole case.
The inquiry as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of suits to recover.
the contents of choses in action relates, so far as the assignors are concerned, to the time when the slit is brought.
If at that time the assignors could have brought suit in the Circuit Court,
it is immaterial whether they could have done so when the assignment
was made.

THE certificate in this case is as follows:
"This suit was commenced by filing in the Circit Court the
following bill and exhibit, filed November 13, 1899:
"'To the honorable the Judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States foir the Fifth Circuit and Eastern District of
Louisiana, New Orleans division:
"'Alphonse Emsheimer, of New Orleans, an alien and a subject of the Empire of Germany, brings this his bill against the
city of New Orleans, a municipal corporation created by the
laws of Louisiana, and a citizen of said Stat-. And thereupon
your orator complains and says:
"' 1st. That by an act of the legislature of Louisiana (No. '[I),
approved September 14th, 1868, the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson and St. Bernard were territorially united in one district for
the purpose of police government therein, called the '-Metropolitan police district of New Orleans, State of Louisiana;'
that the government of said district for police purposes was
vested in a board of commissioners, styled ' the board of Metropolitan police.'
'2d. That said board was required to appoint all the officers
VOL. CLXXXvI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

and employ~s of the police force requrein said district, and
their salaries (which were prescribed by' ;he act) were required
to be paid monthly; that by said act4and acts of said legislature, supplementary to and amendatory thereof, said board
was required to make annually an estimate of the expenses
of maintaining a police force in said district, and to apportion
the same to the several cities and parishes within said district,
and said cities and parishes were required by said acts to
promptly pay, and to provide the means for promptly paying,
the amounts thus apportioned to them.
"' 3d. That said city of New Orleans was a municipal corporation created by the laws of said State of Louisiana, and was
within said Metropolitan police district; that said board from
and after its creation, as aforesaid, annually made the estimate
of expenses of maintaining said Metropolitan police and apportioned the same to said several cities and parishes as required
by said acts.
1C'4th. That the apportionments made by said board aforesaid to the city of iNew Orleans for all the years from 1869 to
1876, inclusively, amounted to the sum of $6,033,030.51, and
when said apportionments were made and notified, as they
were'to said city, she became liable to said board of Metropolitan police for the amount thereof.
"' 5th. That like apportionments of police expenses were made
by said board to the cities of Jefferson and Carrollton, which
were within said police district, for which apportionments they
each became liable to said board, but afterwards by acts of
said legislature, said cities were consolidated with said city of
New Orleans, which by said acts of consolidation was made
liable for their debts, including those created for their apportionment of police expenses aforesaid.
"I Your- orator has not sufficient information to state the
amount of the liabilities thus created and imposed upon said
city of New Orleans, but avers upon information and belief,
that it was sufficient to pay and discharge the proportion of
police expenses due by each of said cities.
"' 6th. That like apportionments were made by said board of
police expenses to be paid by said parishes of Jefferson and

EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

St. Bernard and the city of Kenner, all within said police district, and notice given to each of said corporations thereof, as
required by law, and thereupon they became and were absolutely liable to said board for the amount of their respective
apportionments; but what the amounts of said apportionments
were complainant is unable to state, but avers that they were
sufficient to meet the annual police expenses within their respective jurisdictions.
""1
7th. That while said cities and parishes within the police district were required to promptly pay and to provide the means
for promptly paying their respective apportionments, the councils of 'said cities and the police juries of said parishes were
authorized to raise 'the amount required for that purpose by
levyinglaxes upon the persbns and things subject to taxation
within their respective jurisdictions, and for that purpose did
severally make such levies, and your orator avers that said city
of New Orleans annually, during the whole period of the existence of said board, included in her budget of expenditures the
amount thus apportioned to her, and in pursuance of said authority levied and collected taxes for the purpose of paying the
same, and paid upon account thereof large sums of money, but
not enough to discharge her liability in the premises, there still
being due upon account thereof, including Carrollton, the sum
of two hundred and forty-one thousand, one hundred and six
and - dollars ($241,106.54,) and the defendant, the present
city of New Orleans, suc6essor of said cityas existing at the
time said apportionments were made, is liable therefor.
"' 8th. And your orator avers that said city of New Orleans
was and is a statutory trustee of the money derived from such
taxation, and collected by her for the purpose of paying said
apportionments of police expenses; that ever since said several
levies of such taxes said, city has been, and still is making collections thereof, and has collected large sums of money on account thereof, for which she has failed to account and still holds
subject to said trust, the amount thereof being to your orator
unknown; that for a portion of such collections a receiver was
appointed by the civil district court for the parish of Orleans
with the consent of said city, to whom said city on July 25th,

OCTOBER TERMh,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

1888, paid the sum of thirty thousand nine hundred and fortyfour -ff% dollars ($30,944.94) part and parcel of the moneys
derived from the collection of such taxes as well as other small
sums thereafter, the amount and date of payment of which is
to your orator unknown.
'" And your orator avers that afterwards, to wit, on the 27th
of December, 1890, said receiver died, and that said board has
been since then, and is now without any successor or representative, and its affairs are under no administration whatsoever;
that said city of New Orleans has since the death of said re-'
ceiver continued to collect said police taxes, and is 'till collecting the same, the amount of such collections being to your
orator unknown, but he avers that it is a large amount, no
part of which she has applied to the payment of any of her
indebtedness on account of said apportionments; and that she
holds the same subject to said trust as above averred.
"'And your orator avers that large amounts of said police
taxes levied, as aforesaid, became delinquent, and thereafter
interest accrued thereon at the rate of ten per cent per annum;
that said city of New Orleans collected large amounts of such
interest, which as accessory to said taxes should have been paid
to said police board, but which she neglected and refused in
violation of her 'duty as trustee, to apply to the payment of
said apportionments, and she should be required to account for
the same with interest thereon; that the amount of police taxes
as well as the interest thereon, so as aforesaid collected, is unknown to your orator, and he is entitled to an account thereof
from said city before one of the masters of this honorable court,
or otherwise, as your honors may direct.
"' 9th. That said board of Metropolitan police, in obedience
to the laws creating and governing the same, organized a Metropolitan police force in said district and maintained the same
until March 31st, 1877, when said act No. 74 of September 14th,
1868, establishing said Metropolitan police district, as well as
all other acts amendatory thereof and upon the same subjectmatter, were repealed, and said board of Metropolitan police
was abolished without any provision being made for the liquidation of its affairs, or the payment of its debts.

EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

10th. That said board of Metropolitan police was a body
corporate under the laws of its creation, and by the repeal of
said law, ceased to, be and had and has no representative or
successor against whom suit might have been or may now be
brought for the establishment of the demands of the complainant
herein, and he is remediless, except in this honorable court,
where matters of this nature are cognizable and relievable,
wherefore he brings this his bill, in behalf of himself and all
other creditors of said board, similarly situated, who may come
in and contribute to the expense of this suit.
"' 11th. That one Lew Goldstein, as holder of a large amount
of Metropolitan police warrants, issued to officers and members
of the Metropolitan police, and assignee of sundry creditors of
said board of Metropolitan lolice, on the 21st of October, 1886,
brought suit in the 26th judicial district court in and for the
parish of Jefferson, Louisiana, against said city of New Orleans,
said city of Kenner and said parishes of Jefferson and St. Bernard, in behalf of himself and all other creditors of said board,
similarly situated, praying the appointment of a receiver and
enforcement of the liabilities of said several defendants, for the
purpose of paying and discharging the obligations of said board;
"'

that citation was served on the 26th of October, 1886, upon
each of said defendants to appear and answer in said suit, and
afterwards said suit was removed into this honorable court,
where holders of warrants and claims against said board,
amounting to a much larger sum, appeared -before the master
appointed by the order of the court, and proved their demand,
the claims now held by your orator being among those so presented and proved, as will appear by said master's report now
on file, which is here referred to for greater certainty; that the
case as against the city of New Orleans was afterwards, dismissed upon the ground that this court had not acquired jurisdiction thereof; but as to all other defendants the same still
remains pending and undisposed of.
"'That afterwards, to wit: February 9th, 1891, Henry "W.
Benjamin exhibited and filed his bill of complaint in this honorable court against said city of New Orleans and others for an
account of the sums due by said defendants, applicable to the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

payment of the certificates and claims against said police board
held by him, being the same claims upon which said Goldstein
brought suit as aforesaid, and which said Benjamin had ac"quired; that various persons having like claims against said
police board intervened in said suit and proved the same before
the master therein; that among said claims sued upon by said
Benjamin and said intervenors, were included the obligations
and claims since acquired and now held and owned by your
orator, hereinafter enumerated and described; that process of
subpoena in said case was duly served upon said city of New
Orleans February 9th, 1891, that she afterwards appeared and
answered and a final decree was made against her in favor of
said complainant, and the intervenors therein establishing their
claims and decreeing the said.city to pay the same, which suit
was afterwards dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this honorable court, but without prejudice to a new bill, which decree
became final January 31st, 1898.
"'12th. That your orator is the holder and owner of certificates issued by said board of Metropolitan police in acknowledgment of its indebtedness for services rendered to it by the
persons therein named and of transfers of debts due by said
police board, amounting to three thousand, thirty and fortyeight / 100 dollars ($3030.48), a list whereof is hereto annexed
as Exhibit ' A,' and made a part of this bill; that said claims
have been duly assigned and transferred to your orator for a
valuable consideration, and he is now the holder and owner
thereof.
"' And your orator avers that each of said persons in whose
favor said claims accrued, and to whom said certificates were
issued, or their heirs or legal representatives, are citizens respectively of States other than Louisiana, and competent as
such citizens to maintain suit in this honorable court against
,said defendant for the enforcement of said indebtedness, represented by said certificates and transfers, if no assignment or
transfer thereof had been made, the citizenship of said persons
being as follows, viz.:
"'Said D. M. Moore is a citizen of the State of New York.
" Eli Jones is a citizen of the State of Texas.

EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of -the Case.

ccSaid Peter Joseph is a citizen of the State of Colorado.
Robert Crofton is a citizen of the State of Mississippi.
W. C. Bodechtel is a citizen of the State of California.
" J. H. Moore is a citizen of the State of Colorado.
" Edward Masterson is a citizen of the State of Ohio.
" John Dinan is a citizen of the State of Ohio.
" F. Coleman is a citizen of the State of Ohio.
R. II. Taylor is a citizen of the State of Illinois.
" W.H.Murphy is a citizen of the State of IMichigan.
"'Said G. H. Hamersley resided in and was a citizen of the
State of California, until he died recently, leaving two sons,
Hamersley, as his sole heirs, who are
G. H. Hamersley and also citizens of the State of California.
"'Said Dr. J. B. Cooper resided in and was also a citizen of
the State of California, where he died leaving Mrs. Catherine
E. Cooper, his widow in community, as sole heir under the laws
of said State of which she is a citizen.
"I 15th. And your.orator further shows and avers that there
are now outstanding, due and unpaid, other warrants and certificates issued by said board of Metropolitan police, and sums
due and owing by it, for services rendered and supplies furnished thereto, amounting to a large sum, the exact amount
thereof being unknown to your orator, but he avers upon information and belief, that including interest thereof, the amount
exceeds two hundred thousald, dollars ($200,000); that the
only assets of said board of Metropolitan police, at the time it
was abolished, were the amounts due to it by the said city of
N~ew Orleans, and by other municipal corporations within said
police district; that the amount due by said city as aforesaid,
is applicable to the payment of the claims held and owned by
your orator as aforesaid, the same being for services rendered
within said city, and that he is entitled to an accounting by
said city, in order that the amount due by her may be ascer*tained and fixed and decreed to be paid, and applied to the
payment of your orator's claims, and of such others as shall
join herein and co'tribute to the expense of this suit.
"'In consideration whereof and inasmuch as your orator has
not a complete and adequate remedy at law to the end there"
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

fore that the said defendant may, if she can, show why your
orator should not have the relief hereby prayed, and that she
may full, true and perfect answer make to all and singular the
premises, (but not under oath, the oath thereto being expressly
waived); that an account be taken before a master to be appointed by the court, of the amount of taxes collected by the
defendant on account of the assessments and levies of taxes for
police purposes, as set forth in the bill, and of the amounts due
by the defendant on account of the apportionments aforesaid
due by her, and that the defendant may be decreed to pay into
the hands of a receiver, the amount of said taxes collected,
with interest thereon, since the same have come into the hands
of the defendant, and a sufficient amount of the said apportionments as trust funds, to meet the demands of the complainant
and other creditors similarly situated who may come into this
cause and take the benefit of these proceedings, and all expenses and costs; and that the same be applied to their payment."'
[Then followed prayer for process and for general relief and
signatures of counsel; also Exhibit "A," "List of certificates
of indebtedness of Board of Metropolitan Police and claims
against it held and owned by said complainant." These were
in small amounts, some of them dated in October, November
and December, 1874, some in December, 1875, and some in
Novem ber and December, 1876. The original payees were
D. M. M'oore, Eli Jones, Peter, Joseph, Robert Crofton, W. C.
Bodechtel, Edward Masterson, R. H1. Taylor, John Dinan, G. H.
Iamersley, W. H. Murphy, F. Coleman and Dr. J. B. Cooper.
The city demurred to the bill on the ground that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction as such for want of proper averments of diverse citizenship; that necessary parties were lacking; that plaintiff had not stated a case entitling him to the
relief prayed; and that the remedy was at law and not in
equity. On hearing the Circuit Court entered the following
decree:]
"'This cause came on to be heard at a former day upon
the demurrer to the bill, filed by defendant, and after arguments from 6unsel, was submitted.

EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

"'On consideration thereof for the reasons on file:
"' It is ordered that the defendant's first ground of demurrer
be and the same is hereby overruled, the court finding and decreeing that the allegations of the citizenship of the complainant, of the original payees and of the city of New Orleans, are
fully sufficient.
"' It is further ordered that defendant's third and fourth
grounds of demurrer are hereby sustained, the court .finding
and decreeing that there is no-equity in the bill of complaint
herein and said bill is therefore dismissed for want of equity
with full reservation of complainant's right to sue and proceed
at law.'
"The complainant below prosecuted an appeal to this court
and assigns herein errors as follows :
"' 1st. Said Circuit.Court erred in sustaining the demurrer to
the complainant's bill, and in dismissing the same.
"'2d. Said court erred in holding that complainant's bill
does not state a case within the jurisdiction of a court of
equity.
"'Wherefore, for the errors assigned, and others manifest in
the record, said complainant prays that said decree be reversed
and said cause reinstated to be proceeded with according to
law.'
"And now at this term this cause came on to be heard
on the transcript and was argued,"Whereupon, for the proper decision of the case, this court,
desiring the instruction of the honorable, the Supreme Court of
the United Sta~es, certifies to that court the following questions and propositions of law arising on the record, to wit:
1. This being a suit brought by an assignee to recover the contents of choses in action, does the bill state sufficient facts
to give the court jurisdiction on the 'ground of diverse citizenship ? 2. Under.the facts stated in the bill and under the
proper'construction of Act No. 35 of the Laws of Louisiana,
approved March 31, 1877, can the city of New Orleans, as
a legal successor of the defunct M etropolitan Police Board,
be held liableto the complainant as the holder of valid outstanding certificates of indebtedness issued by the late board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Metropolitan police for the amounts due on said certificates?
3. Under the facts stated in the bill, can the complainant maintain a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana against the city of New
Orleans for the establishment of a fund out of which he in
common with other creditors of the late Mfetropolitan Police
Board may be paidpro rata upon their claims?"
-r2. J D. Rose for appellant.
his brief.

.M,. William Grant was on

'r. rank B. Thomas for appellee.

2r1.

Samuel

. Gil-

more was on his brief.
MR. CHiEF JusTice FuLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a certificate under section six of the Judiciary Act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826 c. 511 and it is settled as to
such certification that each question propounded must be a definite point or proposition of law clearly stated, so that it can be
definitely answered without regard to other issues of law in the
case; that each question must be a question of law only and
not of fact, or of mixed law and fact ; and that the certificate
cannot embrace the whole case, even where its decision turns
on matter of law only and even though it be split up in the
form }of questions. Graverv. Faurot,162 U. S. 435 ; -XcKeen
v. Railroad Company, 149 U. S. 249.
Rule 37 provides: "Where, under section six of the said act,
a Circuit Court of Appeals shall certify to this court a question
or proposition of law, concerning which it desires the instruction of this court for its proper decision, the certificate shall
contain a pr6per statement of the facts on which such question
or proposition of law arises." In this case there is no such state,ment, but the entire record is certified, and the questions contemplate an examination of the whole case and in large part its
decision on the merits.
We cannot regard this certificate as in compliance with the
rule, and are constrained to decline to answer the second and

EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

third questions, but we think we may properly answer the first
question in yiew of the narrow limits by which it was apparently
intended to be circumscribed.
The judicial power extends to controversies between citizens
of different States; and between citizens of a State and citizens
or subjects of foreign States'; but the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, provided that the District and Circuit Courts
of the United States should not "have cognizance of any suit
to recover the 'contents of'any promissory note or other chose
in action in favor of an assignee, unless the suit might have been
prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange," 1 Stat. 78, c- 20, § 11 ; and the same provision of the
act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by that of August 13, 1888,
is in these words: "Nor shall any Circuit or District Court
have cognizance of any suit, except upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the contents of. any promissorynote or other
chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent
holder if such instrument be payabld to bearer and.be not made
by any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted
in, such court to recover the said contents if no assignment or
transfer had been made." 25 Stat. 43-4, c. 866, § 1.
To prevent abuse of the constitutional rightto resort to the
Federal courts, jurisdiction in respect of assignees or transferees
was thereby denied except as to suits upon foreign bills of exchange; suits upon choses in action payable to bearer and made
by a corporation; and suits, that might have been prosecuted
in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment or
transfer had been made. iTew Orleans..v. Quinlan, 173 U. S.
191.
The bill shows that at the time this suit was brought the Circuit Court had jurisdiction as between Plaintiff and defendant,
and also that the payees of these warrants might themselves
then have instituted it, if there had been no assignment or transfer. 'We lay out of view as inapplicable the limitation on amount,
prescribed as to parties plaintiff by another clause with a different purpose.
But it is objected that the restriction relates to the time when

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the paper was assigned, and not to the time of the commencement of the suit ; and that if there were intermediate assignees
jurisdiction in respect of them must appear, and does not appear
on the face of this bill.
We are of opinion that the inquiry is to be determined as of
the date when the suit is commenced. Jurisdiction vests then
and cannot be divested by subsequent change of residence; but
jurisdiction cannot be held to have vested prior to action
brought. There have been many decisions to this effect, the
same question being presented under all the acts from 1789.
In Chamberlain v. Eckert, 2 Biss. 126, Judge Drummond
held that the time of the commencement of the suit determined
the questidn; and, among other things, said: "But if the rule
contended for by the defendant is the true rule, then no change
in the status of the payee, after the assignment, could ever
enable a party to bring a suit, and it might happen, where the
note was executed by the maker to-the payee of another State,
and at the time of the commencement of the suit in the Federal
court, he was of the same State with the maker, the suit could
be maintained by the assignee, a citizen of another State, because you have to look according to the view of the defence,
to the status of the parties at the time that the assignor held
the note. And if he ever could have prosecuted the suit, the
assignee could prosecute it, although at the time when the suit
is broqght the payee and maker are citizens of the same State.
That would be the necessary consequence, and the question recurs, what does the language of the statute mean, ' unless the
suit 'might have been prosecuted in said court, if no assignment,
had been made V I think it means at the time the suit was
prosecuted, so that if it appears then that the assignor could
have maintained the suit if no assignment had been made, the
assignee being a citizen of another State, can maintain the
suit." And see Thaxter v. ]Iatch, 6 McLean, 68.
In White v. Leahy, 3 Dillon, 378, the same conclusion was announced by Judge Dillon. The suit was a bill to foreclose
brought in the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas by
plaintiff, a citizen of Missouri, as the assignee ofanote and mortgage. The maker and payee of the note were citizens of Kansas,

EMSHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

and were such at the time the note and mortgage were made and
the payee endorsed the note and assigned the mortgage, and
delivered the same to plaintiff in Missouri. But at the time
the suit was brought the payee was a citizen of Texas. Judge
Dillon said: "If no assignment of this note had been made, the
assignor might, being at the time when suit was brought a
citizen of Texas, have then commenced it ; and under the statute
his assignee has the same right. If the restriction on the assignee does not exist at the time suit is commenced, the court
has jurisdiction if the case involves the requisite amount and is
between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State."
The same ruling was made by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit in Jones v. Shapera, 57 Fed. Rep. 457,
and the foregoing and other cases were cited. See also Portage
Water Company v. Portage,102 Fed. Rep. 769.
In Afilledollar v. Bell, 2 Wall. Jr. 334, which was a bill to
foreclose, complainant, the mortgagee, was a citizen of New
York, and defendant was a citizen of New Jersey, but there
had been intermediate assignments. Mr. Justice Grier said:
"The complainant's case is therefore within the strict letter
of the law-nor can we discover anything in the spirit, equity
or policy of the act, or in adjudged cases, which would compel
us to give it a construction such as the defendant asks. The
statute does not take from the assignee of a chose in action
his right to sue in the courts of. the United States, unless his
immediate assignor could have sustained such action; but only
in case the court could have had no jurisdiction as betften the
original parties to the instrument, if .zo assignment had'been
made. The situation or rights of temporary intermediate assignees, holders, or endorsers enters not into the conditions of
the case."
Wilson v. Fisher,Bald. 133, was approved. There a citizen
of New York had obtained a judgment against a citizen of
Pennsylvania in the Supreme Court of that State. The judgmenft was assigned to citizens of Pennsylvania, and subsequently
to counplainant, who was an alien, and jurisdiction was sustained; Hlopkinson, J., saying: "The suit cannot be main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

tained here unless it might have been prosecuted here, if no
assignment had been made; that is, as we understand it, if it
had remained with the original parties to the transaction, contract or cause of action. The law does not declare that no
-assignee shall prosecute- his suit in this court unless his assignor might have done so; but, unless a recovery of the right
claimed niigbt have been had in this court if no assignment of
it had been made; and of course in every case in which a re.covery might have been prosecuted in the courts of the United
States if no assignment had been made, it may be so prosecuted
after such assignment to a party .competent to sue here."
In Hirkman v. Hamilton, 6 Pet. 20, where the payees of a
note and 'the makers thereof were citizens of Tennessee, and
before the note became due the payees became citizens of Alabama and endorsed it to a citizen of Alabama, the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court for the Western District of Tennessee of
a suit brought by the holder of the note was upheld because
the payees could have prosecuted a suit to recover the contents
of the note in that court if no assignment had been made. But
it is to be observed that the payees were not only citizens of Alabama when the suit was commenced, but'when the note was
assigned.
In Mkollan et al. v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537, the declaration
coptained two counts. The first was against the defendant,
Torrance, as endorser of a promissory note made by Spencer
and Dunn, payable to Sylvester Dunn, and endorsed by him
to Torrance, by whom it was endorsed to Lowrie, and by him
to plaintiffs. The other count was for money had and received
by Torrance to plaintiffs' use. The declaration stated plaintiffs
to be citizens of New York, and defendant to be a citizen of
Mississippi, but was silent "respecting the citizenship or residence of Lowrie, the immediate endorsee of Torrance, through
whom the plaintiffs trace their title to the money for which the
suit is instituted."
The ruling in Young v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. 146, "that an en-dorsee who resides in a different State, may sue his immediate
endorser',residing in the State in which the suit is brought, although that endorser be a resident of the same State with the'

EMSIHEIMER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

maker of the note," was affirmed, but it was pointed out that:
"In this case the suit is brought against a remote endorser, and
the plaintiffs, in their declaration, trace their title through an
intermediate endorser, without showing that this intermediate
endorser could have sustained his action against the defendant
in the courts of the United States. The case of Turner v.
Bank of North America, 4 Dallas, 8, has decided that this
count does not give the court jurisdiction. But the count for
money had and received to the use of the plaintiffs being free
from objection, it becomes necessary to look farther into the
case." The record showed that defendant Torrance had filed
a plea to the jurisdiction, in which he stated that the promises
laid in the declaration were made to Lowrie, and not to plaintiffs, and that Lowrie and defendant were both citizens of
the Stite of Mississippi. Plaintiffs demurred to this plea,
the demurrer was sustained, and judgment rendered for defendant. The court overruled the plea because it averred that
Lowrie and defendant were citizens of Mississippi at the time
of the plea pleaded, not that 'they weie citizens of the said
State at the time the action was brought; and Chief Justice
Marshall said: "It is quite clear that the jurisdiction of the
court depends upon the state of things at the time of the action brought, and that after vesting it cannot be ousted by subsequent events. Since, then, one of the counts shows jurisdiction, and the plea does not contain sufficient matter to deny
that jurisdiction, we think that the judgment ought not to have
been rendered on the demurrer in favor of the defendant."
The judgment was reversed and the cause remanded.
That was a suit on the distinct contract between endorsee
and endorser, but as plaintiff was not the immediate endorsee,
and made title through Lowrie, who was, the court held that
the first count should have shown the competency of the latter
to invoke the jurisdiction at the time the suit was brought.
The general rule is that when a note or bill is endorsed in
blank the lona fide holder of it may write an endorsement to
himself or to another over the endorser's name, and where
there are several endorsements in blank he may fill up the first
one to himself or may deduce his title through all of them.

-48

"

OOTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Evan8 v. Gee, 11 Pet. 80; 1 Daniel Neg. Inst. (4th ed.) §§ 693,
694, 694a.
However, this bill does not trace title through any intermediate assignee, and on the contrary does so directly from the
original payees.. It is true that there are averments that in a

proceeding by one Goldstein, still pending and undisposed-of
in the Circuit Court, against other parties than the city of
Nevt Orleans, these- claims, "now held" by complainant, were
,presented and proved, the master's report thereon being referred to but not set out; and 'also that in a suit by one Benjamin and certain intervenors brought against the city of New
Orleans in the Circuit Court, and subsequently dismissed without prejudice, these claims, "since acquired and now held and
owned by" complainant, were included; and while this shows
that these warrants must have passed through the hands of
others than complainant, it does not appear that there was
-any endorsement of them other- than in blank, and on the bill
. as framed complainant distinctly appears to be assignee of the
payees. What complications may emerge hereafter in respect
of th prior cases, or either of them, need not be considered.
We answer the first question by saying that on the face of
the bill the Circuit Court had jurisdiction on the ground of diverse citizenship.
It will be so certifed.
MY. Jilstca GAnY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

