OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
-, Syllabus.

the Commission was not sustained by the facts upon which it
was predicated, we cannot. enter into an independent investigation of the facts, even if it be conceded the record is in a condition to enable us to do so, in order that new and substantive
findings of fact may be evolved, upon which the order of the
Commission may be sustained. Louisville &c. 1R. 1. Co. v.
Behirmer, 175 U. S. 648-675.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court, refusing to command compliance with the order of the Commission, was right,
"and it must, therefore, be affirmed. We think, however, in view
of what has been said, and in order to prevent all possible misconception, that it should be stated that nothing in the decree
refusing to execute the order of the Commission should be construed as preventing that body, if it deems it best to do so,
from hereafter commencing proceedings to correct any unreasonableness in the rate resulting from the additional terminal
charge as to any territory to which the reduction referred to
in the opinion, if any such there .be, did not apply.
The dearee of the Court of -Appealsis therefore affirmed without prejudice to the right of the Commission to hereafter
proceed in accordance with the reservation expressed in the
opinionjust announced.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN took no part in the decision of this cause.

FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY v. COURTNEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALB FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 178. Argued MAarch 3,4, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

In an action brought by the receiver of a national bank appointed by the
Comptroller of the Currency upon a bond of indemnity given to hold the
bank harmless against fraud of a specified officer, it was contended that
the court erred in admitting in evidence a notice of the default of the

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.

348,

Statement of the Case.
officer, given to the surety company by the receiver within from ten to
seventeen days after the discovery of the default, and in instructing the
jury that the requirement in the bond that immediate notice should be
given of a default was fulfilled by giving notice as soon as reasonably
practicable and with promptness, or within a reasonable time. Held that
the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct, as a matter of law, that
the notice was not given as soon as reasonably practicable, under the circumstances of'the case, or without unnecessary delay, and in leaving the
jury to determine the question whether the receiver had acted with reasonable promptness in giving the notice.
The court points out an error in excluding evidence, but further holds that
as the very question which the jury would have been called upon to determine if the evidence had been received, was fully submitted to them
and was necessarily negatived by their verdict, no foundation exists for
holding that prejudicial error resulted from excluding the evidence.
If the court below in anywise erred, it was in giving instructions which
were more favorable to the defendant than was justified by the principles
of law applicable to the case.
To instruct the jury in broad terms that if they found that the directors
were careless in the management of the bank generally, they should find
for the defendant, could only have served to mislead.

THE action below was brought, on February 5, 1898, by.
Courtney, as receiver of the German National Bank of Louisville, appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency on January 22, 1897, four days after the closing of the bank. Recovery
was sought upon a bond of indemnity for ten thousand dollars
and renewals thereof, taking effect respectively on June 1, 1894,
June 1, 1895, and June 1, 1896. The condition of the bond
was to hold the bank harmless against any loss which it might
sustain by reason of any fraud committed by Jacob M. McKnight, originally as vice president and later as president of
the bank. The sum of $18,742.74 was alleged to have been
dishonestly and fraudulently embezzled, and 'Misapplied out of
the funds of the bank from July 1, 1894, to January 4, 1897,
by McKnight,. either as vice president or president, and a statement of the items was embodied in the petition. Due proof of
the claim was avbrred to hive been made on July 2, 1897. By
answer and amendments thereto the defendant took issue as to
the happening of each of the alleged defaults; it averred that,
ANcKnight, prior to January 21, 1896, bad indulged in speculations in whisky and tobacco and in disreputable and unlawful

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

habits and pursuits; it further averred that the cashier and teller
(one and the same individual), or the vice president of the bank,
who became such when McKnight became the president, or the
directors thereof, at or about the time of the happening of the
defaults, had knowledge of the same, and that the bank condoned the defaults of McKnight for which recovery was sought.
In effect, also, it Was alleged that there had been a violation of
each of the other conditions and stipulations of the bond. The
amended answer concluded with the following averment:
"When said bond of June 1, 1894, given by defendant to
said bank for the fidelity of said McKnight, as set out in the
petition, was renewed for another year on June 1, 1895, to cover
the period from that date to June 1, 1896, and was again renewed
and continued on June 1, 1896, to cover the period from that
date to June 1, 1897, said bank, through an officer other than
said McKnight, represented and asserted and certified, with the
knowledge of the directors of the said bank, that the books and
accounts of said McKnight had been examined by said bank
and were then found to be correct in every respect, and that all
moneys handled by him had been accounted for up to that
time, and that he had performed his duties in an acceptable
and satisfactory manner, and that said bank knew of no reason
why the guaranty bond executed by this defendant should not
be continued; but defendant says that, in fact, said statements,
assertions, and certificates were, and each of them was, false and
fraudulent, and known by said bank to be false and fraudulent,
but the defendant did not know the same to be false or fraudulent, and, on the contrary, the defendant believed and relied on
said statements and each of them, and but for said statements,
assertions, and certificates, the defendant would not have renewed or continued said bond on June 1, 1895, or June 1, 1896,
and the defendant would immediately have canceled and revoked said bond, as it had a right to do, and as the said bank
knew it-had a right to do. The said bank purposely withheld
from the defendant the proper information as to the acts and
conduct and accounts of said McKnight, and thus misled and
deceived the defendant."
reply was filed controverting the affirmative allegations

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.

345

Opinion of the Court.

of the answer, and the cause was tried to a jury. Various exceptions were taken by the defendant to the exclusion of offered
evidence and to instructions to the jury. -A verdict was returned for plaintiff, and from the judgment entered thereon
an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit. That court affirmed the judgmeni. 103 Fed.
Rep. 599.
A writ of certiorari was then allowed.
.X.. Thomas A. Whelan and JWr. Edward J. IoDermott for
petitioner. Mr. St. John Boyle was on their brief.
M.

TV. ..

Smith for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
We shall consider under separate headings the several propositions upon which reliance is placed to demonstrate that
error was committed by the trial court.
1. The court erred in admitting in evidence a notice of the
default of McKnight given to the surety company by the receiver on February 18, 1897, and in instructing the jury that
the requirements in the bond, that immediate notice should be
given of a default, were fulfilled by giving notice "as soon as
reasonably practicable and with promptness" or "within a
reasonable time."
The bank was closed by the Comptroller on January 18,
1897, and the receiver was appointed four days afterwards.
The experts employed by the receiver to examine the books of
the bank began to discover the defaults of McKnight "about
two or three weeks after the bank was closed." The notice by
the receiver to the surety company that McKnight was a defaulter was given on February 18, 1897. It follows that the
notice was given within ten to seventeen days after the first
discovery of a default. Both the trial court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals, reviewing numerous authorities, held that

the requirement in the bond "that the employer shall im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

mediately give the company notice in writing of the discovery
of any default or loss" ought not to receive the construction
that it was intended by the parties that notice of a default
should be given instantly on the discovery of a default, but
that what was meant was that notice should be given within a
reasonable time, having in view all the circumstances of the
case. In so deciding we think the court did not err. Indeed,
this construction of the word "immediate" would seem to be
applied in practice, as is illustrated by the bond of indemnity
considered in the case of the Guarantee Co. v. _ieckanics' &c.
Co., 183 U. S. 402, where one of the conditions was "that the
company shall be notified in writing of any act on the part of
said employe which may involve a loss for which the company is responsible hereunder to the employ6 immediately or
without unreasonable delay."
A quite recent case, decided by the Supreme Court of New
Hampshire, Ward v. Maryland Casualty Co., 51 Atlantic Reporter, 900, so lucidly states the true construction of the word
immediate as employed in a bond cognate to the one under
consideration, that we excerpt a passage from the opinion (p.
902):
"The defendants' liability depends in part upon the answer
to the question whether the plaintiffs gave them 'immediate'
notice in writing of O'Connell's accident, the claim made on
account of it, and the suit that was brought to enforce the
claim. This involves an ascertainment of the meaning of the
word ' immediate' as used in the policy. The word, when relating to time, is defined in the Century Dictionary as follows:
'Without any time intervening: without any delay; present;
instant ; often used, like similar absolute expressions, with less
strictness than the literal meaning requires,--as an immediate
answer.' It is evident that the word was not used in this contract in its literal sense. It would generally be impossible
to give notice in writing of a fact the instant it occurred. It
cannot be presumed that the parties intended to introduce into
the contract a provision that would render the contract nugatory. As I immediate' was understood by them, it allowed the
intervention of a period of time between the occurrence of the

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

fact and the giving of notice more or less lengthy according
to the circumstances. The object of the notice was one of the
circumstances to be considered. If it Was to enable the defendants to take steps for their protection that must necesshrily
be taken soon after the occurrence of the fact of which notice
was to be given, a briefer time would be required to render the
notice immediate according to the understanding of the parties
than would be required if the object could be equally well attained after considerable delay. For example, a delay of weeks
in giving notice of the commencement of the employ6s suit
might not prejudice the defendants in preparing for a defence
of the action, while a much shorter delay in giving notice of
the accident might prevent them from ascertaining the truth
about it. The parties intended by the language used that the
notice in each case should be given so soon after the fact transpired that, in view of all the circumstances, it would be reasonably immediate. If a notice is given ' with due diligence under
the cirQumstances of -the case, and- without unnecessary and
unreasonable delay,' it will answer the requirements of the
contract. Chamberlain v. Insurance Co., 55 N. H. 249, 265,
268; May, Ins. (1st ed.) ยง 462; Id. (14th ed.) ยง 1089; Donahue"
v. Insurance Co., 56 Vt. 375; Lookwobd v. Assurancef.Co., 47
Conn. 553, 568. Whether the notices were reasonably immediate,--like the kindred question of what is a reasonable time,are questions of fact that must be determined in the 'superior
court. Tyler v. Webster, 43 N. H. 147, 151; State v. Ptaited,
Id. 413; ChamberZainv. Insurance .Co., 55 N. H. 265; Austin
v. Ricker, 61 N. H. 97 ; Ela v. Ela, 70 N. H. 163, 165 ; 46 AtI.
414.)
We think the trial court was right in refusing to instruct, as
a matter of law, that the notice was not given as soon as reason-.
ably practicable under the circumstances of the case, or without
unnecessary delay, and in leaving the jury to determine the
question whether the receiver had acted with reasonable promptness in giving the notice.
2. The court erred in instructing the jury that the proof of
claim sent to the surety company by the receiver on Tuly-2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

1897, was made "as soon as practicable" after the giving of
notice of the default of McKnight.
This objection is also without merit. The requirement of the
bond was that the employer "shall file with the company his
or her claim hereunder, with full particulars thereof, as soon as
practicable" after the giving of written notice of a default or
loss. What was required was not a partial, but a full statement
of all the items of claimed misappropriations on which the right
to recover upon the bond was based. The investigation to
ascertain the various defaults of lMcKnight continued after the
giving of the preliminary notice of default, and the evidence in
the record fails to give any support to the contention that the
proof of claim was unreasonably delayed, and was not made as
soon as practicable after the full particulars thereof were ascertained.
3. The court erred in instructing the jury that the averments
contained in the petition filed by the receiver in an action in
attachment against McKnight, brought in a state court of Kentucky, on March 6, 1897, to recover various items of alleged indebtedness of McKnight to the bank, should be given no effect
in their deliberations, as but one of said items was embraced in
the present action.
The petition referred to was presumably introduced in evidence on behalf of the defendant, as tending to establish that
the proof of claim was not made by the receiver as soon as
practicable after the giving of notice that McKnight had been
guilty of a default. While the trial judge did not state the
reasons which led him to instruct the jury to disregard the
statements in the petition, the reason for such action was manifest. The petition counted upon various items, a portion only
of which were embraced in the petition in the action on trial,
and the fact that the petition in the attachment action showed
that when filed the receiver knew of some of the misappropriations of McKnight, did not tend to prove that he then had
knowledge of all of the defaults of McKnight.
4. The court erred in refusing to permit the defendanpt to
read as evidence to the jury a letter of Edwin Warfield, president of the defendant,-afad dated May 15, 1896, and addressed

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.

349 ,

Opinion of the Court.

to the German National Bank of Louisville, Kentucky, and also
the reply of R. E. Reutlinger, the cashier of the said bank,
written on May 29, 1896, addressed to the defendant, said letter
having been an inquiry by the president of the defendant as to
the renewal of the bond of McKnight, and the response being
an assurance by the cashier of the bank that McKiiight had up
to that time performed his duties7 in an acceptable and satisfactory manner, and he, the cashier, knew of no reason why the
bond should not be continued. These letters, it being contended,
were erroneously excluded on the ground that it had- not appeared from the evidence that there was special authority from
the board of directors to the cashier to write the letter of response of May 29, 1896. Further, the court also, it is asserted,
erroneously refused to allow the defendant to prove by circumstantial evidence that the board of directors selected the
bondsman of McKnight and paid for the bond, and that the
said cashier was acting in this matter with the knowledge and
for the benefit and with the approval of the board of directors.
We are constrained to the conclusion that error was committed in rejecting the evidence referred to in the foregoing
contention. It was competent for the defendant to show that
the bank had concerned itself in and about the obtaining bf the
bond and renewals in such manner as to cause the transaction
to become in effect the business of the bank. The bank" had
notice from the terms of the original bond that it was issued in
reliance upon statements and representations made on its behalf
to the surety company, and, that, in the ordinary course, renewals, which were to be optional with- the surety company,
might also be based upon further statements to be made on
behalf of the bank. Thus, in the original bofid, it was recited
that "The said employer has delivered to the company a certain statement, it being agreed and understood that such statement constitutes an essential part of the contract hereinafter
expressed." It was a reasonable and proper precaution, in anticipation of a desired renewal, to propound the inquiries which
were submitted by the surety company. The inquiry was contained in a written communication, addressed to the bank, it was
received by the bank, and it was proper to presume that it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered to the official who made reply thereto, by authority
of the bank, he being the executive officer who was charged
with conducting the correspondence of the bank. We think the
making of the certificate was an act done in the course of the
business of the bank, by an agent dealing with the surety company for and on behalf of the bank. It did not purport to be,
nor was it designed to be, the mere personal representation of
the individual who filled the office of cashier, but it was an
official act, performed on behalf of the bank. The information
solicited was such as was proper to be asked of and communicated by the bank, and as the renewal was presumably made
upon the faith of the statements contained in the certificate,
the bank ought not to be heard, while seeking to obtain the
benefits of the stipulations agreed to be performed by the
surety, to deny the authority of its officer to make the representations which induced the surety to again bind itself to be
answerable for the faithful performance by :McKnight of the
duties of his employment. Railway Companie8 v. -eokuk
Bridge Co., 131 U.S. 371. In Guarantee Co. v. .Mechanics'&c.
Co., 183 U. S. 402, this court recognized as binding upon the
bank a certificate given by one of its officers embodying replies
to questions asked by the guarantee company respecting one of
the employis of the bank, although no proof was introduced
that special authority had been conferred upon the officer to
make the certificate. Nor does the ruling in AmericanSurety
Company v. Pauly, 170 U. S. 156, warrant the claim that it is
an authority against the admissibility of the certificate here in
question. In the bond considered in the Pauly case, it was not
agreed that the statement of the president, upon which the
bond was obtained, should be the basis of the bond. The answers made by the person who was president of the bank to the
interrogatories of the surety company were but mere commendations by one individual of another individual, at a time when,
as said by the court, "no relations existed between the bank
and the surety companiy." Again, in the Pauly case, no letter
of inquiry was addressed to the bank, unlike the practice pursued with respect to the renewal here in controversy, and the
letter, whose contents in the Pauly case was claimed to be

FIDELI'Y & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

binding on the bank, was written by one who was not charged
with the duty of conducting the correspondence of the bank.
As held in Xenia Bank v.,Stewart, 114: U. S. 224, a communication which on its face evidences that it was written by the
cashier of a bank, should not he excluded from the jury as not
being an act of the bank, where "it appears with reasonable certainty to have regard to the business of the bank." In the case
at bar it is manifest these elements were present, and the exclusion of the certificate, as also of the evidence designed to
establish that the giving of the certificate was an act done in the
course of the business of the bank, was erroneous.
But the fact that error was committed in the particulars just
stated does not necessarily lead to a reversal, since the settled'
doctrine is that even if error has been committed, yet if it appears clearly from the record that such error was not prejudicial, the judgment cannot be disturbed. Origet v. H1edden, 155
U. S. 228, 235; Fidelity .Assoiationof Philadelphiav. .ettler,
185 U. S. 261. In order to determine whether prejudice resulted
from the rulings referred to, it becomes essential to state the
facts as portrayed in the bill of exceptions.
McKnight was for a period of time vice president and subsequently the president of the German National Bank. Any and
all claims which may have been asserted in the petition as to
misconduct or default on the part of McKnight prior to the 1st
of January, 1896, were abandoned at the trial, and there is nothing in the record to support the contention that anything took
place prior to that date which affected the truth of the statement made in the certificate given by the cashier on May 29,
1896. In January, 1896, McKnight was president and a director; Adolph Reutlinger was vice president and a director,
and R. E. Reutlinger was cashier and teller of the bank.
On January 14, 1896, the mayor of the city of Louisville
died. The vacancy occasioned was to be filled by the municipal council of the city, and McKnight became a candidate for
the office. Thefe was an active contest, and the incidents con,
nected with the election became the subject of discussion in the
public press and of consequent notoriety in the community.
One Edmunds, who was a business partner of McKnight, was
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

a prominent factor in said contest, as representing the interest
of McKnight, and Edmunds frequently visited the bank and
conferred with McKnight in respect to the contest. Edmunds,
on his visits to the bank, "was often seen by and had conversations with the vice president and other directors of the bank,.
who knew the purpose of his visits." The firm of S. E. Edmunds & Co., composed of McKnight and Edmunds, had an
account on the books of the bank. Edmunds, however, had no
individual account with the bank.
On January 18, 1896, Edmunds came to the bank and there
drew his personal check on the bank for the sum of $1000.
McKnight directed this check to be cashed, and, as Edmunds
wished ten one hundred dollar bills for the check, McKnight,
in the hearing 'of the vice president, told the cashier to take
one thousand dollars and go to a neighboring bank and get the
denomination of bills desired, which he did, and they were
handed over to Edmunds. The check of Edmunds which had
been thus cashed, although he had no individual account with
the bank, was, by the direction of McKnight, carried by the
cashier as a cash item until March 12 following. On the date
last named, by the direction of McKnight, the amount was
charged to the account of S. E. Edmunds & Co., it not appearing that the effect of this debit was to overdraw this latter
account.
It was shown that at the time Edmunds drew this check
there was an understanding between himself and McKnight
that he, McKnight, should be responsible for the check and
see that it was paid. The money which Edmunds received it
was proven was used by him in bribing four members of the
city council to vote for iMcKnight for mayor, and in consideration of the payment, the parties, on receiving the money, signed
the following agreement:
"I hereby pledge myself to vote for J. M. McKnight for
mayor of the city of Louisville, first, last, and all the time, until elected or defeated before the general council."
There was no proof introduced to show that the officers or directors of the bank, other than McKnight, had any knowledge
of the purpose for which the check was drawn or the use which

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

was made of it, unless it be that the fact that they knew that
McKnight was a candidate for mayor had a tendency to show
that he was engaged in unlawful practices.

On January 21, 1896, to pay his own debt, McKnight drew
his individual check (he having an individual account with the
bank), for $1253, to the order of a person to whom he was personally indebted. This check was paid. McKnight instructed
the cashier not to have ,this check charged up but to carry it as
cash, and it was so carried until March 12, 1896, when McKnight directed that the check be debited to the account of S.
E. Edmunds & Co., which was done. Subsequently, and prior
to the 12th of March, 1896, another check was drawn by McKnight, on his individual account, for $1650, and was paid and
carried by the cashier, by UcKnight's direction, as cash, until
March 12, 1896, when it was charged -up to the Louisville Deposit Collateral account. This latter was an account on the
books of the bank of which McKnight had the management
and control as president of the bank, but in which he had no
personal interest. It was shown that the carrying of these
checks. by the cashier in his cash as money was called to the
attention of the vice president of the bank, who made inquiry
on the subject as to why it was done and was informed that it
was done at the request of McKnight, the latter presumably directing the checks to be charged as above stated, in consequence
of such inquiry.
McKnight was defeated for mayor. It was matter of common knowledge in Louisville that there was great dissension between the elected mayor and members of the boards of aldermen
and councilmen and that members of the board of aldermen
were endeavoring to block legislation proposed by the new
mayor. There was proof tending to show that McKnight
fomented this discord, and drew up a paper, which was signed
by five aldermen, pledging themselves to be controlled in the
performance of their duties by McKnight. Two other signatures, however, Were required to get control of the board. McKnight was informed by Edmunds that two aldermen were
wavering, and that to obtain their signatures to the agreement
it would be necessary to pay each of them $1000. On FebruVOL. cLxxxvi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ary 6, 1896, McKnight requested the cashier to remain at the
bank and keep the vault open after the regular time for closing,
and said to him that he "had a big scheme on hand, and that
it was a big thing." The bank was kept open, and at about
half-past six Edmunds brought to the bank the two aldermen
in question. Thereupon, in the presence of these two men and
the cashier, Edmunds prepared a note, which was then signed
by the two aldermen; as follows:
"$2000.00.
LouisviLL. , Ky., February 6, 1897.
"One year after date we promise to pay to the order of ourselves two thousand dollars without defalcation, value received,
negotiable and payable at German National Bank."
After signing the note, the tvo aldermen went upstairs, later
returned to the bank office, and then received from the cashier,
who acted under the instructions of 'McKnight, the sum of $2000
in currency.
It was shown that, .while upstairs in the bank building, the
two aldermen affixed their signatures to the following paper,
which had already been signed by five other of the aldermen:
" LOUISVILLE, KY., February 5th, 1896.
"We do this day and date agree with one another, and bind
ourselves on our sacred words and honor, that we will stand together on any and all propositions of legislation that may come
before the body of which we are members, namely, the board
of aldermen of the city of Louisville; that we will so caucus
with our friend J. M. McKnight, and act wisely, and secure for
our friends an equal division of the offices and any profit that
may arise therefrom; that we, as men and members of the
upper board, will not allow the mayor to force upon us any
appointments that we do not deem wise and to our interest, and
in so doing will not act the first night of a meeting on any proposition sent in by the mayor, but will take one week for consideration and caucus.
"INow we have calmly considered the above, and do again
pledge ourselves one to the other before subscribing our names
this day and date, February 5th, 1896, in the presence of one
and the other."

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

There was no testimony tending to show knowledge on the
part of the bank, or any of its officers and directors, other than
McKnight, of the purpose for which this $2000 was paid, or of
the relations which existed between McKnight and the men to
whom it was paid, unless such knowledge was lawfully inferable from the- circumstances above stated and those hereafter
mentioned.
On the night of the occurrences above detailed the cashier of
the bank went to the residence of his father, the vice president,
and told him of the keeping open of the bank that evening and
the cashing of the note. The next morning the vice president
asked iM-cKnight for an explanation of the matter, and the latter responded that the transaction was all right and that the'
note was good, and that it would be guaranteed by men of
credit, whom he named. McTnight also said that he would
guarantee the payment of the note; that the parties were obliged
to have the money that night, and he kept the bank open to
16t them have it. When this conversation was had McKnight
had a long, yellow envelope in his hand, and he told the vice
president that "he had a document there in his pocket which
was signed by those fellows;" that "he had a meeting upstairs and that paper was signed, and he would not sign it for
the city of Louisville;" but McKnight did not mention the
names of the persons who had signed it. The vice president
noticed that the bank was to get no interest on the loan. He informed other members of the board of directors, and shortly
afterwards the matter was brought before the board for its
consideration. The vice president reported to the board that
he had made some investigation and could not find that two
aldermen who had signed the note had any property, and -he
was unable to say whether or not they were good. McKnight
made the same statement to the board that he had made to the
vice president, though to neither the vice president northe bank
was any explanation made about the interest feature of the
transaction. He assured the directors that the note was good.
This explanation satisfied the board, and they passed the note.
One Jacob Reisch, a director at the time, testified on the witness stand, however, that some short time after the execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of this note the vice president told him what he had learned
about the'matter, and said to him that the money was used in
the mayor's race. This latter statement the vice president denied having made. We quote from the bill of exceptions the
following statement:
"There was also evidence tending to show that J. M. McKnight was president of the bank, and the other officers of the
bank, including the directory, had entire confidence in his honesty and integrity up to the time the bank was closed; that
none of them had any knowledge that any act of his, in the
management of said bank, was fraudulent or dishonest, until
after the closing of the bank; that said bank had a discount
committee who regularly examined and passed on the papers
of the bank, as required of such committee, and the directory
of said bank undertook to make a monthly investigation, sometimes twice a month, of the affairs of said bank, and required
the president to go through same with them and make a full
report thereon; that some of the directors were in the bank
almost daily inspecting its affairs, and that they did at all times
observe due and customary supervision over said president for
the prevention of default; that none of the officers of said
bank, including the directory, had any knowledge of the various checks set up in the petition as fraudulent, and that were
charged to the account of other parties than those drawing
them, or on whomi they were drawn, except the clerks who
charged them up to said account as stated, and there was evidence tending to show that they charged them up to such
accounts by the direction of McKnight, the president, and except, further, R. E. IReutlinger, the cashier and teller of said
bank, knew of said checks when they came into said bank and
was instructed to hol& them as cash items by McKnight, but
further than this he had no knowledge of them."
Now, with this state of the record in mind, we come to consider the statements in the certificate signed by the cashier, on
May 29, 1896, in answer to the letter of the surety company,
shortly before the bond was renewed, to determine whether
prejudicial error arose from rejecting the certificate. The certificate stated that the president "has performed his duties in

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

an acceptable and satisfactory manner, and we know of no
reason why the guarantee bond should not be continued."
There was certainly proof showing that the action of the president as to the three checks, and the charging them to accounts
on the books of the bank, deceived the officers of the bank and
caused them to be satisfied with the transactions. Certainly
also there was uncontradicted evidence establishing that the explanation given by McKnight of the discount of the two
thousand dollar note satisfied the directors. There was .no
justification in the evidence on these subjects to take the *case
from the jury and instruct a verdict for the defendant upon
the theory that in and of themselves the transactions were of
such a character as to preclude the possibility of a belief in the'
sufficiency of the explanatioh made by the president, however
apparently reasonable those explanations may have been and
however honest may have been the belief in their truth. This
being so, it follows that the only basis upon which it could
have been found that the bank was dissatisfied was the deduction from the facts and circumstances that the bank knew of
the fraud which the transactions were intended to effectuate.
And this latter view was stated by the court to the jury. Referring to the alleged fraudulent checks and drafts of the president, the court said:
"The mere fact of drawing for more than you have got in
the bank without any fraudulent intent in that mere transaction would hardly be a fraudulent act withi. the meaning of
this bond.
"Now, I suppose in this case, if the bank had known that
:McKnight was making these drafts for these various fraudulent
purposes, such as buying up councilmen, buying up aldermen,
paying his own personal debts; if the bank had known that
and consented to it, there would not have been a fraudulent act
of McKnight for which the bank could recover against this
company.
"But if you believe from the evidence that the bank did not
know of the fraudulent purposes for which the overdrafts were
made, if the overdrafts were made in connection with this
matter-if you-believe the bank did not know the fraudulent

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes, then that changes the result; because if the bank did
not know it and still consented to it, it would not relieve the
act of McKnight from the character of being a fraudulent act.
So that, as I view this case-you must remember, however, that
you are the sole judges of the evidence in this case, its credibility-as I view this case, however, there would be no fraudulent acts upon McKnight's part, limiting my observations now
to the overdrafts, there would be no fraudulent acts upon his
part merely in an overdraft, if there were no fraudulent intent
behind it which was concealed from the bank."
Again, the court-referring to the Britt and Reeder transaction-said:
"If you believe from the evidence that the bank did know of
this fraudulent purpose, and that this default of MicKnight's,
this fraudulent act of McKnight's, in getting these two thousand
dollars, was known to the bank at the time, then I instruct you
that all of the,liability of the defendant in this case would cease
then, that being the earliest, or one of the earliest, if not the
earliest, of all these transactions. If you believe from the evidence that this transaction was known and condoned by the
bank at the time, before these other transactions occurred, then
the defendant in this case is not liable."
In other words, reiterating in a somewhat different form the
proposition previously stated if the certificate transmitted by
the cashier to the surety company had been received in evidence
it would not alone have availed as a defence, because further
proof would have been required showing the falsity of the statements contained in the certificate. In view, however, of the
uncontradicted testimony tending showing that in the course of
the transactions relied upon the president had, either by conduct
or explanation, produced the impression- on the bank that the
transactions were bona fde, and therefore relieved the bank
from any dissatisfaction as to the transactions, it must follow
that the falsity of the certificate could alone have been inferred
by concluding either that the transactions in and of themselves
were of such a character that as a matter of law no explanations made of them by the president could have justified the
bank in being satisfied on the subject, or that the surrounding

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

circumstances were such as to authorize the jury to infer that
the bank must have known of the fraud, and therefore to find
that the bank could not possibly have been satisfied with the
conduct of the president. But the first hypothesis, we have
pointed out, was inadmissible. The second was left to the jury
to determine, since the charge of the court was that if the jury
could deduce from the proof knowledge on the part of the bank
of the fraud of the president, the surety company would not be
liable on the bond. As, therefore, the very question which the
jury would have been called upon to determine if the certificate
had been received in evidence was fully submitted to them and
was necessarily negatived by their verdict, no foundation exists
for holding that prejudicial error resulted from excluding the
certificate.
5. The trial court erred in not instructing the jury that the
knowledge possessed by an officer or director of the bank, of
the fraudulent purposes of INKnigit, though such knowledge
had not been communicated to the bank, should be treated as
-the knowledge of the bank; and also erred in not instructing
the jury that the knowledge which any officer or director of the
bank might have acquired of the fraudulent conduct of McKnight, if such officer or director had exercised customary supervision, should be imputed to the bank.
The questions which these propositions embrace were raised
by the exceptions taken to certain portions of the charge to
the jury, referred to in the record as instructions Nos. 5, 6 and
7. In instruction No. 5 the court told the jury, in general
terms, that the bank, undei the stipulations contained in the
bond, owed to the surety the duty of exercising due and customary supervision over McKnight to 1revent the commission
by him of fraudulent acts, and further instructed that if the
bank knew of the fraudulent purposes of ]McKnight- in connection with the drafts and checks upon which recovery was
sought, the surety would not be liable. Exception was taken
to this instruction, on the ground that it "did not submit correctly to the jury consideration of knowledge on the part of
the officers or directors of the bank other than, McKnight,
whi6h they had,. or would have had, if customary supervision

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

had been exercised." Instruction No. 6, and the objection
made to it, reads as follows:
"I do not think that the knowledge of a cashier of a bank,
speaking generally, is the knowledge of the bank as to any
matter that does not come within the customary or ordinary
duties of a cashier or those which have been specially imposed
upon him by the action of the bank. I do not think -Mr.R.
E. Reutlinger, in this case, in respect to any matter which he
knew or could do, represented the bank, if it was outside of his
ordinary duties; and I do not recall anything that he knew,
so far as ihe proof shows that would in anywise affect the liability of the defendant in this case."
Objecti6n was made to the foregoing portion of the charge,
on the ground that the knowledge of the cashier of the acts of
McKnight in respect to his overdrafts, his transactions in connection with the $2000 note signed by the two aldermen and
with the checks to Edmunds, and the several checks for McKnight's individual account, was the knowledge of the bank,
and that the jury should have been so told.
Instruction No. 7 dealt with the $2000 note transaction. In
effect, the jury were instructed that the knowledge of the cashier acquired in the performance of his duties might be imputed
to the bank, but that the vice president or an individual director did not bold such an official relation to the bank as that
his knowledge of wrongdoing, by M,cKnight, if not communicated" to the bank, could be treated as the knowledge of the
bank.
We do not deem it necessary to analyze the instructions
given by the court for the purpose of determining whether
they were in all respects accurate, because we are of the opinion
that if the court in anywise erred it was in giving instructions
which were more favorable to, the defendant surety than was
justified by the principles of law applicable to the case.
It is well settled that, in the absence of express agreement,
the surety on a bond given to a corporation, conditioned for the
faithful performance by an employ6 of his duties, is not relieved from liability for a loss within the condition of the bonAl
by reason of the laches or neglect of the board of directors,

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Aot amounting to fraud or bad faith, and that the acts of ordinary agents or employ~s of the indemnified corporation, conniving at or cobperating with the wrongful act of the bonded
employ6, will not be imputed to the corporation. United
States v. Kirkpatrick, (1824) 9 Wheat. 720, 736; .Minor v. .echanics' Bank, (1828) 1 Pet. 46; Taylor v, Bank of Kentucky,
(1829) 2 J. J. Marshall (Ky.), 564; Amherst Bank v. Boot,
(18411) 2 Metcalf, 522; LouisianaState Bank v. Ledoux, (1848)
3 La. Ann. 674; Pittsburg,Fort Wayne & Chicago By. Co. v.
Shaefer, (1868) 59 Penn. St. 350, 356 ; Atlas Bank v. Brownell,
(1869) 9 Rhode Island, 168. The doctrine of these cases is
thus epitomized in 59 Penn. St. 357:
"Corporations can Act only by officers and agents. They do
not guaranty to the sureties of one officer the fidelity of the
others. The rules and regulations which they may establish
in regard to periodical returns and payments are for their own
security, and not for the benefit of the sureties. The sureties,
by executing the bond, became responsible for the fidelity of
their principal. It is no collateral engagement into which they
enter, dependent on some contingency or condition different
They become joint
from the engagement of their principal. with
the same conobligors with'him in the same bond, and
dition underwritten. The fact that there were other unfaithful officers and agents of the corporation, who knew and connived
at his infidelity, ought not in reason, and does not in law or
equity, relieve them from their responsibility for him. They
undertake that he shall be honest, though all around him are
rogues.. Were the rule different, by a conspiracy between the
officers of a bank or other moneyed institution, all their sureties might be discharged. It is impossible that a doctrine leading to such consequences can be sound. In a suit by a bank
against a surety on the cashier's bond, a plea that the cashier's
defalcation was known to and connived at by the officers of
the bank, was held to be no defence. Taylor v. Bank of Kentuckoy, 2 J. J. Marsh. 564."
So, also, in 3 La. Ann. 674, the court, after suggesting the
distinction between the knowledge of the governing body of a
bank, the board of directors, of the default of a bbnded em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ploy6, and the knowledge of such default by another officer or
employ6, not communicated to the board, thus tersely stated
the applicable doctrine (p. 684):
"It cannot be said that if one servant of a bank neglects his
duty, and by his carelessness permits another servant of the
bank to commit a fraud, the surety of the fraudulent servant
shall be thereby discharged."
And see American Surety Co. v. .Pauly,170 U. S. 156, 157,
and cases cited. In other words, the principle of law discussed
in the case of :77w Distilled Spirits, 11 Wall. 356, viz., that
the knowledge of an agent is in law the knowledge of his principal, is intended for the protection of the other party (actually
or constrdetively) to a transaction for and on account of the
principal had with such agent. In the very nature of things,
such a principle does not obtain in favor of a surety who has
bonded one officer of a corporation, so as to relieve him from
the obligations of his bond, by imputing to the corporation
knowledge acquired by another employ6 subsequent to the
execution of the bond, (and from negligence or wrongful motives, not disclosed to the corporation,) of a wrong committed
by the official whose faithful performance of duty was guaranteed by the bond. As the rule of imputation to the principal
of the knowledge of an agent does not apply to such a case, it
must follow that it can only obtain as a consequence of an express.provision of the contract of suretyship. - Was there such
a provision in the bond now under consideration?
Now the clause of the bond sued on, and a to which the
court was instructing the jury in the portions of the charge under consideration, is as follows:
"'That the employer shall observe, or cause to be observed,
due and customary supervision over the employ6 for the prevention of default, and if the employer shall at any time during
the currency of this bond condone any act or default upon the
part of the employ6 which would give the employer the right
to claim hereunder, and shall continue the employ6 in his ser
vice without written notice to the company, the company shall
not be responsible hereunder for any default of the empIy6
which ma&occur subsequent to such act or default so condoned.'"

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. COURTNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Manifestly, this stipulation is not fairly subject to the construction that it was the intention that the neglect or omission
of a minority in number of the board of directors or the neglect
or omission of subordinate officers or agents of the bank should
be treated as the neglect or omission of the bank. The provision is not that a minority in number of the board of directors
or that subordinate officers or agents would exercise due and
customary supervision, and would not condone a default of The
bonded employ6 or retain him in his employment after the
commission of a default, but the agreement is that the bank
would do or not do these things. This in reason imports that
the things forbidden to be done or agreed to be done were to.
be either done or left. undone by the bank in its corporate capacity, speaking and cacting through the representative agents
empowered by the charter to do or not to do the things pointed
out. To hold to the contrary would imply that the bond forbade the doing of an act by a person who had not power to perform or commanded performance by one who could not perform. Assuredly, therefore, the conditions embodied in the
stipulation to which we have referred, both as to doing and nondoing, contemplated in the reason of things the execution of
the duties which the contract imposed on the bank, either by
the governing body of the bank, its board of directors, or by
a superior officer, such as the president of the bank, having a
general power of supervision over the business of the corporation, and vested with the authority to condone the wrongdoing
or to discharge a faithless employ6. That is to say, the stipulation in all its aspects undoubtedly related to the bank, acting
through its board of directors or thr6ug-h an official who, from
the nature of his duties, was in effect the vice principal of the
bank. The decision in .Guarantee Co. v. Afee]anies' &c. Co.,
183 U. S. 402, it may be remarked, in passing, is not antagonistic to the views we have just expressed, because in that case
all the information which was held imputable to the bank had
been communicated to the president of the bank.
Now, applying-the principles previously .expounded to the
case in hand, it is evident that the court rightly refused to instruct the jury that the mere knowledge of one or more direct-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ors, less than a majority of the board, and of the vice president
of the bank, of the default of the president, was imputable to
the bank. Indeed, as we have previously said, when the charge
which the court gave is considered, it is apparent that the court
went quite as far as the law warranted, in favor of the defendant, since the court instructed that knowledge acquired by the
cashier in the course of the business of the bank, and not communicated by him to the board of directors, should be regarded
as the knowledge of the bank.
6. The Court of Appeals erred in affirming the action of the
trial court in instructing the jury that the carelessness of the
directors in the management of the bank was not an issue for
them to cnsider.
In considering the clause of the charge to the jury which
provided that "due and customary supervision over the employS" should be observed "for the prevention of default," the
trial court told the jury that it imported "a reasonable vigilance
upon the part of the bank to prevent defaults," that is, to prevent the commission of fraudulent acts by McKnight. To instruct the jury in broad terms that if they found that the directors were careless in the management of the bank generally they
should find for the defendant, could only have served to mislead.
The court did not err in refusing the requested instruction.
eJudgment aifirmed.
MR. JUSTcE GRAY and MR. JusncE. BREWER did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

