MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R'D CO. v. MINNESOTA. 257
Statement of the Case.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 131. Argued January 23, 24, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.
The act of the Legislature of Minnesota, creating a railroad commission, is
not unconstitutional in assuming to establish joint through rates or
tariffs over the lines of independent connecting railroads, and apportioning and dividing the joint earnings.
Such a commission has a clear right to pass upon the reasonableness of
contracts in which the public is interested, whether such contracts be
made directly with the patrons'of the road or for a joint action between
railroads in the transportation of persons and property in which the
public is indirectly concerned.
Without deciding whether or not connecting roads may be compelled to
enter into coutracts as between themselves, and establish joint rates, it
is none the less true that where a joint tariff between two or more roads'
has been agreed upon, such tariff is as much within the control of the
legislature as if it related to transportation over a single line.
The presumption is that the rates fixed by the Commission are reasonable,
and the burden'of proof is upon the railroad company to show the contrary.
A tariff fixed by the Commission for coal in carload lots is not proved to be
unreasonable, by showing that if such tariff were applied to all freight
the road would not pay its operating expenses, since it might well be
that the existing rates upon other merchandise, which were not disturbed
by the Commission, might be sufficient to earn a large profit to the com.pany, though it might earn little or nothing upon coal in carload lots.

THIs was a petition for a mandamus filed in the District
Court of Ramsey County by the State, upon the relation of the
Railroad and Warehouse Commission, against the Minneapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company and several other railroad
companies, (the first of 'Which alone answered and sued out this
writ of error,) to compel such 6ompanies to adopt and publish
a joint through rate fixed by the Commission upon shipments
of hard coal in carload lots, from the city of Duluth to certain
points in the southern and western parts of the State of Minnesota., and to enjoin them from demanding or receiving any
-VOL. CLXXXVI7

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

greater sum for such through shipments than that fixed by the
Commission.
The facts are substantially as follows: The St. Paul and
Duluth Railroad Company, a corporation of the State of Minnesota, operates a line of railroad-from Duluth upon Lake Superior to the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis. Its local rate
upon hard coal in carload lots from Duluth to these-twin cities
was $1.25 per ton, the reasonableness of which local rate is conceded. The Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, also
a corporation of the same State, operates a line of road from St.
Paul and Minneapolis southerly through Hopkins, a station
nine miles from Minneapolis, to Albert Lea in saidState, tbehce
still southerly to Angus in Boone County, Iowa. At Albert
Lea and Angus it connects with other railroads, and by virtue
of traffic arrangement§ has access to all the principal markets.
It also owns and operates a branch line extending from a connection with its main line at Hopkins, westerly ninety-two
miles to Morton, Minnesota, at which point it connects with a
railroad owned and operated by the Wisconsin, M innesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, which extends westerly from Morton to Watertown in South Dakota. Winthrop is a station upon
the line of the Minneapolis and St. Louis road between Hopkins
and Morton, sixty miles west of Hopkins, and at the time the
order of the Commission was made the Minneapolis, New Ulm
and Southwestern Railroad had constructed and owned a short
line of railroad extending south from Winthrop to New Uln in
Brown County. The capital stock of the last-named company
was owned by the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company; but it was nevertheless a separate and independent corporation.
Both the St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company and the
Minneapolis and St. Louis Company are fully equipped to conduct the business of common carriers, have complete track con:
nections and transfer facilities at St. Paul and Minneapolis, and
for a long time have been engaged in transporting hard coal in
carload lots without change of cars from Duluth to the points
upon the line of the Minneapolis and St. Louis road for a joint
through rate, which had been established by the mutual agree-

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R'D CO. v. MINNESOTA. 259
Statement of the Case.
ment of the companies, and which had been divided between
them according to that agreement. In dividing earnings under
this joint tariff, to which not only the two principal defendants
were parties, but the Minneapolis, New Ulm and Southwestern
Company, and the Wisconsin, Minnesota and Pacific Company
were also parties, there was first set apart to the St. Paul and
Duluth Company $1 per ton for transporting the hard coal
from Duluth to Minneapolis, the remainder being turned over
to one or more of the other three companies participating in
the carriage of the coal to its destination.
On September 22, 1898, the :Railroad and Warehouse Commission, having resolved to investigate the reasonableness of
this joint rate, made an order upon all these railroad companies to answer as to the reasonableness of such rate. The companies duly appeared and took part in the investigation, and on
January 19, 1899, the Commission made an order whereby it
determined that the joint rate then in force for transporting
hard coal from Duluth to the several stations west of the twin
cities was unreasonable and unjust, and ordered a reduction to
another rate found by the Commission, which was published
and served upon the companies, as required by the state -laws,
but was dregarded by the railroads interested. Under the
rate so fixed the St. Paul and Duluth Company was allowed
$1 per ton from Duluth to Minneapolis, which was the same
price previously agreed upon between the parties, the remainder
to be paid to the Minneapolis and St. Louis-Company, which
was left to settle with the Minneapolis, New Ulm and the
Southwestern and the Wisconsin, Minnesota and Pacific Companies for services rendered by those companies in the transportation of coal to points upon their respective roads. Neither
of the companies filed or posted schedules of the new tariffs as
required by law, and the plaintiff in error, the Minneapolis and
St. Louis frailroad Company, on March 3, 1899, and six weeks
after the Commiz,:ion made its order, withdrew all tariffs on
hard coal in carload lots which bad been established under
agreement with the Duluth road.
Whereupon this proceeding was taken in the District Court
of Ramsey County to compel the railroad companies to com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ply with the order of the Commission. After trial, judgment
was rendered by that court, confirming the order of the Commission, directing the issue of a writ of mandamus as prayed;
and the judgment so rendered was affirmed upon appeal by the
Supreme Court of Minnesota in State v. uinneapolis & St. Louis
2. 1?. Co., 80 Minn. 191.
Whereupon the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company,
against which the full amount of the reduction by the Commission was assessed, sued out this writ of error.
Ab.. Albert E. Clarke for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. TIornas D. O'Brien for defendant in error.
Douglas and Xr. Ira B. Mills were on his brief.
MR.

JUSTIOE

Xr.TIV. B.

BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case raises two questions: (1) The constitutionality of
an act of the legislature of Minnesota passed in 1895, creating
a Railroad and Warehouse Commission and defining its duties,
(the material portions of which are printed in the case of Wisconsin &c. R1. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.287,) in so far as
it assumes to establish joint through rates or tariffs over the
lines of independent connecting railroads, and by virtue of
which it assumes to arbitrarily apportion and divide joint earnings; (2) whether the tariff fixed by the Commission is wholly
inadequate and not compensatory.
1. The constitutionality of the act of 1895 is attacked upon
the ground that it authorizes the railway commission of the
State to compel two or more railroad companies to enter into
a joint tariff, and to make and adopt a joint rate for the transportation of property over the lines of such companies, as well
as to make a division and to apportion the joint earnings among
the several companies interested. It is insisted that it is beyond
the constitutional power of the legislature to compel companies
to enter into involuntary, unreasonable and unprofitable contracts with other companies at the instance of third parties, or
to fix terms and conditions upon which such contracts shall be

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R*D CO. v. MINNESOTA. 261
Opinion of the Court.

performed. This argument in its various applications is one
which has been addressed to and considered by this court in
nearly every case in which the power of the State to regulate
railway charges has been called in question, and the answer
made to it in those cases is equallypertinent here. Indeed, it
is impossible for the State to exercise this power of regulation
without interfering to some extent with the power of a railway
to contract either with its customers or connecting lines. The
power is one which was said in Afunnb v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113,
to have been customarily exercised in England from time immemorial, and in this country from its first colonization, for the
regulation of ferries, common carriers, hackmen, bakers, millers,
wharfingers and innkeepers; and the whole object of this class
of legislation is to curtail the power to contract by limiting the
exactions of those engaged in these occupations, and providing
that the rendition of such services shall not raise an implied
promise to pay more than a certain fixed sum. This legislation
may be justified by the fact that these various occupations ar'e
necessarily to a certain extent monopolistic in their nature, and
that in dealing with customers the parties do not stand upon an
equality, the latter being practically compelled to submit to
such terms as the former may choose to exact, unless the State
shall, acting in the interest of the public, elect to interfere and
prescribe a maximum of charges.
The argument for the railroad companies in this case assumes
that, while the State may interfere as between the railways
and their customers, the shippers of freight, it cannot do so as
between the railways themselves, by fixing joint tariffs and apportioning such tariffs among the several railways interested
in the transportation. The practical result of that argument
is this, that if there were within a certain State five connecting
roads of 100 miles each inlength, which among themselves had
established a joint tariff for the whole 500 miles, the State
would be powerless to interfere with such tariff, though its right
to do so would be unquestioned if the whole 500 miles were
owned and operated by a single company. To state such. a
proposition is practically to answer it. Granting that a State
has no right to interfere with the internal economy of a rail-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

road farther than to secure the safety and comfort of passengers, as, for example, to fix the wages of employs or control
its contracts for construction, or the purchase of supplies, it has
a clear right to pass upon the reasonableness of contracts in
which tbe public is inteiested, whether such contracts be made
directly with the patrons of the road, or for a joint action in
the transportation of persons or property in which the public
is indirectly concerned.
-There is an underlying fallacy in the argument of the railroad company in this connection, that the sum of two reasonable local rates cannot be unreasonable; and, as it is admitted
that $1.25 per ton is a reasonable local rate for transporting
coal from Duluth to Minneapolis over the St. Paul and Duluth
road, and that the local rates for coal from Minneapolis to the
designated stations westward and southward are also reasonable,
it is impossible that a through rate from Duluth to the same stations which does not exceed the aggregate of these two rates
can be unreasonable. We cannot assent to this proposition.
The practice of railways in this country is almost universally
to the contrary, and a through tariff is almost always fixed at
a less sum than the aggregate of local tariffs between nearby
stations upon the same road. Doubtless the fixing of a lower
through tariff is dictated largely by a desire of each road to
get as much mileage as possible from its patrons, as well as by
an effort t6 meet competition over other lines doing business
between the same termini; but in addition to this there is an
increased cost of local business over through business in the additional fuel consumed and the increased wear upon the machinery of each train involved in stopping at every station.
These facts were noticed by Mr. Justice Brewer in the opinion
of the court* in Chicago &c.Railway Com2)any v. 0omikins,
176 U. S. 167, in which he makes the following observations:
"Take a single line of 100 miles, with ten stations. One
train starts from one terminus with through freight and goes
to the other without stop. A second train starts with freight
for each intermediate station. The mileage is the same. The
amount of freight hauled per mile may be the same; but the
time taken by the one is greater than that taken by the other.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R'D CO. v. MINNESOTA. 263
Opinion of the Court.

Additional fuel is consumed at each station where there is a
stop. The wear and tear of the locomotive and cars from the
increased stops and in shifting cars from the main to side tracks
is greater; there are the wages of the employCs at the intermediate stations, the cost of insurance, and these elements are
so varying and uncertain that it would seem quite out of reach
to make any accurate comparison of the relative cost. And if
this is true, when there are two separate trains, it is more so
when the same train carries both local and.through freight."
We are bound to recognize the fact that modern commerce
is largely carried on over railways owned and operated by
different companies; that Congress in passing the Interstate
Commerce Act assumed the power to determine the reasonableness of joint tariffs as applied to connecting lines between the
several States, Cincinnati &c. R. 2?. 0o. v. Int. Com. Com.,
162 U. S. 184, and that, if the power of the state commission
were limited to the tariffs of a single road, it would be wholly
inefficacious in a large number, if not in a majority, of casesin fact, that the whole purpose of the act might be defeated.
The necessities of this case do not require us to determine
whether connecting roads may be compelled'to enter into contracts as between themselves and establish joint rates, but so'
far as applied to contracts already in existence we have no doubt
of the power of the State to supervise and regulate them. Such
a contract for a joint rate having been in existence when the
order of the Commission was made, we do not think it was
affected by the subsequent withdrawal of the Minneapolis and
St. Louis Company. It may, also, be said in this connection
that in Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacolson, 179 U.-S. 287, we
held that, under this very act, railways in Minnesota might be
compelled to make track connections at the intersections of
other roads for transferring cars from the lines or tracks of
one company to those of another, as well as for facilities for
the interchange of cars and traffic between their respective
.lines. The case did not involve the right of the Commission
to prescribe joint through rates for the transportation of freight
between points on their respective lines, but if any inferences
are to be derived from the opinion, they are in favor of such

OCTOBER TERK

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

right. See, also, Burlington, Cedar Rapide. &c. Railway v.
Dey, 82 Iowa, 312, 338. All that we are required to hold in
this case is that, where a joint tariff between two or more roads
has been agreed upon, such tariff is as'inuch within the control
of the legislature as if it related only to transportation over a
single line.
2. The more difficult question is that connected with the
reasonableness of the rates. The presumnption is that the rates
fixed by the Commission are reasonable, and the burden of
proof is upon the railroad companies to show the contrary.
Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v.
Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167- 173. Indeed, the act itself provides,
section thrbe, subdivision C, "the rates established by said Commission shall go into effect within ten days,

.

.

.

and from

and after that time the schedule *of rates so established shall
be primafacieevidence in all the courts of this State that such
through rates are reasonable for transportation of -freight and
cars upon the railroads over which such schedule shall have
beeh fixed."
In fixing the through rates for hard coal in carload Jots from
Duluth to interior points in Minnesota, the Commission set
apart to the St. Paul and Duluth Company $1 per ton of
the joint tariff, and as this was the same amount which that
road had received under the prior arrangement no question is
made as to its reasonableness, and no appeal was taken by that
road. The remainder of the joint tariff is paid to the Minneapolis and St. Louis Company, plaintiff in error, which was left
to settle with the other roads interested in the tariff.
According to the tariff fixed by agreement between the companies prior to the action of the Commission a charge was made
from Duluth to Hopkins, nine miles from Minneapolis, of $1.75,
of which $1 was paid to the St. Paul and Duluth 'road (160
miles) and the remainder, 75 cents, to the Minneapolis and St.
Louis road for a transportation of nine miles. This rate was
gradually increased to stations beyond Hopkins until Norwood,
forty miles from Minneapolis, was reached, where it was fixed
at $2.50. The same rate was retained to Boyd, 153 miles from
Minneapolis. This rate of $2.50 appears to have been a purely

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R'D CO. vt. MINNESOTA. 265
Opinion of the Court.

arbitrary one, and indicates pretty clearly, as observed, by the
Supreme Court, that the defendant was either carrying coal to
Boyd at a loss or was collecting too much tariff per ton on the
same article transported to Norwood, although there may have
been, as observed by the court, commercial conditions which
made them necessary. The Commission reduced the rate to
Hopkins from $1.75 to $1.32, and to Norwood from $2.50 to
$1.57, gradually increasing that rate to Boyd, where it was fixed
at $2.48, but two cents less than that fixed by the joint tariff
theretofore agreed upon. The average rate allowed per ton
per mile to the Minneapolis and St. Louis road under the tariff
so fixed by the Commission was 1.115, while the old rate charged
for this service was 1.784.
This rate, fixed by the Commission only upon hard coal in
carload lots, was not met by any showing that at the rates
fixed by the Commission there would be no profit or an insufficient profit upon the coal so transported, but by evidence that
upon the hard coal received from Duluth for the year ending
June 30, 1899, 2483 tons, the proportion allotted to the 'inneapolis and St. Louis Company would be $.3874.50, while if
the Commission's rates had been in effect for the same rate this
proportion would have been $2464.78, a loss of revenue for the
year of $1409.72, as shown more clearly by the following table:
Total tons of hard coal received from Duluth
for year ending June 30,. 1899 ..........
Mf. & St. L. R. IR.proportion on old rate, 2583
tons @$1.50 ..........................
Had commissioners' rates been in effect for
same period, Al. & St. L. R. R. prdportion
would be ............................
Loss of revenue to M. & St. L. R. R. for
year ...............................

2583 tons.
$3874 50
2464 78
$1409 72

As suggested by the Supreme Court of the State, this loss
seems to be a trifling one when we consider that, the total
freight earnings on the divisions affected by this order were
over $700,000 for that fiscal year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The principal testimony, however, was intended to show
that, if the rate fixed by the Commission for coal in carload
lots were applied to all freight, the road would not pay its
operating expenses, although in making this showing the interest upon the bonded debt and the dividends were included
as part of the operating expenses. But it also appears that if
the old rate upon hard coal in carload lots agreed upon by the
roads were adopted as an average rate for all freights, the freight
.earnings of the road would have been largely increased. This
would indicate that the rate fixed for coal must have been
above the average rate, although coal is classified as far below
the average.
It is quite evident that this testimony has but a slight, if any,
tendency to show that even at the rates fixed by the Commission there would not still be a reasonable profit upon coal so
carried. It was not even shown that the joint tariff fixed by
the roads themselves upon coal was not disproportionately high
as compared with rates upon other articles or as gauged by a
proper classification. The difficulty with defendant's case is
that it made no attempt to show the cost of carrying coal in
carload lots, and that even in proving that the cost of transporting all merchandise exceeded the rate fixed by the Commission
on this coal, the interest upon bonds and dividends upon stock
were included in operating expenses. The propriety of the first
is at least doubtful, the impropriety of the second is plain. We
do not intend, however, to intimhate that the road is .not entitled to something more than operating expenses. It was
shown that coal belongs to one of the lowest classes of freight,
and this is particularly true of the coal received from Duluth
at Minneapolis, which was delivered at the Minneapolis and
St. Louis Company upon their tracks at Minneapolis. Besides
this, coal in carload lots was a comparatively insignificant item
of the total freight carried, being but 2583 tons for an entire
year. True, it may be difficult to segregate hard coal in carload lots from all other species of freight, and determine the
exact cost to the company; but upon the other hand, the Commission, in considering a proper reduction upon a certain class
of freight, ought not to be embarrassed by any difficulties the

MINNEAPOLIS v. ST. LOUIS R'D CO. r. MINNESOTA. 267
Opinion of the Court.

companies may experience in proving that the rates are unreasonably low. The charges for the carriage of freight of
different kind are fixed at different rates according to their
classification, and this difference, presumably at least, is gauged
to some extent by a difference in the cost of transportation, as
well as the form, size and value of the packages and the cost of
handling them.
Notwithstanding the evidence of the defendant that, if the
rates upon all merchandise were fixed at the amount iniposed
by the Commission upon coal in carload lots, the road would
not pay its operating expenses, it may well be that the existing
rates upon other merchandise, which'are n41t disturbed by the
Commission, may be sufficient to earn a large profit to the company, though it may earn little or nothing upon coal in carload
lots. In Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, we expressed the
opinion (page 541) that the reasonableness or unreasonableness
of rates prescribed by a State for the transportation of persons
or property wholly within its limits, must be determined without reference to the interstate business done by the carrier, or
the profits derived from it, but it -by no means follows that the
companies are entitled to earn the same percentage of profits
upon all classes of freight carried. It often happens that, to
meet competition from other roads at particular points, the
companies themselves fix a disproportionately low rate upon
certain classes of freight consigned to these points. The right
to permit this to be done is expressly reserved to the Interstate
Commerce Commission by section 4 of that act, notwithstanding the general provisions of the long and short haul clause,
and has repeatedly been sanctioned by decisions of this court.
While we never have decided that the Commission may compel such reductions, we do not think it beyond the power of the
state commission to reduce the freight uppn a particular article,
provided the companies are able to earn a fair profit upon their
entire business, and that the burden is upon them to impeach
the action of the Commission in this particular. As we said in
Smyth v. Ames, (page 547,) "What the company is entitled to
ask is a fair return.upon the value of that which it employs for
the public convenience. On the other hand, what the public is

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled to demand is that no more be exacted from it for the
use of a public highway than the services rendered by it are
reasonably worth." The very fact that the Commission, while
fixing the rate to Boyd at $2.48, within two cents of the amount
theretofore charged by the companies themselves, gradually re
duced that rate in proportion to the mileage, to Norwood,
where it was fixed at $1.57, while the company charged an
arbitrary rate of $2.50 to Norw-ood, and to all the stations
.between Norwood and Boyd, tends, at least, to show that the
rates were fixed upon a more reasonable principle than that
applied by the companies.
In exercising its power of supervising such rates the Commission is not bound to reduce the rates upon all classes of freight,
which may perhaps be reasonable, except as applied to a particular article; and if, upon examining the tariffs of a certain
road, the Commission is of opinion that the rate upon a particular article, or class of freight, is disproportionately or unreasonably high, it may reduce such rate, notwithstanding that it
may be impossible for the company to determine with mathematical accuracy the cost of transportation of that particular
article as distinguished from all others. Obviously such a reduction could not be shown to be unreasonable simply by proving that, if applied to all classes of freight, it would result in
an unreasonably low rate. It sometimes happens that, for purposes.of ultimate profit and of Building up a future trade, railways carry both freight-and passengers at a positive loss; and
while it.may not be within the power of the Commission to
compel such a tariff, it would not upon the other hand be
claimed that the railroads could in all cases be allowed to charge
grossly exorbitant rates as compared with rates paid upon other
roads, in order to pay dividends to stockholders. Each case
must be determined by its own considerations, and while the
rule stated in Smyth v. Ames is undoubtedly sound as a general
proposition that the railways are entitled to a-fair. return upon
the capital invested, it might not justify them in charging an
exorbitant mileage in order to pay operating expenses, if the
conditions of the country did not permit it.
It is sufficient, however, for the purpose of this case to say

.NEW YORK CENTRAL R'D CO. v. NEW YORK.

269

Statement of the Case.

that the action of the Commission in fixing the rate complained
of as to this particular class of freight has not been shown to
be so-unjust or unreasonable as to-amount to a taking of property without due process of law, and we therefore conclude that
the judgment of the Supreme Court must be

Aflrmed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO ThE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.
No. 234. Argued April 23, 24,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

Without deciding that the briefs of counsel may-be resorted to for the purpose of determining whether a Federal question was raised in the state'
court, it is sufficient to say that a general claim made that a particular
act of the legislature is violative of the state and Federal Constitution,
is not sufficient to show that a Federal right was specially set up and
claimed or the validity of a statute was drawn inquestion in the state court,
when no such question was noticed in the opinion of the state court and
the case was disposed of upon a ground wholly independent of a Federal
question.

THIs was -apetition of the New York Central and Hudson
River Railroad Company, as lessee, and the New York and.
Harlem .fRailroad Company, as owner, to vacate certain assessments for regulating and grading, setting curbstones, paving
and other improvenments to Vanderbilt avenue East, in the city
of New York, upon the ground that the property in question
had, not been, would not'be, and could not be, benefited in
any manner by the improvements.
The successive steps towards the proposed improvements were
the adoption of resolutions by the local municipal legislature, directing the improvements; the ascertainment of their cost; the
making of a contract for their construction; and, finally, the
assessment of the benefits upon the property, which in one case
amounted to $4687.82 and in the other to $12,626.72, Peti-

