BO1WKER v. .UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

should be affirmed or reversed. But as settled in the cases referred to in the last quotation, the Court of Appeals cannot
thus send up a whole case for cQnsideration and disposition.
We, therefore, answer the second question by saying that
the coupons described are within the prohibition of the statute;
the first, that the statute so construed is not in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States. The third and fourth we
decline to answer.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY and M . JUSTICE WHITE did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision of this case.
Mm. JUSTICE PECKRHA

dissented.

BOWKER v. UNITED. STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 247. Argued April 30, May 1, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.

Cases in which the jurisdiction of the District or Circuit Courts of the
United States is in issue, can only be brought directly to this court after
final judgment on the whole case.
When a libel and cross-libel are filed in admiralty, they should be heard
together, and if the cross-libel is dismissedfor want of jurisdiction before
the whole case is heard and determined, this court cannot take jurisdiction of the order of dismissal, under section five of the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891,
THE case is stated by the District CJourt, in substance, as
follows: On November 3, 1899, a libel was filed on behalf of
the United States in the District Court of the United States for
the District of New Jersey against the schooner William H.
Davenport, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and against all
persons intervening therein, in case of collision, civil and maritime, seeking to recover the sum of $5000 damages alleged to
have been sustained by the light-house tender Azalea in a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

collision with that schooner on October 2, 1899, off Cornfield
Point light-ship in Long Island Sound. It was averred in the
libel that the collision was in no way caused by the fault or
negligence of those on board the light-house tender Azalea, but
that it was solely due to the carelessness and negligence of
those in charge of the schooner William H. Davenport in certain particulars stated. The libel concluded with the formal
prayer that process might issue in due form of law against the
schooner, her tackle, apparel and furniture; that all persons
interested.might be cited to appear and answer; and that the
schooner might be condemned and sold to pay libellant's claim
with interest and costs; "and that the court will otherwise
right and justice administer in the premises." Process in due
form was issued against the schooner, and on November 8, 1899,
the marshal filed his return certifying that on November 4 he
had made due attachment of the schooner and that the vessel
was then in his custody. November 22, 1899, F. S. Bowker,
managing owner, filed a claim to the schooner on behalf of her
owners, a stipulation for costs and a stipulation for value, and
thereupon the schooner was released from custody and restored
to the possession of her owners. The claimant, Bowker, filed
his answer to the libel December 11, 1899, denying that the
collision was caused or contributed to by those in. charge of the
schooner, alleging that the collision and the damage resulting
therefrom were caused wholly by the fault of the steamer
Azalea and of those in charge of her, in certain particulars
stated, and concluded with the prayer that the libel be dismissed with costs. December 29, 1899, Bowker, for and on behalf of himself and his cobwners; filed a cross-libel against tho
United States seeking to recover the sum of $6000 damages
alleged to have been sustained by the schooner and by her cargo
in said collision. It was alleged in the cross-libel that the collision was wholly due to the negligence and fault of the steamer
Azalea and of those in charge of her, the particular-s being set
forth, and the prayer of the cross-libel asked "that a citation,
according to the course and practice of this honorable court in
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, may issue to the
said respondents above named, citing and admonishing them to

BOWKER v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

appear and answer all and singular the matters aforesaid, and
that this honorable court shall pronounce for the damages, with
interest and costs, and will grant a stay of all further proceedings in the action of the said respondent brought by it in this
honorable court against the schooner William H. Davenport
by the filing of a libel against said schooner, on November 3,
1899, until security be given by said respondent, pursuant to the
admiralty rules of the Supreme Court of the United States and
the practice of this honorable court, to respond for the damages
claimed in this cross-libel, and that this honorable court will
give to the cross-libellants such other and further relief as in
law and justice he may be entitled to receive, this said action
being a counterclaim arising from the same cause of action for
which the original libel was filed against the said William El.
Davenpprt."
Citation was issued and served on the United States attorney
for the district, who was the proctor of record for the libellant
in the original suit. The United States attorney filed a -notice
of motion to quash the citation, February 14,1900, and a motion
to that effect' was argued by counsel. December 17, 1900, the
Disttict Court filed its written decision, holding that the crosslibel could not be maintained because the court had no jurisdiction to entertain the cause or to enter a decree as prayed for
against the United States, whereupon and on that day the court
entered, a decree that the citationbe quashed and that the crosslibel be dismissed with costs. '105 Fed. Rep. 298. The crossliellant thereupon 'appealed to this court and the appeal was
allowed on the question of jurisdiction. The District Court
made a statement of the facts, to which a copy of the record
was attached, and certified five questions in respect of jurisdiction under the cross-libel to this court for decision.
fr. G. Philip Wardner and XrM'. ;ugene P. Carverfor appellant.
Xr.Aweetant Attorney General Beok for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JusTincE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

This appeal is prosecuted under the fifth section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, providing "that appeals or writs of
error may be taken from the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court in the following cases: (1) In any case in which the jurisdiction of the
court is in issue. In such cases the question of jurisdiction
alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court
below for decision."
By the sixth section the Circuit Court of Appeals, in cases
within its. appellate jurisdiction, may certify to the Supreme
Court "any questions or propositions of law concerning which
it desires the instruction of that court for its proper decision,"
and our thirty-seventh rule requires in such cases that "the
certificate shall contain a proper statement of the facts on
which such question or proposition of law arises.Y
The District Court has observed that rule 'in
form, but it is
under the fifth section that our jurisdiction is invoked, and, as
the record accompanies the statement, we are enabled to dispose of the appeal.
It was.settled, soon after the passage of'the act of 1891, that
cases in which the jurisdiction of the District or Circuit Courts
was in i~sue could be brought to this court only after final
judgment. AfcLiei v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661 ; Railway Company
v. Roberts, 141 U. S. 690. The subject was carefully considered ipi the opinion of Mr. Justice Lamar in the first of these
cases, and the conclusion reached was in accordance with the
general rule that a case cannot be brought to this court in parcels. Railway Company v. PostaZ Telegraph Company, 179
'U. S.641.
The preliminary question is, therefore, whether the decree
dismissing this cross-libel is a final judgment within the rule
upon that subject. It was long ago held that a decree dismissing a cross-bill in equity could not be considered, standing
alone, as a final decree in the suit, and was not the subject of
an independent appeal to this court under the judiciary act of
1789 ; and that it could only be reviewed on an appeal from a
final decree disposing of the whole case. Ayres v. Carver, 17
How. 591; EaarteRailroad Company, 95 U. S. 221.

BOWKER v. UNITED) STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It is argued that Ayres v. Carveris distinguishable from the
case at bar-because the twenty-second section of the judiciary
act of 1789, under which the appeal in that case was taken,
provided. in terms for the revision of final decrees, whereas no
specific mention is made of final decrees or judgments in section five of the judiciary act of 1891. But that difference was
specifically disposed of in AfcLish v. 1?off, as not affecting the
principle that the decree must be final in order to be appealable.
Counsel quote the language of Mr. Chief Justice Waite in
Railroad Company v. Nqpress Company, 108 U. S. 28, that "a
decree is final, for the purposes of an appeal to this court, lyhen
it terminates the litigation between the parties on the merits of
the case, and leaves nothing to-be done but to enforce by execution what has been determined;" and insist that the decree on
the cross-libel has definitely determined the right of -respondent to affirmative relief. But the litigation between the parties on the merits embraced the right of libellant to recover
because of the fault of respondent, as well as the right of respondent to recover because of the fault of libellant, and until
the question as to whibh of the parties was at fault, or whether
both were, is determined, that litigation caniot be said to
have terminated. If the District Court 'had 'held that' it had
jurisdiction .to award affirmative relief against the United
States on the cross-libel, the cause wouldl have stood for hearing on the whole case. Its decision that it did not have jurisdiction simply prevented respondent from obtaining affirmative
relief over, assuming that the facts justified it.' And however
convenient it might be that the question of jurisdiction of the
cross-libel should be adjudicated in advance, it is nevertheless
true that when a decree was rendered on the original libel, the
error, if any, committed in dismissing the cross-libel, could be
rectified. That this course might result in delay, and perhaps
sometimes in hardship, if it should turn out that; jurisdiction
could be exercised on the cross-libel, is not a sufficient reason
for entertaining an appeal, if the decrpe did not so dispose of
the case as to enable this court to take jurisdiction.
Generally speaking, the same ' principles apply to cross-libels

- OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

as to cross-bills, and this case affords no ground of exception
therefrom.
In admiralty, if the respondent desires to obtain entire damages against the libellant, or damages in excess of those Qlaimed
by libellant, a cross-libel is necessary, although matters of recoupment or counterclaim might be asserted in the answer.
The Sapphire, 18 Wall. 51 ; The Dove, 91 U. S. 381.
In The Dove a final decree was entered in favor of the libellants in the original suit, and a decree rendered at the same
time dismissing the cross-libel. No appeaf was taken from the
decree of dismissal, but the case was carried to the Circuit Court
from the District Court by appeal from the decree-on the libel,
which was affirmed, and the cause brought to this court.
The principal question involved on the appeal to this court
was whether the submission to the dismissal of the cross-libel
in the District Cout by the parties who had filed it, prevented
them from making the same defence to the original libel that
they might have made if no cross-libel had been filed, and it
was held that while the parties were bound by the decree of
the District Court dismissing the cross-libel, the issues of law
and fact involved'in the original suit were not thereby disposed
of.
In the course of some general observations, Mr. Justice Clifford, delivering the opinion, after remarking that causes of that
kind might be heard separately, said: "Usually suclh suits are
heard together, and are disposed of by one decree or by separate decrees entered at the same time; but a decision in the
cross-suit adverse to the libellant, even if the decree is entered
before the original suit is heard, will not impair the right of
the respondent in the original suit to avail himself of every
legal and just defence to the charge there made which is regularly set up in the answer, for the plain reason that the adverse
decree in the cross-suit does not dispose of the answer in the
driginal suit. . . . Whether the controversy pending is a
suit in equity or in admiralty, a cross-bill or libel is a bill or libel brought by a defendant in the suit against the plaintiff in the
same suit, or"against other defendants 'in the original suit or
against both, touching the matters in question in the original

BOWKER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

bill or libel It is brought in the admiralty to obtain full and
complete relief to all parties as to the matters charged in the
original libel; and in equity the cross-bill is sometimes used to
obtain a discovery of facts.' New and distinct matters, not included in the original bill or libel, should not be embraced in
the cross-suit as they cannot be properly examined in such a
suit, for the reason that they constitute the proper subject-matter of a new original bill or libel. MNatters auxiliary to the
cause of action set- forth in th originial libel or bill may be
-included ii-" the cross-suit, and no others, as the cross-suit is,
in general, incidental to, and dependent upon, the original suit.
Ayrea v. Car er, 17 H6w. 595; Field v. Schieffelin, 7 Johns. Oh.
252; Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 145."
. In this case the cross-libel was, as stated therein, "a crosslibel brought under admiralty rule 53 of the Supreme Court of
the United States, being a counterclaim arising out of the same
cause of action as the suit brought by the United States against
the said schooner William H. Davenport in a cause of collision,
by a libel filed November 3, 1899, in said court." The 53d admiralty rule provides that the respondents in a cross-libel shall
give security to iespond in damages, unless otherwise directed,
-and that all proceedings on the original libel shall be stayed
until such security shall be given.
The cross-libel and the answer to the libel were consistent,
the subject-matter of the libel and the cross-libel was the same,
and the latter, in no proper sense, introduced new and distinct
matters. The cross-libel occupied the same position as a cross-bill in equity, and .the general rule is that the original bill and
the cross-bill should be heard together, and disposed of by one
decree, although, where the cross-bill asks affirmative relief, and
is therefore not a pure cross-bill, the dismissal of the original
bill may not dispose of the cross-bill, which may be retained
for a complete determination of the cause. .olgate v. Eaton,
116 U. S. 33, illustrates this. There the bill and cross-bill were
heard together, and it was held that the original bill must be
dismissed, but that relief might be accorded on the cross-bill.
The cross-bill was not filed merely as a means of defence, but
of obtaining affirmative relief, and the defeat of the bill sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tained the disposition 'of the cause on the cross-bill. Such
might be the result here if it turned out on the hearing that
the Azalea was in fault and not the schooner, provided jurisdiction could be maintained to award relief against the United
States. But in any point of view, the decree on the cross-libel
did not so finally dispose of the whole .case as to entitle us to
take jurisdiction under section 5 of the act of 1891.
4 peal dismi&med.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA dissented.

WARD v. JOSLIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 245. Argued April 30,1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
As between creditor and stockholder the provision of the Constitution of
Kansas that "dues from corporations shall be secured by individual liability of the stockholders to an additional amount equal to the stock
owned by each stockholder," applies to indebtedness incurred in the legitimate and contemplated business of the corporation.
Where ajudgment has been rendered in Kansas against a corporation of that
State. by default, on contracts which the corporation had no power to
make, a stockholder when sued by virtue of the constitution and laws of
Kansas in that behalf, may insist, in defence, on the invalidity of the
contracts.
On the facts found the judgment below is correct and is affirmed.

12, 1888, S. S. Hite and Mary L. Hite executed
and delivered to one J. E. Ethell their promissory notes in
writing of that date, whereby for value received they promised
to pay to the order of Ethell on September 12, i892, the principal sum named in each, with interest thereon at the rate of
seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annual]y, according
to the tenor of eight interest coupons bearing interest and attached to each of the notes; and afterwards and before the
maturity.of the notes, Etbell endorsed, transferred and delivSEPTEMBE9

