WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Statement of the Case.

authorized by it, the word "evidence," in the act of 1891, must
be considered as referring, and the claim of the appellant was
not accompanied by such evidence. It was accompanied by
the deposition of one of the claimants, but not of "depositions
of two or more persons having personal cognizance of the facts
or any of them as embraced in the declaration of the claimants." Persons having such knowledge existed, it was stated,
and their affidavits promised, but they had not been presented.
Nor is the petitioner helped by section 4 of the act of 1891,
which provides that"In considering the merits of claims presented to the court
any testimony, affidavits,

.

.

.

and such other papers as

are now on file in the departments relating to any such claims,
shall be considered by the court-as competent evidence."
That provision is applicable to the claim after it is presented
to the court, and does not relieve from the conditions expressed
in section 2. See Weston'8 case, 29 0. 01. 420,424, where the
provisions of the statutes and the reasons for them are clearly
expressed.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 208. Argued April 8,9,1902.-Decided Bray 19,1902.

This suit was brought by petitioner, as trustee of a mortgage. Held, that
when a corporation sells or incumbers its property, incurs debts or gives
securities, it does business, and a statute regulating such transactions
does not regulate the internal affairs of the corporation.

THIS suit was brought by the petitioner as trustee of a mortgage made by the Gold Hill Mining Company, a corporation
of West Virginia, upon certain mining ground in the State of
California. Subsequently to the execution of the mortgage

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

the corporation, in the conduct of its mining operations in the
State of California, became indebted to the respondents for
materials, labor and supplies. Mechanics' and materialmens
liens were filed by respondents and judgments obtained by
them upon which executions were issued and the property
mortgaged was sold. The respondents became its purchasers.
The corporation made default in the foreclosure suit, and a
decree yro confesso was taken against it. The respondents
pleaded their judgments and the titles which were claimed
thereunder; and pleaded, further, that the mortgage was void
because it had not been ratified by the stockholders of the corporation as required by a statute of California, passed April 23,
1380, and efititled "An' act for the further protection of stockholders in mining companies," section 1 of which act is as follows:
"SEC. 1. It shall not be lawful for the directors of any mining corporation to sell, lease, mortgage, or otherwise dispose of
the whole or any part of the mining ground owned or held by
such corporation, nor to purchase or obtain, in any way, any
additional mining ground, unless such act be ratified by the
holders of at least two thirds of the capital stock of such corporation. Such ratification may be made either in writing,
signed and acknowledged by such stockholders, or by resolution, duly passed at a stockholders' meeting called for that purpose."
The Circuit Court sustained the defences, 96 Fed. Rep. 54;
and its ruling was.affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
102 Fed. Rep. 372.
The mortgage was given to secure one hundred coupon bonds
of $500 each. They were dated July 1, 1890. The mortgage
bore the same date, and the manner and authority for its execution, the record exhibits, as follows, being the minutes of
a meeting held June 5,1890:
"The meeting was called to order by C. Littlefield, who
nominated G. Livingston Morse, temporary chairman; nomination was seconded by W. W. Tucker and unanimously carried.
"C. Littlefield then proposed W. W. Tucker for temporary

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Statement of the Case.

secretary; motion was seconded by R. H. Pettigrew, Jr., and
was unanimously carried.
"Waiver of notice of corporators was then agreed to by all
present as per roll-call.
"1Rolbcallof incorporators being made, all were found present as follows: M. J. Shoecraft, Calvin Littlefield, G. Livingston Morse, R. H. Pettigrew, Jr., and W. W. Tucker.
"The chairman said: We were now ready for business, whereupon Mr. M. J. Shoecraft presented a dUplicate copy of papers
of incorporation, and a telegram from Secretary of State of
West Virginia, stating that the charter of this company was
duly filed June 23, 1890, which was adopted.
"On motion of W. W. Tucker, seconded by R. H. Pettigrew, Jr., it was"1Resolved, That the said Gold Hill Mining Company issue
one hundred first-mortgage bonds, of the denomination of five,
hundred dollars each, each bond bearing date of July 1, 1890,
and bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum,
payable semi-annually, on the first day of January and July in
each year, and to run five years from July 1, 1890; with the
privilege of the said company paying off and redeeming the
same sooner, by giving to the holders of said bonds six months'
notice of the company's intention thus to do; to pay off said
bonds, and redeem the same on any day interest is payable, or
on payment of six months' interest in advance; and the president and the secretary of said company are-hereby authorized
and directed to execute said bonds and mortgage for said company, and the said board hereby authorize and direct the seal
of said company to be affixed to the same.
"On motion of C. Littlefield, seconded by M. J. Shoecraft,
the chairman, G. L. Morse, was elected trustee for the bondholders. Motion carried.
"On motion of W. W. Tucker, seconded by R. H. Pettigrew, Jr., Mr. G. L. Morse was appointed to draw up a proper
bond, have same executed and lithographed; also a stock certificate book of two hundred certificates, total cost not to exceed ninety-five dollars.
Morse, it
"On motion of M. J. Shoecraft, seconded by G. L..

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

was voted that the incorporators of the Gold Hill Mining Company be named as directors of said company. Motion carried.
"On motion of C.Littlefield, seconded by M. J. Shoecraft,
the company's seal was ordered to be made, and Mr. Shoecraft
be a committee to have the same made. Motion carried.
"Mr. Shoecraft reported that the by-laws were not quite
ready, and the chairman suggested that he report a full set at
a future meeting.
"On motion, the meeting was declared adjourned to the
second Tuesday in July, 8th inst.
"W. W. TucxER,
"Temporary Secretary."

It was testified that the gentlemen present at the meeting
held all of the stock of the company.
The record also contains the minutes of a meeting held July 10,
1890, at which meeting a president, vice president, secretary
and treasurer and general manager were elected. The following resolution was passed:
"On motion of Mr. Morse, seconded by Mr. Pettigrew, resolved, That the directors of this company be authorized and
directed to purchase of M. J. Shoecraft the mines formerly
known as the Nevada City Gold Quartz Mining Company, and
pay therefor one hundred and sixty thousand shares of the capital stock of this company, being its total issue, and twenty-five
thousand ($25,000) dollars in first mortgage bonds. Motion
carried.
"On motion adjourned, to meet at the call of the president."
It was also testified that a paper was "executed by the Gold
Hill Mining Company for the purpose of torrecting the form of
the mortgage as originally executed."
The paper was introduced in evidence. It was dated August 28, 1890, and recited that"Whereas, by a resolution of the board of directors of the
Gold Hill Mining Company, duly passed and adopted on the
twenty-fifth day of June, 1890, and in accordance with and in
pursuance of said resolution, a mortgage was executed and de-

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Opinion of the Court.

livered to G. Livingston :Morse, as trustee for the use and purposes therein mentioned, on the first day of July, 1890, by the
president and secretary of said company, they being authorized
and directed in and by said resolution thus to do, and duly acknowledged by them, and the corporate seal of said company
duly affixed to said mortgage by the like authority of said board
of directors."
Certain mistakes were then stated to have been made in the
morgage, and the secretary, Calvin Littlefield, was given authority to correct them, and he and the president were directed
and authorized to execute a paper on behalf of the company and
to affix the corporate seal of the company thereto. The paper
was duly executed and recorded in Nevada County, California.
Other facts are stated in the opinion.
.Mr. C. Walter Ariz for Williams.
.£r. Curtis HT Lindsay for Gaylord and others. Mr1,.
Fickhof was on his brief.

en?7y

IMR. JUSTICE MOKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals based
their judgments upon the act of 1880 as construed by the Supreme Court of the State of California, regarding that construction as binding upon Federal tribunals. The conclusion is attacked by petitioner, and he urges the following propositions
against it:
"I. The decision of the Supreme Court of California, to the
effect that judgment creditors may take advantage of the act
of 1880, is not binding upon the Federal courts either as constructive of that statute or determinative of a local rule of property.
"II. The act of 1880 does not apply toforeign corporations
because the legislation of (ne State has, no effect upon the
powers and internal management of corporations organized in
other States.
VOL. CLXXXvI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"III. Even if it should be held that the California statute
(Statutes of 1880, p. 131) does apply to foreign corporations,
the mortgage is valid, and a decree of foreclosure and sale
should be directed."
(1) To sustain this proposition the petitioner makes a distinction between the construction of the statute and its application,
conceding the binding force of the state decisions as to the
former but denying their authority as to the latter. The contention enjoins a review of the decisions of the Supreme Court
of the State.
In ifeShane v. Cart',80 Cal. 310, the plaintiff claimed title
to mining property and certain appurtenant water rights under
two deeds from the Nevada Reservoir Ditch Company, a mining corporation. He brought suit to enjoin the sale of the property under a judgment obtained against the company by one
of its creditors. Judgment passed for the plaintiff in the trial
court, but was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State.
The latter court, by Hayne, Commissioner, said"The important question arising on the appeal is, (p. 312)
whether the evidence is sufficient to show that the plaintiff was
the owner of the property which the sheriff was proceeding to
sell, and this depends upon whether the directors of said mining
companies had power or authority to convey the property in
the absence of a ratification by the stockholders as specified in
the act of 1880.
"1. We think that the provision of said act goes to the power
or authority of the directors. It cannot be construed to relate
merely to their personal liability, for no penalty is imposed upon
them, and to !o construe it would be to practically nullify the
act. In our opinion, the directors of mining corporations have
no power or authority to convey the mining ground without
the consent of holders of two thirds of the stock, given as prescribed by the act. And it follows without such consent the
title does not pass. And if this be so, the question can be raised
by any one who connects himself with the title of the corporation which owned the property, as well as by the stockholders
thereof.
"Nor can the consent of the stockholders be presumed from

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Opinion of the Court.

the mere fact of the conveyance, whether under the corporate
seal or not, for such consent or 'ratification' may be after the
deed is executed, and hence is not necessarily or presumptively
involved in the execution of such deed."
Counsel for petitioner says that the Supreme Court in its
opinion not only construed but applied the act of 1880-construed it in that portion of the opinion which denied authority
to directors of mining corporations to convey mining property
without the consent of the stockholders; applied it in that portion of the opinion which declares that without the consent of
the stockholders the title of mining property does not pass, and
that "the question can be raised by any one who connects himself with the title of the corporation,

.

.

.

as well as by'

the stockholders thereof." This conclusion, it is asserted, is
not warranted by the words of the statute, is opposed to the
decisions of the courts of other States and of this court construin- similar statutes, and is not binding upon the Federal courts.
And it is urged that the Circuit Court of AppeaJs "failed to
distinguish between a decision of the state court construing the
terms outlining the effect of the statute as enacted and a decision declaring that certain other persons not mentioned or referred to in the statute may by reason of relations existing between them and the stockholders, under general- principles of
corporation law, beLone beneficiaries of the statute under consideration." And it is further urged "that a case of the latter
class does not construe a statute or establish alocal rule of property, but is merely a decision upon the general law of corporate
relations."
We are unable to accept the distinction. To accept it would
deprive the state courts of the power to declare the implications
of state statutes, and confine interpretation to the mere letter.
The Supreme Court of California declared the effect of the act
of 1880 as deduced from the language and purpose of the act,
and this was necessarily an exercise-of construction. The very
essence of construction is the extension "of the meaning of a
statute beyond its letter, and it can seldom be done without
applying some principle of law general in some branch of jurisprlxdence, aid if whenever such application occurs the authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

of the state courts to interpret the statute ceases, the Federal
tribunals, instead of following, could lead those courts in declar-

ing the meaning of the legislation of the States.
The construction of the act of 1880 was certainly directly presented to the Supreme Court of California, and that construction
determined the judgment which was rendered. The court declared that the provisions of the act extended "to the power or
authority of the directors," and that without the consent of holders of two thirds of the stock the title did not pass. In other
words, the title remained in the corporation; the property remained the property of the corporation; and hence the deduction of the court, "the question can be raised by any one
who connects himself with the title of the corporation which
owned the pr6perty, as well as by the stockholders thereof."
And this in consequence of the statute, and it is not the less so
because the statutes of other States have been interpreted differently. It could hardly be contended that the legislature of
California had not the authority to make such a consequence;
and whether the legislature expressed its purpose or left it to
inference, whether it expressed itself clearly or obscurely, the
power of the state court to declare that purpose was none the
less plenary.
MAfcShane v. Carterwas followed and affirmed in Pekin Mining Co. v. JYennedy, 81 Cal. 356; Granite Gold .ffining Co. v.
i.faginness, 118 Cal. 131; Johnson v. California l.ustraZ Co.,
127 Cal. 283; Curtin v. Salmon River Co., 130 Cal. 345, 351.
(2) That the act of 1880 applies to foreign corporations was
decided in Pekin Mining Co. v. Jfennedy, 81 Cal. 356. That
case, however, it is said, is practically overruled by Miles v.
Woodward, 115 Cal. 308. Woodward was a stockholder in a
mining corporation organized under the laws of the State of
California.- He brought an action against -iles, who was a
director of the corporation, for $1000 damages for the violation of an act of the State, (Stats. 1880, p. 400,) which required
the directors of the corporation to make or cause to be made,
posted and filed, weekly reports of the superintendent.
"It is first contended," the court said, "that the act in question is unconstitutional for the reason that it operates only upon

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Opinion of the Court.

domestic corporations, and thereby allows foreign corporations
to transact business within this State upon more favorable conditions than are prescribed by law to similar corporations organized under the laws of this State, in violation of article XII,
section 15, of the constitution."
This was denied, and the act was held constitutional as being
properly confined to domestic corporations because it was "directed to the internal affairs of the corporation, and not to its
outside dealings or to the conduct of its business."
As to the conduct of the business of foreign corporations, the
court said the State could "exercise full powers of control," but
over their organization and internal government the State had
no such power, because "the laws of the State did not have extraterritorial force." And further the court said: "The law
is designed to protect stockholders of domestic corporations,
and to that end has declared that the directors of those corporations, the conduct of whose internal affairs is subject to
the control of the legislature, shall do specific acts under a prescribed penalty for their failure and refusal."
The views expressed by the court were justified by the nature
of the reports required to be made. They were of matters
which alone concerned the stockholders-did not affect in any
way the rights of others. To make such reports was not doing
business; it was only giving information of business done. But
when a corporation sells or encumbers its property, incurs debts
or gives securities, it does business, and a tatute regulating
such transactions does not regulate the internal affairs of the
corporation. And it is certainly within the power of a State to
say what remedies creditors of corporations shall have over property situated within the State. Therefore -Miles v. THoodward
is not an authority for petitioners' position.
(3) Even if it be held that the act of 1880 applies to foreign.
corporations, it is nevertheless contended that the mortgage is
valid, and a decree of foreclosure and sale should be directed.
In support of that position it is urged that (a) the meeting of
June 25, 1890, at which the execution of the bonds and mortgage were resolved upon and authorized, though denominated
a meeting of incorporators, was really a meeting of stockholders;

OCTOBER -TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

(b) if this was not so, the corporation afterward, by its action
of July 30, 1890, after the board of directors was organized,
ratified the mortgage by the resolution which authorized its
correction; (c)
that not only those who participated in the meetings held more than two thirds of the stock of the corporation,
but that the president, M. J. Shoecraft, at the time of the execution of the mortgage owned two thirds of the stock. In other
words, it is urged, that the corporation either executed the mortgage or ratified it, and that the stockholders both authorized
and concurred in its execution. The evidence of the facts involved in these claims is the minutes of the meetings set out in
the statement of facts and of the following testimony of a witness (Calvin Littlefield) for complainant:
"Q. It appears that the following individuali were present
at that meeting, namely: M. J. Shoecraft, Calvin Littlefield,
G. Livingston Morse, R. H. Pettigrew, Jr., and W. W. Tucker.
Can you tell me whether these gentlemen held all of the stock
of the company at that time or not? A. They did.

"Q. Do you know whether Mr. Shoecraft owned as much as
two thirds of the stock of the company at the time when this
mortgagewas acknowledged? A. I do not.
"Q. Have you the certificate book of the defendant company in your possession? A. I have.
"Q. Tell me, if you can, the amount of stock in the name of
M. J. Shoecraft at the date when the mortgage was acknowledged, namely, July 24,1890. A. One hundred and sixty thousand shares.
"Q. Shares at what value? A. Five dollars each.
"Q. What was the entire capital of th6 company ? A. Eight
hundred thousand dollars-one hundred and sixty thousand
shares.
"Q. Can you tell me what date this mortgage was acknowledged by the president and yourself ? A. I think the date of
the acknowledgment.
"Q. That is what? A. Twenty-fourth day of July, 1890.
"Q. Do you know why the mortgage was dated the 1st?
A. Yes.

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. Can you say why? A. The arrangement with the
owner-the first of July. By agreement the mortgage was
to commence when the settlement ended."
Cross-examination:
'"Q. You say that on the twenty-fourth day of July the
whole number of shares were issued to M. J. Shoecraft?
A. I do.

"Q. As appears by certificate No. I? A. Yes.
"Q. Certificate No. 1 (showing) is now before you? A. Yes.
"Q. Is that in a book? A. Yes.
"Q. What is it? A. The stock book.

"Q. Certificate'No. 1 has never been taken out of the book?
A. It has not.
"Q. It bears date the twenty-fourth day of July, 1890?
A. It does.
"Q. Certificate No. 1, marked Exhibit ' C,' has never been
separated from its stub? A. It has not.
"Q. And certificate No. 2 has never been separated from its
stub? A. It has not.
"Q. All the other certificates about which you have testified, from No. 3 to No. 21, inclusive, have been separated from
their stub at some time or other? A. Yes, sir."
The witness also testified that shares were issued in certain
amounts which were named and to certain persons who were
named, "from certificate No. 1." A number of certificates
which the witness testified about were introduced in evidence.
They all bore date of July 24, 1890.
But as to the effect of this testimony and of the contentions
of petitioners we are not called upon to express an opinion.
The statute of California prescribed the manner of ratification
to be "either in writing signed and acknowledged by such
stockholders or by resolution duly passed at a stockholders'.
meeting called for that purpose." This manner of ratification
was held to be necessary as we have seen, in .fcShane v. Carter, supra, and that case has not been limited or varied by any
subsequent case. And we have no doubt of the power of the

OCTOBER

TERM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

State to so prescribe, not only from its power over the manner

of conveyance and the disposition of property situated within
the State, but from its power over foreign corporations doing
business within the State. Clarke v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 176;
Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648. Nor can we contest that
power though we might, if we were permitted to exercise an
independent judgment, construe the statute as only illustrative
and not as exhaustive of the manner of ratification.
Judgment affirmed.

?YR JUSTICE

HAL_ AN concurred in the judgment.

LEE LUNG v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 189. Argued and submitted April 21,1902.-Decided May 19,1902.

Under the statutes referred to in the opinion of the court, jurisdiction is
given to the collector of the port at which an alien Chinese seeks to
land, over his right to do so, and necessarily. also to pass upon the evidence presented to establish that right.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XM'. John I

2fitchell for appellant.

.Mr'. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for appellee submitted
on his brief.
M[.

JUSTICE MoKENNA

delivered the bpinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment which dismissed a petition in habeas corpus on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction to grant the relief which was prayed. The petitioner

