OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

it distinctly understood to be the rule of the Federal courts
that the will of a person found to be possessed of sound mind
and memory is not to be set aside on evidence tending to show
only a possibility or suspicion of undue influence. The expressed intentions of the testator should not be thwarted without clear reason therefor.
The decrees of the Court of Appeals and of the Supreme
Court of the District are reversed and the case remanded to the
latter court, with instructions to set aside the decree in favor of
the appellee, and for further proceedings in conformity to this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear
the argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

FELSENHELD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 205. Argued April 7, 8, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
It is within the power of Congress to prescribe that a package of any article which it subjects to a tax, and upon which it requires the affixing of
a stamp, shall contain only the article which is subject to the tax.
The coupons described in the statement of ,facts are within the prohibitions
of the act of July 24, 1897, 30 Stat. 151.'
Neither question three or question four presents a distinct point or proposition of law, and, as each invites the court to search the entire record,
the court declines to answer them.

THIs was a proceeding commenced in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of West Virginia, seeking a
forfeiture of certain tobacco. Attachment and monition were
duly issued. The case was submitted upon an agreed statement
of facts, and a judgment of forfeiture was entered. Whereupon the case was taken on error to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit, which certified four questions.

FELSENHELD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The facts as found in the agreed statement are these: At
times a practice prevailed among manufacturers of tobacco of
placing in their packages of tobacco other articles of intrinsic
value, such as penknives, etc. On November 4, 1891, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue issued this circular:
"Manufacturers of tobacco, in marking the gross, tare and
net weight of packages of tobacco, should include in the gross
the full weight of the package and all its contents. The tare
should include the weight of the pail, lining, covering, etc., so
that the tare subtracted from the gross will give the net weight
of the tobacco contained therein and expressed by the stamp.
Great care should be exercised by the collectors to prevent foreign articles of any kind being included in any of the packages.'
A practice has grown up, which seems to be on the increase,
by which manufacturers have included in statutory packages
many foreign articles. This practice should be discontinued.
A package of tobacco means a package containing tobacco and
nothing else."
On July 24, 1897, Congress passed what is known as the
Dingley Bill. 30 Stat. 151, c. 11. The third clause of the tenth
section thereof amended section 3394 of the Revised Statutes
so as to read:
"None of the packages of smoking tobacco or fine-cut chewing tobacco and cigarettes prescribed by law shall be permitted
to have packed in, or attached to, or connected with tlbem, any
article or thing whatsoever, other than the manufacturers'
wrappers and labels, the internal revenue stamp and the tobacco
or cigarettes, respectively, put up therein, on which tax is required to be paid under the internal revenue laws; nor shall
there be affixed to, or branded, stamped, marked, written, or
printed upon, said packages, or their contents, any promise or
offer of, or any order or qertificate for, any gift, prize, premium,
payment or reward."
On the 23d day of September, in the year 1898, at the city of
Wheeling, in the district aforesaid, the internal revenue collector of the United States seized 1440 packages of chewing
and smoking tobacco known by the name and brand of Merry
World tobacco, weighing one and two thirds ounces to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

package, and having a total weight of 150 pounds, and afterwards, on the 5th day of April, in the year 1899, J. K. Thompson, the marshal of the United States for the said district of
West Virginia, in pursuance of the attachment and monition
appearing in the record, took into his possession the said 1440
packages of tobacco, and now holds the same in his possession.
At the time of the seizure by the collector there was in each
of the packages a small slip of paper called a coupon, with
printed words and figures on both sides thereof, which coupon
had been placed within such package at the time when it was
packed in the manufactory and prepared for sale. These coupons were all alike, and on each of them were the following
words and figures, that is to say, upon one side thereof the following words and figures:
" ferry World Tobacco Coupon.
"With the tobacco packed herewith the purchaser has bought
a definite share in any of the articles mentioned on the other
side of this voucher.
"We will send you postpaid any or all of the articles listed
on the other side for the number of coupons as stated.
"1Mail these coupons to the Merry World Tobacco Co.,
Wheeling, W. Va., stating number of coupons sent, articles
wanted, your name, street and number, city or town, county
and State."
And on the other side the following words and figures:
"Will send you postpaid for 20 coupons, 1 picture, 14X 28,
handsome water-color fac-simile, 12 subjects.
"30 coupons, 1 picture, 20 X 24, fine pastel fac-simile, 12 subjects.
"40 coupons, 1 picture, 20 X 30, beautiful Venetian scenes,
4 subjects."50 couponsi 1 picture, 22X 28, elegant water-color gravures,
2 subjects.
"60 coupons, 1 picture, 22X 28, magnificent water-color gravures, 4 subjects.
"1Noadvertising or lettering on any of the above. Such excellent works of art have never before- been offered, except-

FELSENHELD v. UNITED STATES.

129 "

Statement of the Case.

through dealers, at very high prices. They are suitable decorations for the most elegant home, and to be appreciated must
be seen. See descriptive catalogue mailed on application. Order by subjects.
"20 coupons, 1-book of Popular Seaside Library, 300 titles
by favorite authors.
"50 coupons, 1 cloth-bound book, 160 titles by eminent authors. Catalogues of our books mailed on application.
"25 coupons, 1 scarf-pin solid sterling silver.
"25 coupons, 1 pipe, genuine French briar.
"40 coupons, 1 rubber tobacco pouch, self-closing.
"75 coupons, 1 elegant pocketbook, finest quality leather,,
gent's or ladies.'
"70 coupons, 1.pocket-knife, first quality, American manufacture, razor steel hand forged, finely tempered blades. Stag
handle. Your choice between jack-knife or pen-knife.
"95 coupons, 1 fine razor, highest grade steel, hollow ground.
"40 coupons, 1 bicycle lock, nickeled, gent's sprocket or
lady's with chain.
"150 coupons, 1 cyclometer, 1000 miles repeating. In ordering state size of wheel.
"550 coupons, 1 excellent open-face watch. Guaranteed
without qualification. Has all improvements up to date. It
will wear and perform well for a lifetime if only ordinarily
cared for.
"Illustrated catalogue for the above mailed hpon application."
This coupon is printed on thin paper, is of inappreciable
weight, is without any intrinsic value in itself, and has upon it
no picture of any kind and does not affect, in any way, the ascertaining of the proper tax payable upon the package or interfere in any way with the collection of such tax. The value of
the five cases of tobacco of 288 packages each is and was when
they were seized as aforesaid fifty-four dollars ($54.00). The
packages were owned by Emanuel Felsenheld, who at the proper
time intervened and claimed the property.
The following are the questions certified by the Court of Appeals :
voL. cLXXxv=-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"First. Whether the third clause of the tenth section of the
act of Congress of July 21, 1897, if the prohibition of that
statute be applied to the coupons described in the foregoing
statement of facts, was in accordance with or in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States?
"Second. Whether, if the said section be properly construed,
the coupons described in the foregoing statement of facts are
within its prohibition ?
"Third. Upon the facts stated, was the seizure set forth in
the information of the packages of Merry World tobacco
therein described, pr was the judgment of forfeiture rendered
in this case justified under section 3453 of the Revised Statutes?
"Fourth. Upon the facts stated, was the seizure set forth
in the information of the packages of Merry World tobacco
therein described or was the judgment of forfeiture rendered
in this case justified under section 3456 of the Revised Statutes?"
r.M enry X. Russell and MX.
plaintiff in error. '

John De Witt TVarner for

Ar. Charles J. Faulkner and .Mr. Assistant Attorney General Bece for defendant in error.
M . JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of 'the court.
The first two questions may be considered together. There
can be no doubt that the coupon comes within the letter of the
statute. That prohibits packing in, attaching to or connecting
with the package "any article or thing whatsoever" other
than certain specified labels and stamps. If Congress intended
excluding from the package absolutely everything not named,
it used the. *ords to express that intent, and could not have
used any more strongly indicative of it. "Any article or thing
whatsoever" is a descriptive clause as broad and comprehensive as could be selected, and. since that clause is used, followed
by an express exception, the coupon must-come within the exception or else it falls within the comprehensive clause. The
debatable question arises upon the fact stated in the agreement

FELSENHELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that the coupon is printed on thin paper of inappreciable
weight, without intrinsic value, and does not affect in any way
the ascertaining of the proper tax payable upon the package, or
interfere in any way with the collection of such tax. There
seems to have been a discussion in the internal revenue department whether Congress could rightfully prevent the insertion
in the package of an article whose presence in no way affected
the collection of the internal revenue tax, and therefore on the
theory that Congress could not have intended an unconstitutional provision, whether tke act should be construed as including such an article.
In the internal revenue legislation Congress has not simply
prescribed that certain articles shall pay a tax, but has provided'
a series of rules and regulations for the manufacture and sale
of such articles, including therein directions as to the size and
form of packages, and such other matters as in its best judgment were necessary or advisable for the purposes of effectually
securing the payment of the tax imposed. Now the contention
is that the courts may supervise this system of rules and regulations, and if they find a provision which, in their judgment,
in no way secures or facilitates the proper collection of the tax
they may strike it down as something beyond the power of
Congress. It is said that'the only matter in which the National
Government is concerned is the tax; that it is in no manner
responsible for what goes into the commercial world covered
by its stamp; that it has no police power, no duty of caring
for the health or safety of citizens or others who buy articles
upon which its stamp is placed; that it does not guarantee
either quantity or quality, and, in short, that its power is limited to such provisions as are essential or helpful in the collection of the tax.
It may be conceded that the Government's stamp is not a.
guaranty of quantity or quality, and that no responsibility attaches to it, although the manufacturer puts into the packages
less thau the specified quantity of goods or goods of inferior
quality. But does it follow that the Government has no power
to prescribe that the packages which it stamps, upon which it
collects a tax, shall contain the very articles and only the arti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

cles which it purports to tax and which its stamp certifies that
it has taxed ? Take the matter of tobacco; can it be that a
manufacturer may fill packages purporting to be of tobacco
with half tobacco and half sawdust, and the government can
pass no valid statute to prevent it? If the manufacturer is
willing to pay a full tobacco tax on this package, half tobacco
and half sawdust, must the Government take the money, a:Ix
its stamp, and thus in effect certify that the contents are that
which it has imposed a tax upon? Manufactured goods are
not necessarily sold in this cpuntry, but may be, shipped to
other countries and sold there, and can it be that the 8tamp of
this Government is' absolutely worthless as an assurance that
that which is within the package is the article which the Government purports to have taxed? It is one thing to say that
the Government's stamp is not a guarantee of either quantity
or quality, and that no liability attaches to it if the manufacturer imposes upon his customers by inserting something which
is not that which is stamped, but it is a very different thing to
hold that the Government is absolutely powerless to legislate
so as to protect the customer and prevent the manufacturer
from putting-within the package anything but the article which
it proposes to tax. Whatever courts may rule as to the constitutional limits of the power of Congress the great majority
of people here and elsewhere will believe in and rely upon the
truthfulness of a certificate made by the Government, and will
be shocked to be told that it means nothing to them, but only
money to the Government.
It seems to us that, in the rules and regulations for the man-.
ufacture and handling of goods which are subjected to an
internal revenue tax, Congress may prescribe any rule or regulation which is not in itself unreasonable; that it is a perfectly reasonable requirement that every package of such goods
should contain nothing but the article which is taxed; that in
order to make such a regulation constitutional it is not necessary that there be either expressly or by implication an exception of those articles or things which by virtue of their minute
size or weight do not apparently affect the collection of the tax.
Congress may rightfully make the prohibition absolute and the

FELSENHELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

courts may not draw a line between the foreign substance,
which is trifling in size or weight, and that which is of appre-:
ciable size and weight, and hold in reference to a particular
package the act valid if the size or weight is appreciable and
invalid if it is not.
Among the regulations prescribed by Congress in its internal revenue legislation are many which are purely arbitrary, or
at least the necessity of which for the collection- of taxes is not
apparent. For instance, Congress has directed (Rev. Stat. 3392)
that cigars shall be put up in boxes containing twenty-five, fifty,
one hundred, two hundred and fifty, or five hundred each.
There is no special efficacy in either of these numbers. Boxes
containing fifteen, thirty or sixty cigars would apparently af-'
ford just the same facilities for taxation, and yet can there be
a doubt that Congress may make such a rule and compel each
manufacturer to abide thereby? It has a right to select, and
when it has made a selection, although there may be no special
reasons for the specific numbers, and they are in fact arbitrarily
selected, it may for purposes of uniformity compel compliance
with the rule. So, if it should prescribe that at least nine tenths
of every package, purporting to be a package of 'a particular
kind of tobacco, and subject to a special tax, should be that particular kind of tobacco, would the manufacturer be permitted
to make one third of the contents of some other kind of tobacco
or any other substance? The proportion might be arbitrarily
selected, it is true, but is it not clearly withinthe power of Congress in its regulations to make such arbitrary selection? And
if it may say that not less than nine tenths of the contents shall
be that particular tobacco, the subject of the tax, is it any the
less within the power of Congress to prescribe that there shall
be nothing in the package save that tobacco?
Indeed, the admission that the Government may require that
the contents of a package shall be partly of the goods which it
taxes is a concession that it may also require the entire contents to be such goods.
There is in this statute no trespass upon the manufacturer's
right to fully advertise his goods or to offer with the utmost
freedom inducements for their purchase. He can put into the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

box in which he ships his packages all the advertising material
he sees fit. That which is required is that each separate package shall be in its entirety a package of tobacco, and only tobacco. Beyond that the manner in which he shall sell, or the
advertisement he shall make of his tobacco after the tax has
been paid, and the packages have been stamped, is a matter for
him to determine.
We are of opinion that it is within the power of Congress to
prescribe that a package of any article which it subjects to a tax,
ahd upon which it requires the affixing of a stamp, shall contain only the article which is subject to the tax.
Questions three and four do not come within the rules respecting the certification of questions by the Court of Appeals.
Those rules were thus stated by the present Chief Justice in
United States v. Union Pacifc P'zilway (ompany, 168 U. S.
505, 512:
"It is settled that the certification provided for in sections
five and six of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, is governed by the rules laid down in respect of
certificates of division under the Revised Statutes. Columbus
Watch Company v. Robbins, 148 U. S. 266; .faynard v. -Hecht,
151 U. S. 324; Graver v. .Faurot, 162 U. S. 435; Cross v.
Evans, 167 U. S. 60.
"By those rules, as repeated in these cases from prior decisions,
'each question had to be a distinct point or proposition of law,
clearly stated, so that it could be distinctly answered without
regard to the other issues of law in the case; to be a question
of law only, and not a question of -fact, or of mixed law and
fact, and hence could not involve or imply a conclusion or judg-,
ment upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts adduced
in the case; and could not embrace the whole case, even where
its decision turned upon matter of law only, and even though
it was split up in the -form of questions.' Fire Insurance As8ociation v. Wickham, 128 U. S. 426; Dublin Township v. Atilford Savings Institution, 128 U. S. 510.,
Neither of these questions presents a distinct point or proposition of law. Each invites us to search the entire record, and
in effect determine whether the judgment of the District Court

BO1WKER v. .UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

should be affirmed or reversed. But as settled in the cases referred to in the last quotation, the Court of Appeals cannot
thus send up a whole case for cQnsideration and disposition.
We, therefore, answer the second question by saying that
the coupons described are within the prohibition of the statute;
the first, that the statute so construed is not in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States. The third and fourth we
decline to answer.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY and M . JUSTICE WHITE did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision of this case.
Mm. JUSTICE PECKRHA

dissented.

BOWKER v. UNITED. STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 247. Argued April 30, May 1, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.

Cases in which the jurisdiction of the District or Circuit Courts of the
United States is in issue, can only be brought directly to this court after
final judgment on the whole case.
When a libel and cross-libel are filed in admiralty, they should be heard
together, and if the cross-libel is dismissedfor want of jurisdiction before
the whole case is heard and determined, this court cannot take jurisdiction of the order of dismissal, under section five of the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891,
THE case is stated by the District CJourt, in substance, as
follows: On November 3, 1899, a libel was filed on behalf of
the United States in the District Court of the United States for
the District of New Jersey against the schooner William H.
Davenport, her tackle, apparel and furniture, and against all
persons intervening therein, in case of collision, civil and maritime, seeking to recover the sum of $5000 damages alleged to
have been sustained by the light-house tender Azalea in a

