NESBITT v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

remedy to enforce the collection of his judgments is that awarded
by the act authorizing the issue of the bonds from which the
coupons were detached upon which said judgments were obtained." .Andwe held that as the relator was compelled to go
behind the judgments as money judgments merely, "to obtain
the remedy pertaining to the bonds, the court cannot decline to
take cognizance of the fact that the bonds are utterly void and
that no such remedy exists."
As then- the provision of the constitution of the State of
Kansas, if properly construed, imposes the liability in question
only in respect of corporate indebtedness lawfully incurred, that
is to say, in respect of dues resulting in regular course of business and in the exercise of powers possessed, plaintiff cannot recover in this action by virtue of the constitution and laws of the
State, on the facts found, and the judgment must be affirmed.
As to the denial of the motion for new trial it is not within our
province to interfere with the discretion of the Circuit Court.
Judgment afl2rmed.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument or take any part

in the decision.

NESBITT v. 'UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADIS.
19, 1902.
No. 578. Submitted April 18, 1902.-Decided MBay

This was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims, sustaining a
plea to the jurisdiction of the court to hear a petition filed by appellants, under the Indian Depredation Act of 1891. The plea was sustained.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mrs. BeZva A. Lockwood for appellants.
Mr. William H. Robeson filed a brief for samne.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.
'R.

JUSTICE MOCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
sustaining a plea to the jurisdiction of the court to hear a petition filed by appellants under the Indian Depredation Act of
1891.

-

The purpose of the petition was to recover the sum of $7950
against the United States, for the value of eighteen head of
mules and twenty-nine head of horses, alleged to have been
taken and driven away by the Sioux Indians on or about the
25th day of July; 1864.
The plea to the jurisdiction of the court was based upon the
fact that the depredation charged was alleged to have been
committed. "prior to the 1st of July, 1866, and that no claim
for such depredation was ever presented to the Secretary of
the Interior or the Congress of the United States, or any superintendent, agent, subagent or commissioner, authorized under any act of Congress to inquire into such claims, within the
meaning of the first proviso of the second section of the act of
March 3, 1891." C. 538, 26 Stat. 851.
Section 2 of the act of 1891 reads as follows:
"That all questions of limitations as to time and manner of
presenting claims are hereby waived, and no claim shall be
excluded from the jurisdiction of the court because not heretofore presented to the Secretary of the Interior or other officer
or department of the government: P'ovided, That no claim
accruing prior to July 1, 1865, shall be considered by the court
unless the claim shall be allowed or has been or is pending
prior to the passage of this act, before the Secretary of the
Interior- or the Congress of the United- States, or before any
superintendent, agent or subagent, or commissioner authorized
under any act of Congress to inquire into such claims; but no
case shall be considered pending unless evidence has been presented therein: And providedf rtker, That all claims existing
at the time of the taking effect of this -act shall be presented
to the court by petition, as hereinafter provided, within three
years after the passage hereof, or shall be thereafter forever
barred."

NESBITT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The claim was filed in the Interior Department March 2,
1891, before the passage of the act, but it is contended by the
Government that it was not "pending" before the Secretary.
of the Interior because no evidence had been "presented
therein."
The affidavit of Joseph A. lNesbitt accompanied the claim,
and was very full as to the locality and circumstances of the
depredation. It also stated the attempts which were made to
recover the animals and the failure of the attempts, and gave
the names of the witness by whom the depredation could be
proved.
The question in the case is whether such affidavit constituted
the presentation of evidence of the claim so as to bring the
claim within the statute.
Claims for Indian depredations filed in the Interior Department after 1872 were filed under the act of 1872. 17 Stat.
190, c. 233. Section 7 of the act reads as follows:
"That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to
prepare and cause to be published such rules and regulations
as he may deem necessary or proper, prescribing the manner
of presenting claims arising under existing laivs or treaty stipulations, for compensation for depredations committed by the
Indians, and the degree and character of the evidence necessary
to support such claims; he shall carefully investigate all such
claims, as may be presented, subject to the rules and regulations prepared by him, and report to Congress at each session
thereof the nature, character and amount of such claims, whether
allowed by him or not, and the evidence'upon which his action
was based: Provided, That no payment on account of said
claim shall be made without a specific appropriation therefor
by Congress."
In pursuance of that act the Secretary of the Interior established the following regulations:
"1. Application for indemnity, or satisfaction for the loss or
injury sustained, must be made by the claimant, his attorney, or
duly authorized agent,

.

.

.

to the United States,

Indian agent, subagent, within whose jurisdiction or charge
the nation, tribe or band is to which the offenders or depredators belong.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. The necessary documents and proofs must accompany the
application of the claimant, his attorney, or agent, and should
be in legal form, and consist"First. Of the sworn declaration of the claimant, setting
forth when and where the depredation was committed, and by
what Indians, their tribe or nation being named; describirig
fully the property stolen or destroyed, and giving the quantity
of each article or number, condition, or quality thereof, and
the just value of each article or piece of property at the time
the same was sd taken or destroyed. Should the depredation
have been committed while the claimant was in the Indian
country, he must state whether he was lawfully there, either
having a license to trade with the Indians, a passport, or a permit from the proper Indian authorities, or was en route through
said country to a place of ultimate destination at some point
within the limits of any State or Territory not included within
the limits of the reservation for any nation or tribe of Indians
set apart by treaty provision, or by executive order; and he in
such declaration must further state whether any of the property so stolen or destroyed has subsequently been recovered by
or for him, the claimant; and whether the claimant has at any
time received part compensation therefor; and if so, how much,
when, and from what' source; and further, that the claimant
has in no way endeavored to obtain private satisfaction or revenge.
"Second. Of depositions of two or more persons having personal cognizance of the facts or any of them as embraced in the
declaration of the claimant, which depositions must set forth
the means of knowledge which deponents have as to the fact
of the depredation, when, where, by what Indians, and under
what circumstances the depredation was committed, of what
the property consisted that was so taken or destroyed by the
Indians, describing it as fully as practicable, and stating the
value thereof. If the deponents, or any of them, were at the
time of the depredation in the employment of the claimant it
must be so stated, and in what capacity. Regulations Indian
Department, 1884, p. 81."
To the requirements of the act of 1872, and the regulations

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
Statement of the Case.

authorized by it, the word "evidence," in the act of 1891, must
be considered as referring, and the claim of the appellant was
not accompanied by such evidence. It was accompanied by
the deposition of one of the claimants, but not of "depositions
of two or more persons having personal cognizance of the facts
or any of them as embraced in the declaration of the claimants." Persons having such knowledge existed, it was stated,
and their affidavits promised, but they had not been presented.
Nor is the petitioner helped by section 4 of the act of 1891,
which provides that"In considering the merits of claims presented to the court
any testimony, affidavits,

.

.

.

and such other papers as

are now on file in the departments relating to any such claims,
shall be considered by the court-as competent evidence."
That provision is applicable to the claim after it is presented
to the court, and does not relieve from the conditions expressed
in section 2. See Weston'8 case, 29 0. 01. 420,424, where the
provisions of the statutes and the reasons for them are clearly
expressed.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. GAYLORD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 208. Argued April 8,9,1902.-Decided Bray 19,1902.

This suit was brought by petitioner, as trustee of a mortgage. Held, that
when a corporation sells or incumbers its property, incurs debts or gives
securities, it does business, and a statute regulating such transactions
does not regulate the internal affairs of the corporation.

THIS suit was brought by the petitioner as trustee of a mortgage made by the Gold Hill Mining Company, a corporation
of West Virginia, upon certain mining ground in the State of
California. Subsequently to the execution of the mortgage

