HOFFELD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tion was necessarily decided below, and the record does not
disclose that such decisions were set up or claimed in the proper
manner in the courts of the State."
But assuming, without intimating an opinion to that effect,
that the raising of a Federal question in the brief might be sufficient, it is well settled in this court that it must be made to
appear that some provision of the Federal, as distinguished from
the state, Constitution was relied upon, and that such provision
must be set forth. Porter v. Foley, 24 How. 415; .Ailler v.
Cornwall R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 131; Dewey v. Des .Aoinem, 1M3
U. S. 193; Keokuk &c. Bridge Co. v. Blinoa, 175 U. S. 626;
Chapin v. Fye,-179 U. S. 126.
It is hardly necessary to say that the raising of such a question in the assignments of error in this court is insufficient. Not
only was there no Federal question raised in the record, but the
appellate division made no allusion to such a question, and dismissed the petition upon the ground that the charter of New
York did not permit a question of benefit or no benefit to be
raised in such a proceeding-a ground wholly independent of a
Federal question.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Dismised.

HOFFELD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 318. Argued April 16, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

The statute of June 16, 1880, providing that where entries of public lands
have been canceled, the Secretary of the Interior shall refund the purchase money to the entryman, his heirs or assigns, is limited to such entryman, his heirs or voluntary assigns, and does not apply to one who
purchased the interest of the entryman upon an execution sale against
him.

THIs was a petition of J. Henrietta Eoffeld, executrix of the
estate of Rudolph Hoffeld, deceased, for the repayment to her
VOL. OLXXXVI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

by the United States, under the act of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat.
287, of the purchase money for one hundred and sixty acres of
coal lands, the entry of which had been canceled by the Commissioner of the General Land Office on January 27, 1895,over
eight years after the purchase was made, and more than seven
years after HIoffeld had bought the land.
The purchase from the United States was originally made by
•other parties tor a consideration of thirty-two hundred dollars.
These parties had conveyed.the lands to the Ohio Creek Anthracite Coal Company, against which company a judgment had been
,obtained, and a sale made November 10;1887, to Rudolph Hoffeld, purchaser under the execution. Petitioner was his executrix. Several years after the sale the Commissioner of the
General Land Office found that an error had been committed,
in the allowance of the original entry upon the affidavit of an
-attorney, in the absence of the original entrymen. He thereupon exacted an affidavit of these entrymen, but as two out of
the four were dead, and the other two could not be found, it
was impossible to comply with the requirement of the Commissioner, who canceled the purchase, as above stated.
The Court of Claims made a finding of facts substantially as
above stated, and decided, as a conclusion of law upon such
facts, "that the claimant had no right to recover, and the petition was therefore dismissed.
Mr. Robert Andrews for Hoffeld.
.M. George Hines Gorman for the United States.
sistant Attorney GeneralPradt was on his brief.
Mpt.

JusTicE

Mr.As-

B~oww deliveked the opinion of the court.

This case depends upon the construction given to section 2
of the act of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat. 287, which reads as follows:
"In all cases where homestead or timber-culture or desertland entries or other entries of public lands have heretofore or
shall hereafter be canceled for conflict, or where, from any

HOFFELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-

cause, the entry has been erroneously allowed and cannot be
confirmed, the Secretary of the Interior shall cause to be repaid
to the person who made such entry, or to his heirs or assigns,
the fees and commissions, amount of purchase money, and excesses paid upon the same, upon the surrender of the duplicate
receipt and the execution of a proper relinquishment of all
claims to said land, whenever such entry shall have been duly
canceled by.the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
In the case under consideration, the entry had been made
May 28, 1886, by Harry Jones, J. L. Cole, Charles L. Weaver
and Samy Perri, through William Hinds, acting in their behalf under a power of attorney, paying therefor to the United
States the sum of thirty-two hundred dollars. Section 32 of
the Coal Land Regulations requires the entryman to certify in
an affidavit that he makes the entry in his own right and for
his own benefit, and not for the benefit of any other person.
This affidavit was not made by the entrymen themselves, but
by Hinds, as their attorney in fact. It was held to be insufficient by the General Land Office, and the local land offices were
required to notify the claimants to that effect, and to require a
new affidavit. Owing to the death of two of the entrymen
and the impossibility of finding the two others, the affidavit
could not be procured, and the entry was canceled by the Land
Office, January 24, 1895. Previously thereto, and on May 29,
1886, the entrymen had conveyed the land to the Ohio Creek
Anthraoite Coal Company, against whom a writ of attachment
was issued, a judgment obtained, and an execution issued, levied
upon this tract of land, which was sold by the sheriff to Rudolph Hoffeld for the sum of seventy-five dollars, and on January 10, 1897, Hoffeld made application for repayment of the
purchase money under the provisions of the above act.
The act requires that where, from any cause, the entry has
been erroneously allowed and cannot be confirmed, repayment
shall be made of the consideration to the entryman, or to his
heirs or assigns,.and the only question for our consideration is,
wheth~er the purchaser of the original rights of an entryman
at an execution sale against him or his grantee can be said to
be an "assign" within the meaning of the act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"Assigns," o , as the word is more commonly spelled, "assignees,' are of two classes, depending upon the manner of
their creation: first, voluntary assigns, who are created by act
of the parties; and, second, assignees created by operation of
law. Whether in a given case an assignee belongs to the first
or second class depends upon the purpose for which he was
created, the object to be attained by his creation, and the language of the statute.or other instrument from which he derives
his powers. A voluntary assignee is ordinarily invested with
all the rights which his assignor possessed, with respect to the
property; while the rights of an assignee by operation of law
aresuch only as are necessarily incident tothe complete possession and enjoyment of the things assigned. A voluntary assignee
takes the property with all the rights thereto possessed by his
assignor, and if he has paid a valuable consideration, may claim
all the rights of a bona fide purchaser with respect thereto.
Upon the other hand, an assignee by operation of law, as, for
instance, a purchaser at a judicial sale, takes only such title as
the execution debtor possessed at the time of sale. The fonte
Allegre, 9 Wheat. 616. The doctrine of caveat enltor applies
in all its rigorand the buyer cannot set up the rights of a bona
fide purchaser, even against an unrecorded deed. Thus in Burbank v. Conrad, 96 U. S. 291, it was said of property condemned
and sold as enemies' property under the confiscation act, that
"the United States acquired by the decree, for the life of the
offender, only the estate which at the time of the seizure he
actually possessed; not what he may have appeared from the
public records to possess, by reasons of the omission of his vendees to record the act of sale to them; and that estate, whatever
it was, for that period passed by the marshal's sale and deed;
nothing more and nothing less. The registry act was not intended to protect the -United States in the exercise of, their
power of confiscation from the consequences of previous unrecorded sales of the alleged offender." It was held in connection with the same transaction that the purchaser was not even
entitled to a return of -his purchase money. Waples v. United
States, 110 U. S. 630.
The case of 'the City of NYorwich, 118 U. S. 468, though

HOFFELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

arising under the maritime law, is pertinent in this connection.
This was a petition under the limited liability act, Rev. Stat. sec.
4285, which declares that if the owner of a vessel elect to take
the benefit of the act, it shall be a sufficient compliance with
the law "if he shall transfer his interest in such vessel and
freight, for the benefit of the claimants, to a trustee," who becomes in reality an assignee for the benefit of creditors under
the act. It was held that the word "interest" was intended
to refer to the extent or amount of ownership which the party
had in the vessel and freight, and that whatever the extent or
character of his ownership might be, the amount or value of
that interest was to be the measure of his liability. It was also
held that his transfer of such interest under the law did not
operate as an assignment of his insurance upon the vessel, which
was a collateral contract, personal to the insured, but not conferring upon him any interest in the property; in other words,
the contract of insurance does not attach itself to the thing insured or go with it when it is transferred. See cases cited 118
U. S. 494.
Upon the other hand, an assignee by operation of law may,
under certain circumstances, have greater rights than a voluntary assignee. Thus in Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392,
it was held that the act of February 26, 1853, (Rev. Stat. see.
34T77,) nullifying and avoiding all transfers and assignments of
any claim upon the United States, applied only to cases of voluntary assignments of demands against the government, and that it
did not embrace cases where there had been a transfer of title
by operation of law. "The passing of claims to heirs, devisees
or assignees in bankruptcy are not within the evil at which the
statute aimed; nor does the construction given by this court
deny to such parties a standing in the Court of Claims."
In Goodman v. lViblaeck, 102 U. S. 556, this doctrine was applied to a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
Referring now to the statute of Tune 16,1880, 21 Stat. 287,
we find that its requirements are, first, that the entry, must
have been canceled for conflict, or from some cause must have
been erroneously allowed; second, that repayment must be
made to the person who made the entry, or to his heirs or as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

signs; and, third, that such repayment should only be made upon
the surrender of the duplicate receipt and the execution of a
proper relinquishment of all claims to the land. The last requirement is strong evidence tending to show that voluntary
assigns are only. contemplated by the act, as they would naturally take the receipt with the deed of the land and be in a condition to relinquish all claims thereto, while an assign-by operation of law would have no means of compelling a delivery of
the receipt to him. The purchaser at an execution sale would
only take the actual title of the owner to the land itself, unaccompanied by any collateral claims or rights incident to the
acquisition of the land. In this respect he stands much as an
assignee under the limited liability act, who, as above stated,
takes the interest of the owner in the vessel and freight, but
not his interest in a collateral contract of insurance. The contract evidenced by the statute is really a contract of indemnity,
and provides, much like a policy of insurance, that if the owner
lose his property he shall recover what he paid for it. We see
'no reason why the general rule above stated, that a contract of
insurance does not accompany a transfer of the thing insured,
does not apply'to tliis statute.
It will 'be readily seen that complicated questions might arise
in case the entryman should make a voluntary conveyance of
the land accompanied by a surrender of his duplicate receipt,
or should assign his receipt to another than the execution
purchaser. The requirement, that the receipt shall be surrendered is as peremptory as the'requirement that the person demanding repayment shall be an heir or assign of the original
entryman. The petition in this case contains no averment of
petitioner's readiness to surrender the duplicate receipt, or any
excuse for a failure to do so, but sifnply sets forth the title of
Rudolph Iloffeld as purchaser under an execution sale upon the
judgment against the Ohio Creek Anthracite Coal Company,
although the court finds as a fact that it appeared from an affidavit that the duplicate receipt had been destroyed by fire. As
bearing upon the equities of the case it is p6rtinent to remark
that Hoffeld bought the property in question for a recited consideration of $75, but that under the statute he claims the whole

PINE RIVER LOGGING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 279
Syllabus.

sum of $3200 which was paid to the United States at the original entry of the land. He thus by an expenditure of $75 recovers $3200, while neither the original entrymen who paid
the $3200 .nor their assignee, the Coal Company, recover anything. Inasmuch as, in the absence of a statute, there could be
no recovery of the purchase money, WTaples v. United Statm,
110 U. S. 630, one who seeks to take advantage of it must bring
himself clearly within its equity as well as within its letter, and
must show himself entitled not only to the land itself, but to
everything which the statute has annexed thereto as an incident. The right to a return of the purchase money is in no
sense an inbident to the land, and did not pass to the purchaser
upon the sale under the execution.
On the whole we are of opinibn that -the petitioner has not
shown* herself an- assign of the original entryman or otherwise entitled herself to the benefit of the statute, and the judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing her petition is, therefore,
Affirmed.

PINE RIVER LOGGING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 250. Argued May 1, 2, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

By an act of Congress of February 16, 1889, the .President was authorized
to allow Indians residing on reservations to cut and dispose of dead timber, standing or fallen, on such reservations, for the sole benefit of such
Indians. Defendants made five different contracts'with individual Indians for the cutting of 'an aggregate of 2,750,000 feet: As a matter
of fact, they cut and removed 17,000,000 feet. Held: That as to such excess both the Indians and the defendants were trespassers.
The objection that the several defendants were not responsible for the
acts of each other is one which should be taken at the trial, and if not so
taken, cannot be made available upon writ of error from this court.
In designating the number of feet to be cut under certain contracts, the
use of the words "about" or "more or less" will not justify the cutting of a quantity materially and designedly greater than the amount
provided for in the contract.

