OCTOBER

TERM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

State to so prescribe, not only from its power over the manner

of conveyance and the disposition of property situated within
the State, but from its power over foreign corporations doing
business within the State. Clarke v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 176;
Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648. Nor can we contest that
power though we might, if we were permitted to exercise an
independent judgment, construe the statute as only illustrative
and not as exhaustive of the manner of ratification.
Judgment affirmed.

?YR JUSTICE

HAL_ AN concurred in the judgment.

LEE LUNG v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 189. Argued and submitted April 21,1902.-Decided May 19,1902.

Under the statutes referred to in the opinion of the court, jurisdiction is
given to the collector of the port at which an alien Chinese seeks to
land, over his right to do so, and necessarily. also to pass upon the evidence presented to establish that right.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XM'. John I

2fitchell for appellant.

.Mr'. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for appellee submitted
on his brief.
M[.

JUSTICE MoKENNA

delivered the bpinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment which dismissed a petition in habeas corpus on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction to grant the relief which was prayed. The petitioner

LE9 LUNG v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

represented that he was a citizen of the Chinese Empire, and
for more than twenty years last past a merchant in the city of
Portland, Oregon. He went on a visit to China, but returned
to the United States in the month of October, 1898, on the
ship Monmouthshire, accompanied, as he claimed, by his wife,
whose name is Li Tom Shi, and by his daughter, whose name
is Li A. Tsoi. The collector of customs at Portland promptly
permitted him to land, recognizing his right to do so as a merchant, but denied the right and refused to permit his wife and
daughter to land, although they were not laborers, and presented "certificates issued by the government of Hong Kong,
and vised by the consular representative of the United States
at the colony of Hong Kong, China," which identified them
as the wife and daughter respectively of petitioner, were "in
all respects in full compliance with article III of the treaty of
1894, and in all respects in full compliance with section 6 of
the act of Congress of July 5, 18841, and acts supplemental to
and amendatory thereof," although compliance therewith, it
was alleged, was not necessary. The collector made a pretended and partial examination of said certificates, "but no
such examination as the law contemplates," asserted the right
"to inquire into or decide aliunde the certificates," and ignored
the same; and his said wife and daughter, it was alleged, "were
each, wrongfully and unlawfully and in violation of their rights
under the provisions of the treaty of 1894, refused entry into
the United States." And it was further alleged"That immediately on the rendition of said alleged and pretended decision by the said collector of customs each of said
persons, the said wife and daughter of .your petitioner aforesaid, took an appeal from said alleged and pretended decision
of said collector of customs to the Secretary of the Treasury
of the United States; and your petitioner avers that the Secretary of the Treasury has never yet either examined into said
appeals nor made any decision therein one way or the other,
nor has said appeals or either of them ever been considered,
examined or decided, either by 0. L. Spaulding, Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury, or by any other person except as
hereinafter stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinfon of the Court.

"That on April 18, 1900, one W. S. Chance, then chief of
the special agents of the Treasury Department at Washington,
D. C., pretended to examine said appeals and rendered a pretended decision therein, which pretended decision purports to
affirm the alleged decision of the collector of customs aforesaid refusing to allow said Li Tom Shi and said Li A. Tsoi,
wife and daughter of your petitioner, to enter the United
States.
"Your petitioner avers that it is claimed, as your petitioner
is advised and believes, by the collector of customs aforesaid,
that said alleged decision by said W. S. Chance, as hereinbefore stated, is the decision of 0. L. Spaulding, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury; but your petitioner denies that said
0. L. Spaulding, either as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
or otherwise, has ever made any examination of said appeals, or
has ever made any decision therein one way or the other.
"And your petitioner further avers that the said 0. L.
Spaulding as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury has no authority or jurisdiction whatever to examine into or decide said appeals or either of them; that said 0. L. Spaulding, as Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury, has never been legally or lawfully
designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to examine into
and decide such appeals, and your petitioner avers furthermore
that the Secretary of the Treasury has no jurisdiction or power
whatever to designate or authorize Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury 0. L. Spaulding, or any other Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury, to examine into or decide said appeals."
That the collector of customs, notwithstanding the invalidity
of the alleged decision of W. S. Chance, and that the appeal
had not been examined or decided by the Secretary of the
Treasury, detained petitioner's wife and daughter on board the
steamship Braemen and threatened and intended to send them
back to China.
That the collector had no jurisdiction to make the decision
he claims to have made, and that no exarhination or decision
of the appeals as the law contemplates was ever made by the
Secretary of the Treasury, or by any Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury who had any jurisdiction or power to examine and

LEE LUNG v,. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

decide such appeals. That the wife and daughter of petitioner
have the right to have their appeals decided, and until such
decision the collector had nopower or jurisdiction to send the
wife and daughter of petitioner back to China; and should
they be sent back they will be removed from the jurisdiction of
the court. A writ of habeas corpus was prayed for.
The collector of customs made due return to the writ, an(
denied that Li Tom Shi was the wife of the petitioner, and that
Li A. Tsoi was his daughter; denied that the certificates were

in regular form, and alleged they were not in conformity with
the laws of the United States, in that they were signed by one
F. A. May, who was captain general of police of Hong Kong
and not the registrar general; that a Mr. Lockhart was registrar general, and that his name did not appear on the certificates. Denied that he (the collector) was without jurisdiction
or that he ignored the certificates. -Alleged that he took testimony, and on that testimony and the certificates he rendered
his decision, as follows, refusing the said Li Tom Shi and Li A.
Tsoi the right to land :
"No. 1.
"Office of the collector of customs, district of Willamette.
"Portland, Oregon, April 7, 1900.
"Now at this time comes on for hearing the application of
Mrs. Li Tom Shi, a subject of the Emperor of China, for admission to the United States as a wife of Lee Lung, and after hearing the evidence of applicant.and witnesses on behalf of the
applicant, and the evidence of Lee Lung and Miss Li A. Tsoi,
and irregularity of consular certificate, and no evidence of marriage, and being at this time fully advised in the premises, it is
ordered that the said Mrs. Li Tom Shi be refused a landing upon
the ground that the evidence produced by said applicant is insufficient and unsatisfactory to prove her right to land.
"I. L. PATTERsoN,
[SEA.]
Colector of Customs.",
A like decision was rendered in the case of Li A. Tsoi. The
return admitted that the said perspns took an appeal from the
decision to the Secretary of the Treasury, but denied that the

OCTOBEt

TEAM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary had not examined into said appeal or rendered a decision therein, and denied all the other allegations of the petition
in regard to such appeal: admitted that, under the decision
of the Secretary of the Treasury affirming his (the collector's)
decision, he held the said Li Tom Shi and Li A. Tsoi in his custody for deportation to the country from whence they came.
The certificates were attached to the return, but as the only
criticism of them is that they were not issued by the registrar
general of Hong Kong, they are omitted. They were signed
"F. H. May, by registrar general, Hong Kong." They were
sealed with the seal of the registrar general and certified to by
R. Wildman, United States consul general.
The following was also attached to the return:
"Division of special agents,
"Treasury Department, Office of the Secretary,
"Washington, April 18, 1900.
"Collector of customs, Portland, Oregon.
"Sm: The department has received your letter of the 11th
instant, transmitting an appeal from your decision denying admission to Chinese persons named Li Tom Shi and Li A. Tsoi,
the alleged wife and daughter of Lee Lung, a Chinese merchant
domiciled in this country.
"The applicants presented to you certificates in the form prescribe*d by section 6 of the act of July 5, 1884, executed by ' F.
.H.
May by registrar general,' Hong Kong, and you state that
Mr. May is the captain of police at Hong Kong and not the
registrar general. You are advised that certificates so issued
are not valid, the incumbent of the office of registrar general
at Hong Kong only being recognized as the proper authority
for the issuance of such certificates.
"The appeal filed in this case refers to the recent decision of
the Supreme Court in the case of The United States v. trs.
Gue Lir et al., promulgated in Synopsis 22056, wherein it was
held that ' when the fact is established to the satisfaction of the
authorities that the person claiming to enter, either as wife or
minor child, is in fact the wife or minor child, of one of the
members of a class mentioned in the treaty as entitled to enter,

LEE LUNG v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

then that person is entitled to admission without the certificate.'
"In this case Li Tom Shi is admitted to be the second and
plural wife of Lee Lung, a Chinese merchant domiciled in this
country, whose first wife resides in China, and it is claimed that
Li A. Tsoi is the minor child of the said Lee Lung by said first
wife.
"The laws of the United States do not recognize plural marriages as valid, and while they may be so recognized in China,
the said Li Tom Shi is not the valid wife of Lee Lung under
our laws and in the light of the decision of the Supreme Court
referred to.
"In a letter addressed to the collector of customs at Port
Townsend, Washington, it was stated that ' in instances where
women or minor children afply for admission at your port,
claiming to be the wives or children of Chinese persons lawfully
domiciled here as persons of the exempt class of Chinese, you
should require such wohen or children to produce evidence sufficient.to satisfy you that they are the wives or children of such
persons.'
"In the cases under consideration the evidence presented in
the case of Li A. Tsoi is conflicting and inconclusive, and not
of the satisfactory character required.
"Confirming department's telegram of this date, you are
therefore advised that the appeals of Li Tom Shi and Li A. Tsoi
are overruled and your decision denying them admission is sustained. The enclosures of your letter are herewith returned.
0. L. SPAuLDING,
"Respectfully,
" Assistant Se retary.
"W.'S. C."
The petitioner filed a reply to the return, in which he again
averred the conformity of the certificates to law. Denied that
they were required to be signed by the registrar general of
Hong Kong, and averred, however, that the certificates were
signed by F. A. May, "at the instance and under the direction
of the registrar general and as and for him," and contained his
seal Again averred that the action of the collector in regard

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to the certificates and the admission of evidence was in excess
of his jurisdiction. Denied that the Secretary of the Treasury,
by 0. L. Spaulding, rendered any opinion affirming the decision of the collector; averred that the decision attached to the
return shows on its face that it was the decision of W. S. Chance,
chief of the special agents of the Treasury Department, and
averred that "the pretended hearing before the collector of
customs on the th day of April, 1900, as aforesaid, was had
before your petitioner had secured any counsel, and he had no
counsel present to advise him as to his rights before the collector of customs, and that such examination was without jurisdiction, perfunctory and was not a thorough examination of
the case."
The testimony of several witnesses was introduced before the
District Court against the objection of the district attorney.
It showed that the petitioner was a merchant of Portland, Oregoii; that he had gone back to China and there married Li
Tom Shi according to the Chinese customs and with the usual
Chinese ceremonies, but that he had another wife with whom
he lived when in China, and that Li A. Tsoi was the daughter
by that wife. It was testified that a man in China could have
as many wives as he had means to support.
The District Court, however, determined that it had no jurisdiction to review the action of the executive officers, and dismissed the petition. The court cited Hfisiimura Ekiu's cpse,
142 U. S. 651, and United States v. Gin Fung, decided by the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, 100 Fed. Rep.
389. The District Court said In P'e Lee Lung, 102 Fed. Rep.
132, 134:
"These cases establish the doctrine that the collector of customs, in determining the right of Chinese -persons to land, may
act uponhis own information and discretion, and that such action, however taken, is conclusive of the matter, subject to the
right of appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury; that his
decision, if he decides not to hear testimony, or not to give
effect to evidence which the laws of Congress have provided
shall be sufficient to establish the right to land in the first instance, or decides not to decide, is conclusive. Under the doc-

LEE LUNG v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

trine of these cases, it is immaterial, so far as the jurisdiction of
this court is concerned, whether the petitioner's appeal to the
Secretary of the Treasury is heard by the Secretary in person
or by a subordinate official in his department, or is heard at
all."
It was decided in INisimura Miu's case that Congress might
entrust to an executive officer the final determination of, the
facts upon which an alien's right to land in the United States
was made to depend, "and that if it did so, his order was due.
process of law, and no other tribunal, unless expressly authorized by law to do So; was at liberty to reexamine the evidence
on which he acted, or to controvert its'sufficiency." This doctrine was affirmed in lem ifoon Sing v. lizited States, 158 U. S.
538, and at the present term in Fok Yung Yo v. United States,
185 U. S.296, and Lee Gon Yung v. United State, 185 U. S.
306.
Counsel for petitioner concede the rule but deny its application to the pending case. Their argument is that the sixth section of the act of 1884, regarding it in force, precludes inquiry
beyond the certificates. ..The applicable provisions are quoted
as follows:
Such certifidate, vised as aforesaid, shall be prima
" .
facie evidence of the facts set forth therein, and shall be produced to the collector of customs of the port in the district of
the United States at which the person named therein shall arrive, and afterwards produced to the proper authorities of the
United States whenever lawfully demanded, and shall be the
sole evidence permissible on the part of the person so producing
the same to establish a right of entry into the United States,
but such certificate may be controverted and the facts therein
stated disproved by the United States authorities."
It is urged that the statute makes the certificates evidence,
and that the collector had no power to disregard the certificates, and "whether he did not consider them at all and did
not pass upon their validity or invalidity, as in either view of
the case, we respectfully submit the collector is not chargeable
merely with error, in which event his decision is not reviewable by the court, but with the more serious charge of hay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ing exceeded his jurisdiction, in which case, we submit, his
decision is reviewable."
But jurisdiction is given to the collector over the right of the
alien to land, and necessarily jurisdiction is given to pass on
the evidence presented to establish that right. He may determine the validity of the evidence, or receive testimony to controvert it, and we cannot assent to the proposition that an officer or tribunal, invested with jurisdiction of a matter, loses
that jurisdivtion by not giving sufficient weight to evidence,
or by rejecting proper evidence, or by admitting that which is
improper.
The hearing before the collector is described in the petition
as "pretended," but its extent, and upon what evidence, the
record does not disclose. The record does show that appearance by counsel was not considered necessary, but "every facility for appearing" was given. And even if it were essential,
in our judgment, could we conclude that the decision of the
collector established that the certificates alone were considered?
It is further contended that the treaty of 1894 alone provides the evidence which a member of the exempted class of
Chinese must produce, and abrogates the act of 1882 and the
acts amendatory theref, and also aborogates the treaty of 1880.
Article III of the treaty of 1894, 28 Stat. p. 1211, is as follows:
"The provisions of this convention shall not affect the right
at present enjoyed of Chinese subjects, being officials, teachers,
students, merchants or travelers for curiosity or pleasure, but
not laborers, of coming to the United States and residing
therein. To entitle such Chinese subjects as are above described to admission into the United States they may produce
a certificate from their government, or the government where
they last resided, vised by the diplomatic or consular representative of the United States in the country or port whence they
depart."
This court, however, -held adversely to the contention of petitioner in the case of United States v. Lee Yen Tai, 185 U. S.
213, decided at the present term. In that case the twelfth

GALLAWAY v. FORT WORTH BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

section of the act of 1882 was more immediately under consideration, but the reasoning applies to the sixth section as well.
Counsel for petitioner do not urge the insufficiency of the
decision of Assistant Secretary Spaulding, therefore we may
consider that it is conceded to have been, made by the authority of the Secretary. The District Court, however, in its opinion, seems to imply that, if there had been no hearing by the
Secretary, the court, nevertheless, would have been without
jurisdiction to restrain the deportation of the Chinese persons.
On that we do not think it is necessary to express an opinion.
There. is an intimation to the contrary by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Ninth Circuit in the case of United Statm v.
Gin Fung, eupra.
Judgment aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER. and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAI

dissented.

MR. JUSTicE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

GALLAWAY v. FORT WORTH BANK.
MOTION TO SUE OUT WRIT OF ERROR, WITHOUT GIVING BOND
REQUIRED BY LAW.
Submitted May 19,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

The act of Congress of July 20, 1892, 27 Stat. 252, has no application to
proceedings in this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-kr.A. Gallaway inp2roTrapesona.
No appearance opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE. This is an application for leave to prosecute a writ of error to a state court, without giving security
VOL. orxxxv-12

