CHIN BAK KAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

CHIN BAK KAN

,.

UNITED STATES.

CHIN YING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

-

Nos. 525, 526. Argued March 13, 14,192.-Decided June 2,1902.
The ruling in United States v. Lee Yen.Tai, 185 U. S. 213, affirmed.
The legislation considered, the act of May 5, 1892, is satisfied by proceedings before a United States commissioner.
It was competent for Congress to empower a United, States commissioner
to determine the various facts on which citizenship depends under the
decision in United States v. Wong Mim Ark, 169 U. S. 649.
The same reasoning with respect to the authority to exclude applies to the
authority to expel, and the policy of the legislation in respect to exclusion and expulsion is opposed to numerous appeals.
COMPLAINT under oath was duly made before a commissioner
of the -United States for the Northern District of New York,
charging "that Chin Bak Kan did, on or about the 13th day
of Mlarch, 1901, at Burkein said district, knowingly and wrongfully come from Canada, in the province of Quebec, into the
Northern District of New York, to wit: into Burke in the
county of Franklin and State of New York, in the United
States, he, the said Chin Bak Kan being then and there a Chinese person and laborer, and a person prohibited by the laws of
th United States of America from being and remaining in the
United States, and he, the said Chin Bak Kan, then and there
being such Chinese person as aforesaid, was then and there
found unlawfully in the United States at Burke aforesaid, in
violation of the acts of the Congress in such case made and
provided."
A warrant for the apprehension of Chin Bak Ran was issued March 13, 1901, and he was arrested and brought before
the commissioner. He was informed of the charge against him,
advised that he would be permitted to make a statement without or with oath, or to refuse to make any statement or to an-

VOL. CLXXXVI-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1Q01.
Opinion of the Court.

swer any question put to him, and was entitled to reasonable
time to send for counsel and procure the attendance of witnesses. He pleaded not guilty to the charge, "but admitted
that he had just come into the United States." He was thereafter represented by counsel. Subsequently a hearing and trial
was commenced before the commissioner who issued_ the warrant. That officer having been taken sick, the hearing was
continued and concluded before another commissioner, who
found and adjudged upon the evidence as follows: "I now
hereby find and adjudge that the said Chin Bak Kan is a Chin:
ese person and laborer, that he is not a diplomatic or other officer of the Chinese or any other government, and unlawfully
entered the United States, as charged in said complaint. And
I further adjudge him, said Chin Bak Kan, guilty of not being
lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United States. I further
find and adjudge that he, said Chin Bak Kan, came from the
Empire of China, but he has not made it appear to me that he
was a subject or citizen of some other country than China. And
I hereby order and adjudge said*Chin Bak Kan to be humediately removed from the United States to the Empire of China.
A certified copy of this judgment shall be the process upon
which said removal of said Chin Bak Kan shall be made from
the United States to the Empire of China. And said process
shall be executed by the Hon. C. D. MacDougall, United States
marshal for said district."
An appeal was prosecuted to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York, but the appeal
was dismissed and the judgment for the deportation of the defendant was affirmed.
From the final order of the District Court an appeal was then
taken to this court.
-Mr. MAax J.-Yoher for Chin Bak Kan and Chin Ying.
.M#. Amaidtant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
MR.CHIEF JUSTiCE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

By section one of the act of May 6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58. c. 126,

CHIN BAK KAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

it was provided that from and after the expiration of ninety
days, and until the expiration of ten years, the coming of
Chinese laborers to the United States should be suspended, and
during such suspension it was made unlawful for any Chinese
laborer to come, or, having come after the expiration of said
ninety days, to remain within the United States.
By section four provisioli was made for certificates to be
granted to such Chinese as were entitled under the treaty of
November 17, 1880, to go from, or come to, the United States,
of their free will and accord, in order to identify them.
The twelfth section of the act was as follows: "That no
Chinese person shall be permitted to enter the United States
by land without producing to the proper officer of customs the
certificate in this act required of Chinese persons seeking to
land from a vessel. And any Chinese person found unlawfully
within the United States shall be caused to be removed therefrom to the country from whence he came, by direction of the
President of the United States, and at the cost of the United
States, after being brought before some justice, judge, or commissioner of a court of the United States and found to be one
not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United States."
This section was amended by the act of July 5, 1884, 23
Stat. 115, c. 220, so as to read as follows: "That no Chinese
person shall be permitted to enter the United States by land
without producing to the proper officer of customs the certificate in this act required of Chinese persons se6king to land from
a vessel. And any Chinese person found unlawfully within
the United States shall be caused to be removed therefrom
to the country from whence he came, and at the cost of the
United States, after being brought before some justice, judge,
or commissioner of a court of the United States and found to
be one not lawfully entitled to be or to remain in the United
States; and in all such cases the person who brought or aided
in bringing such person to the United States shall be liable to
the government of the United States for all necessary expenses
incurred in such investigation and removal; and all peace officers of the several States and Territories of the United States
are hereby invested with the same authority as a marshal or

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

United States marshal in reference to carrying out the provisions of this act or the act of which this is amendatory, as a
marshal or deputy marshal of the United States, and shall be
entitled to like compensation to be audited and paid by the
same officers. And the United States shall pay all costs and
charges for the maintenance and return of any Chinese- person
having the certificate prescribed by law as entitling such
Chinese person to come into the United States, who may not
have been permitted to land from any vessel by reason of any
of the provisions of this act."
By section one of the act of ]ffay 5, 1892, 27 Stat. 25, c. 60,
it was provided: "That all laws now in force prohibiting and
regulating the coming into this country of Chinese persons and
persons of Chinese descent are hereby continued in force for the
period of ten years from the passage of this act."
Sections two, three and six were as follows:
"SEc. 2. That any Chinese person or person of Chinese descent, when convicted and adjudged under any said laws to be
not' lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United States, shall
be removed from the United States to China, unless he or they
shall make it appear to the justice, judge, or commissioner before whom he or they are tried that he or they are subjects or
citizens of some other country, in which case he or they shall
be removed from the United States to such country: Provided,
That in any case where such other country of which such Chinese person shall claim to be a citizen or subject shall demand
any tax as a condition of the removal of such person to that
country, he or she shall be removed to China.
"S1Ec. 3. That any Chinese person or person of Chinese descent
arrested under the provisions of this act or the acts hereby extended shall be adjudged to be unlawfully within the United
States unless such person shall establish, by affirmative proof,
to the satisfaction of such justice, judge, or commissioner, his
lawful right to remain in the United States."
"S1Ec. 6. And it shall be the duty of all Chinese laborers
within the limits of the United States, at the time of the passage of this act, and who are entitled to remain in the United
States, to apply to the collector of internal revenue of their re-

CHIN BAK KAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

spective districts, within one year after the passage of this act,
for a certificate of residence, and any Chinese laborer, within
the limits of the United States, who shall neglect, fail, or refuse
to comply with the provisions of this act, or who, after one year
from the passage hereof, shall be found within the jurisdiction of
the United States without such certificate of residence, shall be
deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully within the United States,
and may be arrested, by any United States customs official, collector of internal revenue or his deputies, United States marshal or his deputies, and taken before a United States judge,
whose duty it shall be to order that he be deported from the
United States as hereinbefore provided, unless he shall establish
clearly to the satisfaction of said judge, that by reason of acci-'
dent, sickness or other unavoidable cause, he has been unable to
procure his certificate, and to the satisfaction of the .court, and
by at least one credible white witness, that he was a resident of
the United States at the time of the passage of this act; and if
upon the hearing, it shall appear that he is so entitled to a certificate, it shall be granted upon his paying the cost.
"Should it appear that said Chinaman had procured a certificate which has been lost or destroyed, he shall be detained and
judgment suspended a reasonable time to enable him to procure
a duplicate from the officer granting it, and in such cases, the
cost of said arrest and trial shall be in the discretion of the
court.
"And any Chinese person other than a Chinese laborer, having a right to be and remain in tbeUnited States, desiring such
certificate as evidence of such right may apply for and receive
the same without charge."
Section six was amended by the act of November 3, 1893,
28 Stat. 7, c. 14.
Article I of the treaty, with China, proclaimed November 8,
1894, 28 Stat. 1210, was: "The high contracting parties agree
that for a period of ten years, beginning with the date of the
exchange of the ratifications of this convention, the coming,
except under the conditions hereinafter specified, of Chinese
laborers to the United States shall be absolutely prohibited."
Article II provided: "The preceding article shall not apply

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to the return to the United States of any registered Chinese
laborer who has a lawful wife, child, or parent in the United,
States, or property therein of the value of one thousand dollars,
or debts of like amount due him and pending settlement.
And no such Chinese laborer shall be permitted to enter the
United. States by land or sea without producing to the proper
officer of the customs the return certificate herein required."
Article V: "The government of the United States, having
by an act of the Congress, approved May 5, 1892, as amended
by an act approved November 3, 1893, required all Chinese
laborers lawfully within the limits of the United States before
-the passage of the first named act to be registered as in said act
provided, with a view of affording them better protection, the
Chinese government will not object to the enforcement of such
acts, and reciprocally the government of the United States recognizes the right of the government of China to enact and enforce similar laws or regulations for the registration, free of
charge, of all laborers, skilled or unskilled, (not merchans as
defined by said acts of Congress,) citizens of the United States
in China, whether residing within or without the treaty ports."
In United States v. Lee Yen Tai, 185 U. S. 213, just decided,
the question was propounded to us by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on certificate: "Is section 2 of
'An act to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to the
Chinese, approved May 6, 1882,' as amended by section 3 of the
amendatory act of July 5, 1884, repealed by the treaty or convention with China of December 8, 1894?" and that question
we answered in the negative.
The'act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1093, c. 845, provides:
"That it shall be lawful for the district attorney of the district in which any Chinese person may be arrested for being
found unlawfully within the United States, or having unlawfully entered the United States, to designate the United States
commissioner within such district before whom such Chinese
person shall be taken for hearing.
"SEc. 2. That a United States commissioner shall be entitled
to receive a fee of five dollars for hearing and deciding a case
arising under the Chinese exclusion laft.

CHIN BAK KAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

"C
Sxo. 3. That no warrant of arrest for violations of the
Chinese exclusion laws shall be issued by the United States
commissioners excepting upon the sworn complaint of a United
States district attorney, assistant United States district attorney, collector; deputy collector, or inspector of customs, immigration inspector, United States marshal, or deputy United
States marshal, or Chinese inspector, unless the issuing of such
warrant of arrest shall first be approved or requested in writing
by the United States district attorney of the district in which
issued."
The errgrs assigned may be grouped into those which presented the question of the effect of the treaty of 1894 by way
of repeal, and these bave been disposed of by our decision in
United States v. Lee Yen. Tai, 185 U. S. 213; those in respect of
-the assertion of citizenship and the action taken thereon; and
certain objections of want of jurisdiction because of insufficiency
of the complaint. The latter relate.to lack of positive averment
of the facts, and as to the official character of the person who
made the complaint. The complaint was made by one Ketchum, and, although it was not therein stated, it appears fromthe official register of the government that he was a Chinese
inspector, and as such authorized under the statute.
The charge was made on information and belief, but no objection was raised to the complaint on that ground; and we
think the ruling in Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.
729, applies that defects in complaint or pleadings do not affect
the authority of the commissioner or judge or the validity of
the statute.
Something is said in respect of want of jurisdiction in. the
commissioner because section six of the act of 1892 provides
that Chinese laborers without certificates may be "taken before a United States judge;" but we concur in the views of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Fong JMey
Yuk v. United States, 113 Fed. Rep. 898, that the act is satisfied by proceeding before "a justice, judge, or commissioner."
These are the words used in .section twelve -of the act of 1882;
section-twelve of the act of 1884; section thirteen of the act of
1888; and section three of the act of 1892; while the first see-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the act of March 3, 1901, explicitly authorizes the district attorney to designate the commissioner before whom the
Chinese person may be brought. The words "United States
judge," "judge" and "court," in section six, seem to us to refer
to the tribunal authorized to deal with the subject, whether
composed of a justice, a judge, or a commissioner. A United
States commissioner is a quasi judicial officer, and in these hearings he acts judicially. Moreover, this case was taken by appeal from the commissioner to the judge of the district court,
and his decision was affirmed, so that there was an adjudication
by a United States judge in the constitutional sense as well as
by the commissioner acting as a judge in the sense of the statute.
But it is argued that the commissioner had no jurisdiction to
act because the claim of citizenship was made. The'ruling in
United States v. WJong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, was to this
effect: "A child born in the United States, of parents of Chinese descent, who, at the time of his birth, are subjects of the
Emperor of China, but have a permanent domicil and residence
in the United States, and are there carrying on business, and
are not employed in any diplomatic or official capacity under
the Emperor of China, becomes at the time of his birth a citizen,
of the United States." It is impossible for us to hold that it is
not competent for Congress'to empower a United States commissioner to determine the various facts on which citizenship
depends under that decision.
By the law the Chinese person must be adjudged unlawfully
within the United States unless he "slh ill establish by affirmative proof, to the satisfaction *of such justice, judge, or commissioner, his lawful right to remain in the United States." As
applied to aliens there is no question of the validity of that provision, and the treaty, the legislation, and the circumstances
considered, compliance with its requirements cannot be avoided
by the mere assertion of citizenship. The facts on which such
a claim is rested must be made to appear. And the inestimable
heritage of citizenship is not to be conceded to those who seek
to avail themselves of it under pressure of a particular exigency,
without being able to show that it was ever possessed.

CHIN BAK KAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Section thirteen of the act of September 13, 1888, provides
that any Chinese person, or person of Chinese descent, found
unlawfully in the United States, may be arrested on a warrant
issued upon a complaint under oath, "by any justice, judge, or
commissioner of any United States court," and when convicted,
on a hearing, and found and adjudged to be one not lawfully
entitled to be or remain in the United States, shall be removed
to the country whence he came. "But any such Chinese person convicted before a commissioner of the United States court
may, within ten days from such conviction, appeal to the judge
of the District Court for the district."
It seems to have been assumed, during the years following
the date of the act, and is conceded by the United States, that
although most of its provisions were dependent upon the ratification of the treaty of Mar6h 12, 1888, and failed with the
failure of ratification, that this section is in and of itself independent legislation and in force as such. Accordingly in this
case an appeal was taken from the judgment of deportation
rendered by the commissioner to the judge of the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of New York,
and, upon hearing, the District Cdurt affirmed that judgment.
From the judgment of the District Court, this appeal was taken
under section five of the act of March 3, 1891, on the ground
that the construction of the treaty of 1894 was drawn in question. Except in cases under that section where the question
of jurisdiction alone is certified, we have power to dispose of the
entire ease, but as the jurisdiction of the commissioner is sustained, we are of opinion that we cannot properly reexamine
the facts already determined by two judgments below. That
is the general rule, and there is nothing io take this case out of
its operation, and, on the contrary, the conclusion is, afortiori,
justified. The same reasoning in respect to the authority to
exclude applies to the authority to expel, and the policy of the
legislation in respect to exclusion and expulsion is opposed to
numerous appeals. And we are not disposed to hold that where
a Chinese laborer has evaded the executive jurisdiction at the
frontier and got into the country, he is therefore entitled to
demand repeated rehearings on the facts.
JTudgment qifirmed.

