.NEW YORK CENTRAL R'D CO. v. NEW YORK.

269

Statement of the Case.

that the action of the Commission in fixing the rate complained
of as to this particular class of freight has not been shown to
be so-unjust or unreasonable as to-amount to a taking of property without due process of law, and we therefore conclude that
the judgment of the Supreme Court must be

Aflrmed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO ThE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.
No. 234. Argued April 23, 24,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

Without deciding that the briefs of counsel may-be resorted to for the purpose of determining whether a Federal question was raised in the state'
court, it is sufficient to say that a general claim made that a particular
act of the legislature is violative of the state and Federal Constitution,
is not sufficient to show that a Federal right was specially set up and
claimed or the validity of a statute was drawn inquestion in the state court,
when no such question was noticed in the opinion of the state court and
the case was disposed of upon a ground wholly independent of a Federal
question.

THIs was -apetition of the New York Central and Hudson
River Railroad Company, as lessee, and the New York and.
Harlem .fRailroad Company, as owner, to vacate certain assessments for regulating and grading, setting curbstones, paving
and other improvenments to Vanderbilt avenue East, in the city
of New York, upon the ground that the property in question
had, not been, would not'be, and could not be, benefited in
any manner by the improvements.
The successive steps towards the proposed improvements were
the adoption of resolutions by the local municipal legislature, directing the improvements; the ascertainment of their cost; the
making of a contract for their construction; and, finally, the
assessment of the benefits upon the property, which in one case
amounted to $4687.82 and in the other to $12,626.72, Peti-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

tioners filed before the board of assessors objections to both
assessments upon the ground that they were unfair, unequal,
inequitable and unjust, and greater than the amounts assessed
upon surrounding property. The two proposed assessments
with these objections were transmitted by the assessors to the
board of revision, which confirmed them.
Thereupon the two railway companies filed this petition, setting up the facts above stated, and alleging that their lands
assessed are held and occupied only and exclusively as a roadway upon, which their tracks are laid, and over which their
trains are run, and that there are.no buildings or other improvements upon the land except such railway tracks; that the grade
of Vanderbilt avenue is from ten to eighteen feet above the
level of petitioners' tracks; that there is no possible access from
the land of petitioners to Vanderbilt avenue, but, on the contrary, that the roadway was constructed under a contract between petitioners and the board of public parks, and was
depressed to its present grade, and solid stone retaining walls
built upon and along the easterly and westerly sides of said
land, in order that access to and from public streets and avenues,
including that part of Park avenue or Vanderbilt avenue East,.
should be cut off and rendered impossible, and that no benefit
could accrue to petitioners' lands by such improvements.
Petitioners prayed that the assessments might be vacated
and the liens upon their lands discharged; but there is nowhere
in the petition any claim of a Federal right, or a violation of
the Constitution of the United States in any particular.
The case coming on to be heard before a special term of the
Supreme Court, ,held on July 21,- 1899, upon the petition, and
testimony taken -by consent, it was ordered that the prayer of
the'petition be denied. The railroad companies thereupon appealed to the appellate division of the Supreme- Court, which
affirmed the order of the special term. An appeal was taken
to the Court 6f Appeals, where the order of the appellate division was affirmed, and the case remitted to the Supreme
Court, which ordered the judgment of the Court of Appeals to
be made the order and judgment of that court. No written
opinion was filed by the Court of Appeals.

NEW YORK CENTRAL R'D CO. v. NEW YORK.

271

Opinion of the Court.

Whereupon the railway companies applied for and were allowed a writ of error from this court.
.r. Ira A. Place and Mr. Thomas Emery for plaintiffs in
error.
.Xt'. George L. Sterling for defendant in error.

?k. JUSTIcE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.
Petitioners rely in this case upon the fact that the property
assessed consists solely of a roadway through Park avenue or
Vanderbilt avenue East, depressed from ten to eighteen feet
below the grade of the street, the sides of which depression are
held in place, and faced by a retaining wall, surmounted by an
iron fence, whereby all access to and from the roadway to the
street is rendered impossible, except at the intersection of side
streets, where bridges are built for the accommodation of traffic. Their claim is that no possible benefit bad, would or could
inure to the benefit of the railway companies by the construction of the proposed improvements; and all the oral testimony
tended to show that fact. The roadway was in fact nothing
more than a tunnel through the avenue, open at the top, and
differed only in that particular from an ordinary railway tunnel or subway wholly beneath the surface. The only evidence
to the contrary was the order of the board of assessors and the
board of revision making the assessment, presumably founded
upon the opinion that some benefit must have accrued to the
roads,
The only opinion delivered was that of the appellate division,
which held that, under the city charter, there was no power in
the court in any event to vacate an assessment for local improvements; that while the court was given power to reduce
an assessment, it was deprived of the power to vacate it.
"It may correct an error, but it cannot entirely wipe out the
assessment itself," although it was intimated that the property
owner' might still "challenge the validity of the assessment,
whenever his property is assessed under it, or it is made the
foundation of proceedings against him."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The difficulty with the position of the railway companies in
,this court is that no Federal question was raised in their petition-the only pleading filed by them-and they are forced to
rely upon a copy of their printed brief submitted in the Court
of Appeals, and certified by the Chief Judge of that court as
containing certain matters. The only allusion, however, in this
brief to a possible Federal question is that contained in the following extracts:
"Legislative enactment is to be interpreted and construed
upon the hypothesis that the legislature has, in its enactments,
had due regard for these limitations upon its power, and that
interpretation to be given to the language promulgated by it
which will render it conformable to, rather than violative of, the
rule of state and Federal Constitution.
"If, by prohibiting judicial review, the result of section 962
is to enable the assessors to assess property for local improvements without reference to the benefits conferred upon the property by such improvements, that section is unconstitutional. A
statute which authorizes assessments for local improvements,
other than in accordance with the benefits conferred, is unconstitutional and void. Norwood v. Baker,172 U. S. 269. That
case holds that the only principle justifying the levying of assessments for local improvements is ' that the property upon
which they are imposed is peculiarly benefited, and, therefore,
the owners do not, in fact, pay anything in excess of what they
receive by reason of such improvements."'
Manifestly, this is not such a case of setting up and claiming
a Federal right as is required by Rev. Stat. section 709, to invest
this court with jurisdiction of a writ of error. In the case of
Zadig v. Baldwin, 166 U. S.485, the contention that there was
a Federal question raised below was contained only in an extract from the closing brief of counsel, presented to the Supreme
Court* of the State, in which such Federal question was discussed, and an oral assertion in the argument made to the Supreme Court of California that a claim under the Federal Constitution was presented. "But, manifestly," said the court,
"the matters referred to form no part of the record, and are
not adequate to create a Federal question, when no such ques-

HOFFELD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

tion was necessarily decided below, and the record does not
disclose that such decisions were set up or claimed in the proper
manner in the courts of the State."
But assuming, without intimating an opinion to that effect,
that the raising of a Federal question in the brief might be sufficient, it is well settled in this court that it must be made to
appear that some provision of the Federal, as distinguished from
the state, Constitution was relied upon, and that such provision
must be set forth. Porter v. Foley, 24 How. 415; .Ailler v.
Cornwall R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 131; Dewey v. Des .Aoinem, 1M3
U. S. 193; Keokuk &c. Bridge Co. v. Blinoa, 175 U. S. 626;
Chapin v. Fye,-179 U. S. 126.
It is hardly necessary to say that the raising of such a question in the assignments of error in this court is insufficient. Not
only was there no Federal question raised in the record, but the
appellate division made no allusion to such a question, and dismissed the petition upon the ground that the charter of New
York did not permit a question of benefit or no benefit to be
raised in such a proceeding-a ground wholly independent of a
Federal question.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Dismised.

HOFFELD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 318. Argued April 16, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

The statute of June 16, 1880, providing that where entries of public lands
have been canceled, the Secretary of the Interior shall refund the purchase money to the entryman, his heirs or assigns, is limited to such entryman, his heirs or voluntary assigns, and does not apply to one who
purchased the interest of the entryman upon an execution sale against
him.

THIs was a petition of J. Henrietta Eoffeld, executrix of the
estate of Rudolph Hoffeld, deceased, for the repayment to her
VOL. OLXXXVI-18

