UNITED STATES v. FREEL.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. FREEL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 224. Argued April 17, 1902.-Decided June 2, 1902.

A surety on a contractor's bond, conditioned for the performance of a contract to construct a dry dock, is released by subsequent changes in the
work, made by the principals without his consent.
The obligation of a surety does not extend beyond the terms of his undertaking, and when this undertaking is to secure the performance of an
existing contract, if any change is made in the requirements of such
contract in matters of substance without his consent, his liability is extinguished.
If the government's pleader had evidence of facts showing such knowledge
and consent, he should have asked leave to amend the declaration by
adding the averment necessary to state it.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. James Russell So&ey for Freel.
Mfr. George Hines Gorman for the United States.
MRh.

JUSTICE SHIRAs delivered the opinion~of the court.

In September, 1898, the United ,States of America brought
an action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York against John Gillies, Henry
Hanmilton and Hugh MciRoberts, Catharine Freel, Edward J.
Freel and Frank J. Freel, as executors of Edward Freel, deceased.
The complaint alleged that theretofore, and on the 171th of
November, 1892, the defendant John Gillies entered into a
contract in writing with the plaintiff to construct a timber dry
dock, to be located at the United States Navy Yard, Brooldyn,
New York, according to certain plans and specifications attached to and made part of said contract; that on said 17th of
November, 1892, the-said 3-hn Gillies, as principal,,and Henry

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Hamilton and Hugh McRoberts, and Edward Freel, as sureties, executed their joint and several bond to the United States
in the penal sum of $120,600, conditioned for the faithful performance by the said Gillies of his contract to construct said
dry dock; that. Gillies entered upon the performance of said
contract; that subsequently, on June 16, 1893, Gillies and the
United States agreed in writing to change and modify the
plans and specifications so as to increase the length of said dry
dock from six hundred to six hundred and seventy feet; that
on August 17, 1893, Gillies and the United States further
agreed in writing to change and modify the contract in certain particulars; that Gillies proceeded with the work- under
said original and supplemental contracts so slowly, negligently
and unsatisfactorily that the Secretary of the Navy, under the
option and right, reserved to him by the said contract, declared
the said contract forfeited on the part of said Gillies; that
thereupon, by a board duly appointed, the market value of.the
work done and of the materials on hand was appraised at the sum
of $170,175.40 ; that thereafter, under the provisions of said
contract,-the Secretary of the Navy proceeded to complete
said dry dock and appurtenances in accordance with the said
contracts, plans and specifications, at a cost to the United States
of the sum of $370,000 ; that the sum of $72,414.16 represented
the damages sustained by the -plaintiff by reason of said Gillies'
breach of contract; that Edward Freel died on the 24th day
of December, 1896, leaving a last will appointing Catharine
Freel, Edward J. Freel and Frank J. Freel executors thereof;
that the said defeindant Sohn Gillies neglected and refused to
perform the terms and conditions of said contract on his part,
and that the plaintiff has performed, fully and completely, all
the terms and conditions of said contract on its part. Wherefore the plaintiff demanded judgment against the said defend-ants in the said sum of $72,414.16 with interest from.April 1,,
1897.
On November 26, 1898, Edward J. Freel, as executor of
Edward Freel, .decdased, appeared and demurred to the complaint upon the ground that it appeared upon the face thereof
that said complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a

UNITED STATES v. FREEL.

aii

Opinion of the Court.

cause of, action. On May 24, 1899, after hearing the counsel.
of the respective parties, the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the complaint as to said Edward J. Freel
as executor. 92 Fed. Rep. 299. The case was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and on Jauuary 5, 1900, that court affirmed the, judgment of the Cifcuit
Court. 99 Fed. Rep. 237. On December 22, 1900, a writ, of.,
error was allowed, and the cause was brought to this .court.
The question in this caqe'is whether a .surety on a contractor's bond, conditioned for performance of a contract to- construct a dry dock, ,was released by subsequent changes in the
work made by the principals without his consent.
As the question is presented to us on a general demurrer to
the complaint, it is necessary to set forth, with some particularity, portions of the original and of the supplemental..contracts, which form parts of the complaint.
The original contract, dated November 1'T, 1892, contained,
after alleging that proposals had been made and accepted for
the construction by contract, of a timber dry dock, to be located
at the United States Navy Yard, Brooklyn, New York, the
following provisions:
"First. The contractor will, within twenty days after he
shall have been tendered the possession and occupancy of the
site by the party of tle second part, which possession and occupancy of the said site during the period of construction and
until the completion and delivery of the work hereinafter mentioned, shall be secured to the contractor by the party of the
second part, commence, and within t\venty-seven calendar
months from such date, construct and complete, ready to receive vessels, a timber dry dock, to be located at such place on
the water line of the navy yard, 'Brooklyn, N. Y., as shall be
designated by the pafty of the second part."
"Seventh. The construction of said dry dock and its accessories and appurtenances herein contracted for shall confotni"
in all respects to and with the plans and specifications aforesaid, which. plans and- Apecifications are hereto annexed and
shall be deemed and taken as forming a part of this contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

with the like operation and effect as if the same were incorporated herein. No omission in the plans or specifications of any
detail, object or provision necessary to carry this contract into
full and complete effect, in accordance with the true intent and
meaning hereof, shall operate to the disadvantage of the United
States, but the same shall be satisfactorily supplied, performed
and observed by the contractor, and all claims for extra compensation by reason of or for or on account of such extra performance are hereby, and in consideration of the premises,
expressly waived; and it is hereby further provided, and this
contract is upon the express condition, that the said plans and
specifications shall not be changed in any respect except upon
the written order of the Bureau of Yards and Docks; and that
if at any time it shall be, found ad-vantageous or necessary to
make any change, alteration or modification in the aforesaid
plans and specifications, such change, alteration or modification
must be agreed upon in writiig by the parties to the contract,
the agreement to set forth fully the i'easons for such change,
and the nature thereof, and the indreased or diminished compensation, based upon the estimated actual cost thereof, which
the contractor shall receive, if any: Provided;That whenever
the said changes or alterations would increase or decrease the
cost by a sum exceeding five hundred dollars.($500) the actual
cost thereof shall be ascertained, estimated and determined by a
board of naval officers to be appointed by the Secretary of the.
Navy for the purpose; and the contractor shall be bound by
the determination of said board, or a majority thereof, as to the
amount of increased or diminished compensation he shall be
entitled to receive in consequence of such change or changes:
Providedfurther,That if any enlargement or increase of dimensions shall be ordered by the Secretary of the Navy during
the construction of said dry dock, that the actual cost thereof
shall be ascertained, estimated and determined by a board of
naval officers, to be appointed by the Secretary of the Navy,
who shall revise said estimate and determine the sum or sums
to be paid the contractor for the additional work that may be
required under this contract: And provided also, That no further payment shall be made unless such supplemental or modi-

UNITED STATES v. FREEL.
Opinion of the Court.

fled agreement shall have been signed before the obligation
arising from such change or modification was incurred and until after its approval by the party of the second part: Andfurtlerjprovided,That no change herein provided for shall in any
manner affect the validity of this contract."
The supplemental contract of June 16, 1893, "contained,
among other things, the following:
"This agreement, entered into this 16th day of June, 1893,
between John Gillies, contractor, for the construction of a dry
dock at the U. S. Navy Yard, Brooklyn, New York, pirty of
the first part, and Norman H. Farquhar, Chief of the Bureau
of Yards and Docks of the Navy Department, for and in behalf
of the United States, party of the second part,
"1Witnesseth: That, whereas, the 'Navy Department has decided to lengthen the said dry dock from six hundred (600)
feet, as called for in the specifications forming a part of the
contract for the construction of a dry dock at the above-mentioned location, entered into by the above-mentioned parties of
the first and second parts on the 17th of November, 1892, to
six hundred and seventy (670) feet from the outer gate sill to
the coping at the head of the dock.
"And, whereas, a board of naval officers, consisting of Captain J.-N. Miller, U. S. N., Civil Engineer" P. 0. Asserson, U.
S. N., and Civil Engineer, F. C. Prindle, U. S. N., was orderied
by, and did convene, by order of the Secretary of the Navy,.in
compliance with the requirements of paragraph 7, page 2, of
the contract, to fix this additional compensation to be allowed
to said party of the first part for the additional labor and material required for said extension.
"And, whereas, said board of naval officers, after careful
and mature deliberation, did fix the additional compensation
to be paid said-party of the first part for the said extension of
the said dry dock at forty-five thousand five hundred and fiftysix ($45,556) dollars, and did allow an extension of three (3)
months' time on account of said extension of said dry dock .
"Now, therefore, the party of the first part does hereby
agree to extend the said dry dock to a length of six hundred
and seventy (670) feet, measuring from the outer gate sill to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the coping at the head of the dock, in the same manner and
-under the same conditions as though said extension had been
included in the original contract.
"And it is. further agreed by the party of the first part to
accept from the United States, as a just compensation for said
work of extension, the sum of forty-five thousand five huidred
and fifty-six ($45,556) dollars, in full therefor, payment to be
made under the same conditions and requirements as exacted
by the original contract.
"And it is further agreed by the party of the second part
that, in full and just compensation to the party of the first part,
the sum of forty-five thousand five hundred and fifty-six
($45,556) dollars shall be paid for the additional labor and
material necessary to extend the said dry dock, as heretofore
agreed to, payments to be made under the same conditions and
requirements as exacted in the original contract.
"And it is therefore agreed that the time fixed in the original
contract for the completion of the said dry dock shall be extended three (3) months, on account of the extra labor necessary to carry out the extension of the said dry dock as called
for by this agreement."
The supplemental contract of August 17, 1893, contained
the following:
"This agreement, made and concluded this seventeenth day
of August, A. D. 1893, by and between John Gillies, of the
city of Brooklyn, in the State of New York, party of the first
part, and the United States, represented by N. 1f..Farquhar,
U. S. Navy, Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, Navy
Department, acting under the direction of the Secretary of the
Navy, party of the second part,
"Witnesseth: That whereas it has been deemed desirable to
change the location of the dry dock now being constructed at
the U. S. Navy Yard at Brooklyn, New York, under contract
with the said John Gillies, party of the first part, dated November 17th, A. D. 1892:
"Now, therefore, this agreement witnesseth that in consideration of the premises and for and in consideration of the payment to be made as hereinafter provided for, the party of the

UNITED STATES v. FREEL.
Opinion of the Court.

first part, for himself, his heirs and assigns, and his legal and
personal representatives, agrees to and with the United States
that he will, in the construction of the said dry dock, change
its location to one sixty-four (164) feet further inland than that
laid down and staked out when the said contract was entered
into, and that he will perform all the additional excavation
necessary at the entrance of the dry dock in consequence of
the said change of location; also all the additional work necess~ry to lengthen the suction pipes provided to be laid from the
present pump house, including the piping, round piles, sheet
piles, timber, iron work, excavation and back filling, etc., and
all other work incident to said change of locatiou, supplying
all the labor and materials therefor.
"And this agreement further witnesseth that the United
States, party of the second part, in consideration of the stipulations, agrees that for the faithful performance of this agreement by the party of the first part there shall be paid to the
said party of the first part the sum of five thousand and sixtythree dollars and eighteen cents ($5063.18), United States currency, as full compensation. Said payment to be made in accordance with all the terms and conditions of payments as
provided in the said contract and specifications.
"And the United States further agrees that the time limited
by the said contract for the completion of the dry dock shall
be extended for a period of eight (8) weeks on account of the
said change in the position of the dry dock.
"It is also agreed that the provisions and conditions contained
in the said contract and the specifications thereto attached, in
regard to the character and quality of the materials and workmanship, shall apply to the work as herein modified.
"This agreement is made under the provisions of and in accordance with article 'seventh' of the said contract."
Before addressing ourselves directly to the question before
us, it may be well to briefly examine some of the decisions of
this court on the subject of the alteration of contracts without
the assent of the surety.
.Ailler v. Stewart, 9 Wheat. 680, was an action on a bond conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the office

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of deputy collector of direct taxes for eight certain townships
-in the fifth collection district of New Jersey, and it appeared
that the instrument of the appointment, referred to in the bond,
was afterwards altered, so as to extend to another township,
without the consent of the sureties. It was held that the surety
was discharged from his responsibility for moneys subsequently
collected by his principal, the court saying, per Mr. Justice
Story: "That the liability of a surety is not to be extended by
implication, beyond the terms of his contract; that his undertaking is to receive a strict interpretation, and not to extend
beyond the fair scope of its terms; and that the whole series of
authorities proceeded upon this ground." Miller v. Stewart
was followed and approved in -Leggettv. Humphrey, 21 How.
76 ; Smith v. United States, 2 Wall. 219.
In United States v. Booker, 21 Wall. 652, in the case of a distiller's bond, which recited that the person is about to be the
distiller at one place, to wit, at the corner of Hudson street and
East avenue, situated in the town of Canton, it was held that
his sureties were not liable for taxes in respect of business carried on by him at another place, to wit, at the corner of Hudson and Third streets in the same town, even though he had no
distillery whatever at the first named place.
However, the proposition that the obligation of a surety does
not extend beyond the terms of his undertaking, and that when
this undertaking is to assure the performance of an existing
contract, if any change is made in the requirements of such
contract in matters of substance without his consent, his liability is extinguished, is so elementary that we need not cite the
numerous cases in England and in the state and Federal courts
establishing it. 11Many of these cases will be found cited in the
opinion of Thomas, J., in this case. 92 Fed. Rep. 299.
At the trial in he Circuit Court, it was contended, on behalf
of the surety, that this proposition was applicable, and exonorated him by reason of the changes made in the original contract by the supplemental contracts of June 16 and August 17,
1893. It was claimed on behalf of the United States that the
changes made in the original contract by the supplemental
agreements were within contemplation of that contract, and

UNITED STATES v. FREEL.
Opinion of the Court.

must be deemed to have been assented to in advance by the
surety.
It was held by the learned trial judge, that the government's
position was well taken in respect to the supplemental agreement of June 16, 1893, which he regarded as fairly within the
meaning of the provisions in the seventh section of the contract,
which refers to and provides for changes, alterations or modifications in the plans and specifications, and, therefore,'within
the undertaking of the surety. But his view was otherwise in:
respect to the alterations made by the supplemental contract
of August 17, which, as respects the change of the site of the
dock and the extension of the time of completion of the contract, he held to be changes not within the scope of the seventh
section, but to be such as to exonerate the surety from liabilitr
for the subsequent dereliction of his principal.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals in thinking that
if the learned judge's opinion was sound in respect to the agreement of August 17, 1893, it is not necessary to determine
whether the seventh section warranted so wide a departure
from the plans and specifications'of the original contract as was
made by the agreement of June 16, 1893.
Coming, then, to the question of the effect on the responsibility of the surety of the supplemental agreement of August 17, we agree with the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals in holding that the alterations thereby caused were
beyond the terms of the undertaking of the surety, and extinguished his liability. The seventh section had in view such
changes as might be found advantageous or necessary in the
plans and specifications. But the changes called for by the
new agreement had no reference to the original plans and
specifications, but changed the location of the dry dock, requiring the contractor to make additional excavations and connections with the water, at an increased expense, and gave an.increased time of performance.
A few cases, illustrating the principles involved, may be
properly cited, and reference is made to the opinion of the Circuit Court, in which many more are cited.
In .Mundyv. Stevens, 61 Fed. Rep. 77, it was held by the

OCTOBER TER1 , 1901.
Opinionof the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals of the Third Circuit that sureties for
the payment by a contractor to a sub-contractor of all moneys
received for work under a government contract as provided in
the contract were released by an alteration of such agreement
whereby the right secured to the original contractors to deduct from the monthly payments three cents per yard for material dredged, subsequently was modified so that payments of
two and a half cents per cubic yard should be made monthly;
and it was also held that, as the plaintiff had set forth the supplementary agreement in his statement of claim, he thereby
made it part of his case, and the burden of proof that the
change was consented to by the sureties was upon the plaintiff.
.Rowanv.SaapesRijle Man. Co., 33 Conn. 1, is an important
case. There it was held by the Supreme Court of Connecticut
that where a contract provided that the guns contracted for
should be made "with all possible dispatch," and a supplemental contract, made before performance, provided that three hundred guns per week should be delivered for a certain period,
and six hundred per week afterwards, the surety was discharged, the court saying: "But it appears to us very clear
that a contract to manufacture and deliver a large quantity of
any description of goads in a reasonable time, and a contract
to manufacture and deliver the same quantity either at a specified time for the whole or a specific quantity from time to
time, monthly or weekly,. as the case may be, are materially
variant."
.The Supreme Court of Indiana, in Zimmerman v. Judah,
13 Ind. 286, held that a supplementary agreement to put an
additional story on a house released the surety for the contractor in the original contract.
Whitcher v. _all, 5 B. & C. 269, is cited in the opinion of
the Circuit Court. There it was held by the Court of King's
Bench that a surety, engaged for another to the plaintiff for the
milking of thirty cows, at a given price each per annum, was
released by a subsequent agreement without his consent, whereby
the hirer was to have twenty-eight- cows for one half the year
and thirty-two for the remainder.

UNITED STATES v. FREEL.
Opinion of the Court.

A further contention is made in the govern ment's brief that,
even if such substantial changes were made in the contract as
would release the -suretyif made without his assent, the fact of
such changes should have been set up by the defendant as an
affirmative defence by answer or plea, and not by demurrer.
The declaration set out, by attaching them as exhibits, the
original and the- two supplemental contracts, and it alleged
that the changes effected by the latter were made "pursuant
to, and in conformity with, paragraph 'seventh' of the firstcontract." .If, upon the face of the agreement of August 17,
1893, it appeared that substantial changes were made in the
location of the proposed structure, requiring additional excavations and connebtions at an increased expense, and extending'
the time limited by the contract for thecompletion of the dry
dock for a period of eight weeks, on -account of the change in
the position of the dry dock, and if, as is conced'ed by this
objection, such substantial changes in the location, cost and
time necessary for the completion of the work operated to release the surety if made without his knowledge and consent,
then the declaration put the plaintiff out of court, so far as the
defendant surety was concerned, unless it was averred that the
latter had knowledge of the changes and consented thereto.
If the government's pleader had evidence of facts showing such
knowledge and consent, and was surprised by the action of the
trial judge in sustaining the demurrer, it was. open to him to
ask leave to amend the declaration by adding the necessary
averment. - This was not done, and we think it is too late to
urge this objection in this court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the disposition of this

case.

