OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

KENNARD v. NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 261. Submitted May 2, 1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

There was no dispute as to the facts out of which this controversy arose.
The right of the plaintiff to recover under his contract with the State is
not for this court to determine, unless the record disclobes that he has
been deprived of some title, right, privilege orimmunity secured to him
by the Constitution of the United States, which was specially set up or
claimed in the state court.
The decision by the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska, that the Pawnee
reservation lands in that State were public lands, within the meaning
of the twelfth section of the enabling act, did not bring into question the
validity of that section; and there is nothing on which to rest a right to
review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ar. A. S. Tibbets for plaintiff in error.
fr.. F. X Prout for defendant in error.

MR.

JUSTicE S.IRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

In May, 1897, in the District. Court of Lancaster County,
State of Nebraska, Thomas P. Kennard brought an action
against the State of Nebraska, seeking to recover the sum of
$13,521.99-being fifty per centum of a certain sum paid by
the United States to the State of Nebraska, and which plaintiff
alleged had been so paid by reason of his services, as a duly appointed agent'of the State, in procuring the allowance of the
claim of the State. The petition further stated that, in pursuance of an act of the leg'slature of the State, the governor had
contracted with the plaintiff to promote the claim of the State,
and had agreed that plaintiff was to receive fifty per centum
of the amount recovered. It also alleged that by a resolution
of the legislature he was authorized to prosecute his claim in
the courts of the State of Nebraska.

KENNARD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

The cause was put at issue, and came to trial, a jury being
waived, and on March 11, 1898, upon the pleading and evidence,
the court found for the plaintiff the sum of $13,521.99, and
entered judgment accordingly. The cause was taken to the
Supreme Court of Nebraska, where, on October 5, 1898, the
judgment of the trial court was reversed, State v. Hennard,
56 Neb. 254; and again, on February 9, 1899, upon a rehearing, the same conclusion was reached. A writ of error was allowed, January 17, 1901, and the cause brought to this court.
The facts of this case appear, sufficiently for our purposes,
in the following extract from the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Nebraska, filed upon a rehearing of the case in that court:
"This is a rehearing of State v. Kennard, 56 Neb. 254; 57
Neb. 112. By section 12 of the enabling act passed by Congress, April 19, 1864, 13 U. S. Statutes at Large, 47, the United
States donated to the State of Nebraska five per centum of the
proceeds of sale of all public lands lying within the State of
Nebraska which had prior to that time been sold, or which
should subsequently be sold, by the United States, after deducting expenses incident to such sale. At the time the State was
admitted into the Union a tribe of Indians, known as the
'Pawnees,' occupied in common a tract of lands in this State
known as the I Pawnee Indian reservation.' After the State
was admitted into the Union the United States took such steps
as resulted in the extinguishment of the rights of these Indians
to the lands in this reservation, sold the lands, and, it seems,
used the proceeds of the sale to defray the expenses incident
thereto in procuring other lands for the Indians elsewhere, and
placed the remaining proceeds of the sale of these lands in the
United States Treasury to the credit of the Indians. By an
act passed by the legislature of the State of Nebraska in February, 1873, (see General Statutes, 1873, ch. 59,) it seems that the
legislature was of opinion that by reason of section 12 of the
enabling act the United States was indebted to it for five per
cent of the value of the lands lying within the State used as
Indian reservations, and five per cent of the value of all lands
on which private parties had located military land warrants and
land scrip issued for miliiary service in the wars of the United
VOL.

OxL

xvi-20

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

States, and five per cent of the value of all such as had been
donated by the United States to railroads.
"It is also recited in said act that the United States had
donated to other States swamp and overflowed lands lying
within their borders, but that no such donation or allowance
of swamp and overflowed lands had been made to this State,
and it seems to have been the opinion of the legislature that all
the swamp and overflowed lands lying within the State belonging to the United States should by it be donated to the State.
The act under consideration authorized the governor to employ
an agent in behalf of the State, to prosecute. to final decision
before Congress or in the courts, the claim of the State of Nebraska against the United States for the five per cent of the
value of the lands disposed of by the United States for any of
the purposes already mentioned and for the purpose of procuring from the United States a donation of the swamp and overflowed lands within its borders. The act left the compensation
of the agent to be agreed upon by the governor and the agent,
but provided, in effect, that the. agent should not be entitled
to any compensation for collecting from the United States any
part of the five per cent cash school fund which had been donated to the State by the United States by section 12 of the
enabling act aforesaid. The governor of the State entered into
a contract with Kennard in pursuance of the act of the legislature just mentioned, in and by which he authorized Kennard
to prosecute and collect the claims of the State against the
nation in conformity with the act of the legislature, and that
the State should pay him one half of all moneys, except such
cash school fund, he should collect for the State as such agent.
Mr. Kennard entered upon the performance of his counact
with the governor, and by his efforts induced the Secretaryof
the Interior to acknowledge that the United States were indebted to the State of Nebraska in the sum of five per centum
of-the proceeds of the sale of the ' Pawnee Indian reservation'

lands made by the United States
of the State into the Union; and,
of the Secretary of. the Interior,
the treasury of this State $27,000.

subsequent to the admission
in pursuance of this decision
the United States paid into
. Mr. Kennard, by permission

KENNARD v. NEBRASKA.
Opinion of the Court.

of the legislature, then brought this suit to recover one half of
that sum. He had judgmept in the District Court for Lancaster
County, and the State brought the same here for review, and
the judgment of theDistrict Court was reversed. We based
our judgment of reversal of this judgment upon the proposition
that the lands of the IPawnee Indian reservation' were public
lands within the meaning of section 12 of the enabling act, and
that the only money collected by Mr. Kennard was the five per
cent of the proceeds of the sale made of these lands'by the
United States, and, by the terms of his contract, he was not to
have any compensation for collecting these moneys."
Upon this statement of the facts, does this court have jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State of Nebraska?
There was no dispute as to the facts out of which the controversy arose. The right of the plaintiff to recover under his contract with the State is not for us to determine, unless the record
discloses that he has been deprived of some title, right, privilege or immunity secured to him by the Constitution of the
United States, andunless it appears that such title, right, privilege or immunity was specially set up or claimed in the state
court. Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler Co., 166 U. S. 618; Water
Power Co. v. Street Bwy. Co., 172 U. S.475.
Looking into the record, we do not find in the pleadings, or
in the petition for a hearing any specific statement or claim by
the plaintiff in error of any right, title, privilege or immunity
secured to him by any provision of the Constitution of the United States. This, indeed, is admitted in the brief of the plaintiff
in error, but it was claimed in the petition for allowance of a
writ of error from this court, "that in the rendition of the judgment by the Supreme Court of the State there was drawn in
question the construction of the statutes of the United States
with reference to the lands of the Pawnee Indian reservation
located in the State of Nebraska, and the act of Congress authorizing the admission of the State of Nebraska into the Union,
passed April, 1864, 13 Stat. 97, and that the decision of said
Supreme Court was against the plaintiff in error in such construction," and that" said decision was necessary to the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ment given by the said Supreme Court, and without such decision and construction the -said judgment could not have been
given." And it is now contended that the plaintiff's right to
recover was defeated solely by the construction the state court
placed upon the Congressional acts, and that thus a Federal
question appears in the record, giving this court power to review
the decision of the state court.
But the validity of the acts of Congress referred to was not
drawn in question by the facts of this controversy. Our jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state court rests upon section 709 of the Revised Statutes. It hag often been held that
the validity of a statute or treaty of the United States is not
"1arawn- in question" within the meaning of section 709, every
time rights claimed under a statute or treaty are controverted,
nor is the validity of an authority every time an act done by
such authority is disputed. Baltimore & Potomac R. B. Co.
v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210 ; Cook County v. Calumet &c. Cana
Company, 138 U. S. 635, 653; Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159 U. S.
408; -Blackburn v. Portland Mining Company, 175 U. S. 571;
Florida Central RailroadCompany v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321, 328 ;
Water Power "ompany v. Street Railway Company, 172 U. S.
488.
The decision by the Supreme Court of the State, that the
Pawnee reservation lands in Nebraska were public lands within
the meaning of the twelfth section of the enabling act, did not
bring into question the validity of that section-much less was
it a decision againstits validity. As, then, the plaintiff in error
specially set up or claimed no Federal right, and as the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska did not impugn the
validity of any statute of the United States, we find nothing on
which to rest a right to review that judgment, and the writ of
error is accordingly
Dismissed.

