HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.
Statement of the Case.

yet the words "now pending," used in the eighth section, literally apply to cases remaining unheard and undecided, and no
particular provision was therein made in reference to cases pending on appeal. Nevertheless it is true that if there had been
nothing more in this case than a decree by this court, affirming
or reversing the decree below, the case would have been remanded to the district in which the property in controversy
was situated, and in which the case would have been brought
if the new District had then existed. But, as will have been
seen, the case was not determined on its merits here, and proceedings were thought necessary to be taken independent of
the ultimate disposition of the case. Therefore we entered the
decree of February 24, and, upon further reflection, have concluded that it should not be amended.
Aotion denied.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

took no part in the consideration and

disposition of this motion.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK

.

MOYSES.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT Or THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 203. Argued and submitted April 7,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

The bankruptcy law of 1898 is not unconstitutional because it provides that
others than traders may be adjudged bankrupts; and that this may be
done on voluntary petition.
Nor is it unconstitutional for want of uniformity because of its recognition
of exemptions by the local law.
The notices provided for by the act are sufficient under the Constitution of
the United States, and the discharge of the debtor under proceedings at
his domicil authorized by Congress is valid throughout the United States.

THIS was an action brought by the Hanover National Bank
of New York against Max Moyses in the Circuit Court of the

.OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, November 20, 1899, on a judgment recovered against him in the Circuit Court of Washington County, Mississippi, December 12,
1892.
The amended declaration averred the execution of-a certain
promissory note by defendant payable to the bank of Greenville,
Mississippi; the endorsement thereof to plaintiff in New York;
default in payment, suit in the state court of Mississippi having
_oersonam against defendant, who was then ajurisdiction inp
citizen and yesident thereof ; recovery of judgment; and that
the judgment "still remains in full force and effect, unappealed
from, unreversed, or otherwise vacated, and the plaintiff hath
not obtained any execution or satisfaction thereof." It was
also averred that after the rendition of the judgment in
Mississippi, defendant changed his domicil and residence to the
- State of Tennessee, and thereafter, "not being a merchant or
a trader, nor engaged in business or in any commercial pursuits,
nor using the trade of merchandise, and being without mercan-tile business of any kind, filed his voluntary petition in bankruptcy in-the District Court of the United States for the Southern Division of said Eastern District of Tennessee, under the
act of Congress of the United States of America, approved
July 1, 1898, entitled IAn act to establish a uniform system
of bankruptcy throughout the United States,"' and was adjudged bankrupt, and "since August 1, 1898," "1granted an
adjudication of his discharge in bankruptcy from all of his debts,
including that herein sued for." 30 Stat. 544, July 1, 1898,
c. 541.
It was adinitted that the discharge was "good and effectual
if said act of Congress and the proceedings thereunder are
valid," but charged that the act was void because in violation
of the Federal Constitution in many particulars set forth.
Plaintiff also stated that it was and had continued to be domiciled in and resident in New York; that it was not a party to
said pr6ceedings in bankruptcy, nor did it enter its appearance
therein for any purpose, nor did it prove its claim, nor did it
in any-way subject itself to the jurisdiction of the District Court
in said proceedings; that plaintiff was not served with process

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.
Statement of the Case.

of any kind on said petition for adjudication, and had no notice,
personal or otherwise, of the said Proceeding by voluntary petition for adjudication; nor was any notice of the proceeding to
adjudicate defe\dant a bankrupt given plaintiff, or any one else,
"nor is any noi of any kind of such proceeding to adjudicate
a person a bankrupt upon his voluntary petition'required by
said act of Coigress, and in this said act of Congress violates
the Fifth Ai2endment,'? as does the "adjudication of defendant
as a bankrupt;" that the 8itits of the promissory note, on which
the judgment was render......as never within the jurisdiction of
the District Court; and that the court never acquired jurisdiction of plaintiff nor of the debt sued on.
Demurrer was filed to the amended declaration, the demurrer
sustained, and final judgment entered dismissing the suit. The
Circuit Court stated that it took this action on the authority of
Leidigh CarriageCompany v. StengeZ, 95 Fed. Rep. 637. Thereupon the bank brought this writ of error.
Errors were specified as follows: That the discharge under
the act of Congress of July 1, 1898, was a nullity, because:
"1. Said act violates the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in this :
"(a) It does not provide for notice as required by due process
of law- to the creditor in voluntary proceedings for adjudication of bankruptcy and for the discharge of the debt of the
creditor.
"(b) Ten days' notice by mail to creditors to oppose discharge is so unreasonably short as to be a denial of notice.
"(c) The grounds of opposition to a discharge are so unreasonably limited as, substantially, to deny the right of opposition to a discharge. Thereby the act is also practically a legislative promulgation of a discharge contrary to article III, secI
tion 1, of the Federal Constitution.
"2. Said act violates article I, section 8, paragraph 4, of the
Constitution in this:
"(a) It does not establish uniform laws on the subject of
bankruptcies throughout the United States.
(7)It delegates certain legislative powers to the several
States in respect to bankruptcy proccedins.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"(c) It provides that others than traders may be adjudged
bankrupts, and that this may be done on voluntary petitions."
-Hr.Marcellus Green for plaintiff in error.
Jr.

George White for defendant in error submitted on his

brief.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the fourth clause of section eight of article I of the Constitution the power is vested in Congress "to establish
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the
United States." This power was first exercised in 1800. 2 Stat.
19, c. 19. In 1803 that law was repealed. 2 Stat. 248, c. 6,
In 1841 it was again exercised by an act which was repealed
in 1843. 5 Stat. 440, c. 9; 5 Stat. 614, c. 842. It was again
exercised in 1867 by an act which, after being several times
amended, was finally repealed in 1878. 14 Stat. 517, c. 176;
20 Stat. 99, c. 160. And on July 1, 1898, the present act was
approved.
The act of 1800 applied to "any merchant, or other person,
residing within the .United States, actually using the trade of
merchandise, by buying or selling in gross, or by retail, or dealing in exchange, or as a banker, broker, factor, underwriter, or
marine insurer," and to involuntary bankruptcy.
In Adams v. Storey, 1 Paine, 79, Mr. Justice Livingston said
on circuit: "So exclusively have bankrupt laws operated on
traders, that it may well be doubted, whether an act of Congress
subjecting to such a law every description of persons within the
United States, would comport with the spirit of the powers
vested in them in relation to this subject." But this doubt was
resolved otherwise, and the acts of 1841 and 1867 extended to
persons other than merchants or traders, and provided for voluntary proceedings on the part of the debtor, as does the act
of 1898.
It is true that from the first bankrupt act passed in England,
34 & 35 Hen. VIII, c. 4, to the days of Queen Victoria, the

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.
Opinion of the Court.

English bankrupt acts applied only to traders, but, as Mr.
Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitution, pointed
out, "this is a mere matter of policy, and by no means enters
into the nature of such laws. There is nothing in the naturd or
reason of such laws to prevent their being applied to any other
class of unfortunate and meritorious debtors." §1113.
The whole subject is reviewed by that learned commentator
in chapter XVI, §§ 1102 to 1115 of his works, and he says
(§ 1111)'in respect of "what laws are to be deemed bankrupt
laws. within the meaning of the Constitution:" "Attempts
-have been made to distinguish between bankrupt laws and insolvent laws. For example, it has been said, that laws, which
merely liberate the person of the debtor, are insolvent laws, and,
those, which discharge the contract, are bankrupt laws. But
it would be very difficult to sustain this distinction by any uniformity of laws at home or abroad.

.

.

.

Again, it has been

said, that insolvent laws act on imprisoned debtors only at their
own instance; and bankrupt laws only at the instance of creditors. But, however true this may have been in past times, as
the actual course of English legislation, it is not true, and never
was true, as a distinction in colonial legislation. In England it
was an accident in the system, and not a material ground to
discriminate, who were to be deemed in a legal sense insolvents,
or bankrupts. And if an act of Congress should be passed,
which should authorize a commission of bankruptcy to issue at
the instance of the debtor, no court would on this account be
warranted in saying that the act was unconstitutional, and the
commission a nullity. It is believed, that no laws ever were
passed in America by the colonies or States, which had the
technical denomination of 'bankrupt laws.' But insolvent
laws, quite coextensive with the English bankrupt system in
their operations and objects, have not been unfrequent in colonial and state legislation. No distinction was ever practically,
or even theoretically, attempted to'be made between bankruptcies and insolvencies. And a historical review of the colonial
and state legislation will abundantly show, that a bankrupt
law may contain those regulations, which are generally found
in insolvent laws; and that an insolvent law may contain those,
which are common to bankrupt laws."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.
Sturges v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122, 195, was cited, where
Chief Justice Marshall said: "The bankrupt law is said to
grow out of the exigencies of commerce, and to be applicable
solely to traders; but it is not easy to say who must be excluded from, or may be included within, this description. It
is, like every other part of the subject, one on which the legislature may exercise an extensive discretion. This difficulty of
discriminating with any accuracy between insolvent and bankrupt laws, would lead to the opinion, that a bankrupt law may
contain those regulations which are generally found in insolvent
laws; and that an'insolvent law may contain those which are
common to a bankrupt law."
In the case, J.nre Klein, decided in the Circuit Court for the
District of Missouri, and reported in a note to Nelson v. Carland, 1 How. 265, 277, Mr. Justice Catron held the bankrupt
act of 1841 to be .constitutional, although it was not restricted
to traders, and allowed the debtor to avail himself of the act
on his own petition, differing in these particulars from the English acts. He said among other things: "In considering the
question before me, I have not pretended to give a definition;
but purposely avoided any attempt to define the mere word
' bankruptcy.' It is employed in the Constitution in the plural,
and as part of an expression; 'the subject of bankruptcies.'
The ideas attached to the word in this connection, are numerous and complicated ; they form a subject of extensive and complicated legislation ; of this subject, Congress has general
jurisdiction; and the true inquiry is-to what limits is that jurisdiction restricted? I hold, it extends to all cases where the
law causes to be distributed, the property of the debtor among
his creditors; this is its least limit. Its greatest, is the discharge of a debtor from his contracts. And all intermediate
legislation, affecting substance and form, but tending to further
the great end of the subject-distribution and discharge-are
in the competency and discretion of Congress. With the policy
of a law, letting in all classes,-others as well as traders; and
permitting the bankrupt to com6 in voluntarily, and be discharged without the consent of his creditors, the courts have
no concern; it belongs to the lawmakers."

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.
Opinion of the Court.

Similar views were expressed. under the act of 1867, by Mr.
Justice Blatchford, then District Judge, in In re Reiman, 7
Ben. 455 ; by Deady, J., in In re Silverman, 1 Sawyer, 410 ;
by Hoffman, J., in In re California Pacific Railroad Company, 3 Sawyer, 240; and in ZJunzler v. Kohaus, 5 Hill, 317, by
Cowen, J., in respect of the act of 1841, in whichl Mr. Justice
Nelson, then Chief Justice of New York, concurred. The conelusion that an act of Congress establishing a uniform system
of bankruptcy throughout the United States, is constitutional,
although providing that others than traders may be adjudged
bankrupts, and that this may be done on voluntary petitions,
is really not open to discussion.
The framers of the Constitution were familiar with Blackstone's Commentaries, and with the bankrupt laws of England,
yet they .granted plenary power to Congress over the whole
subject of "bankruptcies," and did not limit it by the language
used. This is illustrated by Mr. Sherman's observation in the
Convention, that "bankruptcies were, in some cases, punishable with death by the laws of England, and he did not choose
to grant a power by which that might be done here ;" and therejoinder of Gouverneur Morris, that "this was an extensive
and delicate subject. He would agree to it, because he saw no
danger'of abuse of the power by the legislature of the United
States." Madison Papers, 5 Elliot, 504; 2 Bancroft, 204. And
also to some extent by the amendment proposed, by New York,
"that the'power of Congress to pass uniform laws concerning
bankruptcy shall only extend to merchants and other traders;
and the States, respectively, may pass laws for the relief of
other insolvent debtors." 1 Elliot, 380. See also Mr. Pinkney's original proposition, 5 Elliot, 488; the report of the committee thereon, 5 Elliot, 503; and The Federalist, No. 42,
Ford's ed. 279.
As the States, in surrendering the power, did so only if Congress chose to exercise it, but in the absence .of Congressional
legislation retained it, the limitation was imposed on the States
that they should pass no "law impairing the obligation of contracts."
In .Brownv. Smart, 145 U. S. 454, 457, Mr. Justice Gray

OCTOBER TERMi 1901.
Opinion of-the Court.

said: "So long as there is no national bankrupt act, each State
has full authority to pass insolvent laws binding persons and
property within its jurisdiction, provided it does not impair the
obligation of existing contracts; but a state cannot by such a
law discharge one of its own bitizens from his contracts with
citizens of other States, though made after the passage of the
law, unless they voluntarily become parties to the proceedings
in insolvency. Yet each Statd, so long as it does not impair
the obligation of any contract; has the power by general laws
to regulate the conveyance and disposition of all property,
personal or real, within its limits and jurisdiction." Many
cases were cited, and, among others, Denny v. Bennett, 128
U. S.498, Where Mr. Justice Miller observed: "The objection
to the extraterritorial operation of a state insolvent law is, that
it cannot, like the bankruptcy law passed by Congress under
its constitutional grant of power, release all debtors from the
obligation of the debt. The authority to deal with the property of the debtor within the State, so far as it does not impair
the obligation of contracts, is conceded."
Counsel justly says that "the relation of debtor and creditor
has a dual aspect and contains two separate elements. The
one is the right of the creditor to resort to present property of
the debtor through th& courts to satisfy the debt; the other is
the personal obligation of the debtor to pay the debt, and that
he will devote his energies and labor to discharge it," 4 Wheat.
198 ; and "in the absence of property the personal obligation
to pay constitutes the only value of the debt." Hence the importance of the distinction between the power of Congress and
the power of the States. The subject of "bankruptcies" includes the power to discharge the debtor from his contracts
and legal liabilities, as well as to distribute his property. The
grant to Congress involves the power to impair the obligation
of contracts, and this the States .were forbidden to do.
The laws passed on the subject must, however, be uniform
throughout the United States, but that uniformity is geographical and not personal, and we do not think that the provision
of the act of 1898 as to exemptions is incompatible with the
rule.

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.

189

Opinion of the Court.

Section 6 reads: "This act shall not affect the allowance to
bankrupts of their exemptions which are prescribed by the
state laws in force at the time of the filing of the petition in
the State wherein they have had their domicile for the six
months or the greater portion thereof immediately preceding
petition."
the filing of the
Section 14: of the act of 1867 prescribed certain exemptions,
and then added: "And such other property not included in
the foregoing exceptions as is exempted from levy and sale
upon execution or other process or order of any court by the
laws of the State in which the bankrupt has his domicile at the
time of the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy,
to an amount not exceeding that allowed by such state exemption laws in force in the year eighteen hundred and sixty-four."
This was subsequently amended, and controversies arose under
the act as amended which we need not discuss in this case.
Lowell on Bankruptcy, § 4.
It was many times ruled that this provision was not in derogation of the limitation of uniformity because all contracts were
made with reference to existing laws, and no creditor could
recover more from his debtor than the unexempted part of his
assets. Mr. Justice Miller concurred in an opinion to that effect
in the case of Beckerford, 1 Dillon, 45.
Mr. Chief Justice Waite expressed the same opinion in In re
Decke't, 2 Hughes, 183. The Chief Justice there said: "The
power to except from the operation of the law property liable
to execution under the exemption laws of the several States, as
they were actually enforced, was at one'time questioned, upon
the ground that it was a violation of the constitutional require
ment of uniforrhity, but it has thus far been sustained, for the
reason that it was made a rule of the law, td subject to the pay- "
ment of debts -under its operation only such property as could
by judicial process be made available for the same purpose.
This is not unjust, as every debt is contracted with reference to
the rights of the parties thereto under existing exemption laws,
and no creditor can reasonably complain if he gets his full
share of all that the law, for the time being, places at the disposal of creditors. One of the effects of a bankrupt law is that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of a general execution issued in favor of all the creditors of the
bankrupt, reaching all his property subject to levy, and applying it to the payment of all his debts according to their respective priorities. It is quite proper, therefore, to confine its
operation to such property as other legal process could reach.
A rule which operates to this effect throughout the United
States is uniform within the meaning of that term, as used in
the Constitution."
We concur in this view, and hold that the system is, in the
constitutional sense, uniform throughout the United States,
when the trustee takes in each State whatever would have been
available to the creditors if the bankrupt law had not been
passed. The general operation of the law is uniform although
it may result in certain particulars differently in different
States.
Nor can we perceive in the recognition of the local law in
the matter of exemptions, dower, priority of payments, and
the like, any attempt by Congress to unlawfully delegate its
legislative power. li 'e .Raher,Petitioner, 140 U. S. 545,
560.
But it is contended that as to voluntary proceedings the act
is in violation of the Fifth Amendment in that it deprives
creditors of their property without due process of law in
failing to provide fdr notice.
The act provides that "any person who owes debts, except
a corporation, shall be entitled to the benefits of this act as a
voluntary bankrupt," (§ 4a,) and that "upon the filing of a
voluntary petition the judge shall hear the petition and make
the adjudication or dismiss the petition." § 18g. With the
petition he must file schedules of his property, and "of his
creditors, showing their residences, if known, if unknown, that
fact to be 'stated." § 7, subd. 8. The schedules must be
verified, and the petition must state that "petitioner owes debts
which he is unable to pay in full," and "that he is willing to
surrender all his property for the benefit of his creditors, except
such as is exempt by law." This establishes those facts so far
as a decree of bankruptcy is concerned, and he has committed
an act of bankruptcy in filing the petition. These are not issu-

HANOVER NATIONAL BANK v. MOYSES.
Opinion of the Court.

able facts, and. notice is unnecessary, unless dismissal is sought,
when notice is required. § 59 g.
As Judge Lowell said: "He may be, in fact, fraudulent, and
able and unwilling to pay his debts; but the law takes him at
his word, and makes effectual provision, ndt only by civil but
even by criminal process to effectuate his alleged intent of giving up all his property." In re Fowler, 1 Lowell, 161.
Adjudication follows as matter of course, and brings the
bankrupt's property into the custody of the court for distribution among all his creditors. After adjudication the creditors
are given at least ten days' notice by publication and by mail
of the first meeting of creditors, and of each of the various subsequent steps in administration. § 58. Application for a dis-'
charge cannot be made until after the expiration of one month
from adjudication. § 14.
Form No. 57 gives the form of petition for discharge and the
order for hearing to be entered thereon, requiring notice to be
published in a designated newspaper printed in the district, and
"that the clerk shall send by mail to all known creditors copies
of said petition and this order, addressed to them at their places
of residence as stated."
Section 14 b provides for the granting of discharge unless the
applicant has "(1) committed an offence punishable by imprisonment as herein provided; or (2) with fraudulent intent to conceal his true financial condition and in contemplation of bankruptcy, destroyed, concealed, or failed to keep books of account
or rec6rds from which his true condition might be ascertained."
The offences referred to are enumerated in section 29, and
embrace misappropriation of property; concealing property
belonging to the estate; making false oaths or accounts; presenting false claims; receiving property from a bankrupt with
intent to defeat the act; ,extorting money for acting or forbearing to act in bankruptcy proceedings.
It is also provided by section 15 that a discharge may be revoked, on application within a year, if procured by fraud and
not warranted by the facts.
Notwithstanding these provisions, it is insisted that the want
of notice of filing the petition is fatal because the adjudication

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

per se entitles the bankrupt to a discharge, and that the proceedings in respect of discharge are in personam, and require
personal service of notice. The adjudication does not in itself
have that effect, and the first of these objections really rests on
the ground that the notice provided for is unreasonably short;
and the right to oppose discharge unreasonably restricted. Considering the plenary power of Congress, the subject-matter of
the suit, and the common rights and interests of the creditors,
we regard the contention as untenable.
Congress may prescribe any regulations concerning discharge
in bankruptcy that are not so grossly unreasonable as to be incompatible with fundamental law, and we cannot find anything
in this act on that subject which would justify us in overthrowing its action.
Nor is it possible to concede that personal service of notice
of the application for a discharge is required.
Proceedings in bankruptcy are, generally speaking, in the
nature of proceedings in rem, as iMr. Justice Grier remarked in
Shawhan v. Wherritt, 7 How. 643. And in .Ntew Lamp Chirnney Company v. Brass and Copper Company, 91 U. S. 662, it
was ruled that a decree adjudging a corporation bankrupt is in
the nature of a decree in rem as respects the status of the corporation. Creditors are bound by the proceedings in distribution on notice by publication and mail, and when jurisdiction
has attached and been exercised to that extent, the court has
jurisdiction to decree discharge, if sufficient opportunity to show
cause to the contrary is afforded, on notice given in the same
way. The determination of the status of the honest and unfortunate debtor by his liberation from encumbrance on future
exertion is matter of public concern, and Congress has power
to accomplish it throughout the United States by proceedings
at the debtor's domicil. If such notice to those who may be
interested in opposing discharge, as the-nature of the proceeding admits, is provided to be given, that is sufficient. Service
of process or personal notice is not essential to the binding force
of the decree.
Judgment affirmed.

