OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

BEYER v. LEFEVRE..
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 237. Argued April 25, 28, 1902.-Declded May 19,1902.

The agreement of parties to submit questions to a jury, the trial there, and
a stipulation for returning the testimony for consideration is a waiver of.
objection to'jurisdiction.
When the trial court and the appellate court agree as to the facts established, this court accepts their conclusion.
Under the facts in this case the jury were not warranted in finding that
the execution of the will was procured by fraud or undue influence.
It is the rule of the Federal courts that the will of a person found to be
possesied of sound mind and memory, is not to be set aside on evidence
tending to show only a possibility or suspicion of undue influence.

THIS

was a bill filed in the Supreme Court of this District on

April 7, 1899, to set aside the following will:
;"In th name of God, Amen.

"I Mary Beyer of the city and county of Washington and
District of Columbia being now of sound and disposing mind,
do make, ordain, publish and declare this to be my last will and
testament: That is to say, first after all my lawful debts are
paid and discharged the residue of my estate, real and personal
I give, devise, bequeath, and dispose of as follows: to wit all
the furniture and personal effects now in the home, number 2258
Brightwood avenue 1 desire to remain there during the life of
'my husband Louis Beyer or so long as it remains the family
,homd and'in the event of the house not being retained as a
family home then the furniture and all other personal effects
belonging to me are to go to and belong to my nephew and
adopted son born Charles Lewis Smith but adopted by me at
birth and thereafter always called Louis Beyer, Junior.
"To my sister Elizabeth Kersinski Maus of Philadelphia Pa.
I leave five dol lars:
"To my sister Caroline Kersinski LeFevre of Brookland D. C.
I leave five dollars.

BEYER v. LEFEVRE.
Statement of the Case.

"To my niece Helen J. Fenton of Washington, D. C., I leave
five dollars.
"All the rest and residue of my estate, real, personal and mixed,
of which I may die seized or possessed, whatsoever and wheresoever, of what kind, nature and quality soever the same may
be, and not hereinabove given or disposed of, I hereby give,
devise and bequeath, unto my nephew and adopted son, Louis
Beyer, Junior, and Helen B. Johnson my niece in equal shares,
as tenants in common and not. as joint tenants, their heirs and
assigns, absolutely and forever.
"Having full faith and confidence in the honesty, integrity
and affection of my said adopted son and of my said niece, I
leave them all the property stated herein knowing that they
will provide a home and home comforts for Louis Beyer, Senior
during his natural life but this is not to be construed to mean
that said Louis Beyer, Junior and Helen B.-Johnson are to be
restricted from disposing of any or all of 'the property if their
judgment so dictates but in the event of disposing of all of the
property before the death of Louis Beyer, Senior they are to
always maintain a home and home comforts for my beloved
husband, Louis Beyer, Senior.
"Likewise I make, constitute, and appoint, my adopted son
born Charles Lewis Smith but always known as Louis Beyer,
Junior'to be executor of this my last will and testament, hereby
revoking all former wills made by me and I request that he be
not required to give bond as such executor.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand, subscribed
my name and affixed my seal this fourteenth day of July in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-six in
my home at Washington, D. C.
"MARY BEYER.

[SEAL.]

"The above-written instrument was subscribed by the said
Mary Beyer in our presence and acknowledged by her to each
of us, anc" she at the same time published and declared the
above'instrument so subscribed to be her last will and testament, and we at the testator's request and in her presence~and
in the presence of each other have signed our names as wit-

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

nesses hereto and written opposite our names our respective
places of residence.
"P. J. BRENNAN,

"1418 F St. N. W., Washington, D. 0.
"WADE
-

HI.

ATKINSON,

"70712th St. N. W., Washington, D. C.
"THOMAs 0. SmTH,

" 1133 12th St. N. W., Washington, D. C."
The parties named as defendants were Louis Beyer, the husband of the testatrix; Louis B yer, Juniori a nephew; Helen
B. Johnson, a niece; Louis Beyer, Junior, as executor,, and
'Meyer Cohen and Adolph G. Wolf, trustees in a deed of trust
executed by the husband of the testatrix on May 13, 1897. The
ground of attack was the alleged mental incapacity of the testatrix and undue influence on the part of Louis Beyer, Junior,
and Helen B. Johnson. The personal property belonging to
the testatrix was of little value, but she owned certain real estate, subject to a trust deed, which in the bill was alleged to be
of the value of $25,000 over and above the incumbrance. Louis
Beyer, Junior, and Helen B. Johnson, answering separately,
denied mental unsoundness and undue influence; alleged that
the will was' duly executed, and challenged the jurisdiction of
the court, sitting as a court of equity, to entertain the bill. The
trustees pleaded that the bill stated nothing entitling the complainint to relief in equity, and averred that their deed of trust
.was a valid lien. Louis Beyer demurred generally. On June20,
the court having made no ruling upon the question of jurisdiction, the parties signed this stipulation:
"It is hereby stipulated by'and between the parties to this
-cause this 20th day of June, 1899, that the court may make an
order certifying certain issues, to be named in said order, to be
tried by , jury of the Oircuit Court, and that the findings by
said jury upon said issues shall be returned to this court; whereupon a decree shall be entered in accordance with said findings,
all rights of appeal a in cases of issues from, the orphans' court
,being hereby reserved."
And thereupon the court made this order:

BEYER v. LEFEVRE.
Statement of the Case.

"Ordered by the court this 20th day of June, 1899, (the parties to this cause consenting hereto,) that the following issues
to be tried by a jury be, and they hereby are, certified to the
Circuit Court to wit:
"First. Was the said Mary Beyer at the time of tle alleged
execution of the paper-writing bearing date the 14th day of July;
A. D. 1896, and purporting to be her last will and testament,
of sound and disposing mind, memory and understanding and
capable of executing a valid deed or contract?
"Second. Was the execution of the said paper-writing bearing date the 14th day of July, 1896, and purporting to be the
last will and testament of the said Mary Beyer, procured by
fraud, circumvention or undue influence practiced or exercised
upon the said Mary Beyer by Louis Beyer, Jr., Helen B. Johnson, or by either of them or by any other person?
"Third. Were the contents of the paper-writing bearing date
July 14th, 1896, and purporting to be the last will and testament of said Mary Beyer:, known to her at the time of the alleged execution thereof ?"
This order was assented to by all the parties. In pursuance
thereof the case came on for trial before Mr. Justice Cole and
a jury, and the jury, after hearing the testimony and the instructions of the court, answered each of the questions in the
affirmative. A motion for a new trial was overruled by the
presiding judge. A stipulation was entered into by the parties
that the full report of the testimony and proceedings had before Mr. Justice Cole and the jury should be produced, read and
heard by the equity court as a part of the record on the hearing in that court and in the appellate court to which the cause
might be carried by either or any of the parties. Thereupon
a full report of the proceedings was presented to Mr. Justice
Barnard, holding the equity court, who, on May 14, 1900, filed
an opinion sustaining the verdict of the jury, and directing a
decree in accordance with the prayers of the bill. From that
decree Louis Beyer, Louis Beyer, Junior, and Helen B. Johnson appealed to the Court of Appeals. On December 6, 1900,
the Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. From that decree
Louis Beyer, a severance being had, appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. Henry.E.Davis and 2Xr. FranklinH. Mackey for appellant.
.rL. Clayton E. Ewing and .Mr. Oharle8 Poe for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant contends, first, that the Supreme Court of the
District, sitting as a court of equity, had no jurisdiction of this
cause; second, that the verdict of the jtiry was not sustained
by the evidence.; and, third, that there was duress and coercion
.of the jury by the court, which resulted in an unjust verdict.
We pass the first question with the observation that, whatever might -have been the conclusion if the defendants had
stood upon their challenge of the jurisdiction, the agreement of
the parties to submit certain questions to a jury, the trial before the jury and the stipulation for returning the testimony
there taken to the equity court for co-nsideration by the judge
thereof, niust be held a waiver of the objection to the jurisdiction. Under the Federal system the same judge may preside
whether the court is sitting in equity or as a common law court.
While the pleadings and procedure are dissimilar and the rights
of the parties, especially in respect to juries, are different, yet
in. many cases a party who appears in one branch of the court
and consents to a hearing and adjudication, according to the
practice there prevailing, of an issue presented by the pleadings
and in respect to a subject-matter, which is within the general
scope of its jurisdiction, may be estopped from thereafter and
in an appellate court challenging such jurisdiction. Reynes v.
Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, 395. This is such a case. The -determination of the title to real estate is within the scope of the
general jurisdiction of a court of equity. The issue of undue
influence in respect to* any transaction such a court is competent to determine. The proceeding consented to, and in fact
had, was practically*the trial of a feigned issie out of chancery.
It is too late now to raise the question of jurisdiction.
Passing to thie second question, we premise by saying that

BEYER v. LiEFEVRE.

.119

Opinion of the Court.

it is well settled that when the trial and the appellate courts
agree as to the facts established on the trial, this court will accept their conclusion and not attempt to weigh conflicting testimony. . Stuart v. "Hayden, i69 U. S. 1, 14, and authorities
cited in the opinion. And this rule of concurrence with the
conclusions of the trial and appellate courts is'given more
weight when in the first instance the facts are found by a
master or a jury. FIurrerv. fferri8, 145 U. S. 132, and cases
cited in the opinion. These propositions we have often affirmed. At the same time there has always been recognized,.
the right and the duty of this court to examine the record, and
if it finds that the conclusions are wholly unwarranted by the'
testimony it will set the verdict or report aside and direct a reexamination. And after having carefully examined the record
in this case we are constrained to the conclusion that there is
no testimony which justified the answer returned to the second
question. On the contrary, if a will is set aside upon such a
flimsy showing as was made of undue influence, few wills can
hope to stand.
The facts are these: The testatrix was a woman sixty-five
years of age; had been married forty-five years, but was childless; her relations with her husband and sisters were'pleasant;
her near relatives were two sisters, Caroline LeFevre, the preeent appellee, and Mrs. Maus, the mother of Helen B. Johnsom
Another sister had died many years ago, leaving two children,
Charles Lewis Smith (known in the record as Louis Beyer, Junior) and Helen 0. Fenton. Louis Beyer, Junior, while a little
child, and on the death of his mother, xi'as taken by the testatrix and brought up as her son. There does not appear to
have been any formal adoption, but he went by the name of
Louis Beyer, Junior, and was recognized and treated as her,
son. He was twenty-seven years old at the time of her death.
Helen B. Johnson was, as stated, the daughter of Mrs. Maus, a
sister of testatrix. She, too, lived with the testatrix the most
of her life,.although it does not appear that she had been recognized as a daughter. The testatrix died of cancer in the
abdomen. The first indications of trouble were in December,
1893, though at that time the appearances were of an ordinary,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

case of indigestion, and the fact that it was cancer was not
developed until some time in the early part of 1896, the year
in which she died. In the month of June of that year she
went on a visit to the home of Helen Johnson's mother-in-law,
twelve miles south of Richmond. She returned about the first
of July, was about the house for a week or so after her return,
and then took to her bed, dying on July 26. When spoken to,
at different times prior to her visit to Richmond, about making
a will she had declined, saying she intended the property should
go to her husband; but being advised, either before or after
her visit to Richmond, that in case she died without a will the
property would go to her sisters and their descendants, she decfded to have a will made, and so informed Louis Beyer, Junior, on Sunday, July 12; she also inquired if a will made on
Sunday was valid, and was told by him, after an examination
of a cyclopaedia, that it would be. He suggested an attorney
living near, to whom she objected, whereupon he proposed to
call in Mr. Brennan, who occupied an office in the same building in which he was employed. This was satisfactory. Mr.
Brennan was sent for. Witnesses were asked to attend, among
them her regular physician. Mr. Brennan came in the afternoon,
found her lying in bed, received instructions from her how she
wanted the will drawAi, and wrote it then and there. It was
thereafter read to her, signed and acknowledged by her in the
presence of himself, the regular physician, and a Mr. Sullivan,
and signed by them as witnesses. That will was similar to the
one finally executed, except that it devised the property to
-Louis Beyer, Junior, alone. Mr. Brennan took the will to his
office. On examination he found that he had left out the word
"heirs," so that, as he thought, only a life estate .would pass
to the devisee, and on Monday prepared a new will, exactly
like the one which had been executed, with the addition of the
word "heirs." He called on the testatrix and explained the
change he had made; she then said that, inasmuch as there
had to be a new will executed, she would like to have Mis.
Johnson included -with Louis Beyer, Junior. Whereupon Mr.
Brennan went to his office and wrote a will the third time, and
on Tuesday went back to the house, and there it was executed.

BEYER v. LEFEVRE.
Opinion of the Court

That is the will in dispute. It was taken by him to his office
and kept in his hands until after her death. That the contents
of this will were known to her at the time of its execution, and
that she was "of sound and disposing mind, memory and understanding, and capable of executing a valid deed or contract,"
were found by the jury, and were abundantly proved by the
testimony, among the witnesses thereto being her regular physician, the minister who visited her, the lawyer who drafted
the will, and others wholly disinterested.
o Before noticing what is claimed to be evidence of undue influence, w* remark that the will was not an unnatural one for
the testatrix to make. As long as she supposed her husband
would inherit the real estate, she declined to make any. She
meant that he should have the benefit of the property. She
found, however, that.it was necessary for her to make a will in
order to secure this result. He was an old man, and in the natural course of events could not be expected to live many years.
It is not strange that, with the utmost affection for her sister's,
she should prefer that, after he had had the enjoyment of her
property, it should go to the nephew and niece who had made
their home with her, who had been brought' up by her, and one
of whom, at least, was regarded as an -adopted child. So she
makes a will vesting the fee in them, but charged with theduty
of furnishing a home to her husband as long as he lived, and
relying upon their affection to give to him the comforts of'a,
home such as they all had had together in the past. While she
gave them the power of alienation, she coupled with it the proviso that whatever was done with this property they should still
secure a home to him during his lifetime. She trusted much to
their affection, but is this singular considering the length of
time they had been members of her family and that which she
must have known to be the- relation subsisting between them
and him I Yet she did not leave provision for her husband entirely to their affection. She directed in terms that such prbvision should. be made, and she doubtless believed that that direction would be binding, and it was, binding. It was in the
nature of a precatory trust, and so expressed as to be obligatory
upon the devisees and enforcible in the courts. Colton v. Coldn,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

127 U. S. 300.

It is no ground of criticism that others might

have made a different will. That she did not give the fee to her
husband, but to her adopted son and niece, burdened with this
precatory trust, may have been owing to a fact which is, at least,
suggested by the testimony, that her husband was visionary,
and she feared might waste his property in developing some of
his supposed inventions. That she was justified in placing confidence in the affection of the devisees for her husband is shown
by the fact that they conveyed to him a large portion of the
property upon hearing that he was dissatified with the contents
of the will. It is true that some time thereafter, owing to his
contemplated marriage, the pleasant relations between him and
them seem to have ceased, but this unfortunate condition does
not prove that the testatrix did not at the time have good reason to trust in their affection for him.
Turning now to the testimony ofered to show undue influence, it comes from two witnesses, Mrs. Stone, the daughter
of the appellee, and Fanny Perry, a colored servant in the house
of the testatrix. -Mrs.Stone's testimony is mainly concerning the
condition of the testatrix during her last sickness, and had a
tendency to show that she was in a drowsy condition, if not
unconscious, during the last fourteen days of her life, though
as she was at the house of the testatrix only every other day,
and then for but a few minutes at a time, her testimony was
properly considered by the jury as of no great significance and
overborne by that of the physician and other witnesses. She
does testify to one thing in reference to Mrs. Johnson, which
will be considered hereafter. The only other witness, and the
one upon whom the appellee substantially relies, is Fanny Perry,
the servant. Now, in respect to her testimony, and indeed all
the testimony in the case, it must be observed that there is not
a syllable tefiding to show that Louis Beyer, Junior, ever urged
the testatrix to make a will, ever suggested or spoke to her in
respect to the matter, and that all the connection he had with
it was in response to requests to ascertain what would be the
disposition of the property without a will, the validity of a will
made on Sunday, and in suggesting the name of a lawyer to
prepare thewill and asking him to come. Now, to find that

BEYER v. LEFEYRE.
Opinion of the Court.

the will was obtained by undue influence on his part, when
there is not the slightest syllable tending to show that he ever
said or did a thing toward securing the execution of the will
except at her request, is a proposition which cannot for one moment be entertained. With this must also be remembered that
the will which was first drawn, the one executed on Sunday,
made him the sole devisee, and that it was intended by the testatrix to vest the property absolutely in him, so as to deprive
the appellee and other of her relatives of any interest in the property. That it did not have that effect was owing to a mistake
of the scrivener in omitting the word "heirs," a mistake which,
when discovered by him, he proceeded promptly to correct, and
only when the corrected will was presented to her did she authorize a change so as to include Mrs. Johnson. Suppose it
were true that Mrs. Johnson did after the first will by her
importunity persuade the testatrix to include her as a devisee,
the change wrought no prejudice to the interests of the appellee. It took away nothing from her. It only added a new
devisee, and that not the appellee-another one to share in the
property.
"But now, let us see what is the testimony which is claimed
to show that Mrs. Johnson exercised undue influence. Mrs.
Stone testified that she boarded with the testatrix for a couple
of years, (and that was a year or two before the death of testatrix,) and that during that time, when. Mrs. Johnson seemed
displeased at something, she heard the testatrix say that "it
was because she did not make a will and she never intended to
make a will." Fanny Perry testified that she lived with the
testatrix, about three years prior to her death; that 'Mrs. Stone
called at the house on the Sunday when the irst will was exe6uted, and she heard Mrs. Johnson say to Louis Beyer, Junior,
"you go down stairs, and after you get the wagon hitched up
take Mrs. Stone around to the Christian Endeavor encampment
first, and then take her home; if she knows what is going on
here she won't leave here to-night unless she gets a share -inthe
profits; " that she had heard Mrs. Johnson ask the testatrix to
make a will, but the testatrix refused, saying that she would
leave everything to Mr. Beyer just as it was, and for them to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

stay with him and treat him right, and when he died he would
do right by them. To which Mrs. Johnson replied: "This is
the way you are going to treat me after I have been working
for you all these years, and this will be all the thanks I'll get
for doing it;" that after the testatrix had taken to her bed she
asked her to make a will, but she said she would not, but would
leave the property to her husband, to which Mrs., Johnson said:
"Yes, you will leave it to him, and he will sink it in a boat or
rum inill ;" and the testatrix replied: "Nellie, how can you talk
about your uncle like that? " and also, "Nellie, you are harassing me to death." Whereupon Mrs. Johnson said she would
go if the will was not made, and the testatrix replied: "You
have run Mis. Stone out of the house to get something when I
die. You said she was waiting for a dead man's shoes, but you
are the one to catch it."
We put out of consideration the fact that Mrs. Johnson contradicts the witness and denies ever having urged the testatrix
to make a will in her behalf or to miake a will at all, and inquire
whether, giving the fullest weight to this testimony, it warrants
a finding that the execution of this will was secured by undue
influence. We are clear that it does not. The conversations
which the witness states were had while the testatrix was about
the house and attendifig to her ordinary duties were conversations which might naturally be had between one brought up in
the family, as Mrs. Johnson was, and one who had, been to her
as a mother. It would not be strange that having lived all her
life in the family she felt that there was something due to her
in respect to the disposition of the property. It will be remembered that it is not influence, but undue influence, that is
charged, and is necessary to overthrow a will. The question
No. 2 puts in the same category fraud, circumvention and undue influence. Placing undue influence along with fraud and
circumvention interprets the character of the influence. ' oscitur a sooiis. Surely there is nothing in these conversations
which has .in it anything suggestive of fraud or circumvention,
nothing wrongful or misleading.
With referene to the last conversation detailed by -the witness, that which took place after the testatrix had taken to her

BEYER v. LEFEVRE.
Opinion of the Court.

bed, it may be conceded that there is a lisplay of urgency and
petulance on the part of Mrs. Johnson and a rebuke on the part
of the testatrix, but is there enough in it to justify a finding
that the will was procured by undue influence? May not one
situated as was Mrs. Johnson properly plead her claims for recognition in a will? May-she not give her reason- why a will
should be made and why property should not be left to a particular person without being subject to the charge o exerting
undue influence? The only threat, made by her was that she
would go if the will was not made., We do not, of course, approve of such importunity to a sick person, and it may often be
carried to such an extent that a jury is justified in finding that
a will was executed in pursuance of it, and through undue influ
ence, but these significant facts must be borne in .mind in respect to this case: The witness, Fanny Perry, does not locate
the time of this conversation, whether before the first will was
executed or after. If before, plainly it had no effe6t upon thetestatrix, for she made a will giving the property to her adopted
son and leaving Mrs. Johnson out all together. If after, while
it may have had the effect of causing the insertion of Mrs. John-son's name in the second, such change wrought no injury to
the rights of the appellee. If the testatrix had -made up her
mind to give her property to. an adopted child with a precatory
trust'in behalf of her husband, then any change made in the
devisees, as the result of whatever importunity, was a change
which wrought no prejudice to the parties who were not naned
in either will.
We are clearly of the opinion that the jury were not under
the circumstances of this case warranted in finding that the
execution of the will was procured by fraud, circumvention or
undue influence practised or exercised upon the testatrix.
One who is familiar with the volume of ligitation which is
now flooding the courts cannot fail to be attracted by the fact
that actions to set aside wills are of frequent occurrence. In
such actions the testator cannot be heard, and very trifling matters are often pressed upon the attention of the court or jury
as evidence of want of mental capacity or of the existence of
undue influence. Whatever rule may obtain elsewhere we wish

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

it distinctly understood to be the rule of the Federal courts
that the will of a person found to be possessed of sound mind
and memory is not to be set aside on evidence tending to show
only a possibility or suspicion of undue influence. The expressed intentions of the testator should not be thwarted without clear reason therefor.
The decrees of the Court of Appeals and of the Supreme
Court of the District are reversed and the case remanded to the
latter court, with instructions to set aside the decree in favor of
the appellee, and for further proceedings in conformity to this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear
the argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

FELSENHELD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 205. Argued April 7, 8, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
It is within the power of Congress to prescribe that a package of any article which it subjects to a tax, and upon which it requires the affixing of
a stamp, shall contain only the article which is subject to the tax.
The coupons described in the statement of ,facts are within the prohibitions
of the act of July 24, 1897, 30 Stat. 151.'
Neither question three or question four presents a distinct point or proposition of law, and, as each invites the court to search the entire record,
the court declines to answer them.

THIs was a proceeding commenced in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of West Virginia, seeking a
forfeiture of certain tobacco. Attachment and monition were
duly issued. The case was submitted upon an agreed statement
of facts, and a judgment of forfeiture was entered. Whereupon the case was taken on error to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit, which certified four questions.

