GALLAWAY v. FORT WORTH BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

section of the act of 1882 was more immediately under consideration, but the reasoning applies to the sixth section as well.
Counsel for petitioner do not urge the insufficiency of the
decision of Assistant Secretary Spaulding, therefore we may
consider that it is conceded to have been, made by the authority of the Secretary. The District Court, however, in its opinion, seems to imply that, if there had been no hearing by the
Secretary, the court, nevertheless, would have been without
jurisdiction to restrain the deportation of the Chinese persons.
On that we do not think it is necessary to express an opinion.
There. is an intimation to the contrary by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Ninth Circuit in the case of United Statm v.
Gin Fung, eupra.
Judgment aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER. and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAI

dissented.

MR. JUSTicE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

GALLAWAY v. FORT WORTH BANK.
MOTION TO SUE OUT WRIT OF ERROR, WITHOUT GIVING BOND
REQUIRED BY LAW.
Submitted May 19,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

The act of Congress of July 20, 1892, 27 Stat. 252, has no application to
proceedings in this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-kr.A. Gallaway inp2roTrapesona.
No appearance opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE. This is an application for leave to prosecute a writ of error to a state court, without giving security
VOL. orxxxv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

as required by section 1000 of the Revised Statutes, under an
act of Congress of July 20,. 1892. 27 Stat. 252.
The motion must be denied. Our ruling has uniformly been,
and has been enforced in repeated instances that that act has
no application to proceedings in this court.
Afotion denied.

HATFIELD v. KING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 221. Submitted May 2,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

This case having been decided below on demurrer, and having been brought
tQ this court on appeal, and it appearing that the appearance of one of
the defendants below was improvidently entered, and certain charges
having been made involving the conduct of counsel, the case was remanded, for reasons stated, to the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of West Virginia, to be dealt with, 184 U. S. 162, notwithstanding that
while it was pending here that State was divided into two districts, 31
Stat. 736, c. 105, and ordinarily the case would fall within the Southern
District. On motion to change the decree to that effect, the _court, in
view of the terms of the act and the situation of the case, declined to -

modify it.

Tmi case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.. Holmes Conrad for appellants.
'MR.

CmEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case a decree was entered in favor of King on June 2,
1900, in the Circuit Court for the District of West Virginia,
from which an appeal was allowed to .this court, and the case
docketed, and the record filed, January 3, 1901. Subsequently
certain motions were made, on the submission of which it was
contended by appellants that the decree against them 6ught to
be set aside because they had not had the hearing in thatecourt

