McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Statement of the Case.

McOLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF

ANSAS.

No. 610. Argued April 28, 29,1902.-Decided May 19,1902.

The trial of an officer of volunteers by a court-martial, all the members of
which were officers of the Regular Army, is illegal, and the objection to it
could be taken on habeas corpus.

a writ of habeas carpw was presented to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas,
First Division, asking that Peter 0. Deming, once a captain in
the subsistence department of the Volunteer Army of the
United States, might be produced by Robert W. Mclaughry,
the appellant hetfeil, in whose custody Deming was placed, McClaughry being the warden of the United States prison at Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas.
On the part of Deming it was shown in the petition that he
was imprisoned and restrained by virtue of a sentence imposed
upon him by a general court-martial of the United States, convened at the -Presidioof San Francisco, California, by William IR.
Shafter, Major General, United States Volunteers, and Brigadier General of the United States Army, retired, being of the
age of 64 years. The sentence imposed upon Deming by
the court-martial was that he should be dismissed from the
service of the United States, and be confined in such penitentiary
as the .reviewing authority might direct for the period of three
years, and that the crime, punishment, name and place of abode
of the accused should be published in the -newspapers in and
about the city of San Francisco, and in the State where the
accused usually resided. The sentence was approved by the
Secretary of War and, affirmed by the President of the United
States on June 8, 1900.
The petition further showed that the court-martial which imposed the -sentence was convened by virtue of the following
order:
A

PETITION for

VOL.- CLXXXVI-4

. OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statemen t of the Case.

"Special Orders,
No. 65.

Headquarters Department of California,
San.Francisco, Cal., March 29, 1900.

"7.A general court-martial is appointed to meet at the Presidib of San Francisco, California, at 11 o'clock A. X., on Tuesday, the 3d proximo, or as soon thereafter as practicable, for
the trial of Captain Peter C. Deming, assistant commissary of
subsistence, U. S. Volunteers.
"Detail for the court:
"Colonel Jacob B. Rawles, 3d Artillery.
"Lieutenant- Colonel Richard I. Eskride, 23d Infantry.
"Major Louis H. iRucker, 6th Cavalry.
"Major Benjamin- C. Lockwood, 21st Infantry.
"Captain Frank West, 6th Cavalry.
"Captain Carber Howland, 4th Infantry.
"Captain Sedgwick Pratt, 3d Artillery.
"Captain Henry C. Danes, 3d Artillery.
"Captain Charles A. Bennett, 3d Artillery.
"Major Stephen W. Groesbeck, judge advocate, U. S. Army,
judge~advicate.
-

"The court is empowered to proceed with the business before
it with any number of members present not less than the minimum. prescribed by law, the above being the greatest number that can b.e convened without manifest injury to the service.
"Such journeys as Colonel Rawles, Major Groesbeck, and Capta in Pratt may be required to make between their respective
stations and the Presidio of San Francisco, in attending the
meetings of the court, are necessary for the public service.
"By command of Major General Shafter:
"."J. B,_BAcocK,

"Assistant

Adjutant-General."

Itwas further shown in the petiionthat Deming was an officer in .the Volunteer Army and forces"of the United States, and
that the members of the. court-martial - above named, and who
.tried 'him, were all officers in-the Regular Army, and it was
averred tliat-he could not legally or lawfully be tried by a court-

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Statement of the Case.

martial composed of such officers, because it would be in direct violation of the seventy-seventh article of war, section 1342,
Revised Statutes of the United States, which reads as follows:
"Article 77. Officers of the Regular Army shall not be competent to sit on courts-martial, to try the officers or soldiers of
other forces, except as provided in article 78.
"Article 78. Officers of the Marine Corps, detached for service with the Army by order of the President, may be associated
with officers of the Regular Army on courts-martial for the
trial of an offender belongihg to the Regular-Army, or to forces
of the Marine Corps so detached; and in such cases the orders
of the senior officer of either corps, who may be present, and
duly authorized, shall be obeyed."
It was further averred in the petition that Deming was tried
and convicted without due process of law and in violation of the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States;
that the court-martial was an illegal one and without warrant
of law, and the sentence imposed upon Deming was without
warrant or authority of law, illegal and void. A writ of habea8 corus was prayed for, to be directed to the warden, commanding him to have the body of Deming before the court.
This petition was sworn to in behalf of Deming by the petitioner J. HT. Atwood.
Upon that petition the writ issued, and the warden, in compliance therewith produced Deming and made return to the
writ in substance, as follows: That William R. Shafter was a
major general of volunteers, exercising command of the Department of California, by virtue of an assignment of the President
of the United States, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army; that
on March 29,. 1900, pursuant to authority and in conformity
with the provisions of article 72 of the articles of war, General
Shafter appointed a general court-martial, by special orders, to
meet at the Presidio of San Francisco on April 3, 1900, or as
soon thereafter as practicable, for the trial of Peter C. Deming,
assistant commissary of subsistence, United States-Yolunteers,
the detail of which court-martial was then stated, and which
was the same as that already mentioned in the order convening
the court. It was admitted that all the members of the court-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

martial so detailed were members of the Regular Army; that
on April 5, 1900, the court. proceeded to the trial of Deming,
who, being present in court, the order convening the court was
read to him, and he was asked if he objected to being tried by
any member present named in the order convening the court,
to which he replied in the negative. The members of the court
and the judge advocate wera then duly sworn, the court adjourning to meet again on April 23, 1900, at which time all the
members of the court were present, and the judge advocate and
Deming, the. accused, with counsel. The. accused was then-arraigned upon charges of embezzling public money of the United
States in Violation of the sixtieth article of war, and conduct
unbecomihg an officer and a gentleman in violation of the sixtyfirst article of war; that thereupon Deming pleaded guilty, and
the court-martial then passed sentence upon him, which was
set forth in the return, and has been already stated.
The return further stated that on May 2, 1900, the proceedings, findings and sentence of the court-martial were approved
by Majof General Shafter, and submitted for the action of the
Fresident'pursuant to the provisions of article 106 of the articles
of war, and that thereafter on June 8, 1900, the sentence was
confirmed by the President of the United States, and on that
day, by direction of the Secretary of War, Deming ceased to
be an officer of the Army of the United States, and the penitentiary at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, was designated as the
piace for his confinement.
A certified copy of the record and proceedings of the courtmartial, duly authenticated under the laws of the United States,
together with a copy of the order for the court-martial, the proceedings, finding and sentence in the case, were attached to the
return of the warden, and made a part of it.
The facts above detailed also appear in the record of the
court-martial.
The petitioner demurred to the return as not stating facts
sufficient to warrant the detention of, the petitioner in custody,
nor to warrant the refusal of the writ- of habeas corpus, prayed
for in the petition,, and because such facts did not give the
warden any legal right to deprive Deming of his liberty.

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMI-.
Opinion of the Court.

Although it does not appear distinctly in the record, yet it is
conceded that upon the argument before the District Judge the
writ was discharged and the prisoner remanded to the custody
of the warden, and that upon appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals that court reversed the order of the Circuit Court, and
directed that the writ issue and that Deming be discharged from
custody. Thereafter, in accordance with the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, Deming was discharged by the Circuit Court, and from the order of the court so discharging him
the Government has appealed to this court.
MAr. E. P-. Crowder for appellant.
.Mr. oJames H. Hayden for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PEoKHAM, after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The grave question in this case relates to the power of an
officer convening a court-martial for the trial of an officer of
volunteers, to compose that court entirely of officers of the Regular Army. It is claimed on the part of the respondent herein
that a volunteer officer could not be legally tried by such a
court, and that to convene and constitute a court-martial so composed, for the trial of a volunteer officer, was a violation of the
seventy-seventh article of war, above set forth.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit held, in
a very clear and satisfactory opinion, 113 Fed. Rep. 639, that
the trial of Deming by a court-martial, all the members of
which were officers of the Regular Army, was illegal, and that
the objection could be taken on habeas corpus. The reasoning
of the opinion leaves little to add further than to state our concurrence therein. As the case is one of considerable importance
in its results, it is, however, proper that we should ourselves
state the reasons which lead us to the conclusion that the order
appealed from was right, and should be affirmed.
The Government seeks a review of the decision of the court
below, upon the strength of three propositions, argued by its

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

counsel, upon one or all of which a reversal of the decision of
that court is sought. These propositions are as follows:
(1) That the Volunteer Army of 1899, of which Deming was
an officer at the time of his trial, conviction and sentence, was
not "other forces" within the meaning of article 77 of the articles of war.
..(2)That even if Deming were to be treated as an officer of
"other forces"' within the meaning of that article, the fact
would not deprive the 'court-martial of regular officers who tried
him, of .jurisdiction; this article relating entirely to the com-petency of members of a court-martial, not at all to its jurisdiction.
(3) The court-martial having jurisdiction and acting within
fts powers, its proceedings cannot be assailed by habeas comipzs.
Taking these propositions in the order named, we are brought
to the consideration of the meaning and application of the seventy-seventh article of section 1342 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, (page 237,) commonly called the articles
of war. Article 78 has no application to this case, which rests
upon the proper construction of article 7. The reading of the
latter article shows that the existence of other forces than those
of th Regular Army is contemplated. When a volunteer force
is spoken of as well as 4 regular army force, in the statutes of
the United States, such force would seem to come within the
4escription of some other force than that of the RegularArmy.
But the claim is made on the part of the Government that
by virtue of the act of Congress of April 22, 1898, 30 Stat. 361,
and particularly that of March 2,1899, 30 Stat. 977, the officers"
of the Volunteer Army of the United States are not properly
described by the words "other forces," within the meaning of
the seventy-seventh article of-war.
It is said that while the course of legislation prior to the passage of the acts above mentioned showed a clear distinction between the militia or volunteer forces and the Regular Army of
the United States, the acts referred 'to, and especially that *of
1899, changed the 9tattis of the volunteer foices enlisted'under
them, and, so far is theseventy-seventh article of war is con-,
cerned, rendered such force, in reality, the same in substance

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court.

as the forces of the Regular Army, and not "other forces" of
the country. We think this claim it unfounded, and that the
distinction still exists within the meanin& of the article.
The seventy-seventh article of War as enacted in 1874 was
but a substantial continuation of provisions, found in various
acts of Congress from the foundation of the Goveknment. In
September of the year 1776 the Continental Congress enacted
what is termed the military'code of that year. In that code
is to be found section 17T, article 1, which reads as follows:
'. SEc. 17, ART. 1, - Th& offiers and soldiers of any troops,
whether minute men, militia,' or others, being mustered and
in continental pay, shall, at all times, and in alI places, when
joined, or 'acting in conjunction with the regular forces of the
United States, be governed by these rules or -articles of war,
and shall be subject to be tried by courts-martial in like ihanner with the officers and soldiers in the regular forces; save only
that such courts-martiak shall be composed entirely of militia
officers of the same provincial corps with the offender.
"That such militia and minute men *4s are now in service
and have, by particular contract with the respective States,
engaged to be governed by particular regulations while in continental service, shall not 'be subject to the above. articles of
war." Winthrop's Mtilitary Law and Precedents, vol. 2,
p.-1501.
From the text of this section it is argued on the part of the
Governfhent'That the purpose of its passage was not to guard
agaiist the-feeling bf jealousy and distrust with which the professional soldier was regarded, as was stated by the court below,
because, as the Government claims, the regular forces of the
Revolutionary War .period were not made up of professional
soldiers, and also because the article provided not only that the
trials of militiamen should be before courts-martial composed
entirely of militia officers, but that such officers should be of
the same provincial corps with the offender. All this language,
it is claimed, was but an expression in military legislation of the
politi '-3 -ctrine, generally urged At that time in extreme form,
that each State sould be to the greatest extent'practicable selfgoverning.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

We think, however, there was, in addition to the idea of
state control over the troops from a State, a recognition of the
fact that there was a substantial difference between the regular
forces and the militia. There was a recognition of the undoubted fact that at all times there has been a tendency on the
part of the regular, whether officer or private, to regard with
a good deal of reserve, to say the least, the men composing the
militia as a branch not quite up to the standard of the Regular
Army, either in knowledge of martial matters or in effectiveness of discipline, and it can be readily seen that there might
naturally be apt to exist a feeling among the militia that they
would not be as likely to receive what they would think to be
as fair treatment from regulars, as from members of their own
force. The reasons for the feeling are set forth fully in the
opinion below, and we think quite correctly. It is most probable that Congress recognized all these reasons in its earliest
legislation upon the subject as considerations upon which that
legislation was founded.
This military code with the above-mentioned section remained
in force during the War of the Revolution and until 1806.
Various acts were passed in the meantime providing for calling
the militia into active service, and the acceptance of volunteers
was also iutborized by' the acts of March 3, 1791, section 8, 1
Stat. 222, 223, and by that of May 28, 1798, 1 Stat. 558, but
as stated by counsel for the Government, none of the organizations of volunteers authorized by the legislation-was actually
received into the service of the General Government and organized as United States troops.
By the act of April 10,1806, 2 Stat. 359, Congress established
rules and articles for the government of the Army of the United
States. Among them is the following:
"ART. 97. The officers and soldiers of any troops, whether
militia or others, being mustered and in pay of the United
States, shall, at all times and in all places, when joined, or acting
in conjunction with the regular forces of the United States, be
governed by these rules and articles of war, and shatlbe subj et
to be tried by the court-martial in like mannor with the officers

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court.

and soldiers in the-regular forces, save only that such courtmartial shall be composed entirely of militia officers."
This section, it will be observed, leaves out the words "of
the same .provincial corps with the offender," which are contained in section 17 of the Military Code of 1776, above set forth,
thus leaving the militia to be tried by courts-martial the mexbers of which shall be composed entirely of militia officers.
While the provision that the courts-martial should be composed
of militia officers of the same provincial corps with the offender
was left out, the other provision that the courts should be composed entirely of militia officers was retained. This legislation
still recognized the difference between the militia and the regular
forces, and provided for the trial of militia offenders by militia
officers, while at the same time the restriction that such officer.
should be of. the same provincial corps with the offender was
stricken out, thus showing that of the two ideas, the one which
recognized the general ground of distinction between the regular,
and the militia forces was stronger than that which restricted
the trial of a member of the militia to courts-martial composed
of the same provincial corps.
While it may be that there was then no particular distrust or
jealousy of the Regular Army, the provision in question recognized, as we 'have said, the difference there was befween the
two bodies, the regulars and the militia or volunteers, and
Congress still thought it proper to provide that those composing
the latter force should not be tried -by officers of the former.
It was not-jealousy or distrust of the Regular Army which led
to the enactment ; it was the radical difference existing between.
the two forces .which made it proper to pio.ide that regular
officers should not sit in courts-martial to try offenders in the
volunteer forces.
History shows that no militia, when first called into active
service, has ever been equal to a like number of regular troops.
It is not that the men composing the militia force are less
brave or less intelligent, but they lack actual experience which
the regulars have, and it is that fact which gives the regulars
the feeling of superiority, and it is that feeling which is recognized by Congress and which has resulted in legislation of this
character.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Further distinctions between the two forces are very well
stated in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this
case.
This section 97 of the act of 1806 continued in force until the
revision of the law in 1874. During this time the war of 1812,
the Seminole war, the Mexican war and the Civil war were all
carried on. During the Civil war the volunteer troops, called
for under the first proclamation of the President, came primarily as state troops, and the general orders of the War Department provided for the appointment of all field and company
officers by the governors of the States who were to commission
them. The same provisions in substance were contained in the
subsequent 'acts of 1861. See acts of July 22, 1861, 12 Stat.
268 ; and August 6, 1861, chapter 75, see. 3, 12 Stat. 317.
The statute of July 22, 1861, which provided that when vacancies occurred in any of the volunteer organizations received
into the service under that act, they should be filled by election, and that the officers so elected should be commissioned by
the respective governors of the States, or by the President of
the United States, was amended by the act of August 6, 1861,
which provided for the appointment and commissioning of officers of volunteers exclusively by the governors of the States
furnishing the same.
The question of the meaning of the ninety-seventh article of
war, with reference to the volunteer forces of the Civil war,
was presented to Judge Advocate General Holt,-who, on November 19, 1863, in an opinion, expressed himself as follows:
"The words ' militia officers,' as employed in the ninety-seventh
article of war, have been interpreted since the commencement
of the rebellion as synonymous, as far as the organization of
co-arts-martial is concerned, with volunteer officers. This con-struction undoubtedly accords with the spirit of the article,
and in its practical e'nforcement the object of the rule is accomplished," the object of the rule being that members of the
volunteer forces of the Army at that time should be tried only
by courts-martial composed of volunteer officers.
The intent of the legislation of 1874 was simply to preserve
the rule which bAd existed from the formation of the Govern-

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, and to keep up the distinction betWeen the Regular Army
and the volunteer forces, so far as to maintain the practice of
trying volunteers by volunteer officers. The question was not
so much how the volunteer or "other forces" came into thq
service of the Government, whether under officers appointed
and commissioned by governors of their States,- or by direct
enlistment as volunteers, to aid the Government, but whether
they were in fact volunteers and not members of the Regular
Army. If they were volunteers, the same reasons for npt being
tried by regular army officers were present, whether they firstvolunteered through the State, and were then mustered into
the service of the Government, or entered directly into that
service, for in both cases they were volunteers and were not
members of the Regular Army.
The acts of Congress of 1898, 30 Stat. 361, and of 1899, 30
Stat. 977, show conclusively, as we think, that the distinction
was kept up and in the mind of Congress betweeh the Regular
Army and the Volunteer Army of the United States, and the
declaration of section 2 of the act of 1898, which provides that
in time of war the Army shall consist of two brafches, which
shall be designated respectively as the Regular Army and the
Volunteer Army of the United States, is a plain recognitionby Congress of the difference between the two forces. We.
cannot read the various provisions of these two acts of Congress without being brought to the conclusion that they contemplated and particularly provided for the existence of other
forces than that of the Regular Army. , The Volunteer Army
was one of such other forces, and also *the militia when in active service of, the United States, and the Marine Corps when
detached and placed upon duty with tb Army~by order of the
lv not'the regular
President. The volunteer force is cei
ii: force, and if
so,
be
must
it
not,
if
and
army,
or
force
2ae regular force
so, its members cannot be tried by office
to repeal that of
or army. The act of 1899 does not assu.
such as are
thereof,
provisions
specificsome
1898, excepting
balance
The
1899.
of
act
the
of
eleven
mentioed 'in section
provision
any
to
as
except
force,
in
-of tbe earlier actoremains
which may b& in dbnflict W'ith the. act of 1899. Upon this

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

particular matter of a distinction between the Regular Army
and the Volunteer Army, there is no inconsistency between
the two acts, and therefore the act of 1898 on that subject remains in connection with that of 1899.
It would unduly lengthen this opinion to cite the various sections of the two acts which provide for and prove this difference. It was done with much detail by the Judge who wrote
the opinion in the Circuit Court of Appeals when this case was
before that court, and we refer to that opinion for those details
which in our judgment are controlling proof that the volunteer
officers and men constitute other forces than the 4egular Army
within the meaning of the seventy-seventh article of war.
Section 14 of the act of 1898 seems to us particularly significant of the desire of Congress to recognize and keep up the
distinction between these various forces of the Army of the
United States. It proves its purpose to keep the interests of
the volunteer troops particularly in mind, and that they should
be looked after by members of their own body. It is therein
provided that a general commanding a separate department or
a detached army shall have authority to appoint military
boards of not less than three nor more than five of the volunteer
officers of the Volunteer Army to examine into the capacity,
conduct and efficiency of any commissioned officer of that
army within his command. They were to be not only officers
of the Volunteer Army, but were themselves to be volunteer
officers. This section of the act of 1898 has never been repealed
and is not in conflict with any part of the act of 1899. Although
the volunteer troops organized under the last act of Congress
were mustered directly into the service of the United States
without regard to st- e or territory lines, yet the very provisions of both the'- 3ts with regard to volunteers show that
they were orgc
s volunteers for a temporary purpose only
and did not foni
part of the force of the Regular Army.
The same reasons which have existed since the formation of
the Government for prohibiting trials of such men by courtsmartial composed of regular army officers exist under these
acts. The seventy-seventh article of war by its terms covers
such acase. It has not been repealed or amended. The reasons

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court

for its'enactment still remain as strong as when it was first
adopted, and we think it covers the case of this officer who belongs to the Volunteer Army, raised under the act of 1899 and
who was tried by a court-martial composed of regular army.
officers in violation of the act of Congress in that, belalf.
Congress could, of course, legislate for and temporarily enlarge
the Regular Army, and the troops so enlisted for such Regular
Army vould be regular troops, notwithstanding they might be
enlisted only for the term of the duration of a war then inminent or actually existing. Such was the act of February 11,
1847, 9 Stat. 123, in regard to the war with Mexico. But
that has no material bearing upon the proposition that troops
not sb enlisted but on the contrary enlisted simply and in terms
as volunteers, would not be troops of the Regular Army, but
would be what they purport to be, volunteers, a separate branch
from the regulars, and constituting by the terms of the statute
other forces than such regulars.
The mere fact of a direct enlistment of the volunteers into
the service of the United States under the act of 1899 cannot,
as we have said, change the essential character of the Volunteer
Army as a different and separate force from that of the Regular Army.
By the act of February 24, *1864, 13 Stat. 6, sec. 24, it was
provided (section 24):
"That all able-bodied male colored persons, between the
ages of twenty and forty-five years, resident in the United
States, shall be enrolled according to the provisions of this act,
and of the act to which this is an amendment, and form part of
the national forces.
"But men of color, drafted or enlisted, or who may volunteer
into the military service, while they shall be credited on the
quotas of the several States, or subdivisions of States, wherein
they are respectively drafted, enlisted or shall volunteer, shall
not be assigned as state troops, but shall be mustered into regiments or companies as United States colored troops."
Here was a case where the colored troops were mustered
directly into regiments or-companies as United States (colored)

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

troops, although credited on the quotas of the several States.
They became United States troops, yet were not part of the
Regular Army of the United States.
The Judge Advocate of the Army on December 16, 1864,
rendered an opinion as to the composition of courts-martial for
the trial of officers and soldiers in the Veteran Reserve Corps
and United States colored troops, in which he used this language:
"In the absence of any statute law which either designates
officers of the Veteran Reserve Corps or of the United States
colored troops as regulars in express terms, or by a necessary
implication from its provisions, fixes upon them this status, the
Secretary of War has not proceeded to so characterize them,
and until he shall do so these officers should, so far as the cornposition of courts-martial is concerned, be regarded as a part of
the volunteer force."
Without some statute, otherwise providing therefor, the
Judge Advocate General was of opinion that those forces
should be regarded as a part of the volunteer forces unless the
Secretary of War otherwise characterized them. Whether that
official had, power to do so need not now be inquired into, but
unless he did so the Judge Advocate General thought that the
United States colored: troops were to be'regarded as a part of
the volunteer forces.
We conclude that the acts of 1898 and 1899 still left the Volunteer Army as a separate or other force from the Regular
Arm 0-f the United States.
The second pfoposition argued by counsel for the Government
we cannot agree to. If the defendant were a member of one of
th*e "other forces," named in the seventy-seventh article of war,
a court-martial, solely convened for the purpose of trying him,
composed entirely-of regular officers, would not have jurisdiction. Such a body would have -jurisdiction over neither the
subject-matter nor the person. A, court-martial is the creature
of statute, and, as a body or tribunal, it must be convened and
constituted in entire conformity with the provisions of the statute, or else it is without jurisdiction. ' It was said by Mr. Chief
Justice Waite in Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S.543, 555:

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court.

"A court-martial organized under the laws of the United
States is a court of special and limited jurisdiction. It is called
into existence for a special purpose and to perform a particular
duty. When the object of its creation has been accomplished,
it is dissolved. 3 Greenl. Ev. sec. 470; Brooks v. Adams, 11
Pick. 441, 442; Xrills v. -farlin, sujpra; Duffield v. Smith, 3
S. & R. 590, 599. Such, also, is the effect of the decision of
this court, in Wise v. Wither, 3 Cranch, 331, which, according
to the interpretation given it by Chief Justice Marshall in Ex
.parte Wratkins, 3 Pet. 193, 209, ranked a court-martial as 'one
of those inferior courts of limited jurisdiction whose judgments
may be questioned collaterally.' To give effect to its sentences
it must appear affirmatively and unequivocally that the court'
was legally constituted; that it had jurisdiction; that all the
statutory regulations governing its proceedings had been complied with, and that its sentence was conformable to law.
Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 80; .ills v. JMartin, 19 Johns.
33. There are no presumptions in its favor, so far as these
matters are concerned. As to them, the rule announced by
Chief -Justice Marshall in Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112, 115, in
respect to averments of jurisdiction in the courts of the United
States, applies. His language is: 'The decisions of this court
require that averment of jurisdiction shall be positive-that the
declaration shall state expressly the fact on which jurisdiction
depends. It is not sufficient that jurisdiction may be inferred,
argumentatively, from its averments.' All this is equally true
of the proceedings of courts-martial. Their authority is statutory, and the statute under which they proceed must be followed throughout. The fact necessary to show their jurisdiction,
and that their sentences' were conformable to law, must be
stated positively; and it is not enough .that they may be inferred argumentatively.".
What jurisdiction can a court-martial have which is composed
of officers incompetent to sit on such court, of officers who are
placed there in direct and plain violation of the act of Congress?
This particular court was convened for the sole purpose of trying an officer of the Volunteer Army, and it was composed under the orders of the officer convening it of members each

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and all of whom where prohibited by law from sitting on such
court. , As to the officer to be tried there was no court, for it
seems to us that-it cannot be contended that men, not one of
whom is authorized by law to sit, but on the contrary all of
whom are forbidden to sit, can constitute a legal court-martial
because detailed to act as such court by an officer who in making such detail acted contrary to and in complete violation of
law. Where does such a court obtain jurisdiction to perform a
single official function? How does it get jurisdiction over any
subject-matter or over the person of any individual? The particular tribunal is a mere creature of the statute, as we have
said, and must be created under its provisions. It is a special
body convened for a specific purpose, and when that purpose
is accomplished its duties are concluded and the court is dissolved. The officers composing the alleged court were not
de facto officers thereof, for there was no court, and therefore it could not have de facto officers. _Nforton v. Shelby
County, 118 U. S. 425, 441. The attempt at the creation ofa court failed because such attempt was a plain violation
of the statute: A court-martial is wholly unlike the case of
a permanent court created by constitution or by statute and
presided over by one who had some color of authority although not in truth an officer de jure, and whose acts as a
judge of such court may be valid where the public is concerned. The court exists even though the judge may be disqualified or not lawfully appointed or elected. But in this case
the very power which appointed the members of and convened
the court violated the statute in composing that court. It is
one act, appointing the members of and convening the court,
and in performing that act the officer plainly violated the law.
Is such a court a valid court and the members thus detailed de
.facto officers of such valid court? Clearly not.
It is urged, however, that the seventy-seventh article of war
contains no reference to the jurisdiction of courts-martial; that
it merely provides that certain officers shall not be competent
to sit on such courts to try certain offenders, and that the jurisdiction of the court to hear and decide is regulated by other
articles. But the court-martial that has jurisdiction over any

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court.

offence must, in the first place, be legally created and convened.

Such a court is not a continuous one, created by the statute
itself and ifiled from time to time by appointments of certain
members under the power given by statute. The court has no
continuous existence, but under the provisions of the statute
it is called into being by the proper officer, who constitutes the
court itself by the very act of appointing its members, and
when in appointing such members he violates the statute, as
in this case, by appointing men to compose the court that the
statute says he shall not appoint, the body thus convened is not
a legal court-martial and has no jurisdiction over either the
subject-matter of the charges against a volunteer officer or over
the person of such officer. The act of constituting the court is'
inseparable from the act which details the officers to constitute
it.

Tt

is one act, and the court can have no existence outside

of and separate from the officers detailed to compose it. By
the violation of the law the body lacked any statutory authority for its existence, and it lacked, therefore, all jurisdiction over
the defendant or the subject-matter of the charges against him.
It is said, in -eyes v. United States, 109 U. S. 336, that where
the statutory coiditions as to the constitution or jurisdiction of
the court are not observed, there is no tribunal authorized by
law to render the judgment.
Within the Runkle case, supra, this particular court was not
legally constituted to perform the function for which alone it
was convened. It was therefore in law no court. The men
were disqualified to act as members thereof, and no challenge
was necessary, for there was no court to hear and dispose of the
challenge. It is unlike an officer who might be the subject of
challenge as under some bias. A failure to challenge in such a
case might very well be held to waive the defect, and the officer could sit and the finding of the court be legal. But this is
not the case of a personal challenge of some member of the
court where an objection to his sitting might be thus particularly raised. It is an objection that the whole court as a court
was illegally constituted because in violation of the express provision of the statute, and the challenge to the whole court is
not provided for by the statute.
VOL. oLxxxvi-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

But it is said defendant did not object to being tried by this
illegally constituted court, and that his consent waived the question of invalidity. We are not of that opinion. It was not a
mere ,consent to waive some statutory provision in his favor
which, if waived, permitted the court to proceed. His consent
could no niore give jurisdiction to the court, either over the
subject-matter or .over his person, than if it had been composed
of a like number of civilians or of women. The fundamental
difficulty lies in the fadt that the court was. constituted in direct violation of the statute,'and no consent could confer jurisdiction over the person of the defendant or over the subjectmatter of the accusation, because to take such jurisdiction would
constitute a plain violation of law. ' His consent had no effect
whatever in the face of the statute which prevented such men
sitting on the court. The law said such a court shall not be
constituted, and-the defendant tannot say it may, and consent
to be tried by it, any more than he could consent to be tried by
the first half a dozen private soldiers he should meet; and the
decision of neither tribunal would be validated by the consent
of the person submitting to such trial.
K~ohl v. Leldback, 160 U. S. 293, was a criminal case, and it
was held that in New Jersey the alienage of a juror participating in a trial was a subject of challenge when he was called;
that it was for the state court to'decide whether the verdict of
conviction should be set aside on his motion when the accused
did not interpose such challenge when the juror was drawn.
The principle of that case does not apply here. It was an objection to a single juror, and was ground for a personal challenge. The presence of an alien on the jury did not renaor the
court an illegal one, had no effect upon its jurisdiction over the
person of the defendant or the subject-matter of the indictment,
and therefore did not render the trial a nullity. The case at
bar differs in all these-facts, and the court, having been illegally
constituted, had no jurisdiction to try the offender for any offence whatever, even with his consent.
It may also be said that the disqualification of a particular
juror is brought before the court by. a challenge in regard to
the decision of which the juror takes no part. In this case no

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.

Opinion of the Court.,
provision having been made for a challenge to the whole court,.
the challenge must have been to each member thereof, separately, and the officers to try the challenge would have to decide a. question existing in the case of each of such officers
precisely to the same extent that Was presented in the case of
the officer challenged, so that in effect each would be passing
upon a challenge in his own case. We do not say that this fact
alone creates the difference between the two cases. The material and all pervading fact constituting that difference is that
the whole court is in the one case constituted in utter violation
of the command of the statute, while in the case cited the court
was legal, had jurisdiction over the subject-matter and over the
person, and the sitting of one disqualified juror being a cause of'
personal challenge is waived by the failure to interpose it.
There are some cases cited by counsel for the Government
where disqualified judges sat in violation of the statute, such as
Pettig)-ew v. lashinjton County, 43 Ark. 33; Fowler v. Brooks,
64 N. I. 423; Crozier v. Goodwin, 1 Lea (Tenn.),. 368; H1olmes
v. Eason, 8 Lea (Tenn.), 754; Wilson v. Smith, 38 S. W. Rep.
(Ky.) 870.
On the other hand, there is the case of Oakley v. Agsinwall,
3 N. Y. 547, where it was held that a judge who was disqualified to sitin a cause by reason of consanguinity to one of the
parties could not sit even by consent of both parties, and if he
did the judgment in regard to which he tpok part would be vacated. In that case it was said page 552):
"It was, however, urged at the bar, that although the judge
were wanting in auth6rity to sit and take part in the decision
1f this cause, "yet,that having done so at the solicitation of the
respondent's counsel, such consent warranted the judge in acting, and is an answer to this motion. But where no jurisdiction
exists by law it cannot be conferred by consent-especially
against the prohibition of a law-which was not designed merely
for the protection of the party to a suit, but for the general interests of justice. 1ow v. Rice, 8 Johns. 409; Clayton v. Peer
.Ditn, 13 Id. 218; Edwards v. Russell, 21 Wend. 63; 21 Pick.
101. Ii is the design of the law to maintain the purity and
impartiality of the courts, and to insure for their decisions the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

respect and confidence of the community. Their judgments
become precedents which control the determination of -subsequent cases; and it is important, in that respect; that their decisions should be free from all bias. After securing wisdom and
imfpartiality in their judgments, it is of great importance that
the courts should be free from reproach or the suspicion of un;-"
fairness. The party may be interested only that his peculiar
suit should be justly determined; but the State, the community,
is concerned not only for that, but that the judiciary shall enjoy
an elevated rank in the estimation of mankind."
A judge, who is prohibited from sitting by the plain directions of the law, cannot sit, and the consent that he shall sit
gives no jurisdiction. This is'
the doctrine of above case. It
has been followed without doubt or hesitation in the State of
New York ever since its rendition in 185C People v. Connor,
142 N. Y. 130, is among the latest of the cases on that subject.
See, also, Sigourney v. Sibley, 21 Pick. 101, 106 ; _Gay v. .inot,
3 Cush. 352; Hall v. Thayer, 105 Mass. 219, 224; .Chicago &
Atlantic Railway Co. v. Summers, 113 Ind. 10, 17.
It is difficult for us to understand how an ephemeral court,
composed of men detailed as members,-each one of whom is so
detailed in direct violation of the statute on that subject which
prohibits their sitting, can obtain any jurisdiction over the
subject-matter or person even by the consent of the defendant.
In those cases where the judgment rendered by a disqualified
judge was held free from attack because of a waiver, it can at
least be said there was a valid court for other purposes than
the trial or hearing of the particular case, and that the objection
was simply a personal bne, and should be made before the trial
or it must be deemed waived. We are not inclined to that view,
but the principle is not- applicable to this case where the court
is created and all the members of it are convened in total disregard and violation of the statutes upon the subject of its membership.
(3) We are- also of opinion that the invalidity of the courtmartial can be raised upon a hearing on habeas coipus. The
judgment, even after the approval of the officers, provided for
by statute, is that of a court of limited jurisdiction only, whose

McCLAUGHRY v. DEMING.
Opinion of the Court.

judgments may be attacked collaterally. In explaining the decision of Wise v. Withers, 3 Cranch, 381, where he had himself
written the opinion, Chief Justice Marshall said in Ex _parte
Watkis, 3 Pet. 193, 209, that it had been considered in the
former case that a court-martial was one of those inferior courts
of limited jurisdiction, whose jurisdiction might be questioned
collaterally. In order to give effect to the judgment of a court
of that nature it must appear affirmatively that the court was
legally constituted; that it.had jurisdiction, and that all of the
statutory requirements governing its proceedings had been complied with. Runk case, supra. Jurisdiction of inferior courts
not of record must be affirmatively shown and no presumption
thereof exists. Freeman on Judgments, 3d ed. sec. 517. They
can, therefore, be attacked collaterally.
While the writ of habeas corpus cannot be converted into a
writ of error, yet unless the court which tried the prisoner has
jurisdiction to try and punish him for the offence the prisoner
may be discharged on such writ. In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731,
757.
The question we are now discussing resolves itself into one of
jurisdiction simply. If the court-martial had jurisdiction over
the subject-matter of the charge against the defendant and of
the person, or if the consent of the defendant gave such jurisdiction, the writ of habeas coiwpu8 will afford no relief, for generally, in such case any error committed by a court-martial
regularly organized and with full jurisdiction is not assailable
before the civil courts. Swaim v. United States, 165 U. S. 553;
Carter ' XcClughry,
av.
183 U. S. 365.
For the reasons already given, we think the court was illegally constituted, in violation of law, and that it had no jurisdiction over the person of the defendant or the subject-matter of
the charges against him, and that consent could confer none in
opposition to the statutory requirements for members of a courtmartial convened to try him.
The question of who shall act on colirts-martial for the trial
of offenders belonging to the various branches of the Army of
the United States is one entirely for Congress to determine. If
it should think the time has come to do away with the distinc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tion between the volunteer or militia force and -the Regular
Army, it rests in its discretion to so provide.
We are of opinion, after a careful examination of this record,
that the decision of the court below was right, and- the order
discharging the defenqdant from custody should be
4fflrmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUsTICE MoKENNA dissented.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY and MR. JUSTIcE BREWER did not hear the
argument and took no part in the decision.

BE]MIENT v. NATIONAL HARROW COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 215. Argued April 9,10, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
Any one sued upon a contract may set up, as a defence, that it is a violation
of an act of Congress.
The object of the patent laws is monopoly, and the rule is with few exceptions, that any conditions which are not in their very nature illegal with.
regard to this kind of property, imposed by the patentee, and agreed to
by the licensee for the right to manufacture or use or sell the article, will
be upheld by the courts; and the fact that the conditions in the contracts
keep up the monopoly, does not render them illegal. Thie prohibition
was a reasonable prohibition for the defendant, who would 'thus be excluded from making such harrows as were made by others, who were engaged in manufacturing and selling other machines under other patents;
but it would be unreasonable to so construe the provision, as to prevent
the defendant from using any letters patent legally obtained by itand
not infringing patents owned by others.
Upon the fats found, there was no error in the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, and it is affirmed.

THIs was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Stateof New York, to which court the record had .been remitted
after a decision of the case by the Court of Appeals. The action
was brought by the plaintiff below, the defendant in error here,

