CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAHASSEE. 401
Statement of the Case.

If the law in question in Louisiana, excluding French ships
from all access to the port of New Orleans, be not a violation
of the provision of the treaty that vessels "shall be subject to
no other quarantine than such as may be necessary for the visit
of a health officer of the port, after which such vessels shall be
allowed immediately to enter and unload their cargoes," I am
unable to conceive a state of facts which would constitute a violation of that provision.- Necessary as efficient quarantine laws
are, I know of-no authority in the States to enact such as are
in conflict with our treaties with f6reign nations.

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT AND FUEL COMPANY v. TAL
LAHASSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 209. Submitted April 7, 1902.-Decided June 2, 1902.

The city of Tallahassee has never been under obligation to take electric
lighting from the Capital City Light and Fuel Company.
There has been no impairment of ariy contract between, the city and the
plaintiff in error or its predecessor, and the city has the right to avail
itself of the privileges granted by.the acts of 1897 and 1899, so far as regards the electric lighting of the city.

THE plaintiff in error, being the plaintiff below, brings this
case here by writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Florida for the Purpose of reviewing a judgment of that
court, affirming the judgment of the circuit court of the second
judicial district of that State,, dismissing plaintiff's bill of complaint against the defendant with costs.
The bill shows that the Tallahassee Gas and Electric Light
Company was incorpqrated -pursuant to the laws of. the State,
December 20, 1887, for the purpose, as stated in its articles of
association, of constructing, maintaining and operating gas
works and electric light works in the city of Tallahassee, and
for the manufacture of gas for light and fuel, or for the purVOL. OLXXXI-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

pose of disposing of or dealing in coal or wood for fuel, and in
maintaining and operating- electric light machinery for supplying lights in the city, or. for manufacturing or dealing in any
and all manner of artificial light or heat within that city. After its incorporation the company applied to the city council
for the franchise of constructing gas and electric light works
in the city for the purposes declared in its charter, and, pursuant to such application, an ordinance of the city council was
duly passed on Janukry 4, 1888, the first section of which authorized the.company" to construct gas and electric light works
in the city of Tallahassee, and for that purpose that the said
company shall have the right to lay their pipes in any and all
streets in said city and in the alleys and lots of the same, and to
erect such lamp posts or poles or towers as may be necessary
or essential for furnishing gas or electric lights in said city of
Tallahassee, and to this end the Tallahassee Gas and Electric
Light Company are authorized to make such excavations or
erect such .structures, poles or towers, and run wires thereto
along the streets of said city; as may be necessary or essential.

.

"

Provision was also made in the ordinance as to the manner
of excavating the streets, constructing the works and as to the
quality and price of the gas to be furnished and the time within
which the gas works should be completed and the plant put in
operation. It was also provided, that the comipany should file
a written acceptance of the ordinance, whereupon the same
should become binding upon both parties.
Section 7 of the ordinance provided for the completion of the
gas works and for operating the same within a short time,
stated
therein, and ended with the following provision:
" And
the said Tallahassee Gas and Electric Light
Company
shill put in and operate electric lights as soon as sufficient consumers can be secured to pay -eight per cent interest per annum
on the additional capital required to purchase the machinery
for and put in practical operation the said electric lights."
Sections 10 and I1 of the ordinance read s follows:
"Sxc. 10. That the said city of Tallahassee, in consideration
of the foregoing requirements being complied with on the part

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAHASSEE. 403
Statement of the Case.
of the said Tallahassee Gas and Electric Light Company, their
associates, successors and assigns, shall and hereby obligates
itself to take all gas which it may wish to use in lighting its
streets or buildings from said company at a price of not more
than one and one half dollars ($1.50) per one thousand feet for
such as may be used in public buildings used exclusively by said
city, and at a price of not more than ($30) thirty dollars per
annum for each street lamp as hereinbefore provided for in section six of this ordinance, for the period of twenty-five consecutive years from the completion of said gas works: Provided,
That nothing herein shall be construed as an obligation on the
part of the said city of Tallahassee to take any gas from said
company.
"SEc. 11. That the privileges and licenses herein and hereby
granted shall be exclusive iii and to said Tallahassee Gas and
Electric Light Company, their associates, successors and assigns,
for and during the term of twenty-five years."
After the adoption of the ordinance the company filed its
acceptance thereof, and proceeded to the construction of its gas
works, which it completed, and thereafter furnished gas without any complaint until November 8, 1893, when a receiver was
appointed, and subsequently its property was sold under a foreclosure decree. It was bid in by William A. Rawls, and a deed
made to him. Thereafter, and on March 19,1894, the plaintiff
in error was incorporated, and the property conveyed to it by
Rawls. It was stated inthe articles of incorporation that the
general nature of the business of the company to be transacted
by.it was "t6 acquire, construct, improve, maintain and operate
gas works and electric light works in and adjacent to the city
of Tallahassee, in Leon County, State of Florida, and to manufacture gas for'light and fuel; to dispose of and deal in coal or
wood for fuel; to construct, maintain and operate electric light
machinery for supplying lights in and about the said city, or
for manufacturing and~dealing in any and all manner of artificial
light or heat within or adjacent to said city."
The company was incorporated for the purpose of operating
under the terms and provisions of the ordinance of the city
above mentioned, the property purchased by Rawls, which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.,
Statement of the Case.

had purchased for the purpose of transferring to the company,
and in pursuance of such purpose the property was made over
to the company, which entered into the possession and assumed
the management and control thereof, and continued the manufacture of gas for the purpose of supplying the city and its inhabitants with light and heat, and it has since coming into the
possession of the property enlarged and extended its plant, and
met the increased demands of the city-and its inhabi.tants, the
city having ever since recognized, treated and dealt with the
company as the lawful successor of the Tallahassee Gas and
Electric Light Company and the legal assignee of all the rights,
franchises, privileges and confricts created and conferred on
that company by the ordinance of th. city of Tallahassee.
The legislature on Tune 5, 1897, passed an act, chapter 4600
,of- the Laws of Florida; page 141, entitled "An act to enable
cities and towns to manufacture and distribute gas and electricity, and to construct, purchase, lease or establish and maintain
within its limits one or more plants for the manufacture and
distribution of gas and electricity for furnishing light for municipal use, -and for the use of such of its inhabitants as may
require and pay for-the same as herein provided." Thereafter,
and on May 27, 1899, the legislature of the State passed another
act, to enable the city of Tallahassee to exercise the powers
provided by the act of 1897, above mentioned. This act of
1899 granted to the -city the right to construct and maintain
its own electrio light plant upon complying with certain conditions speciied in the act. These conditions the city proceeded
to comply with, and passed a resolution to build and operate
an electric light plant of its own, which was ratified at an election by the people of the city, and the city council was about
.oproceed to carry out the plan for the erection and operation
of such electric lighting plant to light the bity under the provisions of the act of 1899, when this suit was commenced.
The plaintiff duly protested at each step against the action
of the city council for the erection and operation of suh a plant,
and claimed that it-would be a violation and impairment of the
contract which it held with the city, and would very 'greatly
injure, if not ruin, the plaintiff in error. It was also stated

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAHASSEE. 405
Opinion of the Court;

that there has never been a time since the establishment of the
gas works in that city that the plaintiff in error, or its predecessor, could have procured sufficient consumers to pay eight
per cent per annum on the additional capital required to purchase the machinery for and put into practical operation an
electric lighting system therein. The bill prayed that the city
and its officers might be enjoined from establishing and maintaining an electric plant, and from furnishing electric light to
the inhabitants of the city during the balance of the period of
twenty-five years for which the exclusive franchise of constructing gas and electric works in that city, and for using the streets
thereof. for that purpose, and for furnishing gas and electric
light to the inhabitants of the city was granted, to wit, until the
year 1913. The bill also prayed that the city should -be enjoined from making or entering into any contract or from performing any contract with any corporation or firm for furnishing electric lighting and other machinery, and that the dity
should be enjoined from issuing its bonds for the payment of
any such plant.
This bill was demurred to for want of equity, in that it
showed no facts entitling complainant to relief against the defendant as to the matters contained in it. The demurrer was
sustained and the complainant's bill dismissed, and the judgment- entered thereon was affirmed 'bythe Supreme Court of
Florida. 28 Southern Rep. 810.
.Mr. Brederiik T. Xyers for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George T. Raney for defendant in error.
MR. JusTi.oE PEOKHAm, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error claims that, under the city ordinance,
it tias a valid contract for the exclusive use of the streets of the
city of Tallahassee for the purpose of furnishing both gas and
electric'light, and that the subsequent acts of the legislature,
providing for the erection and operation by the city of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

electric light plant, impair the obligation of its contract, and
are therefore void.
As the case involves the provision of the Federal Constitution,
which prohibits the States from passing any law impairing the
obligation of a contract, and as the state court has given effect
to subsequent legislation, which, it is claimed, results in the
impairment of the obligation of plaintiff's contract with the
city, we are bound to determine for ourselves as to the existence and meaning of the alleged contract, in order to determine the question whether subsequent, legislation has impaired
the obligation thereof.
Plaintiff in error claims the exclusive right to use the streets
and furnish both gai and electric lights-by virtue of section 11
'bf the ordinance of the city council, referred to in the foregoing
statement of facts, and by virtue of the provisions of section 38
of the general corporation act of August 8, 1868. We concur
in substance in the opinion of the state court of Florida, 28
South. Rep. 813, wherein it stated as follows:
"A careful reading of the ordinance passed in 1888 will show
that the'city is under no obligation whatever to the appellant
or its predecesior c6mpany to light the streets and public buildings of the city with either gas or electricity manufactured by
said companies. Nothing is said in the ordinance about lighting the streets or public buildings with electricity manufactured.
by the company. In respect to gas, the city was not required
to use any at all, but it obligated itself to take all gas that it
might Wish to use in lighting its streets'and buildings from the
company at prices not to exceed the amounts named for a certain term of years. There is no contract, therefore, between
the city and the company that the latter-shall have the right
to furnish the city for lighting its streets and public buildings,
all or any, by electricity used for the purpose, nor is there any
stipulation in the ordinance that the city will uise nothing but
gas, nor that the city will not own or operate an electric light
plant for supplying the city and its inhabitants with light. If
the city is debarred from erecting an electric light plant by the
ordinance passed by it, it is because that ordinance legally
grants the company the exclusive privilege and license to use

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAIASSEE. 401
Opinion of the CourL

the streets, alleys and lots of the city for the pirpose of coftstructing and operating a plant and its instrumentalities for
furnishing electric lights in the city."
The general law of Florida for the incorporation of municipal corporations, passed August 6, 1868, while empowering a
city to provide for lighting its streets, and giving toit the power
to regulate and control the use of its public streets, gives the,
city no power to grant an exclusive use of its streets to any person or corporation for the purpose of lighting the city or for
providing light to its citizens. The power to obtain su~h exclusive use of the streets of the city, if not granted by the municipal corporation act of 1868, is said to be found in the general act passed August 8, 1868, or two days subsequently to the
above act, and known as chapter 1639 of the Laws of Florida,
prQviding for the incorporation of corporations other than those
of a municipal character. Section 38 of such act reads as follows:
"Any corporation organized and put into successful operation
under this act shall have exclusive privileges for the purposes
of its creation for the term of twenty years from thd date the
corporation commences to carry out in good faith the terms of
its articles of incorporation: Provided,however, That this investment shall not so operate as to divest any future legislature
of those powers of government which are inherent andessential
attributes of sovereignty, to wit: the power to create revenue
for public purposes, to provide for the common defence, to provide safe and convenient ways for the public necessity and convenience and to take private property for the public use, and
the like."
The defendant in error contends that the proper construction
of that section does not authorize the exclusive use of the public
streets of the city for lighting purposes even if consented to by
the city; that it cannot reasonably be supposed that the legislature, while omitting to give to cities the power of granting exclusive privileges in its streets for lighting or any other purpose,
would, at the same time, by another act, grant to a private cor-poration incorporated thereunder, the right to the exclusive possession of the streets thereof for the*purpose of. executing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

business for which it was incorporated ; that if it were intended
that the city should have power to grant such exclusive use it
would have been stated in the act providing for the incorporation of cities, and, if it were not so intended, it cannot be implied from the language of the section above quoted, found in
an act referringto corporations other than municipal. The two
acts, it is said, must be reconciled, and it can be done by excepting from the application of the thirty-eighth section the right
to an exclusive use of the public streets of a city for any purpose. The plaintiff in error concedes that the city has full
control and management of its streets, and that the plaintiff
could not use the streets for the purpose of laying its pipes, etc.,
therein withbut the consent of the city. But it urges that, having secured such consent, it is authorized to maintain the exclusive use by reason of the thirty-eighth section above quoted,
even if the city had no right to grant it under the act providing for the incorporation of cities. This question, while stated,
was not decided by the court below, and we do not find it necessary to decide it ourselves.
The ordinance adopted by the city council las reference to
two absolutely separate, and distinct privileges, although they
are contained in one and the same ordinance. One privilege
is to use the streets of the city for the purpose of laying down
gas mains and other pipes, to distribute gas throughout the
city and to supply consumers with that article. The other is
the right to the use of the streets of the city for the purpose of
erecting poles and other things to convey the electricity necessary for lighting purposes. These two privileges are as absolutely separate and distinct as is a privilege to convey by
railroad from that by steamboat or by stage coach.- It is seen
by the terms of the ordinance that it was not contemplated
that these different privileges and plants should be availed of
and constructed at the same time, but on the contrary the gas
,plant was to be constructed at once, while the obligation to
construct the other was left in abeyance and not to be entered
upon until consumers enough could be secured to pay eight
per cent per annum on the additional capital required to purchase the machinery for and put in practical. operation the

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAHASSEE. 409
Opinion of the Court.

lighting by electricity. The two grants might, therefore, have
been in two separate ordinances and given to separate persons,
firms or corporations. '-The operation of- one would not interfere with that of the othef, except perhaps. on a question
of financial success, but-so far as the character of the two
grants is concerned, each one is wholly separate and distinct
from the other.
The city has never been under any obligation to take'electrio lighting from the corporation, even after the plant had
been erected and was in operation. The exclusive character of
the privilege, assuming it to exist by virtue of section 88 of
the corporation law, already referred to, does not commence
until the company has begun to do the thing required by the
ordinance, as the consideration for the grant of the privilege.
Nothing has been done by the plaintiff in error towards commencing work looking to the erection and 6peration of the
electric plant. Upon this subject the Supreme Court of Florida
stated as follows (28 Southern Reporter, 814):
"It appears from the pleadings that neither the Tallahassee
Gas and Electric Light Company, nor the appellant company,
ever established an electric light plant in the ciky of Tallahassee in pursuance of the authority con7ferred upon either of them.
From the organization of the first company up to the time the
gas plant was sold at judicial sale about six years had elapsed,
and from the time of the judicial sale to the time the city began
proceedings to enable it to establish an electric light plant about
six years more elapsed. During all this period of time neither
company attempted to construct an electric light plant as authorized by its charter. In the meantime that provision in the general
incorporation law relating to exclusive privileges had been repealed by the legislature of .1891, and an act passed in 1897
specially authorizing cities'and towns to establish gas and electric light plants to supply themselves and their citizens with
light, and still later, in 1899' special legislative .authority was
given the city of Tallahassee to establish an electric lightplant..
Neither the Tallahassee Gs and -Electric Light Company nor
appellant company has acquired any vested right to erect an
electric light plant by the investment of an money in any such

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

plant, and the question arises as to whether or not any constitutional right has been impaired by the repeal of the statute
granting the alleged exclusive privilege, and by the legislation
authorizing the city to do that which is a public benefit, and
that which for some twelve years the companies have neglected,
to do as authorized by their charters and the city ordinance.
We are unable to see 'that any vested right of either coinpany,
so far as the establishment of an electric light plant is concerned, is impaired by the legislation which authorizes the city
to do that which it now proposes to do. In the first place, the
statute, properly construed, does not grant the exclusive privilege in respect to the electric light plant as claimed. A grant
of exclusive*privileges to appellant's predecessor would be the
grant of a franchise from the State, the possession of which
would enable it to obtain a practical monopoly of the gas and
electric light business in Tallahassee for the term specified. All
such grants are strictly construed against the grantee, and nothing passes thereby but such as is clearly intended. Baginaw Gas
Light Company v. City of Baginaw, 28 Fed. Rep. 529 ; Florida,
Atlantic & Gulf Central Railroad Company v. Pensacola &
Georgia &c. Company, 10 Fla. 145. Under the express language of this statute the exclusive privilege did not attach
until the corporation, was not only organized, but put into
successful operation, and the privileges were to attach for
twenty years from the time the corporation commenced to
carry-out in good faith the terms of its articles.of incorporation. The condition upon which the exclusive privilege, so
far as the electric light plant was concerned, attached, has
never been performed, for the company has never been put
into successful operation, so far as that branch of its business
is concerned, nor has it ever commenced to carry out in good
faith the terms of its articles of incorporation in regard to
erecting an electric light plant. The first company never acquired the right to the exclusive privilege mentioned in the
statute, because it failed to perform the condition precedent,
and therefore it had no exclusive privilege to transfer to
appellant company, so far as the electric light plant is concerned. ,In the next place, even if an exclusive privilege of

CAPITAL CITY LIGHT &c. CO. v. TALLAHASSEE. 411
Opinion of the Court.

this nature, tending to establish a monopoly, was granted without such express condition precedent as we find in our statute,
such grant does not become a contract or a vested right so as
to be protected by the constitution of the State or the United
States, until the company has, to say the least, begun to do the
thing required by the charter as the consideration for the grant
of such privilege. Pearsallv. Great N'orthern Railway Cornpany, 161 U. S. 646; -ouisville & Nashville RailroadConpany
v. .Kentucky, 161 U. S. 77. See also Ch7incleclamouche Lumber & Boom Corpany v. Commonwealth, 100 Pa. St. 438'
"Our attention is called to that clause in the seventh section
of the city ordinance which required the company to put in
electric lights only when sufficient consumers could be secured
to pay eight per cent interest per annum on the additional capital required to purchase the machinery and put in successful
operation electric lights' It would appear from this clause that
from the beginning the company, only intended to avail itself
immediately of that provision of its charter authorizing it -to
erect a gas plant and to use the other power granted by its
charter, together with the city ordinance, to shut out competition in its business from electric light companies, intending only
to put in an electric light plant whenever that, plant could be
made to secure it an annual profit on its investment in that plant
of eight per cent. It is quite apparent that the legislature never
intended to secure to it any such right, but, on the contrary,
intended the privilege to extend only so far as to secure -the
company from competition in matters wherein it had complied
with its charter by being put into successful operation. We
have seen that the city had no authority to grant exclusive
privileges to use its streets for the purpose of furnishing light
from gas and electricity, but even if it did have such power, it
could not confer such exclusive right, and at the same time defer construction of the plant until such time as it could be made
to pay eight per cent upon the investment. The effect'of such
a provision in an ordinance lie the one we are considering is
that the city will not permit any other person or corporation to
use its streets for the public purpose of furnishing electric lights

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

-

for twenty-five years, but at the same time will not require the
person or corporation to whom the exclusive privilege is granted
to furnish such lights until such time as it can make an annual
profit of eight per cent on its investment. The city has no such
power over its streets, which are held by it in trust for the public benefit, Florida Central & Peninsular Railroad Company
v. Ocala Street c Suburban Railroad Company, 39 Fla. 306;
Gonzales v. Sullivan, 16 Fla. 791, 820, and, even if it did, so
long as the grantee failed to invest money in a plant, the ordinance could be repealed or modified, being without consideration.
"We have not overlooked the fact that the first company
performed its charter powers in part by erecting and operating
a gas plant, and as to that plant, and the business connected
therewith, it may have possessed exclusive privileges under the
statute which could not be impaired by subsequent legislation,
and it may be that such privileges passed to appellant through
the judicial sale. As to that we express no opinion. But while
the purpose of erecting both plants would be the same, in that
they would both furnish light to the city and its people, yet
they furnish a different light and require separate and different
plants and instrumentalities for their operation. We think they
are so distinct in charabter as to amount to separate undertakings, and they are so treated in the articles of association of
both companies, and in the ordinance. Power to operate the
one would not include pcwer to operate the other, and permission to use the streets for one would not include permission to
use them for the other. City of Vewport v. -NewportLight
Company, 89 Ky. 454. The exclusive privileges as to the electric light plant could not have operated as a consideration for
erecting the gas plant; for such privileges, under the statute
were to attach to the electric light business only when that
plant was put in."
We concur in the result arrived at in the foregoing extract
from the opinion of the state court, and, in common with that
court, we hold that there ha been no impairment of -any contract between the city and the plaintiff in error or its predecessor, and that the city has the right to avail itself of the privs

HOTEMA v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

fleges granted by the acts of 1897 and 1899 of the legislature
already mentioned, so far as regards the electric lighting of the
city.
The judgment is, therefore,

HOTEMA v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 572. Submitted April 28,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.
In relation to the part of this charge, in which the, court speaks of an irresistible impulse to commit the murder, counsel for the defendant says
that he made no claim that the defendant was actiated by an'irresistible impulse, and that there is nothing in the evidence to show that he
was; that what he did claim was that the defendant was laboring under
an insane delusion; and that, this charge did not bring that subject before the jury. As there is no portion of the evidence returned in the bill
of exceptions, this court is unable to judge whether there was any which
would justify, or which did justify the court in submitting the question
that
of irresistible impulse to the jury. If there had been evidence on
dethe
to
fair
as
certainly
was
question
the
of
subjeqt, the submission
fendant as he could ask. The court decides nothing further than that.
Upon the other portion of the charge, as to the general liability of the defendant to th. criminal law and to the obligation of the government to
prove him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt upon taking into consideration all the evidence, and in regard to every essential element of the
crime, the charge of the court was undoubtedly correct.
Taking the whole charge together the court properly laid ddwn the law in
regard to the responsibility of the defendant on account of his alleged

mental condition.
The question whether, upon a consideration of the facts, the extreme penalty of the law should be carried out upon this defendant is not one over
which this court has jurisdiction.

Tim case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. 7acob 60. Hodge&for Hotema.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Bee for the United States.

