HAGAN v. SCOTTISH INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

HAGAN v. SCOTTISH INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 206. Argued April 8,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.
Where a marine policy is taken out upon a blank policy providing by many"
of its terms for insurance on property or goods on land, it becomes
doubly important to keep, and apply with strictness, the rule that the
written shall prevail over the printed portion of a policy, as in such case
the written, even more clearly than usual, will evidence the real contract
between the parties; and courts will not endeavor to limit what would
otherwise be the meanig and effect of the written language, by resorting
to some printed provision in the policy, which, if applied, would change
such meaning and render the written portion substantially useless and
without appliciation. If there be any inconsistency between the written
provision of the policy and the printed portions thereof, the written language must prevail.
By virtue of the language contained in the policy, "on account of whom
it may concern," it is not necessary that the person who takes out such
a policy should have at that time any specific individual in mind; but if
he intended the policy should cover the interest of any person to whom
he might sell the entire or any part of the interest insured, that would
be enough.
This court ,differs from the conclusion arrived at by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in its statement that therewas nothing in the case to support a
finding.that Hagan itite.nded to insure a subsequent vendee of the boat,
or of an interest therein, because of the retention in the policy 'of the.
provision that it should be entirely void, unless otherwise provided by
agreement, if any change, etc., should be made; and holds that the very
purpose of stating that the insurance was on account of whom it may
concern was to do away with the printed provisions in regard to the sole
ownership niad to the change of -interest ard that was an agreement
"otherwise provided," than in the printed portion of the policy.

THIS was a libel in admiralty by the petitioners, Peter Hagan
aid Edward F. Martin, on a policy of insurance issued by the
Scottish Union and National Insurance Company, November 19,
1897, against loss or damage by fire to an amount, not exceeding $2000, on the tug boat Senator Penrose. The District
Court made a decree for the libellants.> 98 Fed. Rep. 129.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

This decree was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit. 102 Fed. Rep. 919.
By the policy it is provided, among other things, that the
company"In consideration of the stipulations lerein named and of
twenty-five dollars premium does insure PeterHagan and Com.pany for account of whom it may concern for the term of one
year from the 19th day of November, 1S97, at noon, to the 19th
.day of November, 1898, at noon, against all direct loss or damage by fire, except as hereinafter provided, to an amount not
exceeding two thousand dollars, to the following-described property while located and contained as described herein, and not
elsewhere, to wit:
"On the iron tug Senator Penrose, her hull, tackle, apparel,
engines, boilers, machinery, appurtenances, furniture and supplies.
"Privilege to engage in such employment as may be incidental to her trade; also to lay up and haul out on railways
and dry docks and to undergo alterations and repairs; also to
use kerosene oil for lights.
"Other insurance permitted without notice until required.
"N. Y. and Penna. standard,
"Percentage coinsurance clause.
"If at the tinie of fire the whole amount of insurance on the
propqrty covered by this policy shall be less than 80 per cent
of the actual cash value thereof, this company shall, in case of
loss or damage, be liable for. only such portion of such loss or
-damage as the amount insured by this policy shall bear to the
said 80 per -cent of the actual cash value of such property.
"Attached to policy No. 2,139,457 Scottish U. & N. Insurance Co;
"S. D. H.WLEY & SoN,
"Agents, Resident 2fanagers.
"This entire policy, unless otherwise provided by agreement
endorsed hereon or added hereto, shall be void if 'the ins-pred
now has,-or shall hereafter make or procure, any other contract 'f insurance, whether valid or not, on property covered

HAGAN v. SCOTTISH INS. CO.
Counsel for Appellant.

in Whole or in paft by this policy; or if the subject of insurance be a manufacturing establishment, and it be operated in
whole or in part at night later than ten o'clock, or if it cease
to be operated for more than ten. consecutive "days; or if the
hazard be increased by any means'within the control or knowledge of the insured; or if mechanics be employed in building,
altering or repairing the within-described premises for more
than fifteen days at any one time; or if the interest of the insured be other than unconditional and sole ownership; or if
the subject of insurance be a building or ground not owned by
the insured in fee simple; or if the subject of insurance be personal property and be or become incumbered by a chattel mortgage; or if with the knowledge of the insured, foreclosure
proceedings be commenced or notice given of sale of any property covered by this policy by virtue of any mortgage or trust
deed; or if any change other than by the death of an insured,
take place in the interest, title or possession of the subject of
insurance (except change of occupants without increase of hazard) whether by legal process or judgment or by voluntary act
of the insured, or otherwise; or if this policy be assigned before a loss," etc.
The words "Pete r Hagan and Company for account of whom
it may concern" are written with a pen, while the paragraphs
commencing with the words ' On the iron tug," and ending
with the words "S. D. Hawley & Son, Agent, Resident Managers," are in typewriting, and on a separate strip attached to
the face of the policy.
In Jun6, 1898, Peter Hagan, who obtained the insurance, sold
one half interest in the tug to Edward F. Martin, and the latter
held that interest at the timeof the destruction of the tug by
fire. No notice was given to the insurance company of the fact
that Martin had acquired an interest in the boat. Therespondents denied all liability to the plaintiffs because no notice was
given of the change of ownership or of the interest in the tug by
respective libellants as required by the terms of the policy.
.ik. John Frederick Lewi8 for petitioner.
Cheney was on his brief.

.M. Horace L.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

.M'..Henry R..Edmonds for respondent.
MR. JusTicE PEc.KHM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision of this case turns upon the significance to be
given to the written provision of the policy which provides for
insuring "Peter Hagan and Company for account of whom it
.may concerns
In the District Court Judge McPherson said:
"The decision of the case depends upon the effect to be given
to the wcrds 'for.whom it may concern.' This clause, so far as
it may be in conflict with other language in the policy, must,
upon familiar principles, be regarded as dominant. It expresses
the special agreement of the parties, for it is in writing, while
the conflicting provisions are in print; and general printed
conditions usually give way to deliberately chosen written
words.. M oreover, even if the court doubted which provision
should prevail, another well-known rule requires the policy to
be construed against the company rather than against the insured; and, therefore, upon either ground, the clause now under
consideration is controlling.

.

.

.

The first step, therefore,

in a given ease is to determine what interest the person taking
out the policy intended to protect. It is not essential that he
should have had any specific individual in mind. 'It is enough
if he intended to protect the interest that afterwards passed to
the person injured; and if he so intended-, the policy may be
adopted afterwards by a subsequent sole or partial owner of the
interest, although such owner may have been unknown to,the
person taking out the insurance, or to the company, at the timie
the policy was written. In the present case I have no doubt
(and I find the fact to be) that Hagan intended to insure, and
to keep insured for one year, the entire title to the boat. He
did not intend merely to protect such interest .as he himself
might have from time to time. If this had been his object the
policy would more naturally have been taken out in his own
name, omitting the qualifying phrase; but he intended to protect the ownership of the boat, whether vested in himself alone,

HAGAN v. SCOTTISH INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

or shared with, or transferred to, other persons. This being his
intention, and Martin having afterwards adopted the policy by
the agreement of sale and by accounting for a proper share of
the premium, I think no further difficulty exists. The facts
brin.g the dispute within the rule laid down in Hooqxr v. Robinson, 98 U. S. 528, and in other cases to which reference need
not be made."
The decree of the District Court was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, with directions -todismiss the libel with costs.
Judge Dallas, speaking for that court, said:
"It is true that the written terms of a policy will control
where they are in, plain conflict with its printed "clauses; but
no part of*the instrument is to be rejected if it can be sustained.
as a whole, and in the present instance the printed provisions
in question and the written -words ' for account of whom it
may concern,' are not irreconcilably repugnant. That the policy was issued for account of 'whom it might concern is undeniable, but whom could it concern? Possibly the then existing.
or future creditors of the boat, or perhaps the constituents of
Peter Hagan and Company; but, no matter for whose account
the insurance may have been effected, it cannot be supposed
that it was taken for the benefit of any one who, by the express, though printed, terms of the contract, was distinctly excluded from having or acquiring- any interest under it. It is
not necessary to our conclusion that we should question the
rule of law which was applied by the court below, and we do
not do so. Itis not dopbted that a policy in the name of a
special party, on account of whom it may concern, will cover
the interest of the person for whom, it was intended by the
party who ordered it, although the particular person intended
was not known; but we find nothing in this case to support a
finding that Hagan intended to insure a subsequent vendee of
the boat, or of an interest therein. On the contrary, we think,
as we have already said, that the retention in the policy of the
'provision that it should be entirely void if any transfer in interest, title or possession should be made, absolutely precludes
the inference of an intent to make the policy applicable to any
person claiming under or by virtue of such a transfer."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

In these two extracts from the opinions delivered in the
courts below wefind the different views of the judges of those
Qourts upon the question at issue. It is to be observed, in the
first place, that the policy in question covers property on the
water, viz;, a tug boat, yet the printed portion of the policy
shows that it was intended generally to be used for insuring
property on laid. A marine policy was made out upon blanks
not intended for that kind of insurance. Consequently many
of the printed provisions were wholly inapplicable to insurance
of.property on the water.
Where h marine policy is thus taken out upon a blank policy
providing by many of its terms for insurance on property or
goods on land, it becomes doubly important to keep, and apply
with strictness, the rule that the written shall prevail over the
printed portion of a policy, as in such, case the written, even
more clearly than usual, will evidence -the real -contract between the parties. Courts will not endeavor to limit what
would otherwise be the meaning and effect of the written language, by resorting to some printed provision in the policy,
which, if applied, would change such meaning and render the
written portion substantially useless and without application.
. In .Dudgeon v. Pembroke, decided in the English House of
Lords, in 1877, 2 App. Cas. 284, at 293, in speaking of this
question of the difference between the written and the printed
portions of a- policy, and in delivering the opinion of the court,
Lord Penzance said:
"My lords, the policy in this case is a time and not a voyage
policy, and not only so, but an ordinary time policy. There
can, I apprehend, be no doubt upon that point. It has been
suggested that, by reason of the policy having been drawn up
on a printed form, the printed terms of which are applicable to
a voyage and also to goods as well as to the ship, the policy is
something less, or something more, than a time policy. But the
practice of mercantile men of writing into their printed forms
the particular terms by which they desire to describe, and limit
the risk intended to be insured against, without striking out
the printed words which may be applicable to a larger or different contract,,is too well known, and has- been too constantly
recognized in courts of law to permit of any such conclusion."

HAGAN v. SCOTTISH INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

This rule is recognized and assented to by both courts below.
If there be any inconsistency between the written provision of
the policy and the printed portions thereof, the written language must prevail. It becomes necessary, therefore, to determine what is the meaning of the written portion of the policy,
and what was intended by the parties by the language "on
account of whom it may concern." - Both courts below concur
in the statement that a policy so worded will cover the interest
of the person for whom it was intended by the party taking
out the insurance, even though the particular person intended
was not then known. It was said in the District Court that it
was enough if the person taking out the insurance intended to
protect the interest that afterwards passed to the person injured; that it was not essential that he should have had any
specific individual in mind at the time when he took out the
insurance. The opinion of the Court of Appeals concedes that
a policy in the name of a special party, "on account of whom
it may concern," will cover the interest of the person for whom
it was intended by the party who ordered it, although the particular person intended was not known. But the Court of
Appeals was unable to discover anything in the case to support a finding that Hagan (the person taking out the insurance) intended to insure a subsequent vendee of the boat or of
an interest therein, because of the retention in the policy of
the printed provision that it should be entirely void, unless
otherwise provided by agreement, if any change in the interest, title or possession should be made. The retention of this
printed provision, the court said, precluded the inference of
any intent to make the policy applicable to any person claiming under or by virtue of such transfer.
We concur in the view that by virtue~of the language contained in the policy, "on account. of whom it may concern," it
is not necessary that the person who takes out such a policy
should have at that time any specific individual in mind. If he
intended the policy should cover the interest of any person to
whom he might sell ihe entire or any part of the interest insured,
that would be enough. In Hoover v. Robinwon, 98 U. S. 528,
it was said that-a policy upon 'a cargo in the name of Aj on ac-

430

4 OCTOBER TERAI, 1001.
Opinion of the Court.

count of whom it may concern, will inure to the interest of the
party for whom it was intended by A, provided he at the time
of effecting the insurance had the requisite authority from
such
party or the latter subsequently adopted it. The facts in that
case differ materially from those presented by this record, but
the meaning of the language "on account of whom it may concern" is stated in the opinion of the court, and authorities are
therein cited which show that it is not necessary that at the time
of effecting the insurance the person taking it out should intend
it for the benefit of some then known and particular individual,
but that it would cover the case of one having an insurable in-.
terest at the time of the happening of the loss, and who was
intended to be protected at the time the party took out the insurance.
In 1 Phillips on Insurance it is stated:
"SEc. 385. The rule, that an insurance 'fOr whom it may concern' will avail in behalf of the party for whom it is intended,
does not mean that any specific individual must be intended.
.

.

.

But he may intend it for whatever -party shall prove

to have an insurable interest in the specified subject, in which
case it will be applicable to the interest of any person subsequently ascertained to have such an insurable interest, who
adopts the insurance.
"SFc. 388. One may become a party to the insurance effected
in his behalf, in terms applicable to his interest, without any
previous authority from him, by adoptingit, either before or after
loss has taken place and is known to him, though. the loss may
have happened before the insurance was made."
In 2 Duer on Marine Insurance, p. 28, it is stated as follows:
"In England, the policy in its usual and almost invariable
form contains a general clause, the terms.of which are sufficiently comprehensive to embrace all persons who have an insurable interest in the property, and a lawful right to be insured. The insurance is expressed to be ' inthe'name of A. B.,
(the person effectipg the policy,) as well ir his own name as for.
and in the name and names (without specification) of all and
every other person and persons, to Whom the same (the property
insured) doth, may or shall appertain, in part or in all? In the

HAGAN v, SCOTTISH INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, as on the continent of Europe, thegeneral clause
is framed in various forms of expression, and the construction
necessarily varies, as the terms used are, more or less, extensive
in their application. "In some cases the insurance is expressed
to be ' on account of the owners.' In some, on Iaccount of a
person or persons, to be thereafter named; ' bqt its most usual
form is, ' on account of whom it may concern.' An insurance
on account of the 'owners,' is probably limited to those who
have a legal interest in the subject insured. But the words,
'on account of whom it may concern,' are coextensive in their
possible application, with the general clause of the London policy."
And the learned author adds in a note the following:
"The Philadelphia policies retain the English form; and why
it has been departed from in any of the cities of the Union, it
is not easy to understand. The words are the most comprehensive and significant that could be chosen, since they apply
not only to all persons, but to every species of interest. As the
clause, however, 'for whom it may concern,' has received the
same construction, it is not now necessary to alter it."
The English form insures the person to whom the property
insured "doth, may or shall appertain," thus insuring the owner
or one who has an interest in the -property at the time when
the loss occurs. And the author says the words "on account
of whom it may concern" have the same significance as the
language used in the English form.
We are constrained to differ from the conclusion arrived at
by the Circuit Court of Appeals in its statement that theie was
nothing in the case to support a finding that Hagan intended
to insure a subsequent vendee of the boat, or of an interest
therein, because of the retention in the policy of the -provision
that it should be entirely void, unless otherwise provided by
agreement, if any change, etc., should be made. It seems to us
that the very purpose of stating that the insurance was on account of whom it may concern-was to do away with the printed
provisions in regard to the sole ownership and to the change of
.interest. It was an agreement "otherwise provided," than in
the printed portion of the policy. It provided f~r the happen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of a contingency by which at the*time of the loss the person
taking out the ,insurance might not be th'e sole and ufconditional owner of the thing insured because of a change in the
interest or title happening by the act of such person between
the time of taking out the insurance -and the occurrence of the
loss. This, we think, was the intention of the party taking theinsurance, to be arrived at by reading the written language of
the policy and by reference to the fact that he intended to insure the whole title, and not his mere interest therein from time
to time. Otherwise wedo not see *,hat effect is given to the
written portion of the instrument.
There is no doubt, and the District Court so found, that
Hagan intended by the policy to secure the insurance upon the
entire title, and he therefore intended thereby to protect that
title during- the running of the policy, and when the clause is
added in writing that,it was issued on account of whom it may
concern, it shows that he intended that such title shouldbe
protected in the hands of any person to whom he might transfer the same or any portion thereof. If otherwise, and'the
'intention -ere only to protect his own interest, the policy, as
stated by the flistribt Judge, would naturally haave been takenoub in his own name, omitting the qualifying phrase, on account of whom it may concern. This phrase was put in for
some purpose, and such purpose was, as it seems to us, to protect the whole title without making it necessary to notify the
company and obtain its consent to any transfer of interest.
At the ime when Hagan took out the policy he was sole
owner, and unless he intended the written words to apply to
those to whom he might afterwards assign h:s interest or some
portion thereof, the 'language would seem to fill no purpose.
It the -policy were to become void in nase of a. transfer of
all or any part of the interest of the person taking out the
insurance unless the company were notified and provided by
"hgreenient endorsed on the policy for such change,, we do not
see that any alteration in its terms and meaning was accomplished by the insertion of the phrase in question. By the interpretation contended for by the company, it would have the
same, right, if the written provision were contained therein,

HAGAN v. SCOTTISH INS. -CO.
Opinion of the Court.

to refuse to otherwise provide by agreement for the transfer
of an interest, that it would have if such provision were stricken
out, and the terms of the policy would in truth be unaltered
by the insertion of that provision. We think this would be a
totally different result from that contemplated by the parties.
The words "on account of whom it may concern" do not
refer to those interested in the policy simply at the time it is
taken out.' The terms refer tothe future. It is not a question
of the persons concerned when it is taken out, but of those
who may be. concerned when the loss may occur, and who
were within the contemplation of him who took out the insurance at the time that he did so. It is on account of those who
in the future, at the time of the happening of a loss, have the
insurable interest and in regard to whom the policy will be applied. We think this the common sense interpretation of the
language used and that it is justified and required by the authorities, many of which are cited in -Hooperv. Robinson, su1 ra.
.Northern Assurance qom any v. Grand riew Building As8ociation, 183 U. S. 308, has no bearing upon this case. There
the party insured proved by parol an alleged waiver, by the
general agent of the company, of one of the conditions in the
policy which required that such waiver should only be given
in writing and endorsed on the policy. It was contended that
the company was estopped because of the conduct of the agent
in the existing circumstances, in issuing such policy and taking
the premium, from setting up and claiming the benefit of the
condition. This court held that the evidence was improperly
received, and reversed the judgment.
In this case there is no question of receiving parol evidence
to alter or change any condition in the policy. It is simply a
question of construction as to the meaning of the language used
in the policy, and as to the' intention of the party taking it out,
and whether the written 'portion (the intention of the party being as stated) is inconsistent with any prin'ted portion thereof;
and if so, whether it should prevail as against such printed portion. We think the written portion is inconsistent with the
printed condition as to change of interest, and as to sole ownership, and there being such inconsistency the written portion
VOL. oLXXXvi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

must be held to cover the assignee of a part interest in the tug,
as intended at the time by the party taking out the insurance.
Thejudgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed,
and that of the District Court of the United Staies/or the
Eastern Districtof Pennsylvania affirmed, and it is so ordered.
did not hear the argument and took no
of
part in the decision this case.
MR.

JUSTioz

GRAY

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v. PENN
PLATE GLASS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD

CIRCUIT.
No. 180. Argued April 24, 25,1902.-Decided June 2,1902.

This was a suit in equity, brought by the petitioner, in the United States
Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, commenced to
foreclose a mortgage given January 1, 1891, by The Pennsylvania Plate
Glass Company upon. its property in the county of Westmoreland and
State of Pennsylvania:, to The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, to secure the payment of $250,000 of bonds then to be issued by the mortgagor
company. A decree was entered by direction of the Circuit Court, providing for the foreclosure and sale of the property and for the application of th6 insurance moneys as prayed for. Upon appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed as to the
insurance moneys, and the court below was directed to enter a decree that
those moneys should be paid to the defendant, The Penn Plate Glass Company. The material facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the
court. The only question involved arose from the provision made in the
decree by the Circuit Court judge, impressing what is termed an equitable lien upon the insurance moneys collected on the policies taken out by
The Penn Company, sufficient to pay any balance which may remain unpaid on the bonds secured by the mortgage to complainant, after the
application of the proceeds of the sale of the property mortgaged. The
Circuit Court held that the complainant had such equitable lien, while
the Circuit Court of Appeals was of the contrary opinion. Held that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right.

