OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

The cases at bar afford a good illustration of the rule of law,
and of its application, as stated by Blackstone: "Indeed every
continuance of a nuisance is held to be a fresh one; and therefore a fresh action will lie, and very exemplary damages will
probably be given, if, after one verdict against him, the defendant has the hardiness to continue it." 3 B1. Com. 220.
If the damages assessed by the jury in either of these two
actions were thought excessive, the defendant's only remedy
was by motion for a new trial in the court below, and that
has already been resorted to without success. 5 Mackey, 269.
Judgments affirmed.

LLOYD v. NoWILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 109. Argued and submitted December 10, 1890. -Decided

December 15,1890.

When a trial by jury in a Circuit Court is waived by agreement, and the
case is tried by the court, no questions are open for revision here, unless
the record shows a finding of facts in accordance with the provisions
of Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700; and in such case, when brought here, the judgment of the Circuit Court will be presumed to be right and will be
affirmed, if it appears that that court had jurisdiction of the subject
matter and of the parties.

Tins was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted. When the cause was reached on the docket,
argument was begun on the part of the plaintiff in error; but
the court interrupted the counsel and declined to hear further
argument. The case is stated in the opinion.
Pfn.
J. P. Tcker for plaintiff in error. -Y'. C5arles Levi
Woodbury was with him.
.21b'. Assistant Attorney General .Xaury for defendant in
error.

SMITH v. GALE.
Aigument for the Motion.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLEPR

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this cause, trial by jury was waived by agreement of the
parties in writing, duly filed, and the case was tried by the
court. But the record discloses no finding upon the facts,
either general or special, in accordance with the statute, (Rev.
Stat. §§ 649, 700,) and no questions are therefore open to our
revision as an appellate tribunal.
As the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter
and the parties, its judgment must be presumed to be right,
Affirmed.
and on that ground

SMITH v. GALE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAKOTA.
No. 580.

Submitted December 22, 1890.-Decided January 5, 1891.

The day of the entry of judgment or decree must be excluded in computing
the time for taking an appeal or bringing a writ of error to review it.

Tins was a motion to dismiss an appeal, on the ground that
it "was not taken within the time prescribed by law." It
appeared that the final decree W'as entered of record by the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Dakota, on the 25th of
May, 1886. The appeal from this decision was allowed, the
supersedeas bond was offered and the citation was signed on
the 25th day of May, 1888, by the chief justice of that court,
and these papers were all filect on that day in the clerk's
office of that court.
.M'. A. G. Sford and _l&. Park -Davis (with whom was
lb'. Melvin Grigsby) for the motion.
Final judgment was entered in this action on the 25th day
of May, 1886, and the appeal to this court was allowed on the
25th day of May, 1888. This motion is made upon the ground
that the appeal was not taken within the prescribed time.
VOL.

cxxxvn-37

