GROVER & BAKER MACHINE CO. v. RADCLIFFE.

287

Syllabus.-

Clayton v. Utah.Territory,132 U. S. 632, the power vested in
the governor of the Territory of Utah by the organic act, to
appoint an auditor of public accounts, was drawn in question;
and in Clough v. Curtis, 134 U. S. 361, 369, the lawful existence, as the legislative assembly of the Territory of Idaho, of
a body of persons claiming to exercise as such the legislative
power conferred by Congress, was controverted. In 3reilson
v. 1agow, 7 How. 772, 775, and 12 How. 98, the plaintiff in
error claimed the land in dispute through an authority exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury, and the State court
decided against its validity. The existence or validity of the
authority was primarily involved in these cases, and they contain nothing to the contrary of our present conclusion.
Why the relator did not bring suit in the Court of Claims
does not appear, nor does the record show the reasons of the
Second Comptroller for rejecting this claim in 1887, nor for
the action of the present Auditor and Comptroller other than
as indicated in the demurrer. These matters are, however,
immaterial in the view which we take of the case.
The writ of error must be dismissed and it is
So ordered.

GROVER AND

BAKER SEWING MACHINE COMPANY .v. RADCLIFFE.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 72.

Argued November 13, 14, 1890.-

Decided December 8,1890.

Domicil generally determines the particular territorial jurisprudence to
which the individual is subjected.
Although a judgment in one State against a citizen of another State, may
be held valid under local laws by the courts of the former, the courts of
the latter are not bound to sustain it, if it would be invalid but for the
special laws of the State where rendered.
B., a citizen of Maryland, having executed a bond, containing a warrant
authorizing any attorney of any court of record in the State of NTew York
or any other State, to confess judgment for the penalty, and judgment
having been entered against him in Pennsylvania by a prothonotary,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
without service of process, or appearance in person or by attorney, under
a local law permitting that to be done, Held;
(1) That in a suit upon this judgment in Maryland, the courts of Maryland were not bound to hold the judgment as obligatory either on
the ground of comity or of duty, contrary to the laws and policy
of their own State.
(2) B. could not properly be presumptively held to knowledge and acceptance of particular laws of Pennsylvania or of all the States other
than his own, allowing that to be done which was not authorized
by the terms of the instrument he had executed.

Tis was an action brought in the Circuit Court of Cecil
County, Maryland, by the Grover and Baker Sewing Machine
Company against James Benge and John Benge, who were
then citizens of Delaware, by summons and attachment on
warrant, which was served on William P. Radcliffe as garnishee. Radcliffe filed pleas on behalf of the Benges according to the Maryland practice, putting the validity of the
judgment in issue.
The declaration was in these words:
"This suit is instituted to recover the sum of twenty-three
hundred dollars from the defendants, due and owing from the
defendants to the plaintiff on and by virtue of a certain judgment which the plaintiff, on the third day of January, in the
year eighteen hundred and seventy-four, in the Court of Common Pleas in and for the county of Chester, in the State of
Pennsylvania, one of the United States of America, by the
judgment of the said court, recovered against the defendants,
for the sum of three thousand dollars; which said judgment is
still in force and unsatisfied."
Upon the trial, a record from the Court of Common Pleas
in and for the county of Chester, in the State of Pennsylvania,
was read in evidence as follows:
"I do hereby enter judgment against the defendants and in
favor of the plaintiff in this cause for the sum of three thousand dollars, lawful money, debt, besides costs, etc., on a bond
and warrant of attorney to confess judgment, dated March
sixteenth, A.D. one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two,
conditioned that if the above-named James Benge, his heirs,

GROVER & BAKER 'MACHINE CO. v. RADCLIFFE.

289

Statement of the Case.

executors, or administrators, shall well and truly pay or cause
to be paid to the said Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company the full amount of each and every liability incurred or
to be incurred by him, the said James Benge, to or with the
said Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company, for and on
account of all sewing-machines and all sewing-machine findings, silks, and threads or other articles, including promissory
notes and other property that may from time to time hereafter
be sold, consigned, supplied, oi, otherwise entrusted to him, the
said James Benge, by the said Grover & Baker Sewing
Machine Company, upon his orders or by his acceptance, with
or without notice to the said John Benge, at the time or times
when each and every liability shall become due and payable or
at such time and times for which payment of the same may
hereafter, with or without notice to the said John Benge, be
extended, then this obligation to be void. This obligation is
intended to operate as a continuing security for the payment,
when the same shall become due and be demanded, of all and
every liability incurred to and with the said Grover & Baker
Sewing Machine Company by the said James Benge aforesaid,
to the amount not exceeding the limit of this bond.
"January 3d, 1874. - Judgment, $3000.00.
" JOHiiN A. RUPERT, Prot."
The bond referred to was executed March 16, 1872, by James
Benge, then a citizen of Pennsylvania, and John Benge, then
a citizen of Maryland, and was as follows:
"Know all men by these ])resents that James Benge, of
West Chester, Pa.; John Benge, of Kimbleville, Cecil County,
Md., are hereby held and firmly bound unto the Grover &
Baker Sewing Machine Company, a corporation duly established by law in the city of Boston, State of Massachusetts,
also doing business at Philadell)hia, State of Pennsylvania.,
in the sum of three thousand dollars, lawful money of the
United States of America, to be paid to the said Grover &
Baker Sewing Machine Company, its legal representatives or
assigns; for which payment, well and truly to be made, we
VOL. cxxxvH-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

bind ourselves, heirs, executors, and administrators, jointly and
severally, firmly by these presents. Sealed with our seals.
Dated the 16th day of March, one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-two; and we hereby authorize any attorney of any
court of record in the State of New York or any other State
to confess judgment against us for the said sum, with release
of errors, etc.
"Whereas the above-named James Benge, at the special
instance and request of the above-bound John Benge, has
obtained a credit with the said Grover & Baker Sewing
Machine Company for machines of their manufacture, and
for sewing-machine findings, silks, and threads manufactured
and dealt in by said Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company and for other articles, including promissory notes and
other property to be hereafter supplied to him,the said James
Benge:
"Now, the condition of this obligation is such that if the abovebound James Benge, his heirs, executors, or administrators,
shall well and truly pay or cause to be paid to the said Grover
& Baker Sewing Mlachine Company the full amount of each
and every liability incurred by him, the said James Benge, to
or with the said Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company
for and on account of all sewing-machines and all sewingmachine findings, silks, and threads or other articles, including promissory notes and other property that may from time
to time hereafter be sold, consigned, supplied, or otherwise
entrusted to him, the said James Benge, by the said Grover
& Baker Sewing Machine Company, upon his orders or by
his acceptance, with or without notice to the said John Benge,
at the time or times when each and every liability shall
become due and payable, or at such time and times for which
payment of the same may hereafter, with or without notice
to the said John Benge, be extended, then this obligation to
be void.
"This obligation is intended to operate as a continuing
security for the payment, when the same shall become due
and be demanded, of all and every liability incurred to and
with the said Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Company by

GROVER & BAKER MACHINE CO. v. RADCLIFFE.

291

Statement of the Case.

the said James Benge, as aforesaid, to the amount not exceeding the limit of this bond, three thousand dollars.
"JAXEs BENGE. [sEALi.]
"JomH

BENGE.

[sEA.]"

Plaintiff read in evidence a statute of the State of Pennsylvania., enacted February 24, 1806, as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the prothonotary of any court of
record, within this Commonwealth, on the application of any
person being the original holder (or assignee of such holder)
of t note, bond, or other instrument of writing, in which judgment is confessed, or containing a warrant for an attorneyat-law, or other person to confess judgment, to enter judgment
against the person or persons who executed the same, for the
amount which, from the face of the instrument, may appear
to be due, without the agency of an attorney, or declaration
filed, with such stay of execution as may be therein mentioned, for the fee of one dollar, to be paid by the defendant;
particularly entering on his docket the date and tenor of the
instrument of writing on which the judgment may be founded,
which shall have the same force and effect, as if a declaration
had been filed, and judgment confessed by an attorney, or
judgment obtained in open court and in term time; and the
defendant shall not be compelled to pay any costs, or fee to
the plaintiff's attorney, when judgment is entered on any
instrument of writing as aforesaid." Purdon's Digest, Judgment, 30.
It was stipulated.that "the common law of Pennsylvania,
the practice of her courts, and the construction placed by her
courts upon any statutes in force in that State may be proved
by the decisions of thie Pennsylvania courts, as reported in the
printed volumes of Pennsylvania Reports." The other evidence
adduced tended to establish or disprove that the property in
controversy in the attachmqnt and garnishment belonged to
John Benge.
The court instructed the jury "that the statute law of the
State of Pennsylvania, offered in evidence by the plaintiff and
admitted by the defendant to be the law under which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

judgment offered in evidence by the plaintiff was entered, did
not authorize the prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas
in and for the county of Chester, in the State of Pennsylvania,
to enter the said judgment, and their verdict should be for the
defendant."
The verdict was accordingly returned for the defendant and
judgment entered thereon, and an appeal prosecuted therefrom to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland, by
which the judgment was affirmed, and a writ of error was
thereupon allowed to this court. The opinion of the Court of
Appeals will be found reported in 66 Maryland, 511.
.31r. Albert Constable (with whom was ilL,. William, T.Warburton on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland erred in affirming the
instruction given by the Circuit Court for Cecil County to the
jury, "that the statute law of the State of Pennsylvania
offered in evidence by the plaintiff, and admitted by the
defendant to be the law under which the judgment offered in
evidence by the plaintiff was entered, did not authorize the
prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas, in and for the
county of Chester, in the State of Pennsylvania, to enter
the said judgment." If this judgment is a nullity as to John
Benge, then every judgment in Pennsylvania, entered by a
prothonotary under the statute of 1806, is a nullity, and every
title, acquired by a sale under such a judgment, is invalid.
As the statute has been practiced under since 1806, many
titles necessarily depend upon its validity.
Looking at the substance of 1hings, not names, a judgment
when confessed by an attorney on a warrant which specified,
on its face, the amount, terms, etc., of the proposed judgment,
was never really confessed by the attorney, but by the defendant himself. The warrant on its Lace, in such cases, which are
the only cases dealt with by the statute, is a full consent by
the defendant to the judgment therein and thereby authorized.
It is not a principle of law, but a rule of practice merely which
requires in such cases, that is, cases where the warrant of

GROVER & BAKER M1ACHINE CO. v. RADCLIFFE. 293
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

attorney, upon its face, has specified the amount, terms, etc.,
of the confessed judgment, that between the defendant who
gives the warrant, and the prothonotary who makes the actual
entry of judgment, there shall be interposed the agency of an
attorney; and it is only this rule of practice in entering the
formal judgment that the statute of 1806 deals with. This is
mere procedure. Helvete v. Rapp, 7 S. & iR. 306.
Such a judgment is the act of the court; Braddee v. Brownfeld, 4 Watts, 474. It is a judicial act; Ifageman v. Salisberg, 74 Penn. St. 280, 284; and being a judicial act, it must
be tested by the application of the same principles which
guide us in testing the jurisdiction of any other judicial officer
or court. One of those principles is that the court having
acquired jurisdiction over a party may proceed to enter judgment against him; and that that jurisdiction may be acquired
(1) by due service of process upon him within the jurisdiction;
(2) by his voluntary appearance without process; or, (3) by his
waiver of process. The latter is what Benge did, thereby
yielding his right to notice of the time and place of hearing,
and the opportunity to be heard. In Babe v. Heslip, 4 Penn.
St. 139, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "The Act
of Assembly merely substitutes the prothonotary, though not
named or described, for an attorney of the court; but it supplies no deficiency of the power given in the first instance."
But there is another ground upon which this judgment
against John Benge can stand, and which, we submit, is
equally conclusive.
At the time John Benge gave the warrant to "any attorney
of any court of record of the State of New York, or any other
State," to confess a judgment against him for $3000, this Statute of 1806 was an existing statute of the State of Pennsylvania, any one of whose courts of record were thus authorized
by Benge to enter the judgment against him. This statute,
therefore, formed part of the warrant, and must be read into
it. In giving the warFant, this statute of 1806 being at the
time an existing statute of the State regulating the manner in
which the courts should enter the judgment on instruments of
that description, he virtually thereby consented that judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

might be entered according to the practice of the courts of
that Steite as regulated by this statute. It would be a monstrous claim, that having given a warrant to confess a judgment in the courts of Pennsylvania, he was now entitled to
argue that a judgment entered in one of those courts in
accordance with the law and practice of the State, was void
and a nullity, though that law was an existing law of the
forum at the time he gave the warrant. Johnson v. Chicago
&c. Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 400; Hopkins v. Orr, 124:
U. S. 510.
.Mr. John A. J. Creewell for defendant in error.
CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
AIR.

The Maryland Circuit Court arrived at its conclusion upon
the ground that the statute of Pennsylvania relied on did not
authorize the prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas of
that State to enter the judgment; and the Court of Appeals
of M-aryland reached the same result upon the ground that the
judgment was void as against John Benge, because the court
rendering it had acquired no jurisdiction over his person.
It is settled that notwithstanding the provision of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that "full faith
and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records and judicial proceedings of every other State," Art.
IV, section 1, and the acts of Congress passed in pursuance
thereof, 1 Stat. 22, Rev. Stat. § 905- and notwithstanding the
averments in the record of the judgment itself, the jurisdiction
of the court by which a judgment is rendered in any State
may be questioned in a collateral proceeding; that the jurisdiction of a foreign court over the person or the subject-matter,
embraced in the judgment or decree of such court, is always
open to inquiry ; that, in this respect, a court of another State
is to be regarded as a foreign court; and that a personal
judgment is without validity if rendered by a State court in
an action upon a money demand against a non-resident of the

GROVER & BAKER 3MACHINE CO. v. RADCLIFFE.

295

Opinion of the Court.

State, upon whom no personal service of process within the
State wasmade, and who did not appear. .D'Arcy v. Ketchum,
11 flow. 165; Thompson v. Wkitman, 18 Wall. 457; Hlall v.
lanning,91 U. S. 160; Pennoyer v. _Tef, 95 U. S. '714.
The rule is not otherwise in the State of Pennsylvania,
where the judgment in question was rendered; Guthrie v.
Lowey, 84 Penn. St. 533; Scott v. iYoble, 72 Penn. St. 115;
Yoble v. Thompson Oil Co., 79 Penn. St. 354; Steel v. Smith,
7 W. & S. 447; nor in the State of Maryland, where the
action under review was brought upon it; Ban, of the United
States v. .Mereitants' Bank, '7 Gill, 415; Clark v. Bryan, 16
Maryland, 171; Weaver v. Boggs, 38 Maryland, 255. And
the distinction between the validity of a judgment rendered
in one State, under its local laws upon the subject, and its
validity in another State, is recognized by the highest tribunals
of each of these States.
Thus in Steel v. Smith, 7 W. & S.447, it was decided, in
1844, that a judgment of a court of another State does not
bind the person of the defendant, in another jurisdiction,
though it might do so under the laws of the State in which
the action was brought, and that the act of Congress does not
preclude inquiry into the jurisdiction, or the right of the State
to confer it. The action was brought on a judgment rendered
in Louisiana, and Mr. Chief Justice Gibson, in delivering the
opinion of the court, said: "The record shows that there
was service on one of the joint owners, which, in the estimation of the law of the court, is service on all; for it is
affirmed in Hill v. Bowman, already quoted, [14 La. 445J
that the State of Louisiana holds all persons amenable to
the process of her courts, whether citizens or aliens, and
whether present or absent. It was ruled in George v. Fitzgerald, 12 La. 604, that a defendant, though he reside in
another State, having neither domicil, interest nor agent in
Louisiana, and having never been within its territorial limits,
may yet be sued in its courts by the instrumentality of a
curator appointed by the court to represent and defend him.
All this is clear enough, as well as that there was in this
instance a general appearance by attorney, and a judgiment

OCTOBEIR TElIr, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

against all the defendants, which would have full faith and
credit given to it in the courts of the State. But that a judgment is always regular when there has been an appearance
by attorney, with or without warrant, and that it cannot be
impeached collaterally for anything but fraud or collusion, is
a municipal principle, and not an international one having
place in a question of State jurisdiction or sovereignty. Now,
though the courts of Louisiana would enforce this judgment
against the persons of the defendants, if found within reach
of their process, yet, where there is an attempt to enforce it
by the process of another State, it behooves the court whose
assistance is invoked to look narrowly into the constitutional
injunction, and give the statute to carry it out a reasonable
interpretation." pp. 449, 450.
Referring to § 1307 of Mr. Justice Story's Commentaries
on the Constitution, and the cases cited, to which he added
Benton v. Bur'pot, 10 S. & R. 240, the learned Judge inquired:
"What, then, is the right-of a State to exercise authority over
the persons of those who belong to another jurisdiction, and
who have perhaps not been out of the boundaries of it ?" (p.
450) and quoted from Vattel, Burge, and from Mr. Justice
Story, (Conflict of Laws, c. 14, § 539,) that "' no sovereignty
can extend its process beyond its own territorial limits, to
subject other persons or property to its judicial decisions.
Every exertion of authority beyond these limits is a mere
nullity, and incapable of binding such persons or property in
other tribunals; '" and thus continued: "Such is the familiar,
reasonable and'just principle of the law of nations; and it is
scarce supposable that the framers of the Constitution designed
to abrogate it between States which were to remain as independent of* each other, for all but national purposes, as they
were before the revolution. Certainly it was not intended to
legitimate an assumption of extra-territorial jurisdiction which
would confound all distinctive principles of separate sovereignty; and there evidently was such an assumption in the proceedings under consideration.

.

.

.

But I would perhaps.

do the jurisprudence of Louisiana injustice, did I treat its cognizance of the defendants as an act of usurpation. It makes

GROVER & BAKER MACtHIN-E CO. v. RADCLIFFE.

297

Opinion of the Court.
no claim to extra-territorial authority, but merely concludes
the party in its own courts, and leaves the rest to the Constitution as carried out by the act of Congress. When, however,
a creditor asks us to give such a judgment what is in truth an
extra-territorial effect, he asks us to do what we will not, till
we are compelled by a mandate of the court in the last
resort." p. 451.
In W~eaver v. .Boggs, 38 Maryland, 255, it was held that
suit could not be maintained in the courts of Maryland upon
a judgment of a court of Pennsylvania rendered upon returns
of niloil to two successive writs of scirefacias issued to revive
a Pennsylvania judgment of more than twenty years' standing, where the defendant had for more than twenty years
next before the issuing of the writs resided in Maryland and
out of the. jurisdiction of the court that rendered the judgment. The court said: "It is well settled that a judgment
obtained in a court of one State cannot be enforced in the
courts and against a citizen of another, unless the court rendering the judgment has acquired jurisdiction over the defendant
by actual service of process upon him, or by his voluntary
appearance to the suit and submission to that jurisdiction. Such
a judgment may be perfectly valid in the jurisdiction where
rendered and enforced there even against the property, effects
and credits, of a non-resident defendant there situated; but it
cannot be enforced or made the foundation of an action in
another State. A law which substitutes constructive for
actual notice is binding upon persons domiciled within the
State where such law prevails, and as respects the property
of others there situated, but can bind neither person nbr
property beyond its limits. This rule is based upon international law, and upon that natural protection which every
country owes to its own citizens. It concedes the jurisdiction of the court to the extent of the State where the judgment is* rendered, but upon the principle that it would be
unjust to its own citizens to give effect to the judgments of
a foreign tribunal against them when they had no opportunity of being heard, its validity is denied."
Publicists concur that domicil generally determines the par-

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

ticular territorial jurisprudence to which every individual is
subjected. As correctly said by Mr. Wharton, the nationality
of our citizens is that of the United States, and by the laws of
the United States they are bound in all matters in which the
United States are sovereign; but in other matters, their
domicil is in the particular State, and that determines the
applicatory territorial jurisprudence. A foreign judgment is
impeachable for want of personal service within the jurisdiction of the defendant, this being internationally essential to
jurisdiction in all cases in which the defendant is not a subject
of the State entering judgment; and it is competent for a
defendant in an action on a judgment of a sister State, as in
an action on a foreign judgment, to set up as a defence, want
of jurisdiction, in that he was not an inhabitant of the State
rendering the judgment and had not been served with process,
and did not enter his appearance. Whart. Conflict Laws, §§
32, 654, 660; Story, Conflict Laws, §§ 539, 540, 586.
John Benge was a citizen of Maryland when he executed
this obligation. The subject-matter of the suit against him in
Pennsylvania was merely the determination of his personal
liability, and it was necessary to the validity of the judgment,
at least elsewhere, that it should appear from the record that
lie had been brought within the jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania
court by service of process, or his voluntary appearance, or
that he had in some manner authorized the proceeding. By
the bond in question he authorized "any attorney of any court
of record in the State of New York, or any other State, to
confess judgment against him (us) for the said sum, with release of errors, etc." But the record did not show, nor is it
contended, that he was served with process, or voluntarily
appeared, or that judgment was confessed by an attorney of
any court of record of Pennsylvania. Upon its face, then, the
judgment was invalid, and to be treated as such when offered
in evidence in the Maryland court.
It is said, however, that the judgment was entered against
Benge by a prothonotary, and that the prothonotary had
power to do this under the statute of Pennsylvania of February 24, 1806. Laws of Penn. 1805-6, p. 347. This statute

GROVER & BAKER 21ACHINE CO.

RADOLIFFE.

299

Opinion of the Court.

was proved as a fact upon the trial in Maryland, and may be
assumed to have authorized the action taken, though under
Connay v. Ealstead, 73 Penn. St. 354:, that may, perhaps, be
doubtful. And it is argued that the statute, being in force at
the time this instrument was executed, should be read into it
and considered as forming a part of it, and therefore that
John Benge had consented that judgment might be thus
entered up against him without service of process, or appearanee in person, or by attorney.
But we do not think that a citizen of another State than
Pennsylvania can be thus presumptively held to knowledge
and acceptance of particular statutes of the latter State.
What Benge authorized was a confession of judgment by any
attbrney of any court of record in the State of lNew York or
any other State, and he had a right to insist upon the letter of
the authority conferred. By its terms he did not consent to
be bound by the local laws of every State in the Union relating to the rendition of judgment against their own citizens
without service or appearance, but on the contrary made such
appearance a condition of judgment. And even if judgment
could have been entered against him, not being served and
not appearing, in each of the States of the Union, in accordance with the laws therein existing upon the subject, he could
not be held liable upon such judgment in any other State than
that in which it was so rendered, contrary to the laws and
policy of such State.
The courts of Maryland were not bound to hold this judgment
as obligatory either on the ground of comity or of duty, thereby
permitting the law of another State to override their own.
No color to any other view is given by our decisions in
.fohnson v. Chicago & Pacie Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388,
400, and Hopkins v. Orr, 124 U. S. 510, cited for plaintiff in
error. Those cases involved the rendition of judgments
against sureties on restitution and appeal bonds if judgment
went against their principals, and the sureties signed with reference to the particular statute under which each bond was
given; nor did, nor could, any such question arise therein as
that presented in the case at bar.
Judgment affrmed.

