OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

plates. Another was for arranging iron-plate cells in jails.
This court held that an improvement in the construction of a
jail did not come under the denomination of a machine, or a,
manufacture, or a composition of matter; and that it was
doubtful whether it could be classed as an art. But, however
this may be, the grating, in the present case, can34ot be considered as a part of a patentable mechanical combination.
Brown v. Davis, 116 U. S. 237, 249, and cases there cited ;
FornrooTe v. Root, 127 U. S. 176, 181.
Thejudgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to t1W
Circuit Court, u'ith a direction to grant a new trial.

MAY v. JUNEAU COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIM
WESTERN DISTRIOT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 94. Argued and submitted November 26, 1890.-Decided December 15, 1890.

The decision in County of Fond du Lao v. 21ay, ante, 395, as to the invalidity of letters patent No. 25,662, granted to Edwin May, October 4,' 1859,
for an" improvement in the construction of prisons," affirmed.
Want of patentability is a defence to a suit for the infringement of a.
patent, though not set up in an answer or plea.
AT

I AW, for an infringement of letters patent. Verdict for

defendant and judgment on the verdict. The plaintiff sued
out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
-Y1r. X. C. Burck for plaintiff in error.
was with him on the brief.

Mr. Duane P. Fo

-Mr. S. U. Pinney, for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MR. JuSTmE BTL.ACFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Wisconsin, by Sarah

MAY v. JUNEAU COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mlay against the county of Juneau, a corporation of the State
of Wisconsin, to recover damages for the infringement of
letters patent No. 25,662, granted to Edwin May, October 4,
1859, and extended for seven years from October 4, 1873, for
an "improvement in the construction of prisons," being the
same patent involved in case No. 61, Fond du .ao County
v. .ay, ante, 395, decided herewith. The specification and
claims are set forth in the opinion in that case. The complaint alleged infringement only during the extended term,
and only claims 1 and 4 were involved in this suit. The title
of the plaintiff was the same as in No. 61. A demurrer to the
complaint was overruled _po forma, and the questions raised
by it were reserved for hearing. The defendant then answered,
setting up that it was a corporation existing for public purposes and was-not liable in the suit; also, that the matter
covered by the patent, especially claim 4, was not the subject
of a patent. The case was tried before a jury, which, under
the direction of the court, found a verdict for the defendant,
on which judgment was entered for it, to review which the
plaintiff has brought a writ of error.
The plaintiff put in her title, being the same papers as in
No. 61, and then Luther V. Moulton, the same witness as in
No. 61, testified as follows: "I live at Grand Rapids, Michigan; am a partner in a foundry there. I have had experience
in mechanics and patents ; have photographed models; have
been consulted about the patentability of mechanical devices;
have been an expert witness in patent causes; have done
patent soliciting; have examined and am acquainted with the
May patent in suit; know its specifications and claims, and
am acquainted with its practical operation and effect. I have
examined the jail of the defendant county and the cells therein
and the device there in use for fastening the doors of the cells,
its arrangement and method of operation. Such device contains, in my opinion, the mechanical equivalent of the so-called
'ay patent. It is substantially the same thing as the device
described in the specification and claims of the patent in question, except the second and third claims. The results produced
by the combinations claimed in the patent, so far as they relate

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the first and fourth claims, are produced in the jail by substantially the same means."
The model of the patent was
then put in evidence, and the witness explained the method of
operating the device by reference to the model, and pointed
out the similarity between the device used by the defendant
and that of the model. On cross-examination he testified:
"The novelty and utility of this patented device consists in
interposing a grating or wall between the person operating
the mechanism for securing the doors and the prisoners, so
that they can be observed through the door or point of observation, and the corridor doors be closed and secured, or
unlocked and opened, or the cell doors locked or unlocked, all
without contact between the jailer and the prisoners, and without the jailer being in the same apartment with the prisoners,
and thus exposed to attack by them. The several elements of
the device are probably old. The novelty consists in the
particular combinations whereby a new and useful result is
produced. I think an angle door is old; have never seen them
in jails; have seen angle doors and curved doors and illustrations of them in books many years ago, before 1859. Locks
and bolts upon doors are also old, and to put a lock or bolt on
a door would not be a novelty or invention. The operation
and effect of the lever in moving the device which locks and
unlocks the cell doors are precisely the same without or with
a wall or grating interposed between the lever and the door
locked. All the separate elements of this device have long
been in use for different purposes and are old, but the particular combination adapted and intended to interpose protection
between the person operating the device and those on the
other side of and within the wall or grating was new."
The plaintiff then gave evidence tending to show that the
patented device was useful and economical, and had been in
use in many jails and prisons since it was patented. It was
admitted that the device was put into the jail of the defendant
in 1878, and had been in use there ever since. Other evidence
was pdt in on the part of the defendant, including a stipulation signed by the attorneys for the respective parties, setting
forth that, prior to October 5, 1859, a device or contrivance

u-NION STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE.

411

Syllabus.

was in use at the State prison at Waupun, Wisconsin, and
elsewhere, for fastening a series or row of cell doors by means
of a lever and horizontal bar, but not operated outside of a
corridor or partition separating the prisoners from the jailer.
At the close of the testimony on both sides, the defendant
moved the court to direct a verdict for the defendant on the
grounds (1) that the defendant was merely a territorial division
of the State, existing only as a political subdivision thereof,
and could not be sued for the infringement of a patent; (2)
that the right of action in the suit had never been assigned to
the plaintiff. The court sustained the motion on both grounds,
(30 Fed. Rep. 241,) and directed the jury to return a verdict
for the defendant, which was done. The plaintiff excepted to
the ruling and to the direction.
On the grounds set forth in the opinion in No. 61 Fond du
Lac County v. -ray, ante, 395, the.patent was invalid, and the
judgment must be affirmed. This defence was set up in the
answer, and the motion to direct a verdict for the defendant
was broad enough to cover the question of the invalidity of
the patent, although that ground was not then distinctly
urged. Want of patentability is a defence, though not set up
in an answer or plea. Brown v. Pier,91 U. S. 37, 44;
-Dunbar v. 3flyers, 94 U. S. 187; ,Sawson v. Grand Street
Railroad Co., 107 U. S. 649, 652; Hendy v. .Miners' Iron
WorN, 127 U. S. 370, 375.
Judgment afjrmed.

UNON STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 79. Argued November 17,18,1890.-Decided December 15, 1890.

A bank, receiving on deposit from a factor, under the circumstances set
forth in this case, moneys which it must have known were the proceeds
of property of the factor's principal, consigned to him by the principal

