BUTLER v. STECKEL.
Syllabus.

Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769. It certainly is more convenient that a defendant be permitted to object to the service,
and raise the question of jurisdiction, in the first instance, in
the court in which suit is pending. But mere convenience is
not substance of right. If the defendant had taken no notice
of this suit, and judgment had been formally entered upon
such insufficient service, and under process thereon his property, real or personal, had been seized or threatened with
seizure, he could by original action have enjoined the.process
and protected the possession of his property. If the judgment had been pleaded as defensive to any action brought by
him, he would have been free to deny its validity. There is
nothing in the opinion of the Supreme Court or in any of the
statutes of the State, of which we have been advised, gainsaying this right. Can it be held, therefore, that legislation
simply forbidding the defendant to come into court and challenge the validity of service upon him in a personal action,
without surrendering himself to the jurisdiction of the court,
but which does not attempt to restrain him from fully protecting his person, his property and his rights against any
attempt to enforce a judgment rendered without due service
of process, and therefore void, deprives him of liberty or property, within the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment ?
We think not.
The judgment is alrmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

and Mm. JUSTICE GAY dissented.

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
APPEAT FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

PoR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 36. Argued October 24, 1890.-Decided November 3, 1890.

The claims of letters patent No. 274,264, granted to Theodore H. Butler,
George W. Earhart, and William M. Crawford, March 20, 1883, for an

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
"improvement in bretzel-cutters," are invalid, because, in view of the
state of the art, it required no invention to make a single die to cut
dough, on a flat surface, into any particular shape desired, whether the
shape of a bretzel or any other shape.
All that it was necessary to do was to take the bretzel as a pattern and
make a die to correspond in shape with it, the bretzel presenting all the
lines and creases, points and configurations, that were required in the die.
Reasons stated, why the unsuccessful results of prior attempts to make a
machine to cut bretzels do not show the existence of invention in the
claims of the patent.

IN Eourry to recover for the infringement of letters patent.

Decree dismissing the bill. Complainants appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion.
Mr.Lysander Hill (with whom was Mr. Joseph 1. Edon
on the brief) for appellants.
.1r. Thomas A. Banning (with whom was Mr. Ephraim
Banning on the brief) for appellees.
M

.JUSTICE BLATOHFoIID delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, March 28,
1883, by Theodore H. Butler, George W. Earhart and William
M. Crawford against George Steckel and Frederick Steckel, to
recover for the infringement of letters patent No. 274,264,
granted to the plaintiffs March 20, 1883, on an application
filed July 6, 1882, for an "improvement in bretzel-cutters."
The specification, claims and drawings of the patent are as
follows: "This invention relates to an improvement in molds
or dies for stamping or cutting out bretzels, having for its
object more especially to cause the product or bretzel to have
the appearance of a hand-made bretzel; and it consists in the
peculiar construction of the mold or die to effect this result,
and other details of construction, substantially as hereinafter
more fully set forth.
"In the accompanying drawings, Fig. 1 is a plan view of
our improved bretzel die or mold. Fig. 2 is a side view, partly

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

broken away, thereof. Fig. 3 is an enlarged detailed plan
view of the die proper. Figs. 4 and 5 are sectional views,
taken respectively on the lines x x and y y of Fig. 3. Fig. 6 is

-ig. Z.

Xig.5.

-Fig.6.

a view of the product or bretzel of our die. In carrying out
our invention we construct the die A after the fashion or configuration of the ordinary bretzel in its general shape -that
is, as more clearly shown in Fig. 3. For the purpose of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

specification we will describe the channel or groove constituting the bretzel-die as consisting of a bow or an approximately
heart-shaped portion a, with its meeting portions d extended
so as to cross each other, as at a2. The underlapped portion
is further extended, as at a3, said extension crossing or overlapping an extension, a4, of the previously overlapped portion
a2. The extensions d3 a4 are projected into the body of the
bow a. At a2 the creaser of one arm of the groove or channel
is extended, as at a5, across its other arm and united to a3,
while the creaser a s is extended on one side, as at a6, across a2.
The ends of a3 a4 project into the bow a and terminate in
creasers a7. This construction enables the creasing of the product or bretzel at the points above detailed, which imparts to
the die-made bretzel the appearance of having been made by
hand, or a natural appearance. The die A may be used, as
shown, in connection with means to permit its manipulation
by hand, which consists of a base B, through which it is
adapted to move or operate, the guides or uprights C, the top
plate D and the sliding hand-piece E. The uprights or guides
o are fixed to the base B and to the plate D. Around the
plate D and the guides slides the hand-piece E, cushioned preferably upon helical springs b, secured upon the base B. F F
are the expelling-studs, secured to the top plate D, and to the
base B, below which they extend a short distance, and through
coincident apertures distributed through the die A. The die
is fixed to the vertically-sliding box or hand-piece E. When
the hand-piece E is pressed downward the operation of cutting
or stamping out the bretzel from the dough will be performed.
Upon the rising of the die, effected automatically by the
spring, the studs, whose lower ends, as above stated, project
a short distance below the die in its elevated position, will
expel the plastic bretzel from the die should it have a tendency to adhere or stick to it. The die can also be readily
applied as well to a cylindrical surface as to other surfaces,
and used in any number desired. Cams or other suitable
devices may be employed in lieu of the hand, for operating
the dies. We are aware that the form of the creasers can be
changed without departing from the principle of our inven-

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. The product of the die herein shown is not herein
claimed, as it will be made the subject matter of a subsequent
application. The cutter herein shown is adapted, by means
of the feet or projections b1on the base B, to be moved upon
a flat surface and over the dough, and to cut from the same
bretzels, which being left upon a fiat surface after cutting are
not so liable to become misshaped as when cut by rotary cutters as heretofore, and, by the additional creasers aP a5 , and
the novel creasers a 7 a7, perfect semblance to a hand-made
twisted bretzel is produced, while the creaser heretofore used,
as a6, does not produce the desired result. Each die has three
off-bearing scrap-passages, a 3, which pick up the internal scraps
and deliver them into the box or hand-piece E. It will be
observed that our dies form two kinds of scrap - to wit, connected scraps and internal scraps, the latter being picked up
by the dies, and, after passing through the channels a3, are
delivered into the box E, or other suitable receiver. We are
aware that it is not new to cut lozenges. by means of a plate
having a series of tubes which cut the lozenges, leaving a connected scrap, the lozenges being carried upward in the tubes;
also, that it is old to cut bretzels by means of dies which at
once deliver the internal scraps, as they are cut, into one of
the cylinders which carry the dies.
"Having thus fully described our invention, we claim and
desire to secure by letters patent "1. A flat die for cutting bretzels, having the bow a, the
loops a&a', the intermediate twisted portion, and the ends a 3 a 4,
and provided with the central creaser, a6, the side creasers,
a 5 a 5, and the end creasers, a 7 a 7, projecting into the bow a,
substantially as shown and described.
" 2. In a bretzel-cutter, the combination of the die A,
perforated, as described, for the reception and passage of the
scraps and for the expelling-studs F, with said studs, the guiderods C, the base B, provided with feet or projections V', the
springs b,perforated plate D, and the hand-piece E, substantially as shown and described.
"3. A flat bretzel-shaped die, having three off-bearing
internal scrap passages or channels, and perforations for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

expelling-studs, in combination with the expelling-studs, substantially as shown and described."
The answer of the defendants set up, among other defences,
"that bretzels, for the cutting of which from the dough said
pretended invention was made, are an old and well-known
article, and have been known and in common use for a great
many years, and long prior to the said pretended invention;
that bretzels are a kind of hard brittle cake, of a particular
form, known and associated with that particular form throughout the whole civilized world, and that all that complainants
claim to have done in their said invention was the making of
a die for cutting them in that form; that the bretzels cut by
such die are in no way improved or different from the bretzels
heretofore made; that long prior to complainants' said pretended invention dies were in common and public use for cutting dough into various shapes and figures; that such dies
were so used for cutting the various letters of the alphabet,
different kinds of animals, birds, fishes, hearts, diamonds and
any and every kind and variety of attractive or fantastic
shapes that confectioners or dealers might fancy or desire;
that such dies were made to cut any and every form that
might be desired; that, in making such dies, the only change
that would be required would be in the form of the cutter,
which could be and was varied at pleasure as occasion required;
that dies like those above described for cutting various forms
were made in every respect like the dies shown, described, and
claimed in complainants' patent, for many years before their
application for letters patent, with the exception that the cutters were not perhaps of the shape shown and claimed in complainants' patent, but were shaped to cut every variety of form,
except, perhaps, a bretzel; that the only difference between
such dies and complainants' dies was in the form of the cutter,
which form could be and was varied at pleasure; that the
making a die to cut bretzels did not require and did not permit
any invention, in view of the wellknown existence and use of
dies for cutting various forms, as above described; that the
complainants' patent does not contain or claim anything that,
in -view of the state of the art, could form the subject of a

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

valid patent; and that dies like those above described for cutting various forms were, for many years before complainants'
application for their patent, made and sold by Jacob Roth, of
the firm of Roth, McMahan & Co., at his factory, No. 60 West
Washington street, Chicago, Illinois." The answer also alleged
"that dies for cutting bretzels like that described and claimed
in complainants' patent have been made and publicly used in
this country long before complainants' said pretended invention thereof and more than two years before their application
for a patent therefor;" and "that, in view of the state of the
art at and prior to the alleged invention of the plaintiffs, no
invention was required in making the inventions claimed in
the patent sued on."
Issue was joined and proofs on both sides were taken, and
the case was heard in the Circuit Court by Judge Blodgett,
who made a decree dismissing the bill, with costs, from which
decree the plaintiffs have appealed to this court. His opinion
is reported in 27 Fed. Rep. 219. He says: "The bretzel has
heretofore been chiefly made by rolling out a strip of dough,
and bending it into nearly a semi-elliptical or heart shape, and
crossing the ends, and laying them upon the outer rim of the
circle. This form leaves, of course, three interior openings,
and in cutting the bretzel from the sheet of dough, as it passes
under the cutter, provision must be made for the interior scrap
which is cut from the dough, and this is done by having an
opening extending through the plate and cutting dies, so that
the interior scrap is carried off through the tubes connected
with these openings.

.

.

.

The proof shows that it is old

in the art connected with the preparation of food, to cut
crackers, cookies and cakes of various sorts into many shapes,
including the shapes of animals, and shows the use, for at least
ten years before the application for the patent in question, of
dies in bakeries, for cutting cakes in the shape of the capital
letter B and the character &, with two or more scrap passages;
and with dies of this character in public use, I cannot myself
see any patentable novelty in the dies of the patent. They
are simply made to cut a piece of dough in the shape of a
hand-made bretzel, while the dies offered by the defendants

OCTOBER TER T 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as anticipating the complainants' dies cut pieces of dough into
forms corresponding with the letter B and character &, from
which the internal scrap must be removed. These old dies
also show expelling studs, by which the cut figure is expelled
or pushed out of the die after being cut, performing the same
function that is performed by the expelling studs in the patent.
It is true, I doubt not, that it required considerable mechanical
skill to make a die which would cut a bretzel from dough so
as to imitate a hand-made bretzel, because the hand-made
bretzel issomewhat clumsily shaped, as the parts are bent,
twisted and laid upon each other; and it was undoubtedly a
matter requiring some study, effort and experiment to make
the shape of the die correspond with the external formation of
the bretzel. This, however, seems to me not to involve invention, but mere mechanical skill. The cutter might be compelled
to experiment some

-

that is, cut several dies -

but that is

not invention. The proof also shows that a large number of
persons, before these patentees, had attempted to make a
machine which would cut bretzels, and considerable money
and time seems to have been expended in efforts to produce
such a machine; but the noticeable thing in regard to all these
early efforts was the fact that most of those engaged in them
were trying to draw out and twist the dough by machinery,
rather than to cut or stamp dough from a flat sheet, while
others were endeavoring to cut them with dies set in revolving
cylinders; and, as soon as the idea of cutting the dough from
a flat sheet was conceived, the difficulty seems to have vanished, and success followed the effort, as the only change made
was to adapt the old letter dies to the shape of a bretzel."
The opinion further said, that it seemed, from the proof, inasmuch as the bretzel is an article of time-honored history in the
German countries, connected to some extent with the older
religious observances of that people, and intimately with their
present social enjoyments, that, in the first efforts at making
them by machinery, it was assumed that they must in every
respect simulate those made by hand or they would not be
acceptable to the public, and must not only simulate them in
appearance, but the manipulation of the dough must be sub-

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

stantially the same as in those made by hand, but when the
machine-made bretzels were introduced to the public, and
accepted in place of the hand-made article, the problem was
solved; and that the merit of these patentees seemed to have
been in overcoming a fixed prejudice in favor of the hand-made
goods rather than in inventing any radically new process for
making the same goods by machinery. We unanimously concur with the Circuit Court in its views.
It is urged by the appellants, that the Circuit Court erred
in finding, as a fact, that dies existed which cut cakes in the
shape of the capital letter B and the character &, with two or
more scrap passages. But we find that the evidence establishes that fact.
In view of the testimaony as to the state of the art, it required no invention to make a single die to cut dough, on a
flat surface, into any particular shape desired, whether the

shape of a bretzel or any other shape. Smith v. ifickols, 21
Wall. 112, 119 ; Dunba' v. .MHyer, 94 U. S. 187, 199 ; Pomace
Holder Co. v. Ferguson, 119 U. S. 335, 338, and cases there
cited; Peters v. Active lfg. Co., 130 U. S. 626, 628, 629;
Watson v. Cincinnati]?'y Co., 132 U. S. 161, 167.
All that it was necessary to do was to take the bretzel as a
pattern and make a die to correspond in shape with it. The
bretzel presented -all the lines and creases, points and configurations that were required in the die. The question was one,
not of invention, but simply of mechanical skill and imitation.
The perforations in the die for the passing upward of the
scraps, and the expelling studs for pushing off the bretzel from
the die, and all the details specified in the second claim of the
patent, were old in machines that had been used by bakers for
many years. All that was necessary was to take out the old
cutter and put in one in the reverse form of a bretzel. The
rest of the machine had been used in the same way, in connection with other forms of dies. There is nothing in the
suggestion that bretzel dough is different from other doughs,
in respect to the action of a die upon it.
In regard to the point taken that the existence of invention
in this case is shown by the fact that a large number of per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

sons had before attempted unsuccessfully to make a machine
to cut bretzels, and had expended considerable money and
time for that purpose, it is to be said, as stated by the Circuit
Court, that most of them were engaged in trying to draw out
and twist the dough by machinery, rather than to cut out the
form of a bretzel by a single die from a flat sheet, or else were
endeavoring to cut bretzels with dies set in revolving cylinders.
It also appears that those efforts were largely made in attempts to cut out the bretzel by two opposite dies, and that,
as soon as the idea occurred of cutting the dough by a single
die from a flat sheet, success came at once, by merely changing
the shape of the old single die. It also appears, as suggested
by the Circuit Court, that there was a prejudice against machinemade bretzels.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
-Affirmed.

HOSTETTER v. PARK.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 3.

Argued and submitted October 21, 1890. -Decided

November 3, 1890.

A bill of lading for goods shipped at Pittsburg for New Orleans, on a
barge towed by a steam-tug, stated that the goods were "to be delivered
without delay," "the dangers of navigation, fire, and unavoidable accidents excepted." The barge was taken safely down the Ohio River to
Mt. Vernon, and was then towed up the river and took on cargo at several places not over about three miles above Aft. Vernon. After making
the last landing she struck an unmarked, unknown and hidden object
below the surface of the water, which caused her to sink, without negligence on her part or that of the tug, and by an unavoidable accident,
thereby damaging the shipper's cargo. On a libel in admiralty, in personaa, by the shipper against the owners of the barge and the tug, the
Circuit Court, on an appeal from the District Court, which had dismissed
the libel, found the foregoing facts, and that it always had been the general and established usage, in the trade in question, for a tug and barges
to follow the practice adopted in this case, and that such usage tended
to cheapen the cost of transportation, facilitated business, and conduced

