MASSACHUSETTS BENEFIT ASS'N v. MILES.

689

Statement of the Case.

*rall. 323. iNow if it had been intended by the act of 1862
to annul the Territorial act of 1852, fixing the inheritable
capacity of illegitimate children, why did Congress in 1882
recognize the legitimacy of children born of polygamous or
Mormon marriages, prior to .January 1, 1883? Or why, in
the act of 1887, did it save the rights of such children as well
as of all others born within twelve months after the passage
of that act? The object of these enactments is entirely clear.
Not only does Congress refrain from adding to the odium
which popular opinion visits upon this innocent but unfortunate class of children, but it makes them the special object of
its solicitude, and at the same time offers to the parents an
inducement, in the nature of a locus penitenia, to discontinue
their unlawful cohabitation.
Our conclusion is that the appellant George A. Cope is entitled to share in his father's estate, and the decree of the
Supreme Court of the Territory must, therefore, be
Reversed.

MASSACHUSETTS BENEFIT ASSOCIATION v. MILES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYL'VANIA.
No. 1390. Submitted December 1, 1890. - Decided January 19, 1891.

This court has jurisdiction over a judgment entered in a Federal Court in
Pennsylvania "in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant on the
verdict," when interest on the verdict antecedent to the judgment appealed from is included in such judgment, and the amount, with the
added interest,- exceeds .95000.
The question of interest is always one of local law.

THIS was a motion to dismiss a writ of error upon the
ground that the "matter in dispute" did not exceed the sum
or value of five thousand dollars, as required by Revised Statutes, section 691, as amended by section 3 of the act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, to give this court jurisdiction.
Sarah G. Miles, the plaintiff below, brought an action in the
VOL. cxxxvn--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, in the State
of Pennsylvania, against the Massachusetts Benefit Association, to recover five thousand dollars, with interest, due to her
as beneficiary in a policy of insurance, issued by the defendant
company upon the life of her husband, John S. Miles. The
insured died on January 16th, 1888. After the' issue was made
up, the defendant company removed the case to the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, where it was
duly called for trial October 16th, 1889. Defendant set up
no counter-claim, but denied all liability upon the ground that
the policy had lapsed by non-payment of an assessment. Upon
October 18th, the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and
assessed her damages at five thousand dollars.
Motion for new trial was made, and on October 31st the
motion was denied, and judgment was entered in open court
in the following words: "Motion for new trial denied, and
judgment ordered to be entered in favor of the plaintiff, and
against the defendant, on the verdict. Whereupon judgment
is entered accordingly."
The defendant having taken out its writ of error, this motion
was made to dismiss.
Ar.Richard P. White for the motion.
Afi. Frederick Carroll Brewster, Mlr. Er'nest L. Tustin and
.Mr.William, F. Johnson, opposing.
MR. JUsTIcE BRoWx

delivered the opinion of the court.

Our jurisdiction to review this case upon writ of error depends upon the amount of the judgment, and the sole question is, whether upon the face of this record, the judgment is
for five thousand dollars, or for that amount with interest
from the date of the verdict. Under the peculiar practice obtaining in Pennsylvania, the judgment was not entered up for
a definite amount in dollars and cents, but, generally, "in
favor of the plaintiff, and against the defendant, on the verdict." As the verdict was rendered thirteen days before this
entry, the amount actually due at the date of the judgment, if
interest be computed upon the verdict, was $5010.83.

MASSACHUSETTS BENEFIT ASS'IN v.

ILES.

691

Opinion of the Court.

At common law neither verdicts nor judgments bore interest; but by Revised Statutes, section 966, "interest shall be
allowed on all judgments in civil causes, recovered in a Circuit
or District Court, and may be levied by the marshal under
process of execution issued thereon, in all cases where, by the
law of the State in which such court is held, interest may be
levied under process of execution on judgments recovered in
the courts of such State; and it shall be calculated from the
date of the judgment, at such rate as is allowed by law on
judgments recovered in the courts of such State."
Did the case rest solely upon this statute, it is difficult to
see how interest could be computed upon this verdict, inasmuch as the specific allowance of interest upon judgments
would seem to exclude the inference that interest should be
allowed upon verdicts before judgment. But by an act of the
legislature of Pennsylvania, passed in 1859, it is declared to
"be lawful for any party or parties, in whose favor any verdict may be rendered for a specific sum of money, to collect
and receive interest upon such sum from the date of the verdict; and every general judgment entered upon such verdict,
whether by a court of original jurisdiction, or by the Supreme
Court, shall be deemed and held to be a judgment for the sum
found by the verdict, with interest thereon from the date of
such finding." Purdon's Digest, Verdict, pl. 3.
We regard this statute as settling the question in favor of
our jurisdiction. Section 966, while providing only for interest upon judgments, does not exclude the idea of a power in
the several States to allow interest upon verdicts, and where
such allowance is expressly made by a State statute, we consider it a right given to a successful plaintiff, of which he
ought not to be deprived by a removal of his case to the Federal court. The courts of the State and the Federal courts
sitting within the State should be in harmony upon this point.
Both in Holden v. Trust Company, 100 U. S. 72, and in Ohio v.
Foank, 103 U. S. 697, it was held that the question of interest is always one of local law. This is also recognized in the
23d Rule of this court, which allows interest upon the judgment of the inferior courts, at such rate as similar judgments

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

bear interest in the courts of the State where such judgment
is rendered, whenever upon writ of error from this court the
judgment of such inferior court is affirmed. Where interest
antecedent to the judgment appealed from is included in such
judgment, and the amount, with the added interest, exceeds
$5000, jurisdiction will attach. The Patapsco, 12 Wall. 451;
The Rio Grande, 19 Wall. 178; Zeckendowf v. Johnson, 123
U. S. 617; District of Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227;
New York Elevated Railroad v. Fifth .iVat. Bk., 118 U. S.
608 ; Zeller v. .Ashford, 133 U. S. 610.
The motion to dismiss will therefore be
Denied.

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF. THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1541. Submitted December 15,1890.- Decided January 12,1891.

No State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and
impartial justice under the law, without violating the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
Due process of law, within the meaning of the Constitution, is secured
when the laws operate on all alike, and no one is subjected to partial or
arbitrary exercise of the powers of government.
No question of repugnanoy to the Federal Constitution can be fairly said to
arise when the inquiry of a State court is directed to the sufficiency of
an indictment in the ordinary administration of criminal law, and the
statutes authorizing the form of indictment do not obviously violate these
fundamental principles.
An indictment, framed in accordance with the laws of Texas, which charges
that the prisoner at a time and place named did, "unlawfully and with
express malice aforethought, kill one J. M. Shamblin by shooting him
with a gun, contrary to the form of the statute" et cet., does no violation to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
MOTION TO DISmISS.

The case was stated by the court as

follows:
William Caldwell was. arraigned upon the following indictment found by the grand jury of Fort Bend County, Texas:

