OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

sions of high authority in similar cases. IFittell v. Dudin, 2
Jac. & Walk. 279; Hulme v. Hulme, 9 Sim. 644; Winckwo'th
v. Finckworth, 8 Beavan, 576; Gompertz v. Gomyertz, 2 Phillips, 107; .assence v. Tierney, 1 Macn. & Gord. 551; S. C. 2
Hall & Twells, 115; Corbet's T'rusts, H. R. V. Johnson, 591;
Kellett v. AKellett, L. R. 3 H. L. 160, 168, 169. See also Gulicek
v. GuliC, 10 C. E. Green, 324, and 12 0. E. Green, 498.
The court below, therefore, rightly held that the principal
of the sum bequeathed to Virginia Tayloe, who never married,
vested in her absolutely, and went to her legatee.
Decree affirmed.

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND MANITOBA RAILWAY COMPANY v. PHELPS.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 26. Argued and submitted November 6, 1890.-Decided December 22, 1890.

The grant of lands to the Territory of Minnesota by the act of March 3,
1857, 11 Stat. 195, c. 99, and the grant to the State of Minnesota by the
act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 526, c. 105, were grants inpraesenti,and
took effect by relation upon the sections of land as of the date of the
grant, when the railroads were definitely located, both as to so much of
the grants as was found within the limits of the State of Minnesota as
defined by the act admitting it as a State, and as to so much thereof as
was within the limits of the Territory of Minnesota under the territorial
organization of 1857, but was not within the limits of the State when
admitted as a State.
It cannot be safely asserted that it has been the general policy of the United
States government to restrain a grant of land made to a State in aid of
railways, to lands within such State, when a part of the line of road
extends into one of the Territories.
Where the language of a series of statutes is dubious, and open to different
interpretations, the construction put upon them by the Executive Department charged with their execution has great and generally controlling
force with this court; but where a statute is free from all ambiguity, the
letter of it is not to be disregarded in favor of a presumption as to the
policy of the government, even though it may be the settled practice of
the Department.

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.
Congress may authorize a territorial corporation to construct a railroad in
a Territory, and may make land grants in aid thereof, which will be valid
after a part of the Territory becomes a State.
The various land grant statutes reviewed.
Lands within Indian Territory, covered by said grant of March 3, 1857,
passed on the extinguishment of the Indian title.

to quiet title. The case is stated in the opinion.
J1. S. U. Pinney for appellant.
.Mf'. James .Me.-u
aug, .b'. -A. H. Garland and Ab. H.
.May, for, appellee, submitted on their brief.
Ix

QUITY,

MR. JusrioE L&A delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity brought by the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway Company, a Minnesota corporation, against Ransom Phelps, to quiet the title to about 80
acres of land in Richland County, North Dakota, particularly
described as the east half of the southeast quarter of section
13, township 132, range 48, alleged to belong to the plaintiff,
and which was claimed by the defendant.
The bill was filed April 29, 1884, and set forth at great
length the various steps by which the plaintiff derived its claim
of title, averred that the defendant had no valid title to the
land, by reason of plaintiff's prior right in the premises, and
prayed that its own equitable title be quieted and protected,
and the defendant be enjoined from setting up Any claim whatever to the land, and for other and further relief, etc. The
defendant answered, denying all the material allegations of
the bill, and the plaintiff filed a replication. The case was
tried upon an agreed statement of facts, and on the 3d of
March, 1886, the Circuit Court announced its decision and
opinion in writing, pursuant to which it ordered that the bill
be dismissed at complainant's cost: The opinion is reported
in 26 Fed. Rep. 569. On the 4th of March, 1886, a final
decree was entered, dismissing the bill of complaint, and an
appeal to this court was taken and allowed.
The material facts in the case are, briefly, as follows: The
plaintiff claims the land in dispute as the present beneficiary
under the acts of Congress approved March 3, 1857, 11 Stat.
VOL. cxxxVI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

195, c. 99; and March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 526, c. 105, making a
grant of lands to the Territory of Minnesota, to aid in the
construction of railroads. The provisions of the act of 1857
material to this issue are as follows:
".Be it enaced," etc., "That there be and is hereby granted
to the Territory of Minnesota, for the purpose of aiding in the
construction of railroads, from Stillwater, by way of Saint
Paul and Saint Anthony, to a point between the foot of Big
Stone Lake and the mouth of Sioux Wood River, with a,
branch via Saint Cloud and Crow Wing, to the fiavigable
waters of the Red River of the North, at such point as the
legislature of said Territory may determine; from St. Paul
and from St. Anthony, via Minneapolis, to a convenient point
of junction west of the M1,ississippi, to the southern boundary
of the Territory in the direction of the mouth of the Big
Sioux River, with a branch, via Faribault, to the north line of
the State of Iowa, west of range sixteen; from Winona, via,
Saint Peters, to a point on the Big Sioux River, south of the
forty-fifth parallel of north latitude; also from La Crescent,
via Target Lake, up the valley of Root River, to a point of
junction with the last-mentioned road, east of range seventeen,
every alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers,
for six sections in width on each side of each of said roads
and branches; but in case it shall appear that the United
States have, when the lines or routes of said roads and
branches are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any parts
thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption
has attached to the same, then it shall be lawful for any agent,
or agents, to be appointed by the governor of said Territory
or future State, to select, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from the lands of the United States
nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much land,
in alternate sections, or parts of sections, as shall be equal to
such lands as the United States have sold, or otherwise appropriated, or to which the rights of preemption have attached,
as aforesaid; which lands (thus selected in lieu of those sold,
and to which preemption rights have attached as aforesaid,
together with the sections and parts of sections designated by

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

odd numbers as aforesaid, and appropriated as aforesaid) shall
be held by the Territory or future State of Minnesota for the
use and purpose aforesaid: _Provided, That the land to be so
located shall in no case be further than fifteen miles from the
lines of said roads or branches, and selected for and on account
of each of said roads or branches."
Section 3 provides: "That the said lands hereby granted to
the said Territory or future State shall be subject to the future
disposal of the legislature thereof for the purposes herein
expressed and no other."
Section 4 defines the manner in which the lands granted
shall be disposed of by the Territory or future State.
The act of 1865 enlarged the original grant from six to ten
sections per mile on each side of the road, and the indemnity
limits from fifteen to twenty miles.
To carry out the provisions of the granting act, the territorial legislature passed an act creating the Minnesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, and bestowed upon it the lands
which had been granted to the Territory; and by the same
act the terminus of the main line of the road was fixed at
Breckinridge, at the mouth of the Sioux Wood River, as the
point "between the foot of Big Stone Lake and the mouth of
Sioux Wood River," referred to in the act of Congress.
On the 5th of December, 1851, the company filed with the
Commissioner of the General Land Office a map showing the
definite location of the main line of the road as far west as
Breckinridge; but as the public surveys at that time extended
only to the west line of range 38-about half the length of
the road - it was not accepted as the map of definite location
by the land office any farther west than the surveys extended.
After the surveys had been completed as far west as Breckinridge, the company filed another map of definite location for
the remaining part of the road, which was, in reality, a map
of the original location made to conform to the public surveys.
The exact date of the filing of this latter map and its acceptance by the land department does not appear in the record,
but it was prior to May 25, 1869.
The railroad was completed to Breckinridge within the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

limited by the act of March 3, 1865, supra. It is conceded
that the tract in controversy is part of an odd section lying
within six miles of the line of the road, and that the appellant
has succeeded to all the rights and privileges respecting the
grant that were originally conferred upon the Territory of
Minnesota and by its legislature conferred upon the Minnesota
and Pacific Railroad Company.
. The main contention of the appellee is, that this land, although within six miles of the line of the road as definitely
located and as actually constructed, and otherwise conforming
to the description of the lands granted by the act of 1857, was
not granted by that act, because it lies outside of the limits of
the present State of Minnesota, within what is now the State
of North Dakota, although at the date of the grant it lay
within the limits of Minnesota Territory. This contention is
based upon the following theory: At the time the grant of
1857 was made Minnesota was a Territory, whose western
boundary was the Missouri River. Five days prior thereto, to
wit, February 26, 1857, Congress passed an enabling act for
the proposed State, 11 Stat. 166, which designated the western
boundary thereof as follows: "Beginning at the point in the
centre of the main channel of the Red River of the North,
where the boundary line between the United States and the
British possessions crosses the same; thence up the main channel of said river to that of the Boix des Sioux River; thence
[up] the main channel of said river to Lake Travers; thence
up the centre of said lake to the southern extremity thereof;
thence in a direct line to the head of Big Stone Lake; thence
through its centre to its outlet; thence by a due south line to
the north line of the State of Iowa." Under this enabling act
the State of Minnesota was organized and admitted into the
Union May 11, 1858. 11 Stat. 285. It is said that it has
been the settled policy of the government to confine land
grants made in aid of railroads wholly within a State or Territory to lands lying within the same State or Territory, and
that, therefore, inasmuch as the land in this case is outside of
th6 State of Minnesota, although within the limits of the Territory as it existed at the date of the grant, it cannot be in-

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

cluded in the grant to this branch of the road lying wholly
within the State.
This was the conclusion reached by the Circuit Court, in
view of the ruling of the land department and the refusal of
the Secretary of the Interior, in the adjustment of the grant
to this branch of the road, to certify to the State any lands
lying beyond its western boundary line, which ruling the
court expressed itself unwilling to reverse or to jeopardize the
rights and large interests (including a prosperous village) that
were said to have grown up on the faith of it. Against this
conclusion there are strong, and, in our view, unanswerable,
objections.
It was admitted that, according to the plain letter of the
statute, the grant would include lands west of the Bois des
Sioux River, in Dakota, and that the land in controversy is
within that grant. It is also conceded that Congress has the
power to grant to a State lands in another State or Territory,
to aid in the construction of a railroad wholly within its own
limits. But it is argued that the positive and express provision of the law must give way, and be controlled by the presumption founded upon an alleged policy of the government,
that Congress, having in view the probable organization of
Minnesota Territory into a State, intended to restrict the
grant in question to lands within the limits of such future
State. We see much in the act itself and in the circumstances
which attended its enactment that repels such presumption.
In the first place, what is called the uniform and settled policy
of the government to confine land grants, in the manner described, as far as it exists, was established by the express provisions of statutory enactments, and not by any construction
of the Interior and Law Departments of the government,
wherein they have assumed to find an opposition between the
actual text of the law, and the public policy of the government, making the former yield to the latter as expressive of
the intent of Congress.
In most if not all of the grants of land made to the various
States in aid of railroads within their respective limits, some
words of limitation were used to denote that the grant was

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

restricted to lands within each particular State, when such
restriction was intended. Thus, in the act of 1857 now under
consideration, the terminus of the second line of road provided
for was at "the southern boundary of the Territory," and the
terminus of the branch of that road was at the "north line of
the State of Iowa." The act of June 29, 1854, 10 Stat. 302,
c. 72, which was repealed August 4, 1854, 10 Stat. 575, c. 246,
§ 2, granted lands to the Territory of Minnesota to aid in the
construction of certain railroads, one of which was to run from
the southern line of the Territory via certain mentioned points
to the eastern line of the Territory. The act of June 3, 1856,
11 Stat. 20, c. 43, granted lands to Wisconsin in aid of a railroad
from Fond du Lac northerly to the state line; and an act of the
same date, 11 Stat. 21, c. 44, made a grant of lands to Michigan in aid of a road to run from Little Bay de Noquet via
certain points to "the Wisconsin state line." The act of
March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 772, c. 98, granted lands to Kansas in
aid of a railroad to run from Leavenworth via certain other
points to the "so u thern line of the State;" and also in aid of
a railroad to run from Atchison via Topeka to the "western
line of the State." The act of May 5, 1864, 13 Stat. 64, c. 79,
granted to the State of Minnesota to aid in the construction
of a railroad from St. Paul to Lake Superior "every alternate
section of public land, etc., within Minnesota." The act of
July 4, 1866, 14 Stat. 87, c. 168, gran.ted lands to Minnesota
to aid in the construction of a road from Houston to the
"western boundary of the State," and for another road from
Hastings to a point on the "western boundary of the State."
The act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 289, c. 270, § 28, granted
lands to the State of Kansas to aid in the construction of a
southern branch of the Union Pacific Railroad, which was designated to run from Fort Riley via certain named points to
the "southern line of the State of Kansas." See also the
Florida-Alabama grant hereafter referred to; act of May 15,
1856, 11 Stat. 9, c. 28, granting lands to the State of Iowa to
aid in the construction of certain railroads in that State; act
of May 12, 1864, 13 Stat. 72, c. 84, granting lands to the State
of Iowa to aid in the construction of a railroad in that State;

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

and act of July 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 503, c. 130, donating public
lands to the several States and Territories which may provide
colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts.
These statutes are all in harmony with the construction
which we think should be put upon the act under consideration. In almost the same language in which those statutes
grant lands to States, this act provides "that there be and is
hereby granted to the Territory of Minnesota, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of railroads," and then proceeds, in
words no less express and precise than the words of the statutes above cited, to define the lines of the different roads and
branches, to designate the points of their termini, and to declare the terms, extent, location and limitations of the grants,
all within the limits of the Territory. N ot a word in any sectibn or provision of the act indicates an intention of Congress
to confine the grant within the limits of the contemplated State.
The words of the grant are: "Every alternate section of land
designated by odd numbers for six [ten] sections in width on
each side of each of said roads and branches." Each of what
roads and branches? Such as are by the express terms of the
act confined within the proposed boundaries of the future State?
The question is answered by the act itself. It provides for
four separate roads and two branches, particularly designating
the points from which each is to start, and the limits within
which the terminus of each may be fixed. It expressly designates the terminus of the third of these roads'(the Winona
and St. Peters) at "a point on the Big Sioux River, south of
the forty-fifth parallel of north latitude," some 30 or 40 miles
beyond the boundary of the State; and that of the one under
consideration which might have been, if so directed by the
territorial legislature, also fixed beyond the western boundary, and yet be within the terms of the act. These provisions
are all embodied in the same section, and all of them alike
constituted legislation in reference to the proposed State, and
if one was limited by the presumption of the rule of construction contended for, so were all the others. For they all prescribed with respect to the extent of the grant, the same
terms, putting each grant on the same footing in proportion

OCTOBER TERAT, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the length of the road, i.e. "every alternate section of land
designated by odd numbers for six [ten] sections in width on
each side of each of said roads and branches." Again, it is ta
be observed, that after the State of Minnesota was organized
and admitted into the Union, with its boundaries fixed by
the enabling act, Congress passed an act, May 12, 1864, as to
one of these roads, 13 Stat. 74, c. 84, § 7, and March 3, 1865,
13 Stat. 526, c. 105, as to all the others, renewing the grant,
of 1857, and enlarging it from six to ten miles on each side of
said roads and branches, and nothing is said in either of them
to indicate any restriction to the State limits of the lands
originally granted, or those added to the grant. We think
that the language of those acts is too plain and unequivocal
to need or even to admit the aid of an extrinsic rule of construction to get at the intent and meaning of Congress. The
assumption of the appellee, that the uniform policy of the government, as it is called, arose from the construction put by the
administrative department upon railroad grants, and that it
arose with respect to the very first grant made by Congress in
aid of a railroad, is erroneous. Counsel for the appellee have
failed to bring to our attention any instance of such a construction, 'except the one now before the court. Had any such
cases .been presented when the language of the statutes under
consideration was dubious and open to different interpretations, the established construction of them by the department
charged witth their execution would have very great force and
generally a controlling one in the formation of the judgment
of this court; but where a statute, as in this case, is clear and
free from all ambiguity, we think the letter of it is not to b&
disregarded in favor of a mere presumption as to what is
termed the policy of the government, even though it may be
the settled practice of the department.
We have already stated what we think the general policy
established by Congress has been in respect to the restriction
of land grants made in aid of railroads to be constructed wholly
within a State or Territory; but we are of opinion that the
alleged general policy of the government in the matter under
consideration is hardly so broad as is claimed for it. We do

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHEILPS.
Opinion of the Court.

not think it can be safely asserted that it has been a general
policy of the United States government to restrict a grant
made to a State, in aid of railroads, to lands within such State,
where a part of the line of road extended into one of the
Territories. As we have already shown, that part of the grant
to the Winona and St. Peters division, by the act of 1857, was
never construed to have that effect.
Another case to which we now refer is conclusive upon that
question. By the first section of the act of Congress of July
23, 1866, 14 Stat. 210, c. 212, there was granted to the State
of Kansas, for the use and benefit of the St. Joseph and Denver City Railroad Company, a Kansas corporation, to aid in
the construction of a railroad from Elmwood, Kansas, westwardly via Marysville in that State, so as to effect a junction
with the Union Pacific Railroad, or any branch thereof, not
further west than the one hundredth meridian of west longitude, every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers, for ten sections in width on each side of the road to the
point of intersection. Such point of intersection was in what
was then the Territory of Nebraska. The company filed a
map of definite location of its line of road to a connection with
the Union Pacific Railroad Company in Nebraska, March 25,
1870, and built sections of the road, from time to time, as far
as Hastings, Nebraska, where it made a junction with the
Burlington and Missouri River Railroad, July 15, 1872. It
never made a junction with the Union Pacific Railroad unless
the Burlington road is a branch thereof. The road as built
did not follow its line of definite location, but deviated from
it in some places a few rods, in others, several miles. The
company filed its articles of incorporation in the office of the
Secretary of State of Nebraska., April 1, 1873, but did not
otherwise attempt to comply with the laws of that State in
respect to foreign corporations extending their lines into that
State. April 13, 1870, which was after the definite location of
the road, one Van Wyck entered, at the Beatrice land office in
Nebraska, a portion of an odd section of land in that State
within ten miles of the road as definitely located and as actually built, and on the 15th of November, 1871, obtained a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1800.
Opinion of the Court.

patent therefor from the United States. The tract having been
claimed by the railroad company, as a part of its grant, was
sold by it to one Knevals, who brought suit in the Circuit
Court for the District of Nebraska against Van Wyck, and
obtained a decree in that court, declaring that Van Wyck had
received his patent and the title it conveyed, in trust for the
company, and that at the commencement of the suit he held
the lands in $rust for the complainant, to whom it was further
decreed that he convey them. That decree was affirmed by
this court at October term, 1882, the case being reported as
'an Wyck v. lJnevals, 106 U. S. 360. One of the defences
interposed to the suit was that the company had not complied
with th laws of Nebraska allowing foreign railroad corporations to extend their roads into that State. In treating of
that point this court said (p. 369): "As to the want of compliance with the conditions imposed by the laws of Nebraska,
allowing railroad companies organized in other States to extend
and build their roads within its limits, it is sufficient to say
that when the grant was made to the company Nebraska was
a Territory, and it was entirely competent for Congress to confer upon a corporation of any State the right to construct a
road within any of the Territories of the United States. The
grant of land and a right of way for the construction of a
road to a designated point within the Territory was sufficient
authority for the company to construct the road to that point.
It may be well doubted whether the State subsequently created
out of the Territory could put any impediment upon the
enjoyment of the right thus conferred."
Adopting the reasoning of the court in that case, we say
that if it was entirely competent for Congress to confer upon a
state corporation the right to construct a railroad in any of
the Territories, and obtain lands in a Territory in aid thereof,
a fortiori, might a territorial corporation, under congressional
authority, construct a railroad in such Territory and obtain its
full quota of lands, even though a part of the Territory embracing the granted lands should afterwards become a State.
The counsel for appellee, to sustain their statement as to the
ruling and action of the administrative department upon the

ST. 1PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

land grant legislation, cite the construction given by Attorney
General Crittenden to the act of September 20, 1850, 9 Stat.
466, c. 61, granting lands to the States of Illinois, Mississippi
and Alabama, in aid of a railroad from Chicago to Mobile.
The first section of that act granted a right of way one hundred feet wide through the public lands to the State of Illinois,
for the construction of a railroad through the public lands
within the same limits, followed by provisions, in the first six
sections, declaring the terms, limitations and restrictions of
the grant, with two other branches.
By the second section there was granted to the State, for
the purpose of aiding in the construction of such railroad and
branches, every alternate section of public land designated by
even numbers, for six sections in width on each side of said
road and branches. The third, fourth, fifth and sixth sections
detailed the manner in which the grant should be administered,
etc., and the seventh section provided as follows: "That in
order to aid in the continuation of said Central Railroad from
the mouth of the Ohio River to the city of Mobile, all the
rights, privileges and liabilities hereinbefore conferred on the
State of Illinois shall be granted to the States of Alabama and
Mississippi, respectively, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad from said city of Mobile to a point near
the mouth of the Ohio River, and that public lands of the
United States, to the same extent in proportion to the length
of the road, on the same terms, limitations and restrictions in
every respect, shall be, and is hereby, granted to said States
of Alabama and Mississippi, respectively."
In the adjustment of the grant, the States of Alabama and
Mississippi claimed the right to take lands not only for those
portions of the road within the boundaries of those States, but
also for that portion in Kentucky and Tennessee, and that
question was submitted to the Attorney General for an
opinion. In a well-considered and clear opinion that officer
held that such claim of those States could not be sustained,
and that each grant was confined to the portion of the line
within the territorial limits of the grantee State. There is in
that opinion not the slightest reference to the settled policy of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the government as a rule of construction, or as in any way
indicating the intention of Congress; not the slightest hint
that the words of the statute should be controlled by any
presumption based on what is termed the public policy of the
government, as to the restriction of land grants. His conclusion was based upon the language of the act, holding that
"the meaning and intention of" Congress "as contained in
the seven sections of the act will be expressed and clearly
understood" by taking the first six sections of the act and
applying them first to the State of Alabama and then to the
State of Mississippi, etc. Quoting some of the words of the
act, he says: "To give to those words a different construction
lead to inexplicable difficulties and to conse. . .would
quences irreconcilable with plain provisions of the act." 5
Opinions Attys. Gen. 603.
The other case cited arose under the act of May 17, 1856,
11 Stat. 15, c. 31, granting lands to the States of Florida and
Alabama "to aid in the construction of certain railroads in
said States." The claim of the State of Alabama to select
indemnity lands lying in Florida was denied by the then
Attorney General upon the authority of the opinion of Attorney General Crittenden in the Alabama-Mississippi case
above referred to. Neither of these cases supports the general
policy contended for by the appellee, and each is entirely
unlike the one under consideration, where the entire line of
road and the entire grant of lands claimed by the appellant
are within the limits of the Territory to which the grant was
made as it then existed.
Furthermore, at the time the grant of 1857 was made, the
State of Minnesota had no existence, and there was no absolute
certainty of there being such a State before the road was
definitely located and built. Congress was, therefore, very
careful as to the terms in which the grant was made. In the
granting clause the language is "that there be and is hereby
granted to the Territory of .ltinnesota," etc., while in other
parts of the act, even in the same section, the grant is referred
to as having been made to the Territory or future State. It
is thus seen that the language of the act was framed to pro-

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

vide for the administering of the grant either by the Territory or by the future State. The object to be accomplished
was the building of railroads to those parts of the then Territory which were the most thickly settled, and thus give to
the settlers so many highways of commerce to the Eastern
markets; and it was of little concern to Congress whether the
then Territory or the future State was the means of accomplishing the object. Now, had the grant been wholly administered by the Territory, the question under consideration
would never have arisen. For had no State been created
until after the grant was administered, it is not conceived how
the question could have arisen. It hardly seems probable
that Congress intended the grant to mean one thing if administered by the Territory, and another thing if administered by
the State; or, to speak more accurately, that the grant should
be of a certain extent if administered by the Territory, and
be greatly diminished if administered by the State.
Again, it is settled law that railroad grants, such as the one
under construction, are grants inprmesenti,and take effect upon
the sections of land, when the road is definitely located, by relation, as of the date of the grant. FanTFyc v..]nevals, 106 U. S.
360. Had this line of road been definitely located before the
State of Minnesota was admitted - that is to say, if the right
of the road had attached to its granted lands while Minnesota
was yet a Territory - would it be seriously contended for an
instant that the land now in dispute did not pass under the
grant? We think not, and yet such is the legitimate consequence of the appellee's contention.
It is also urged that these lands did not pass under the grant
of 1857, because at that time they were in the occupancy of
the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Indians. The sixth section of the act, however, made provision for such an emergency. It is there declared as follows: "That, in case any
lands on the line of said roads or branches are within any
Indian territory, no title to the same shall accrue, nor shall
the same be entered upon by the authority of said Territory
or State until the Indian title to the same shall have been
extinguished." By that section the right of Minnesota to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

lands within the Indian country was made somewhat in the
nature of a float, to become vested when the Indian title was
extinguished. When the road was definitely located and the
Indian title was extinguished, the land passed to the State
for the benefit of the road. Buttz v. Northern Pacifc Railroad, 119 U. S. 55. The title of the appellant is complete,
and neither the appellee nor the Northern Pacific Railroad
under which he claims ever bad any title to the land in controversy.
It is immaterial that the appellant did not begin its suit at
an earlier date. The decision against it by the Secretary of
the Interior, in 1871, was not binding as to the law of the case,
and the bringing of the suit in 188d: was in time.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded to the Circuit Court
with directions to enter a decree in consonance with this

opinion.

MERRITT v. CAMERON.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 84.

Argued November 19, 20,1890.-Decided December 22, 1890.

The ascertainment and liquidation of duties by a collector of customs,
under Rev. Stat. § 2931, is the decision of that officer as to what the
duties shall be, made after the measurement, weighing or gauging of the
merchandise, its inspection and appraisal, the determination of its dutiable value, and the taking of such other steps as the law may call for;
and, so far from this being required to be delayed until the importer
chooses to withdraw his goods for consumption, it may take place at
any time after the original entry of the merchandise, and should follow,
in the regular course of business, as soon after the entry as is convenient,
just as in the case of merchandise entered for immediate consumption.
Westray v. United States, 18 Wall. 322, explained.
The ten days referred to in Rev. Stat. § 2931, within which an importer is
allowed to protest against the liquidation of duties, begin to run upon
their ascertainment and liquidation.
A construction of a doubtful or ambiguous statute by the Executive Department charged with its execution, in order to be binding upon the courts,
must be long continued and unbroken.

