OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

bear interest in the courts of the State where such judgment
is rendered, whenever upon writ of error from this court the
judgment of such inferior court is affirmed. Where interest
antecedent to the judgment appealed from is included in such
judgment, and the amount, with the added interest, exceeds
$5000, jurisdiction will attach. The Patapsco, 12 Wall. 451;
The Rio Grande, 19 Wall. 178; Zeckendowf v. Johnson, 123
U. S. 617; District of Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227;
New York Elevated Railroad v. Fifth .iVat. Bk., 118 U. S.
608 ; Zeller v. .Ashford, 133 U. S. 610.
The motion to dismiss will therefore be
Denied.

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF. THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1541. Submitted December 15,1890.- Decided January 12,1891.

No State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and
impartial justice under the law, without violating the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
Due process of law, within the meaning of the Constitution, is secured
when the laws operate on all alike, and no one is subjected to partial or
arbitrary exercise of the powers of government.
No question of repugnanoy to the Federal Constitution can be fairly said to
arise when the inquiry of a State court is directed to the sufficiency of
an indictment in the ordinary administration of criminal law, and the
statutes authorizing the form of indictment do not obviously violate these
fundamental principles.
An indictment, framed in accordance with the laws of Texas, which charges
that the prisoner at a time and place named did, "unlawfully and with
express malice aforethought, kill one J. M. Shamblin by shooting him
with a gun, contrary to the form of the statute" et cet., does no violation to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
MOTION TO DISmISS.

The case was stated by the court as

follows:
William Caldwell was. arraigned upon the following indictment found by the grand jury of Fort Bend County, Texas:

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

"In the name and by the authority of the State of Texas.
"The grand jurors, good and lawful men of the State of
Texas, county of Fort Bend, duly tried on oath by the judge
of the District Court of said county touching their legal qualifications as grand jurors, elected, empanelled, sworn and
charged to inquire into and true presentments make of all
offences against "thepenal laws of said State committed within
the body of the county aforesaid, upon their oaths present in
the District Court of said county that William Caldwell, late
of the county of Fort Bend, laborer, on or about the first day
of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight, with force of Arms, in the said county of
Fort Bend and State of Texas, did then and there, unlawfully
and with express malice aforethought, kill one J. M. Shamblin
by shooting him with a gun, contrary to the form of the stat,
utes in such case made and provided, and against the peace
and dignity of the State."
The venue was subsequently changed to Harris County,
Texas, and on trial of the case, upon Caldwell's plea of not
guilty, before a jury duly empanelled, a verdict was found
against him of guilty of murder in the first degree, and awarding the punishment of death.
A motion for a new trial was made and overruled, and judgment entered on the verdict, from which an appeal was taken
to the Court of Appeals of the State of Tbxas, which affirmed
the judgment, the opinion being delivered by Willson, J. (Cald,
well v. The State, 28 Texas App. 566). Application for a
rehearing was subsequently made upon the ground that "the
indictment is fatally and fundamentally defective and void
under the constitution of the State, and does not, either in
form or substance, set out a valid charge of murder or any
other offence known to the criminal law of the State, and is
not due process of law under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States." This motion was heard on
oral and printed arguments on both sides, and overruled. The
opinion was delivered by Hurt, J. (28 Texas App. 576), and
stated that but one ground was urged for rehearing, namely,
the sufficiency of the indictment, the objections to which were,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

that it failed to charge that the accused murdered the deceased ; that it omitted to charge the time and place of the
alleged shooting; and the infliction of a mortal wound; and
the date of the wounding and that of the death; and that the
shooting was done unlawfully and with malice aforethought;
and was fatally defective for want of certainty. The court
held that as the indictment charged that Caldwell on the first
day of August, A.D. 1888, in the county of Fort Bend, unlawfully and with express malice aforethought, killed Shamblin
by shooting him with a gun, it charged all of the acts constituting murder, and with the requisite particularity, and that
consequently the indictment was sufficient; and said: "lNow,
we have held that the legislature of this State has no authority
to prescribe a form of indictment, and make the same sufficient, which fails to contain all of the elements of the crime.
But we have never held that the legislature could not prescribe
a form for indictment which would not be good if the facts
constituting the crime sought to be charged are contained in
the form. If the offence is sufficiently particularized so as to
come within the rule of pleading, we would hold that such
form would not be obnoxious to constitutional objections,
either Federal or State."
A writ of error was sued out from this court and allowed
by the presiding judge of the Court of Appeals of Texas, and
the case comes on upon a motion to dismiss.
Section 10, article I, of the constitution of Texas reads:
"In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have a speedy
public trial by an impartial jury. lie shall have the right
to demand the nature and cause of the accusation against him
and to have a copy thereof. He shall not be compelled to
give evidence against himself. He shall have the right of
being heard by himself or counsel, or both; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him, and shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor. And no
person shall be held to answer for a criminal offence, unless on
indictment of a grand jury, except in cases in which the punishment is by fine, or imprisonment otherwise than in the
penitentiary, in cases of impeachment, and in cases arising in

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

the army or navy, or in the militia, when in actual service in
time of war or public danger."
By art. 605 of the Texas Penal Code, "murder" is thus defined:
"Every person with a sound memory and discretion who
shall unlawfully kill any reasonable creature in being within
this State, with malice aforethought, either express or implied,
shall be deemed guilty of murder. MIurder is distinguishable
from every other species of homicide by the absence of the
circumstances which reduce the offence to negligent homicide
or manslaughter, or which excuse or justify the homicide."
Willson's Criminal Texas Stats. pt. I, p. 203.
The Code of Criminal Procedure of Texas provides:
"Art. 416. All felonies shall be presented by indictment
only, except in cases specially provided for."
"Art. 419. An indictment is the written statement of a
grand jury, accusing a person therein named of some act or
omission, which, by law, is declared to be an offence.
"Art. 420. An indictment shall be deemed sufficient if it
has the following requisites: 1. It shall commence 'In the
name and by the authority of the State of Texas.' 2. It
must. appear *therefrom that the same was presented in the
District Court of the county where the grand jury is in session. 3. It must appear to be the act of a grand jury of the
proper county. 4. It must contain the name of the accused,
or state that his name is unknown, and in case his name is unknown give a reasonably accurate description of him. 5. It
must show that the place where the offence was committed is
within the jurisdiction of the court in which the indictment is
presented. 6. The time mentioned must be some date anterior
to the presentment of the indictment, and not so remote that
the prosecution of the offence is barred by limitation. 7.The
offence must be set forth in plain and intelligible words. 8.
The indictment must conclude ' Against the peace and dignity
of the State.' 9. It shall be signed officially by the foreman
of the grand jury.
"Art. 421. Everything should be stated in an indictment
which it is necessary to prove, but that which it is not necessary to prove need not be stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"Art. 422. The certainty required in an indictment is such
-as will enable the accused to plead the judgment that may
be given upon it, in bar of any prosecution for the same
offence."

"Art. 428. In an indictment for a felony it is not necessary
Willson's Cr.
to use the words ' felonious ' or ' feloniously.'"
Texas Stats. pt. II, p. 109 et seq.
Sections 1, 4, 11, 12 and 17 of an act of the legislature of
Texas of -March 26, 1881, entitled "An act to prescribe the
requisites of indictments in certain cases," are as follows :
"Section 1. That an indictment for any offence against the
penal laws of this State shall be deemed sufficient which
charges the commission of the offence in ordinary and concise
language in such a manner as to enable a person of common
understanding to know what is meant, and with that degree
of certainty that will give the defendant notice of the particular offence with which he is charged, and enable the court
on conviction to pronounce the proper judgment; and in no
case are the words ' force and arms,' or ' contrary to the form
of the statute,' necessary."
"Sec. 4. An indictment for an act done with intent to commit some other offence, may charge in general tbrms the commission of such act with intent to commit such other offence,
without stating the facts constituting such other offence."
"Sec. 11. The following forms of indictments in cases in
which they are applicable are sufficient, and analogous forms
may be used in other cases:" .
"Form No. 2: Murder. A B did with malice aforethought
kill C D by shooting him with a gun, or by striking him with
an iron weight, or by poisoning him, etc."
"Sec. 12. Nothing contained in the 11th section of this act
shall be construed to dispense with the necessity for proof of
all the facts constituting the offence charged in an indictment,
as the same is defined by law."
"Sec. 17. An indictment shall not be held insufficient, nor
shall the trial, judgment or other proceedings thereon be
affected by reason of any defect or imperfection of form in
such indictment, which does not prejudice the substantial

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of the defendant." Laws Texas 1881, p. 60 et seq., and
Willson's Criminal Texas Stats. pt. II, p. 115.
It is stated in Willson's Criminal Texas Stats. pt. II, p. 115,
ยง 1969, that this statute is in force, so far as it has not been
held unconstitutional, as some of the forms prescribed have
been and as others seem to the annotator to be. The differences between the indictment in this case and that authorized
by the statute of 1881 will be detected upon comparison.
The following errors were assigned in this court: "That the
form of indictment in this case, as authorized by the act of
the legislature of Texas of March 26, 1881, before cited, is not
' due process of law' under either the constitution of the
State or that of the United States, and that the act referred
to, establishing said form of indictment is violative of the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States which ordains that 'no State shall deprive
any person of life, liberty or property without due process of
law,' and, therefore, is null and void."
-Mr. James S. Hlogg, Attorney General of Texas, and Al'-m.
RZicharld H. Earrison,for the motion.
Xir. J. Randolph Burnvs opposing.
MR. CHIEF JusiciE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the Fourteenth Amendment the powers of the States in
dealing with crime within their borders are not limited, but
no State can deprive particular persons or classes'of persons of
equal and impartial justice under the law. Law, in its regular course of adninistration through courts of justice, is due
process, and when secured by the law of the State, the constitutional requisition- is satisfied. 2 Kent Comm. 13. And due
process is so secured by laws operating on all alike, and not
subjecting the individual to the arbitrary exercise of the
powers of government, unrestrained by the established principles of private right and distributive justice. Bank of Colum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

bia v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235, 244. The power of the State
must be exerted within the limits of those principles, and its
exertion cannot be sustained when special, partial and arbitrary. ilurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, 535. INo question of repugnancy to the Federal Constitution can be fairly
said to arise when the inquiry of the State courts is directed
to the sufficiency of an indictment in the ordinary administration of criminal law, and the statutes authorizing the form
of indictment pursued are not obviously violative of the fundamental principles above adverted to.
The case before us is destitute of the elements of a Federal
question, since there was nothing special, partial or arbitrary,
or in violation of fundamental principles, in the law of the
State in accordance with which the indictment was found,
and as applied in passing upon its sufficiency. The plaintiff
in error was not denied the equal protection of the laws, nor
deprived of the process due by the law of the land. The constitution of Texas secured to him the right to demand the
nature and cause of the accusation against him, and the State
court determined, as was its province, that this demand was
satisfied by the indictment in question. His objections were
in effect to the technical sufficiency of the indictment, but not
that his rights had been determined by any other rules than
those applied to the rest of the community, nor that the court
had done more than commit errors in the disposition of a
subject within its jurisdiction.
No title, right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution
of the United States was specially set up or claimed in the
trial court, or in the Court of Appeals, except as the petition
for rehearing may be held to have constituted such claim.
The validity of the existence of the court and its jurisdiction
over the crime named in .the indictment and over the person
of the defendant were not drawn in question, nor was the
validity of the laws of the State, except after judgment and
upon the petition for a rehearing. The usual rule is that a
contention thus delayed comes too late, but if this should be
treated as an exception, on the ground. that the Court of Appeals permitted argument on the question and delivered a

CALDWELL v. TEXAS.

699

Opinion of the Court.

decision and opinion upon it, yet, where the misconception of
the application of the Fourteenth Amendment is so obvious,
we are unwilling to retain the cause for further argument,
and may avail ourselves of the rule ordinarily applicable to
the afterthoughts of counsel.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.

