IN RE LANCASTER.
Statement of the Case.

In re LANCASTER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted December 4,1890. -Decided

December 5, 1890.

.

The petitioners, being indicted in a Circuit Court of the United States and
taken into custody, applied to this court for a writ of habeas corpus without first invoking the action of the Circuit Court upon the sufficiency of
the indictment. Held, that this court would not interfere.

Tiis was a motion for leave to file the following petition
for a writ of habeas cor2u8.
To the Honorable, The Supreme Court of the United States:
The petition of Wright Lancaster, Jno. K. Lancaster, Henry
Lancaster, Jas. Moore, Lewis Knight and Luther A. Hall
respectfully showeth that each and every of them are citizens
of the United States of America, and that the liberty of each
and every of them is now restrained, and that each and every
of them are now in the custody of Walter P. Corbett, the
United States marshal for the Southern District of Georgia,
and are by him kept in custody in the county jail of Bibb
County, Georgia, under an indictment in the United States
Circuit Court for the western division of the Southern District
of Georgia, which said indictment was filed in said court on the
twentieth day of November, eighteen hundred and ninety,
and a certified copy of said indictment is hereto attached and
made part of this petition. Your petitioners show that said
indictment is a joint indictment against these petitioners and
others in said indictment named, charging them with conspiracy and murder. Your petitioners allege that their liberty is
unlawfully and illegally restrained under said indictment; and
they further show that their custody under said indictment by
said marshal is unlawful and illegal because the matters and
things set forth and charged in the said indictment and the
several counts thereof do not constitute any offence or offences
against the laws of the United States and do not come within
the purview, true intent and meaning of the act of Congress,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Petitioner.

approved May 31, 1870, entitled An act to enforce the rights
of citizens of the United States, etc., nor any part thereof, and
because the matters and things in the said indictment and in
the various counts thereof set forth and charged do not constitute any offence or offences cognizable in the said Circuit
Cout and do not come within its power and jurisdiction, and
because the said indictment and each and every of the various
counts thereof are too vague, general, insufficient and uncertain
to constitute an indictment according to the Constitution of the
United States.
Wherefore your petitioners pray that the writ of habeas corpus may issue out of this court, directed to the said W. P.
Corbett, United States marshal for the Southern District of
Georgia, commanding him to produce the bodies of your petitioners, together with the cause of their detention, to the end
that your petitioners may be discharged from his custody;
and your petitioners further pray that the writ of certiorari
may issue, directed to the clerk of the United States court for
the western division of the Southern District of Georgia, commanding him to certify and send up to this court the said
indictment and all proceedings thereunder.
WRIGHT LA.oASTER.

JNo. K.

LAnWASTEr.

J mES T. MooRE.
LEwIs E. KNIGHT.
LUTHER A. HALL.

.MJ". Washington .Dessau for the petitioner.
In this case the Circuit Court has exercised jurisdiction.
It has directed the United States Marshal to hold the petitioners under the indictment now on file in that court.
This court will presume that everything has been done
between the return of the indictment as true by the grand
jury, and the taking of the prisoners into custody by the marshal, that ought to have been done; that is to say, that a
warrant was duly issued, duly served, and a return thereon
duly made by the marshal.

FOND DU LAO COUNTY v. MAY.
Syllabus.

Under this presumption of law, the reasoning of this court
in Ex war'te lirginia, 100 U. S. 339, applies and ought to
control this motion. The inferior court having taken jurisdiction, the writ of habeas corpus is now applied for in the nature
of an appeal from the judgment of that court.
This case is readily distinguished from Kemmler's' Case,
136 U. S. 436; from Xirzan's Case, 119 U. S. 584; from
1oyall's Case, 117 U. S. 241; and from Wales v. Whitney, 114
U. S. 564.
-Ar.Attorney General opposing.
MR. CmEF
court.

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

The petitioners were indicted under sections 5508 and 5509
of the Revised Statutes, on the 20th of November, 1890, in
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Georgia, and:
have been taken into custody. They have not invoked the
action of the Circuit Court upon the sufficiency of the indictment by a motion to quash or otherwise, but ask leave to file
in this court a petition for a writ of ahabeas corpus, upon the
ground that the matters and things set forth and charged do
not constitute any offence or offences under the laws of the
United States, or cognizable in the Circuit Court, and that for
other reasons the indictment cannot be sustained. In this
posture of the case we must decline to interfere.
The application for leave to file the petition is
.Denied.

FOND DU LAC COUNTY v. MAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 61. Argued November 26,1890. -Decided

December 15, 1890.

Letters patent No. 25,662, granted to Edwin May, October 4, 1859, for an
"improvement in the construction of prisons," are invalid.
The novel idea set forth in the patent was to interpose a grating between

