OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

FISIIBURN v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND
PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

ST.

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 42. Argued October 31, 1890.-Decided November 3,1890.

In regard to motions for new trial and bills of exceptions courts of the
United States are independent of any statute or practice prevailing in the
courts of the state in which the trial was had.
The overruling of a motion for a new trial is not a subject of exception,
according to the practice of the courts of the United States.

Tmis was an action to recover damages for an alleged wrongful ejectment from a railway train. The record contained a
bill of exceptions in which were set forth at length (1) the
pleadings; (2) the evidence at the trial with the objections
to its admissibility or competency taken at the time; (3) the
charge of the court, to which no exception was taken before
verdict; (4) the verdict of the jury for the defendant; (5) a
motion for a new trial for alleged errors in the charge set forth
specifically; (6) the overruling of the mQtion and entry of
judgment; (7) the exception to such overruling.
The court interrupted the counsel for the plaintiff in error
in his opening, calling attention to the fact that the only exceptions in the record were those taken to the overruling of
the motion for a new trial, and that the record raised no other
question. The counsel stated that the proceedings were had
in accordance with the practice prevailing in the State in
which the trial was had; but the court declined to hear farther argumeat.
FULLER, C. J. This is an action for damages brought by
plaintiff in error against defendant in error for wrongfully
ejecting her from one of its passenger trains, and resulted in
a verdict and judgment in favor of defendant in error.
In regard to motions for new trial and bills of exceptions,
courts of the United States are independent of any statute or

LA CON-FIANCE COMPAGNIE v. HALL.
Statement of the Case.

practice prevailing in the courts of the State in which the trial
is had. .Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v. C7icago & Altom
Railroad Co., 132 U. S. 191.
The only exception in respect to which plaintiff assigns
error here was to the overruling of her motion for a new trial,
which is not the subject of exception, according to the practice of the courts of the United States.
Various objections to the charge of the court were set out
as grounds for the motion for new trial, but it nowhere appears
that exceptions were taken to any of these matters, save as
involved in the overruling of that motion, nor does the record
show that the action of the Circuit Court was invoked upon
the ground that there was no evidence to sustain the verdict.
Our right of review is limited to questions of law appearing
on the face of the record, and we find none such presented
here.
Afflrmed.
The judgment must therefore be
_Mr. B. F. Dunwiddie (with whom were XrM.I C. Soane
and 31r. B. Dunwiddie on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
.M,. John. I.
inerror.

LA

Cary and Abr. Burton Hanson, for defendant

CONFIAKOE COMPAGNIE ANONYME
SURANOE v. HALL.

D'AS-

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF AHSSOURL
No. 11. Argued and submitted October 21, 1890.-Decided November 3, 1890.
In a petition for the removal of a fause from a State court on the ground
of diverse citizenship, the failure to state the existence of such citizenship at the commencement of the suit as well as when the removal was
asked is a fatal defect.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

