OGTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 1516. Submitted November 10, 1890.- Decided December 8,1890.
Upon a bill in equity by creditors of an insolvent corporation, whose claims
amounted to more than 52000, against the corporation and stockholders
therein, to compel sums, due from them to the corporation for unpaid
subscriptions to stock, to be paid in, and administered as a trust fund
and distributed among all creditors of the corporation who should come
in and contribute to the expense of the suit, the Circuit Court referred
the case to a master to receive proofs of claims, and, upon the return of
his report, adjudged that claims severally less than $5000, but together
exceeding that sum, were just debts of the corporation, and that, in order
to pay them, the stockholders should pay the amount of their subscriptions to a receiver. Stockholders so charged with more than $5000 each
appealed to this court. Held, that the sums in dispute were sufficient
to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction of the case, and this court jurisdiction of the appeal.

THIS was a bill in equity, filed February 8, 1889, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of

Tennessee, by citizens of Pennsylvania, of Indiana and of Ohio,
judgment creditors of the Clifton Coal Company, in behalf of
themselves and all other creditors who should come in and
contribute to the expenses of the suit, against that corporation, which was a Kentucky corporation, whose chief officers
resided in Tennessee, and against sixteen individuals, alleging that they were stockholders in the corporation and citizens
of Tennessee, and had paid nothing for their stock and were
liable to the corporation for the amounts thereof, and their
liabilities were assets of the corporation and a trust fund for
the payment of all its debts; that the corporation was insolvent, and had no other assets that the plaintiffs could reach;
and that its officers had declined to collect or to attempt to
collect any of the amounts so due to it, and had neglected to
administer the trust fund.
The bill prayed that the defendant stockholders might be

IIANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Statement of the Case.

decreed to pay to the plaintiffs, and to such other creditors as
might become parties, such sums as might be found due them;
that such sums might be assessed upon the stockholders as law
and equity require; and that the moneys due from the stockholders to the corporation might be decreed to be held in trust
by them, and to be a trust fund for its creditors, and be administered by the court as a trust fund pledged for the payment of the debts of the corporation; and for general relief.
The corporation, though served with process, did not appear,
and no further proceedings were taken against it. The
plaintiffs dismissed their bill against three of the individual
defendants, because, as recited in the order of dismissal,
they were not within the jurisdiction of the court, being
citizens of other States than Tennessee. The other defendants appeared and answered; and upon a hearing it was
adjudged that the amount of their stock had never been
paid, and was still due from them to the corporation, and
constituted a trust fund for the payment of the debts of the
plaintiffs and of other creditors who might come in. A receiver
was appointed, and the case referred to a master to receive
proofs of claims. 41 Fed. Rep. 531. The master's report
allowed sixty-three claims of different creditors, amounting in
all to $22,888 ; those of the original plaintiffs for $4032, $3286
and $464, respectively; one other claim for $3527; and the
rest varying from $1060 down to $3.25.
As to the claims for less than $2000 each, the defendants
excepted to the master's report, and moved the Circuit Court
to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction. On September 6,
1890, the court overruled the exception and motion, confirmed
the master's report, and decreed that all the claims allowed by
the master were just debts of the corporation and entitled to
be paid out of the assets; and that, in order to pay the amount
of these debts, the defendants should pay to the receiver, and
he should be authorized to collect, their unpaid subscriptions
to stock, amounting in all to $56,175, the sums so charged
against five of the defendants being more than $5000 each,
and against each of the other defendants less than $5000. The
defendants so charged with more than $5000 appealed to this
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellees now moved this court as follows:
"First. To advance this cause for hearing, and now to hear
the same, so far as there may be appeals herein, under the
provisions of the act of February 25, 1889, c. 236, questioning
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to render certain parts of
the relief granted by its judgment herein.
"Second. To dismiss all the other appeals herein, for the
reason that this honorable court has not jurisdiction of the
same."
By agreement of parties, and leave of court, the case was
advanced for hearing as to the questions of the power of the
Circuit Court to grant the relief decreed; and those questions,
as well as the motion to dismiss, were submitted on printed
briefs.
M1'. Walter Evans and 31r. James R?. -McFarlanefor the
motions.
-Y'. Edward HT East and .Afr. James S. Pcilher opposing.
MR.JUSTcE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity by some, in behalf of all, of the
creditors of a corporation, against the corporation and holders
of stock therein. The bill is not founded upon any direct liability of the stockholders to the plaintiffs; but upon the theory
that, the corporation being insolvent and having no other
assets, the sums due to it from the stockholders on their unpaid
subscriptions to stock ought to be paid by them to the corporation as a trust fund to be distributed among the plaintiffs and
all other creditors of the corporation, so far as required to
satisfy their just claims, and that, the corporation having
neglected to collect these sums or to administer the trust, and
the plaintiffs and defendants being citizens of different States,
the Circuit Court, sitting in equity, should compel those sums
to be paid in by the stockholders, to be administered as a trust
fund and to be distributed among all creditors who should

IIANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

come in. Such a bill can only be maintained by one or more
creditors in behalf of all, and not by any one creditor to secure
payment of his own debt to the exclusion of others. Sawyer
v. Jloag, 17 Wall. 610, 622; Patterson v. .Lynde, 106 U. S.
519; Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640, 674. In Hlatch v.
.Dana, 101 U. S. 205, the bill of a single creditor, which was
sustained by the court, was brought in behalf of himself and
all other creditors of the corporation who should come in and
contribute to the expenses of the suit; no other creditors
came in; and it did not appear that there were any others.
Each of the appellants has been charged by the decree
below with a sum of more than $5000; and it is undisputed
that each of them, if the others should prove insolvent, would
be obliged to pay the whole sum charged against him, and
that each, therefore, has more than $5000 at stake. The contest is upon the sufficiency in amount of the creditors' claims
to support the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the first
instance, and of this court on appeal, within the meaning of
the statutes limiting the jurisdiction of each court to cases in
which the sum in dispute exceeds $2000 and $5000 respectively.
Acts of August 13, 1888, c. 866, ยง 1, 25 Stat. 434; February
16, 1875, c. 77i ยง 3, 18 Stat. 316.
The sums alleged to be due from the corporation to the
original plaintiffs amounting to more than $2000, the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction of the case, and authority to administer
and distribute the amounts, due from the individual defendants
to the corporation for unpaid subscriptions to stock, as a trust
fund for the benefit of all the creditors of the corporation, and
for that purpose to permit creditors, who had not originally
joined in the bill, to come in and prove their claims before a
master. Johnlsor v. Waters, above cited.
The trust fund so administered and ordered to be distributed
by the Circuit Court amounting to much more than $5000,
the appellate jurisdiction of this court is not affected by the
fact that the amounts decreed to some of the creditors are
less than that sum. It was immaterial to the appellants how
the sums decreed to be paid by them should be distributed,
and (which is more decisive) such a bill as this could not have
VOL. cxxxvi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

been filed by one creditor in his own behalf only, and the case
does not fall under that class in which creditors, who might
have sued severally, join in one bill for convenience and to
save expense. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction of the
whole appeal, according to the rule affirmed in Gibson v. 2hufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, and the cases there collected.
Arotion to dismiss appeal overruled, and jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court sustained.

HAMILTON v. HOME INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITITED STATES FOR TIHE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 98. Argued December 1, 2, 1890. -Decided

December 15, 1890.

A provision in a policy of fire insurance, that " in case differences shall
arise touching any loss or damage, after proof thereof has been received
in due form, the matter shall, at the written request of either party, be
submitted to impartial arbitrators, whose award in writing shall be
binding on the parties as to the amount of such loss or damage, but shall
not decide the liability of the company under this policy," cannot be
pleaded in bar of an action on the policy, unless the policy further provides that no such action shall be brought until after an award.

TIs was an action, brought June 26, 1886, upon a policy
of insurance, numbered 3190, by which the Home Insurance
Company of New York insured Robert Hamilton for one year
from February 23, 1886, on a stock of tobacco in his warehouse at 413 and 415 'adison
Street in Covington in the
State of Kentucky, against loss or damage by fire to the
amount of $5000, "to be paid sixty days after due notice and
proofs of the same shall have been made by the assured and
received at the office of the company in New York."
The policy, after providing that in case of loss the assured
should forthwith give notice, and as soon afterwards as possible furnish proofs of loss, with a magistrate's certificate, submit to examination on oath, and produce books and vouchers,

