OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

but negligence or inadvertence on the part of the solicitors
employed.
The decree of the Circuit Court was right, and it is
Affirmed.

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 40. Argued October 30, 1890.-Decided December 1,1890.

In Utah an action under the statute (§ 3460 Compl. Laws Utah, 1888) to
foreclose a chattel mortgage, if commenced while the lien of the mortgage is good as against creditors and purchasers, keeps it alive, and continues it until the decree and sale perfect the plaintiff's rights, and pass
title to the purchaser.
Under § 3206 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, the rule of Its pendens applies
to an action to foreclose a mortgage of personal property.
The enforcement of a mortgagee's rights under a chattel mortgage by a suit
for foreclosure is commended as affording a safer and more adequate
remedy than is afforded by actual seizure and sale of the mortgaged
property, or by an action of replevin, detinue or trover.

TaHis case arose upon a complaint filed in the District Court
of Weber County, Utah Territory, on the 22d of July, 1885,
by James C. Armstrong, the appellee, against Mills H. Beardsley, to foreclose a mortgage of certain chattels, made January
14, 1885, by Beardsley to Armstrong, as security for the payment of his promissory note of that date to Armstrong, for the
sum of $8000, payable in four months, with interest from date
at one per cent per month, payable monthly from date until
paid, both before and after judgment, until maturity; and, if
not paid at maturity, ten per cent additional, as cost for collection; which mortgage was duly recorded, as provided by
the laws of the Territory.
On the 22d of September, thereafter, Armstrong, with leave
of the court, filed an amended complaint, making John Broom
and E. A. Whitaker parties defendant, in which he alleged
that the two defendants Broom and Whitaker, after the orig-

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
Statement of the Case.

inal suit was instituted, had claimed an interest in the mortgaged chattels; that Broom's claim arose from his being a
purchaser of the mortgaged property at a sale on August 13,
1885, under an execution issued upon a judgment dated March
18, 1885, against the defendant Beardsley, in favor of the
Utah National Bank, for three thousand one hundred and
sixty dollars ($3160); that the property having been levied
upon by the United States marshal and sold, as above stated,
was delivered by the marshal to Broom, as purchaser thereof,
and put into his possession; that Whitaker's claim arose out
of a mortgage upon the same property, made to him by
Broom, August 22, 1885, to secure the payment of four thousand one hundred and thirty dollars, ($4130,) advanced by him
to Broom; that this action on the original complaint had been
pending from the date of the filing thereof to that time; that
a notice of the pendency thereof was filed in the recorder's
office of Weber County, on the 11th of August, 1885; and
that the defendants had due notice and actual knowledge of
all these facts and proceedings at the time the levy was made
on the mortgaged property, and at the time Broom received
and took possession of the same. Wherefore, in addition to
his prayer for foreclosure against Beardsley, in the original
complaint, he prayed that the two defendants Broom and
Whitaker, and all persons claiming under them, subsequently
to the execution of said chattel mortgage, be forecl6sed of
all right or claim or equity of redemption in the said property,
and every part thereof.
The defendants Broom and Whitaker, and the defendant
Beardsley also, filed their respective demurrers to the amended
and supplemental complaint, as not stating facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, both of which demurrers were
overruled. Thereupon the defendants Broom and Whitaker
filed their separate answer setting up, among other defences,
the levy upon the property mortgaged, the purchase by Broom
at the judicial sale thereof, and the invalidity of the lien of the
chattel mortgage after the expiration of ninety days from the
maturity of the note which it secured.
The case was submitted to the court on the pleadings and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

proofs. A decree was rendered for the plaintiff in accordance
with the prayer of the amended complaint, finding that Beardsley was liable for the principal and interest due on the note,.
with ten per cent additional for collection, etc., and that the
said amount was a valid lien upon the property described in
the amended and supplemental complaint; and directing a
sale of the mortgaged property to satisfy the same with costs,
etc. The Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the decree
of the District Court, and that decree of affirmance was brought
to this court for review by the present appeal.
)lfl. Samuel Shellabawger, (with whom was .XP. Jeremiah
j.A Wilson on the brief,) for appellants.'
1 Air. Shellabarger's brief contained the following extracts from the Compiled Laws of Utah (1888) upon which he relied.
SEC. 2801. No mortgage of personal property shall be valid as against
the rights and interests of any person, (other than parties thereto,) unless
the possession of such personal property be delivered to, and retained by,
the mortgagee, or unless the Inortgage provide that the property may remain in the possession of the mortgagor, and be accompanied by an affidavit of the parties thereto, or, in case any party is absent, an affidavit
of the parties present, and of the agent or attorney of such absent party,
that the same is made in good faith to secure the amount named therein,
and without any design to hinder or delay the creditors of the mortgagor.
SEC. 2802. Every mortgage of personal property'shall be witnessed;
acknowledged by the mortgagor, or person executing the same; and when
the mortgage debt is satisfied shall be released by the mortgagee, in the
same manner as is provided for mortgages of real property.
SEC. 2803. Every mortgage of personal property, together with the
affidavit and acknowledgment thereto, shall, to constitute notice to third
parties, be filed for record in the office of the recorder of the county where
the mortgagor resides, or, in case he is a non-resident of this Territory,
then in the respective offices of the recorders of each and every county
where the personal property may be at the time of the execution of the
mortgage; and each of said recorders shall, on receipt of such mortgage,
endorse thereon the time of filing the same with him, and shall promptly
record the same, together with said affidavit and acknowledgment, in a
book to be kept in his office, properly indexed and specially provided for
the record of chattel mortgages, and, when so recorded, deliver the same to
the mortgagee.
SEC. 2805. Any mortgage of personal property, acknowledged and filed
as hereinbefore provided, shall, thereupon, if made in good faith, be good
and valid as against the creditors of the mortgagor and subsequent pur-

BROOM v. ARMSTRON G.
Argument for Appellants.

The main questions in this case are (1) whether the provision in § 2805 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, which declares

that a mortgage of personal property, made in good faith in
the manner provided by law and recorded, shall be valid
against creditors and subsequent purchasers from the time it
chasers and mortgagees, from the time it is so filed for record until the
maturity of the entire debt or obligation, for the security of which the same
was given, and for a period of ninety days thereafter; Provided the entire
time shall not exceed one year.
SEC. 2809. An action for the foreclosure of a mortgage on personal
property, or the enforcement of any lien thereon, of whatever nature, may
be commenced, conducted, and concluded in the same manner as provided
by law for the foreclosure of a mortgage or lien on real property and without the right of redemption. . .
SEC. 2837. Every sale made by a vendor of goods or chattels in his possession, or under his control, and every assignment of goods and chattels,
unless the same be accompanied by a delivery within a reasonable time, and
be followed by an actual and continued change of the possession of the
things sold or assigned, shall be conclusive evidence of fraud against the
creditors of the vendor, or assignor, or subsequent purchasers in good
faith. The word "creditors" as used in this section shall be construed to
include all persons who shall be creditors of the vendor or assignor at any
time while such goods and chattels shall remain in his possession or under
his control.
SEC. 3206. In an action affecting the title, or the right of possession of
real property, the plaintiff at the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant at the time of filing his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed
in such answer, or at any time afterwards, may file for record, with the
recorder of the county in which the property, or some part thereof, is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the
parties, the object of the action, or defence, and a description of the property in that county affected thereby. From the time of filing such notice
for record only shall a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property afficted
thereby, be deemed to have constructive notice of the pendency of the
action, and only of its pendency against parties designated by their real
names.
SEC. 3460. There can be but one action for the recovery of any debt, or
the enforcement of any right, secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal property, which action must be in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. In such action the court may, by its judgment, direct a sale
of the encumbered property, or so much thereof as may be necessary, and
the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of
the court and the expenses of the sale and the amount due to the plaintiff;
and sales of real estate under judgments of foreclosure of mortgages and
liens are not subject to redemption as in case of sales under execution. . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

is filed for record until the maturity of the debt secured by it
and for ninety days thereafter, means that it shall not be valid
after the expiration of the ninety days when possession of the
property is not taken by the mortgagee; and, (2) whether,
assuming that such is its meaning, the pendency of a suit to
foreclose the mortgage, and the filing of a lis endens therein
will nevertheless prevent the termination of the lien, as between the mortgagor and his creditors.
Section 2805 is in substance and legal effect a statutory provision that, in the absence of possession taken by the mortgagee, the lien terminates at the expiration of the ninety
days.
Section 2837 renders an assignment like the present void as
against creditors, except as protected by § 2805.
Putting these two sections together, we have an express
statute, totally free from ambiguity and clearly mandatory in
its requirements, enacting that no sale or assignment of chattels, whether made by a chattel mortgage executed, acknowledged and recorded, as provided in the mortgage statute, or
otherwise, when unaccompanied by delivery of possession to
the vendee or assignee, shall ever be otherwise than absolutely
void after the expiration of ninety days from the maturity of
the debt secured by the mortgage. This proposition does not
seem to have been disputed below, but, on the contrary, was
admitted by the court.
In order to escape from the termination of the lien by the
operation of the statute, the appellee resorts to "interpretation" and "construction." But the rule applied by the courts
to such statutes is, that they are to be construed strictly, and
that no statute is to be construed as altering the common law
further than its words import. Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101
U. S. 557, 565.
In Hamilton v. Russell, 1 Oranch, 309, this court held that
an absolute bill of sale of goods was fraudulent as to creditors
unless possession accompanies and follows the deed; that the
want of possession was not merely evidence of fraud, but was
a circumstance per se which made the transaction fraudulent
in point of law. In cases of absolute deeds of assignment,

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
Argument for Appellants.

that case has been followed in a multitude of cases since: as
in Moore v. Ringgold, 3 Cranch C. C. 434; Travers v. Rameay, 3 Cranch 0. 0. 354; .Meeker v. Wilson, 1 Gallison, 419,
423, and cases cited in note; Bank of Zeavenworth v. Hunt,
11 Wall. 391, 395. But where the deed provides for retention
of possession by the assignor or vendor, the rule has been held
to be that such retention of possession is simply evidence of
fraud, and is not conclusive. Conaird v. Atlantic Insurance
Co., I Pet. 386; De Wolf v. Barris,4 Mason, 515; United
States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73; Brooks v. .Marbury, 11 Wheat.
*78; Warner v4 Norton, 20 How. 448, 456; People's Savings
Bank v. Bates, 120 U. S. 556, and cases cited.
These and numerous other decisions by this and other courts
are not always reconcilable as to some points; but all agree,
in substance, that the statute of Elizabeth, and statutes like
said section 2837 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, are really in
affirmance of the principles of the common law, and are within
the rule which this court states in Shaw v. Railroad Co.,
supra.
And it may be said to be a general rule that where possession of personal property is allowed to remain in the mortgagor after condition broken, it is a fraud as against persons
subsequently dealing with him. Gassner v. Patterson,23 California, 299; Por?er v. Parmley, 52 1. Y. 185; Porter v.
Dement, 35 Illinois, 479; Chenyworth v. Daily, 7 Indiana,
284; Divver v. McLaughlin, 2 Wendell, 696; S. C. 20 Am.
Dec. 655; Meyer v. Gorham, 5 California, 322; Cook v. Hager,
3 Colorado, 386; Cranev. Chandler,5 Colorado, 21; .McDowell
v. Stewart, 83 Illinois, 538.
In the following cases it was held that the mortgagee must
take possession, within a reasonable time after default in payment of the debt secured by the mortgage; and that when
possession remains with the mortgagor until default under a
provision to that effect in the deed, if the possession be not
then taken, the mortgage, after such default, is regarded as
fraudulent: Zeaman v. Eager, 16 Ohio St. 2096; Hanford v.
Obreckt, 49 Illinois, 146; TWylder v. Crane, 53 Illinois, 490;
Lemem v. Robinson, 59 Illinois, 115; Burnham v. Muller, 61

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

Illinois, 453; Barbour v. White, 37 Illinois, 164; Arnold v.
Stock, 81 Illinois, 407; Dunlap v. .Epler, 88 Illinois, 82; Chapin
v. Whitsett, 3 Colorado, 315.
Although these authorities might be indefinitely increased,
going to the point that statutes tolerating chattel mortgages,
where a change of possession does not occur, are strictly construed and never extended beyond the letter of the statute;
yet we refrain from further citation because, in the case at
bar, it is the effect of the statute itself that renders the lien
void after the expiration of ninety days from the maturity of
the mortgage debt; and we are not, therefore, here dependent
upon any general principles of law in maintaining the expiration of the lien"at the end of ninety days.
These authorities negative the proposition relied upon by
appellee that, because the appellant had actual notice of the
mortgage, such notice avoids the effect of the levy and sale.
It is settled law that actual knowledge of the existence of
an imperfect or an unrecorded chattel mortgage does not prevent a valid levy, by or on behalf of the party having such
knowledge. Travis v. Bishop, 13 Met. 304; Shapleigh v. TIentworth, 13 Met. 358; Bingham v. Jordan,1 Allen, 373; S. C.
79 Am. Dec. 748; Porter v. Dement, 35 Illinois, 478; Sage v.
Browning, 51 Illinois, 217; -Forestv. Tinkham, 29 Illinois, 141;
Gregg v. Sanford, 24 Illinois, 17; S. C. 76 Am. Dec. 719; Henderson v. _forgan, 26 Illinois, 431; Sheldon v. Conner, 48
Maine, 584; Rich v. Roberts, 48 M aine, 548 ; Bevans v. Bolton,
31 Missouri, 437; Bryson v. Penix, 18 M issouri, 13 ; Harvey v.
Crane, 2 Bissell, 496; Heryford v. Davis, 102 U. S. 235; Harkness v. Russell, 118 U. S. 663, 680.
But it is contended that though taken by itself, section 2805
would render a chattel mortgage invalid after the expiration
of the ninety days, yet, that the commenceinent of a suit to
foreclose it has the effect to prolong the duration of the mortgage lien up to the close of the suit. To this we answer:
1. That this is in effect to add to the statute a condition
which is not only not in it, but is, in legal effect, expressly
prohibited by it, namely, a condition which says that the statute shall be so read that the said lien, which the statute termi-

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
Argument for Appellants.

nates at the end of ninety days, shall continue indefinitely
after the expiration of the said ninety days, provided suit to
foreclose is commenced within the ninety days. This addition
is simply legislation, and is not interpretation.
2. The Uls endens accomplished by the commencement of
the foreclosure suit is, at most, only a notice to, and an obligation upon, appellant, as purchaserpendente Zite, which binds
him to abide by whatever rights such suit shall finally adjudge
to the complainant therein, as being held by him in the subject matter of the suit so pending when the purchase was
made. TFa'rea County v. Marcy, 97 U. S. 96. It does not
change or add to the character or duration of the lien created
by the chattel mortgage. It simply brings into court the
question, what is the duration of the chattel-mortgage lien, as
that duration is defined by the statute?
The result, therefore, is this: that since the mortgagee did
not take possession within the ninety days, he did not perform
the indispensable condition under which he could continue
the existence of his mortgage lien after the expiration of the
ninety days. He had a perfect right to commence his foreclosure suit; and had he taken possession within the ninety
days, and before the levy, his lis pendens would have been
conclusive against appellant. But he did no such thing as
take possession. Therefore, his lis endens has accomplished
nothing for him in the way of excusing his taking possession
of the property. And the question is left for the decision of
this court whether such taking possession is, indeed, by the
statute made to be a condition precedent to the continuance
of the mortgage lien after ninety days.
That, therefore, presents to this court the question whether
the commencement of the suit is, by the statute, made to be
a substitute for that change of possession to the mortgagee
which sections 2837 and 2805 require, in express terms, in
order to a lien being continued beyond the said ninety days?
That it is the visible and overt act of actual change of possession from mortgagor to mortgagee - from vendor to vendee, or from assignor to assignee-which the statutes of
frauds of all the States, and of Elizabeth, make to be essential
VOL. cxxxvi-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the validity, as against creditors, of the transfer, cannot, we
think, be reasonably disputed.
It is further said that it would be unreasonable and absurd
to make the taking possession by the mortgagee of the mortgaged property a condition precedent to the continuance of
his mortgage lien after said ninety days, because such possession might be refused by the mortgagor, and the mortgagee
would thus be placed at the mercy of his mortgagor; and
that said section 3460 does not allow, in cases of mortgage,
any other action than the one to foreclose prescribed by it.
But the contract right to take possession, which is given by
the mortgage, is not meant to be and cannot be destroyed
by section 3460. That section admits of no such construction.
Jones on Chattel Mortgages, § 706; Lacey v. Giboney, 36 Missouri, 323; S. C. 88 Am. Dec. 145; Cleaves v. llerbert, 61
Illinois, 126; Barbour v. IFhite, 37 Illinois, 164; Wood v.
Weimar, 104IU. S. 786; Hlervey v. Rhode Island -Locomotive
Works, 93 U. S. 664, 672.
_Afr. John B. Goode for appellee. 31r. U. TV. Smith filed
a brief for same. JM,. : G. Sutherland and -lrr. J. R.
loBride also filed a brief for same.
MR.JusTicn LtAu_, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
There seems to be no dispute as to any material fact in the
case. The note and chattel mortgage sued upon were executed on the 14th of January, 1885, recorded on the 17th of
the same month, and became due on the 14th of May, 1885.
The action for foreclosure was commenced and the notice of
pendency properly recorded within the ninety days provided
by the statute of Utah for the lien to continue in force after
the maturity of the debt secured by the mortgage. By the
terms of the mortgage it was provided that the mortgaged
property should remain in the possession of the mortgagor,
who, in accordance therewith, retained such possession until
the property was levied on and sold under execution against
the mortgagor. This levy, therefore, was made after the
ninety days from the maturity of the debt secured by the

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage had expired, and while the property was in the possession of the mortgagor.
The main contention of the appellants is, that the District
and Supreme Courts erred in holding that the appellee by
virtue of his mortgage and the pendency of the foreclosure
suit, had a lien upon the property as against the levy and sale
on the 13th of August, under which the appellant Broom
made his purchase. This presents the question which really
controls this case, viz.: did the appellee, on the day of sale,
have any right or interest in the property superior to that of
the appellant Broom?
To sustain their contention, the appellants rely upon sections 2805 and 2837 of the Compiled Laws of Utah. The
former of these sections provides that, "Any mortgage of
personal property, acknowledged and filed as hereinbefore
provided, shall, thereupon, if made in good faith, be good and
valid as against the creditors of the mortgagor and subsequent
purchasers and mortgagees, from the time it is so filed for
record until the maturity of the entire debt or obligation for
the security of which the same was given, and for a period
of ninety days thereafter; Provided the entire time shall not
exceed one year." Section 2837 provides that, "Every sale
made by a vendor of goods or chattels in his possession or
under his control, and every assignment of goods and chattels,
unless the same be accompanied by a delivery within a reasonable time, and be followed by an actual and continued change
of the possession of the things sold or assigned, shall be conclusive evidence of fraud against the creditors of the vendor
or assignor, or subsequent purchasers in good faith," etc.
It is contended with great earnestness that these two sections taken together constitute an express and niandatory enactment that any sale or assignment of goods and chattels,
whether in the form of a chattel mortgage or otherwise, when
unaccompanied by delivery of possession to the vendee, assignee or mortgagee, shall be absolutely void as to creditors
of the latter or subsequent bona fide purchasers, after the
expiration of ninety days from the maturity of the debt
secured by the mortgage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

As opposed to the holding of the District and Supreme
Courts that the commencement of the suit to foreclose keeps
alive the lien of the mortgage, and continues it in force up to
the foreclosure decree, it is insisted that the sections above
quoted expressly limit the duration of the lien to the expiration of ninety days from the maturity of the debt; that to
this clear and imperative limitation the statute makes no
exception; that such a holding adds a condition which is not
only not in the sections quoted, but is absolutely prohibited
by them; and that said ruling is in contravention of the principle established by the courts that statutes authorizing chattel
mortgages are to be strictly adhered to, and are never to be
extended by construction beyond their letter. We cannot
accept this view without coming in conflict with the manifest
intent, and, in some cases, the express provisions of other
sections of the Utah statutes applicable to this case, which
should be construed lnpari mater'ia with those above quoted.
Section 2801 in substance enacts that a mortgage of personal
property executed, acknowledged and recorded according to law
shall be valid as to all parties, even though the possession of the
property be not delivered to, and retained by, the mortgagee,
if the mortgage itself provides that the property may remain
in the possession of the mortgagor and be accompanied by an
affidavit required by that section. The section reads as follows:
"No mortgage of personal property shall be valid against
the rights and interests of any person, (other than the parties
thereto,) unless the possession of such personal property be
delivered to, and retained by the mortgagee, or unless the
mortgage provide that the property may remain in the possession of the mortgagor, and be accompanied by an affidavit of
the parties thereto, or, in case any party is absent, an affidavit
of the parties present, and of the agent or attorney of such
absent party, that the same is made in good faith to secure
the amount named therein, and without any design to hinder
or delay the creditors of the mortgagor."
As the equivalent of the mortgagee's taking possession of
the mortgaged property upon default of payment and within
ninety -days thereafter, a remedy in case of such default is

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

provided by express statutory enactment. Section 3460 of
the Compiled Laws above mentioned provides that, "There
can be but one action for the recovery of any debt .or the
enforcement of any right, secured by mortgage upon real
estate or personal property; which action must be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In such action the
court may, by its judgment, direct a sale of the encumbered
property, or so much thereof as may be necessary, and the
application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the
costs of the court and the expenses of the sale and the amount
due to the plaintiff ; and sales of real estate under judgments
of foreclosure of mortgages and liens are not subject to redemption as in case of sales under execution."
This remedy of a suit for foreclosure of a chattel mortgage
has been adopted in most of the States, and has been much
commended by the courts and text writers as a safer and more
adequate remedy for recovering debts secured by chattel mortgages, and enforcing the lien of the mortgagee, than that of
actual seizure and sale of the property by the mortgagee, or
than the action of replevin, detinue or trover. A judicial sale
of the property and the application of the proceeds, as directed
by the decree, make a record which will protect the mortgagee
from the embarrassments and charges of unfairness in the conduct of the sale which attend the actual taking possession and
sale of the property by the mortgagee without a decree of the
court. So "that if it falls short of satisfying the debt, the
mortgagee may have a decree for the residue; or, if there
should be a surplus, that it may be awarded to the mortgagor,
and so put an end to litigation. If the mortgagee should sell
himself, there would be, in case of deficiency, an action at
law to recover the remainder of the debt; or, if there should
be a surplus, the mortgagor might sue for it. Equity makes
an end of these matters." B2'yan v. Robert, 1 Strob. Eq. 334,
342, per Chancellor Harper. We think a construction of the
above-quoted sections of the statute should be in furtherance
of these objects. But what avail would be such a remedy, as
a means of enforcing the mortgagee's right, if his mortgage,
valid and in full force at the commencement of his foreclosure

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

suit, is extinguished before a decree for the sale of the specific
property can be rendered?
We are of opinion that the*Supreme Court is correct in its
conclusion that the foreclosure "action having been commenced by plaintiff waile the lien of the mortgage was good
as against creditors [and purchasers], it kept the lien alive,
and continued it until the decree and sale under it perfected
his right with respect to it, and passed the title to the purchaser." We think this conclusion follows, necessarily, from
the very nature of the proceeding directed by the Utah statute.
It is, in its primary and controlling character, an action
brought by the creditor against the specific property which
has been mortgaged to him by his debtor, to have it seized
and sold for the payment of his debt. Its object is to reach
the property to which the lien attaches, and dispose of it by
sale, in whatever hands it may be found, whether in the mortgagor's, in those of third persons or in those of the mortgagee
himself. The special prayer of the original complaint is that
a receiver may be appointed immediately by the court to take
charge of, and hold possession of, said mortgaged property,
and preserve the same until it can be sold on the judgment,
6rder or decree of the court. It is, therefore, a proceeding in
I'em, as much so as an attachment suit against the property of
an absent debtor, or a suit instituted to partition real estate.
And the property is within the power of the court until the
judgment or decree is entered, so that the lien upon it may be
enforced, as the statute requires. Pennoyer v. .Nef, 95 U. S.
714. The section with regard to foreclosure, which we have
cited, is imperative. It expressly limits the mortgagee to that
one action. Its language is: "There can be but one action
for the . . . enforcement of any right
by mortgage upon . . . personal property."

secured
Of course

the mortgagee cannot institute his foreclosure suit until after
the debt secured by it becomes due, and after the ninety days
following begin to run. It is admitted that when this foreclosure suit was commenced the mortgage was good against
creditors and subsequent purchasers, and that it was superior
to the bank judgment when it was obtained, after the suit was

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

commenced. If we accept the construction contended for by
the appellants, it must follow that unless the decree of the
court shall be rendered within the remainder of the ninety
days, such decree cannot enforce the lien of the mortgage;
and the effect would be not only to render futile the action
which the statute authorized the party to bring, but to take
from the court the power to give effect to its decree, which,
under the statute, it is bound to render.
It was found by the court below, and we think the finding
is fully sustained by the evidence -in fact, it is not disputed
-that
the defendants Broom and Whitaker had actual notice
and full knowledge of the mortgage of Armstrong, and of the
institution and pendency of the foreclosure proceedings, before
their claim of interest or right in the property had arisen.
The notice of the pendency of the suit was recorded before
the ninety days from the maturity of the debt had expired.
Under the Utah statutes the rule of lis pendens applies to an
action to foreclose a mortgage of personal property, as well as
to a similar action respecting real estate. Section 3206 of the
Compiled Laws of Utah provides: "In an action affecting the
title or the right of possession of real property, the plaintiff at
the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant at the time
of filing his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in such
answer, or at any time afterwards, may file for record, with
the recorder of the county in which the property, or some
part thereof, is situated, a notice o.f the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties, the object of the action,
or defence, and a description of the property in that county
affected thereby. From the time of filing such notice for
record only, shall a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property
affected thereby be deemed to have constructive notice of the
pendency of the action, and only of its pendency against parties designated by their real names."
Section 2809 provides: "An action for the foreclosure of a
mortgage on personal property, or the enforcement of any
lien thereon, of whatever nature, may be commenced, conducted and concluded in the same manner as provided by law
for the foreclosure of a mortgage or lien on real property and
without the right of redemption."

OCTOBER TERM£, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

We think, therefore, that the appellants Broom and Whitaker having had full notice, actual and constructive, of the
mortgage and the pendency of the suit commenced before
the expiration of the ninety days, acquired no valid title to the
property in question, and that the purchase of the property
by the appellant Broom was subject to the rights of the appellee under his mortgage. His mortgagee, with like notice,
can have no superior rights in the premises. That appellee's
mortgage was executed to secure a bonafide debt, and in good
faith, is not disputed.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
is
Affirmed-

UNITED STATES v. LYNCH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1195. Argued November 20, 1890.-Decided December 8, 1S90.

In order to enable this court to entertain jurisdiction of a writ of error to.
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia upon the ground that
the validity of an authority exercised under the United States was drawn
in question in the case, the validity of the authority must have been
denied directly and not incidentally.
Where the relator in an application for mandamus seeks to compel the
Fourth Auditor and the Second Comptroller to audit and allow a claim
for mileage upon the ground that the statute provides for such mileage
in terms so plain as not to admit of construction; that this court has so
decided; and that hence the duty to be performed is purely ministerial;
he does not thereby directly question the validity of the authority of the
auditor to audit his account, and of the comptroller to revise and pass
upon it.

ON the 6th day of December, 1889, R. Mason Lisle filed a
petition for a writ of mandamrus in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia against John R.Lynch, Fourth Auditor,
and Benjamin F. Gilkeson, Second Comptroller, of the Treasury of the United States, and their successors, in the name of
the United States, upon his relation, couched in these words :
"1. The petitioner avers that he was an officer of the Navy
from March 19, 1872, to May 6, 1872, of the rank of lieuten-

