IN RE HUNTINGTON.
Statement of the Case.

complaint filed by appellant therein, the object of the bill having
been to restrain the defendants from selling, or attempting to
sell, certain property of complainant, on account of certain
assessments for street improvements, and also to cancel and
annul two tax lien certificates therein named; and counsel for
appellant having stated in open court that such assessments
and lien certificates have been, pending this appeal, quashed
and annulled at law by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and that only the disposition of costs is involved
herein, it is ordered that said appeal be
Dismissed without costs to eitherparty.
1fr. Wlliam Birney for appellant.
Mr. George C. Hazelton and .Mr. S. [. Thomas for appellee.

IN RE HUNTINGTON, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Not numbered. Submitted October 27, 1890.-

Decided November 3, 1890.

On the authority of Ex pa'te Jfirzan, 119 U. S. 584, the court denies a
petition for leave to file a petition for a writ of habeas copus.

THIs was a petition for leave to file a petition for a writ of
htabeas coi its. The petition sought to be filed set forth the
issue of a writ of dedinus _potestaternm by the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Colorado, to take the
evidence of the petitioner, a resident of New York, to be used
in a suit pending in that court; the execution of the writ by
the commissioner named in it; the refusal of the witness to
answer some of the questions propounded by the commissioner;
an order of the court that he appear before the commissioner
within thirty days and answer the unanswered questions, or
otherwise be deemed in contempt, and stand committed till
he should answer; his appearance and continued refusal to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

answer; and that the marshal of the Southern District of
New York had taken him into custody for the contempt, and
continued to hold him. The petitioner prayed for a writ of
habeas corpus to that officer from this court.
PER CunAm: Petitioner alleges that he is detained by the
United States marshal for the Southern District of New
York, by virtue of an order purporting to be an order of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado.
The motion for leave to file a petition for the writ of habeas
corpus is denied upon the authority of Ex parte .Mirzan, 119
U. S. 584, and cases cited.
Denied.
-Mr. Backus 1V. Huntington for the petitioner.

FLORSIIEIM v. SCMILLING.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 23. Argued October 21, 22, 1890. -Decided

November 10, 1890.

The claims in letters patent No. 238,100 granted to Simon Elorsheim
and Thomas H. Ball, February 22, 1881, for "an improvement in corsets," and claims 1 and 2 in letters patent No. 238,101 granted to the
same grantees on the same day for " an improvement in elastic gores,
gussets, and sections for wearing apparel," are invalid by reason of
their long prior use as inventions secured by patents which cover every
feature described in those claims; and the combination of those features
in No. 238,100 is not a patentable invention.
The substitution in a manufactured article of one material for another, not
involving change of method or developing novelty of use, is not necessarily a patentable invention, even though it may result in a superior
article.
A new arrangement or grouping of parts or elements of a patented article,
which is the mere result of mechanical judgment, and the natural outgrowth of mechanical skill, is not invention.
The combination of old devices into a new article, without producing any
new mode of operation, is not invention.

