BUSELL TRUIM

RE CO. v. STEVENS.
Syllabus.

the beneficial owner. Here the beneficial owner was the
Gillespies; the legal title was in the :Rappals; but when they
deposited with the bank, the latter received the moneys with
notice that the beneficial ownership was elsewhere than in the
Rappals. It could not in equity take them and cancel their
private debt to it. What might have been the duty of the
bank in respect to a check drawn by the Rappals upon these
moneys, in favor of a third party, in view of their legal title
and primary control, and what equities the Gillespies might
have in case the bank had paid such a check, are questions
not now before us, and in respect to which we express no
opinion. We only decide that, under the circumstances of
this case, the bank could not in equity take these particular
deposits from the Rappals in payment of their debt to it. As
the claim of the Gillespies against the bank was equitable
purely, equity alone had jurisdiction.
We conclude, therefore, that the proper forum was sought,
and the decree was right ; and it is
Affimed.

BUSELL TRIMMER COMPANY v. STEVENS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 71.

Argued November 12, 13,1390. -Decided

December 15,1890.

Letters patent No. 238,303, granted to William Orcutt, Mlarch 1, 1881, for
improvements in rotary cutters for trimming the edges of bQot and shoe
soles, although the patented claim shows great industry on the part of
the patentee in acquiring a thorough knowledge of what others had
done in the attempt to trim shoe soles in a rapid and improved mode, by
the various devices perfected by patents for that purpose, good judgment
in selecting and combining the best of them, with no little mechanical
skill in their application, are nevertheless invalid for want of patentable
invention, as the claim presents no discoverable trace of the exercise of
original thought, aun is only an improvement in degree upon previous
cutters, and therefore not patentable.
There is no substantial difference between the improved cutter for cutting the
teeth of geer wheels, etc., patented to Joseph R. Brown by letters patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
No. 45,294, dated November 29, 1864, and the patent in controversy in
this suit, except in the configuration of their molded surfaces, and this
is not a patentable difference, even though the Brown cutter was used in
the metal art and the Orcutt cutter in the leather art.
Burt v. Evory, 133 U. S. 349, and Florsheim v. Schilling, 137 U. S. 64, affirmed
and applied to this case.

IN QouITY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Complainants appealed. The case is.
stated in the opinion.
r.J. E

Maynadier for appellants.

Mr. T. T. Porter for appellees.

MR. JusTicE. LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity, brought by the Busell Trimmer
Company, a New Hampshire corporation, and William D.
Orcutt against Frank M[. Stevens, Henry B. Cunningham and
Samuel N. Corthell, for the alleged infringement of letters
patent No. 238,303, issued to Orcutt, March 1, 1881, upon an
application filed January 6, 1819, for " improvements in rotary
cutters, for trimming the edges of boot and shoe soles."
The bill, filed May 9, 1884, alleged the issue of said letters
patent to Orcutt, and the granting of an exclusive license to
the Busell Trimmer Company to manufacture and sell the
invention described therein, and set out, with considerable
detail, the value, importance and novelty of the patented
invention.
It then ralleged that, as the result of a suit in equity brought
in the court below in January, 1882, by these complainants
against the Corthell Manufacturing Company, for infringements of the aforesaid letters patent, such proceedings were
had that a consent decree was entered in complainants' favor,
the following resolution of the stockholders of the defendant
in that suit having been passed as a part of such compromise:
"Resolved, That in the acceptance of the offer this day
tendered to us by the Busell Trimmer Company it is done
with the express understanding by all the parties thereto that

BUSELL TRIMMER CO. v. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

it is mutually entered into for the purpose of consolidating
the several interests of the two companies, and to that end
none of the parties in their corporate capacity or as individuals will directly or indirectly enter into the manufacture of
trimming machines or cutters for the sole edge of boots and
shoes, except in connection with and for the benefit of the
two companie§ as consolidated."
It further alleged that the defendants were, at that time,
stockholders in the Corthell Manufacturing Company, and
acquiesced in such resolution; that they were afterwards
employed by the complainant, the Busell Trimmer Company,
in various capacities, until within about a year previous to the
commencement of this suit; that, while so employed, the
defendants Stevens and Cunningham secretly sold small cutters manufactured with complainants' tools, which were facsimiles of those manufactured by complainants; and that,
after they left complainants' employ, the defendants associated
themselves together to manufacture, and continued to manufacture and sell, cutters embracing complainants' invention, in
violation of complainants' rights under the patent, and to
their damage $20,000.
The bill prayed for an injunction, an accounting and
damages, and for other and further relief.
The answer made no reference to the consent decree and
compromise between the Busell Trimmer Company and the
Corthell Manufacturing Company, referred to in the bill, but
set up, as defences, (1) The invalidity of the patent, because
the thing alleged to have been patented had been in long use
previous to that time, and was not useful ; (2) The insufficiency
of the specification and drawings of the patent to enable one
skilled in the art to which it pertained to construct the article
for which the patent was claimed; (3) The want of novelty
in the alleged invention; (4) The long continued use of rotary
cutters embodying the same principles as were contained in
the alleged invention, by various persons and firms engaged
in the manufacture of boots and shoes, in various parts of the
United States; and (5) That Orcutt's prior patent No. 212,971,
dated March 4, 1879, showed and described all that was

OCTOBER TERA, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed in the patent in suit, and that from the date of that
patent to January, 1881, Orcutt made no claim to the subject
matter of the later patent, thus abandoning such invention
to the public, by reason whereof the patent in suit was void.
Replication was filed, issue wa joined, proofs were taken,
and on the 14th of September, 1886, a final decree was entered
by the Circuit Court, held by Mr. Justice Gray and Judge
Colt, dismissing the bill; from which decree complainants
appealed to this court. The opinion of the Circuit Court,
delivered by Judge Colt, is found in 28 Fed. Rep. 575.
The specification, claims and drawings of the patent in suit
are as follows:
"1My invention relates to that class of rotary cutters, consisting of a series of cutting blades arranged about a common
hub, and it consists in certain peculiarities of construction of
the blades, .more fully described below.
"Figure 1 is a perspective view of one form of rotary cutter
embodying my invention. Figures 2 and 3 are perspective
views (enlarged for greater clearness) of the upper portion of
one of the blades. Figure 4 is a cross-section enlarged, illustrating my improved cutter as used.
"The blades cZ of my improved cutter have a flat front face,
a, a flat rear face, b, and a top surface, c. A number of ridges,
1, 2, extend across this top surface or circumferentially of the
cutter, making what is called a ' molded' or ' fancy' surface,
which is the converse of the sole edge desired, every ridge, 2,
2, making a corresponding depression in the sole edge, the
ridge 1 at the side of the cutter, and when in use next the rand
guide takes out the rand or welt.
"The main feature of my invention consists in the blade
thus formed, with a fiat front face and a molded or fancy top
surface the converse of the sole edge, and having the ridge 1
or the ridges 9, 2, either or both, extending across its top surface -that is, extending from front to back, as shown in the
drawings - my improved cutter having a series of such blades,
the cutting edges of each blade extending to one side of the
cutter to adapt it for use on the edge of the sole next the upper,
and each cutting edge having the same relation with the axis

BUSELL TRIMIER CO. v. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

as all the others. Each blade d is shown in this instance as a
distinct piece secured to a hub, d', substantially as in the United
States patent No. 82,402 to Hlarrington, dated September .22,
1868. My invention, however, does not relate t6 the mode or
process of manufacture, but to the article of manufacture, and
the blades and hub may be in one piece and constructed by
any suitable mode or process too well known to need description, and I disclaim as any part of my invention both the cutters and both the modes of manufacture described in the
patent to H'arrington above named and in the patent to Brown,
No. 45,294, dated November 29, 1864.
"The flat front faces a of the blades are not radial, but are
so inclined as to make each blade slightly hooking, and thereby
form a knife edge at the intersection of the flat front face with
the top surface c and its ridges, 1, 2, 2. This is very desirable,
for if the front faces a be not so inclined the tool will be a
scraper rather than a rotary cutter.
" The blades are made quite thick from front to rear, so that
they may be ground back as they become dull, and they are
ground only on their front faces a, these faces being always
maintained at substantially the same pitch. The grinding is
done with a flat grinding surface, (the flat side of a small
emery wheel,) and does not alter at all the shape of the cutting edge of the blades. The tops c and ridges 1, 2, 2 are
inclined rearward, to give the necessary clearance, as will be
well understood.
"I am aware of the patent No. 207,395 to Corthell, but in
that cutter each blade is flat on top, and its front face is
molded, the cutting edge being formed by the intersection of
the flat top and molded front face, and the ridge corresponding
to the ridge 1 of my cutter is across the front face of the blade,
or nearly radial, instead of across the top o of the blade, or
nearly circumferential, as in my cutter. The same is true of
the ridges corresponding to the ridges 2 of my cutter. When
the ridge 1 is at one side of the front face, as in Corthell's
cutter, the height of the projection above its base is limited
by the necessary closeness together of the blades. Moreover,
the depth of cut is always less than the height of the projec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. The main object of my invention is to provide a soleedge cutter, in which the depth of cut is the same as the height
of the projection, and in which the height of the projection is
not limited by the closeness together of the blades. I am also
aware of the patents to Brown and Hlarrington, above mentioned, but both those cutters are wholly unsuited for trimming

a

d

sole edges, and both lack the ridge 1 at one side of the top
surface of the blade for taking out the rand, and also lack the
ridges 2, 2 for beading the sole edge. I disclaim, therefore, all
that is shown in either of the above-named patents.
"What I claim as my invention is:
"1. A rotary cutter for trimming sole edges, the blades d of
which are provided with flat front faces a, and have their
outer or peripheral ends c molded throughout to a uniform
shape, the converse of the desired shape to be given to the sole

BUSELL TRIMMER CO. v. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

edge, and slightly eccentric to the axis of the cutter, substantially as described.
"2. A rotary cutter for trimming sole edges, the blades d of
which are each provided with a flat front face, a, and a slightly
eccentric cutter or peripheral end, c, having formed thereon
the end ridges I and 2, extending circumferentially across said
face, substantially as and for the purposes described."
The Circuit Court held that the patentability of the invention was to be determined by reference to two classes of prior
tools, namely, the old hand tool or plane, and the Brown gear
cutter, patented in 1864, and found upon a comparison between
the various forms of the Brown gear cutter and the Orcutt
cutter, that there was no substantial difference between them,
except as to the shape of the top surface of the blades that
were used to cut the form or outline of the path or figure in
the material operated upon; that the form of the cutting
teeth in the Orcutt patent was substantially the same as that
used in the old hand plane or tool; that the use of the rotary
rand knife in the Orcutt patent, in connection with the rand
guide, claimed by him to perform a different function from the
rand lip of the old hand plane, was not sufficient to sustain the
patent, because both the rotary rand .knife and the rand guide
were found in prior devices; and that the substance of Orcutt's
improvements lay in the application of the well-known form
of blade to a Brown milling cutter, for the purpose of trimming
the edges of boot and shoe soles, which was merely a ca~e of
double use, and was, therefore, not patentable.
The errors assigned are, that the court erred (1) In holding
that the application of a well-known form of blade, used in
the old hand tool for trimming sole edges, to a metal milling
cutter, also old and well known, for the purpose of producing
a rotary cutter for trimming sole edges, is a case of double
use, and not patentable; (2) In holding that, in view of the
state of the art, there was no invention in the Orcutt cutter;
and (3)
In holding that, in view of the two classes of prior
tools referred to, taken in connection with a third class of old
devices, in which both the rotary rand knife and the rotary
rand guide were found, the patent could not be sustained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

It is hardly necessary to discuss these assignments of error
seriatim. It will be sufficient, perhaps, to refer to some of
the essential features of the patent in suit which are claimed
to constitute elements of invention.
We have examined the evidence in the case very carefully.
That of appellants' principal expert witnesses, John A. Coleman, Frederick W. Coy and 0. L. Noble, was unusually clear
and intelligent, and was given very ingeniously in support of
the theory of the appellants' case; but we think that even
their testimony, when subjected to the analysis of cross-examination, contains retractions and admissions fatal to the validity
of Orcutt's patent, as containing a patentable novelty.
We are clearly of opinion that the Circuit Court was correct in its construction of this patent. In this connection, the
state of the art when the application for the patent was made
must be taken into consideration. The old hana plane or tool
for trimming the edges of boot and shoe soles had been in
existence for a long time; but, while it accomplished the purposes for which it was designed, it was found to operate too
slowly to meet the demands of the business. Accordingly,
various attempts had been made to perform the work done by
the old hand tool, with rotary cutters operated by machinery.
A number of patents were issued to various persons, named in
the record, for various forms of such devices, long before the
date of Orcutt's application. We were furnished on the argument with specifications and drawings of many of such patents,-some English, but mostly American, -running back
as early as 1855, when an English patent was issued to one
Moliere, for what was known as a burr cutter, used to cut
only the bed or main body. of the boot or shoe sole. It is not
deemed necessary to refer to all of the various patents issued
from that time up to the date of Orcutt's patent. All of them
may be said to have had but one object, viz., the performance
of the work formerly done only by the old hand tool; and
were improvements, more or less new and useful, in the leather
art. An examination of them discloses the fact that, to a
greater or less degree, each was an improvement on its predecessors, and was, in like manner, improved upon by those that

BUSELL TRIMIMER CO. v. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

followed, in the order of time. The operations of those rotary
cutters did not entirely supersede the use of the old hand tool,
or the embodiment of the principles of that tool in an automatic machine which imitated the movements of that plane
or tool when at work. A number of patents, it appears, were
issued for such machines.
The precise features, or combination of features, which, it is
claimed, constituted Orcutt's alleged invention, are thus stated
by appellants' counsel: "There is nothing whatever in the
state of the art of trimming or of burnishing sole edges tending to show any rotary cutter, prior to Orcutt's, made up of a
number of blades, each having'a rand lip and bed (or a bed,
or bed guard, or chanriel guard in connection with a rand lip
and bed), each with a flat front face; and each blade the guard
for the cutting edge of the succeeding blade."
We do not think that this statement is sustained by the testimony of the appellants' own witnesses, even putting out of
view all the evidence controverting it, given by defendants'
numerous expert witnesses, consisting of manufacturers, dealers
in shoes, experienced and skilful operators and machinists in
making shoes, trimmings, soles and all branches of the leather
art. A rotary cutter in the metal art, called the Brown &
Sharpe metal cutter, had been well known and in general and
constant use seventeen years before the date of the Orcutt
patent. The counsel for appellants admits that that rotary
cutter "bears a close resemblance to Orcutt's sole-edge cutter.
.

.

.

It is made up of a number of blades, each having a

flat front face, and a molded top surface, the converse of the
surface to be milled; and moreover, each tooth has the proper
clearance, so that, if one of the Brown & Sharpe metal cutters
and one of the Orcutt cutters be compared, when not in use,
say, one held in the left hand, the other in the right, there is
a marked likeness between them; in fact, no substantial difference, except that one lacks and the other has a rand lip,
bed," etc. Similar admissions by Orcutt himself, and by Noble,
the manager of his (Orcutt's) company, leave no doubt upon
our minds that the principles of construction and operation of
the Brown cutter are substantially identical with those of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

most, if not all, of the rotary leather cutters. The appellants'
counsel, as we have seen, says that the only exception to the
marked likeness between the Brown cutter and that of Orcutt
is, that "one lacks and the other has a rand lip, bed," etc.
With regard to this exception, so asserted, Coleman, the expert
witness on whom the appellants mainly rely, testifies as follows: "Q. You have spoken of Orcutt's cutter being adapted
to trim at the same time the rand, the bed and the guard of a
shoe sole, or, as you term them, the three fundamental principles of the shoe sole. Do you or not regard Orcutt as the
first to accomplish that result with a rotary cutter?" His first
answer being considered evasive the question was repeated,
and he replied, "No, I do not. Others had made different
cutters intended to accomplish the same purpose." It is true
that with this admission he also connected the somewhat inconsistent declaration that Orcutt, by his alleged, invention,
"created a structure which differed in form and principle from
any tool previously used for the operations of trimming the
rand, bed and guard, because he produced a tool which had
blades having top-molded faces the converse of the form of the
sole edge to be trimmed, and the flat front faces of the teeth
were so inclined forward that they could make a proper cutting edge for leather, and those faces could be ground without
disturbing the top-molded face of the teeth." But when crossexamined in detail as to each of those alleged novel differences,
he admitted that the facility for sharpening Orcutt's cutter
without disturbing its periphery (or the top-molded face of the
teeth) was the same as in the Brown cutter and the Snell &
Atherton hand-trimming tools; that the forward incline (the
rake or overhang) of the teeth was the same as in the Snell &
Atherton cutters; that, in his opinion, the increase in the
number of teeth in the Orcutt cutter over that of Brown, in
view of the art as shown by other and earlier cutters, did not
constitute, in itself, an element of invention; that rand guides
were in common use with a rotary cutter before Orcutt's cutter; that a rand guide as employed in an Orcutt cutter does
not perform any other or different office, or effect any other
or different result from that which it performed when used

BUSELL TRIMMER CO. v. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

with other rotary cutters earlier than Orcutt's; that the employment of such rand guide in the Orcutt cutter would not
in itself constitute an invention; that rand cutters were in
common use both with hand tools and rotary sole-trimming
tools before Orcutt's patent; that the result or product of the
Orcutt cutter, to wit, the sole edge trimmed by it, was identical with that trimmed by the exhibit hand tools; that the
shoe was held in the same manner while being trimmed by
the Orcutt cutter, as with any other and earlier cutter; and
that before Orcutt's invention it was common to trim the
rand, the bed and the guard at one and the same operation,
with both hand and rotary cutters.
Effort was made to show by other witnesses that the features in the Orcutt patent, specified in the statement of counsel
above quoted, are all patentable novelties, especially the combination of them into one device. We repeat, that in view of
the previous state of the art we think otherwise. The evidence, taken as a whole, shows that all of those claimed elements are to be found in various prior patents- some in one
patent, and some in another, but all performing like functions
in well-known inventions having the same object as the Orcutt
patent, and that there is no substantial difference between the
Brown metal cutter and Orcutt's cutter, except in the configuration of their molded surfaces. That difference, to our minds,
is not a patentable difference, even though the one cutter was
used in the metal art, and the other in the leather art. A combination of old elements, such as are found in the patented
device in suit, does not constitute a patentable invention.
.Florseirav. Schilling, ante, 64, decided at this term of the
court, and cases there cited.
We do not think that the cases cited by counsel for the
appellants sustain his position that Orcutt's alleged invention
is a combination of previous devices, rearranged with connections and adaptations so adjusted as to produce a novel and
valuable use: In LeRoy v. Tatham, 14 How. 156, 177, one of
those cases, the claim was for a combination of old parts of
machinery to make lead pipes, in a particular manner, under
heat and pressure. The combination was held not to be
VOL. cxxxvn-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

patentable, the court saying: "The patentees claimed the
combination of the machinery as their invention in part, and
no such claim can be sustained without establishing its novelty
- not as to the parts of which it is composed, but as to the
combination." The court also quoted, with approval, the following from Bean v. Smallwood, 2 Story, 408, an opinion by •
Mr. Justice Story: "He (the patentee) says that the same
apparatus, stated in this last claim, has been long in use, and
applied, if not to chairs, at least in other machines, to purposes of a similar nature. If this be so, then the invention
is not new, but at most is an old invention or apparatus or
machinery applied to a new purpose. Now, I take it to be
clear, that a machine or apparatus or other mechanical contrivance, in order to give the party a claim to a patent therefor, must in itself be substantially new. If it is old and well
known, and applied only to a new purpose, that does not make
it patentable." That case, instead of militating against our
view in this, in reality supports it.
The distinction between a double use, as the result of mere
mechanical skill, and a new use created by the inventiv6
faculty, is strikingly illustrated in the other case cited by
appellants, viz., Colgate v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 15
Blatchford, 365. That case was a suit for an infringement of
a patent, for the combination of gutta-percha and metallic
wire in such form as to encase a wire or other conductors of
electricity within the non-conducting substance, gutta-percha,
making a submarine telegraph bable which might be suspended
on poles in the air, submerged in water or buried in the earth.
It was contended that the patent was invalid, because a metallic wire covered with gutta-percha, as a mechanical protection
from abrasion or injury from without, existed before the
plaintiff's invention. It was decided that the use by the
patentee of the wire so covered, to conduct electricity, was not
a double use of the covered wire nor a use for a purpose at all
analogous to any before made of it; but that it was an entirely
new use, the result of a discovery that gutta-percha was an
electrical non-conductor, evolved by original thought, totally
different from its quality previously known and applied, as a
mere mechanical protector from external injuries.

BUSELL TRIMMER CO. v. STEVENS.
Opinion of the Court.

But the patent before us is no such case. The most that
can be said of it is that it shows, on the part of Orcutt, great
industry in acquiring a thorough knowledge of what others
had done in the attempt to trim shoe soles in a rapid and
improved mode, by the various devices perfected by patents
for that purpose, good judgment in selecting and combining
the best of them, with no little mechanical skill in their application; but it presents no discoverable trace of the exercise of
original thought.
Furthermore, according to the evidence submitted by the
appellants, it is shown that the features of the patent in suit
are substantially the same as those in Orcutt's earlier patent
Df March 4, 1879, having the same object, except that in the
patent in suit the teeth are claimed to be detachable from the
hub, while in that of 1879 they are shown to be solidly incorporated with the hub. Even admitting such a difference to
exist, it does not constitute a patentable difference, in view of
the prior state of the art; for the detachable teeth are found
in the Corthell patent No. 207,395, of August 27, 1878. But,
as a matter of fact, there is no such difference; for, as stated in
the specification of the patent in suit, "the blades and hub may
be in one piece," etc., thus showing that no claim is made in
the patent itself on that score. This, of itself, would be sufficient to defeat the later patent.
It ma be admitted that Orcutt's later patent performed
the work it was designed to accomplish in a better and moreworkmanlike manner than an of the preceding cutters patented, because, as already stated, there were constant improvements in the art to which it related. So far as this record
shows, it was the last of a series of patents designed to accomplish the same object. As such, it necessarily retained all the
beneficial features of those earlier patents, and, to a certain
extent, improved upon them. Such improvement, however,
was an improvement in degree only, and was, therefore, not
patentable. Burt v. Eory, 133 U. S. 349, and cases there
cited.
Decree ajflrmed.

