M1ORGA-N'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

171

Syllabus.

purpose, when it becomes necessary to do so. The proposition
that the defendant, having violated a public statute in obtaining public lands that were dedicated to other purposes, cannot
be required to surrender them until it has been reimbursed the
amount expended by it in procuring the legal title, is not
within the reason of the ordinary rule that one who seeks
equity must do equity; and, if sustained, would interfere with
the prompt and efficient administration of the public domain.
Let the wrongdoer first restore what it confesses to hrave
obtained from the government by means of a fraudulent
scheme formed by its officers, stockholders and employis in
violation of law.
Te decree is 'eversed, with directions to overrule the de-'
murrer, and for furtherproceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

MORGAN'S LOUISIANA AND TEXAS RAILROAD
AND STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. TEXAS CENTRAL
RAILWAY COMPANY; FARMERS' LOAN AND
TRUST COMPANY; AND METROPOLITAN TRUST
COMPANY.
TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. MORGAN'S LOUISIANA AND TEXAS RAILROAD AND
STEAMSHIP COMPANY; FARMERS' LOAN AND
TRUST COMPANY; AND METROPOLITAN TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Nos. 55, 59. Argued November 4, 1890.-Decided November 24, 1890.

When a mortgage provides that the principal shall become due for the purposes of foreclosure upon a default in interest continuing for sixty days,
the trustees in the mortgage may proceed for the collection of the whole
amount of principal and interest by bill in equity, without a formal
declaration of the maturity of such principal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
If a mortgage contains a power of sale by advertisement at public auction
for cash upon the request of the holder or holders of seventy-five per
cent in the amount of the bonds secured thereby, that remedy is cumulative, and the restriction does not operate upon the right to foreclose
by bill in equity, especially when in a separate clause it is provided that
nothing in the mortgage contained shall be held or construed to prevent
or interfere with the foreclosure of the instrument by any court of competent jurisdiction.
The mere fact that money loaned to a railroad corporation was expended
in payment of interest on its first mortgage bonds or of operating expenses, does not entitle the lender to preference over the first mortgage
bonds by way of subrogation, or on the ground of superior equities.
Although advances may have enabled a railroad company to maintain
itself as a going concern, that fact alone does not give such advances
priority over first mortgage bonds upon the theory that the interests of
the public and of the bondholders were subserved by such advances.
A bill filed by a: defendant, on leave, in order to a complete decree upon the
whole matter in dispute, is properly styled a cross-bill; and where on
the bill of the original complainant possession of property has been taken
by a Circuit Court of the United States, the jurisdiction of the court in
passing upon such a cross-bill in the disposition of the property does not
depend upon the citizenship of the parties.

MoiGAN'S Louisiana and Texas Railroad and Steamship
Company, a Corporation organized under the lawh of the State
of Louisiana, filed its bill on April 2, 1885, in the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Northern District of Texas, against
the Texas Central Railway Company, averring that the latter
company was originally organized and incorporated under the
general laws of Texas, on May 31, 1879, to build and operate
a railroad from Ross Station, in McLennan County, to the
centre of Eastland County: That on or about May 12, 1881,
its charter was amended so as to authorize it to extend its
railway from the latter point to a point on the north boundary
line of the State, and to construct branch railways: That the
company had built and owned about two hundred and twentyeight miles of road, namely, from Ross to Albany, and from
Garrett to Roberts, and was also the owner of certain town
lots, and of equipment as described: That on or about the 15th
of September, 1879, said Texas Company executed to the.
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, as trustee,
a mortgage to secure the payment of a series of bonds of one

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RIMLWAY.'

173

Statement of the Case.
thousand dollars each, covering its railroad, built and to be
built, from Ross to the centre of Eastland County, payable
thirty years after November 1, 1879, with interest payable
semi-annually, and bonds to the amount of $2,145,000 had
been issued and were outstanding: That on May 16, 1881, the
Texas Company executed to the same Trust Company, as
trustee, a mortgage to secure the payment of another series of
bonds of one thousand dollars each, covering its entire main
line of railroad, built and to be built, and also its branch lines
as described, payable in thirty years, with interest semi-annually, and bonds to the amount of $1,254,000 had been issued
and were outstanding under this mortgage: That on October
1, 1884, the Texas Company executed to the Metropolitan
Trust Company of New York, as trustee, a mortgage of all
its railway and railway lines, whether constructed or to be
constructed, to secure an issue of bonds to be known as "general-mortgage bonds" of said railway company, which bonds
had been signed and sealed, but not certified by the trustee,
because of delay in recording the trust deed in all the counties
of the State into which the road had been actually built:
That the Texas Company, finding itself in great financial
embarrassment, and requiring pecuniary assistance, and being
already indebted to the Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company in a very large amount, obtained further advances
from the latter company, making, "with amounts t~aeretofore
loaned to it" by the Houston Company, a total indebtedness
from the Texas Company to the Houston Company of 8761,992.04: That for the security of "said advances then and theretofore made by said Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company to said Texas Central Railway Company," the Texas
Company, on the first of November, 1881, made and executed
its sixteen certain promissory notes, fifteen thereof for the sum
of $50,000 each, and one thereof for the sum of $11,992.04,
and for the security of said sixteen notes the Texas Company
pledged to the Houston Company all the "general-mortgage
bonds" which it was authorized to issue for the length of
road already built by it: That all of the notes were dated
November 1, 1884, and all due on demand, but the Texas

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Company, though requested, had refused and failed to pay
the same: That in order to make the pledge of the bonds,
which were not yet countersigned and certified by the trustee,
the Texas Company issued and delivered to the Houston
Company its certificates, obligating itself to deliver the bonds
as soon as executed and signed by the trustee: That the Houston Company pledged said notes and certificates to complainant, as part security for an indebtedness exceeding one million
of dollars due by the Houston Company to complainant, and
complainant is now the holder, as pledgee, of all of the notes
and certificates: That the deed of trust, with the certificates,
constituted a full, complete and perfect equitable mortgage
and lien upoi the railway and the property therein described:
That the advances by the Houston Company to the Texas
Company were made at various -times for taxes, fuel, supplies,
labor, repairs, operating and managing expenses, proper equipment, useful improvements and other necessary expenditures,
by which the Texas Company's railway had been kept in
running order, and its business and improvements increased,
and thereby rendered more beneficial to the bondholders and
to all other creditors of the Texas Company: That the indebtedness was contracted by the defendant upon the consideration of its promise to pay the same out of the earnings,
of its railway, and the same was and is, in equity and good
conscience, a first lien upon the income and property of said
railway, but the defendant instead of paying the debt out of
the earnings of said railway, had failed to pay any part of it,
and had used a large amount, at least $500,000, of said earnings, during the years 1882, 1883 and 1884, for the payment
of coupons upon its first mortgage bonds, although the holders
of such coupons were only entitled to receive payment thereof
after the defendant had paid the complainant the amounts
advanced and expended in the manner and for the purposes
in the bill sej forth : That unless the relief sought was obtained, the certificates which complainant held, and the bonds
when issued, would be greatly depreciated in value, and any
effort to foreclose complainant's pledge would result in imposing a debt of $2,286,000 upon said defendant without any

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

175

Statement of the Case.
adequate relief to complainant, and defendant had no property
upon which to levy an execution save and except the properties mortgaged, and the sale of the property would be ineffectual by reason of the uncertainty as to the rights which would
be acquired by the purchaser; that the Texas Company wag
in embarrassed circumstances, the pay-rolls for January and
February, 1885, were unpaid and those for March would not
be paid, and the company would default upon the interest of
its bonds due May 1; that it had no money in its treasury and
no credit upon which to raise it; that it had no supplies; that
many suits were pending against it which would ripen into
judgments for large amounts of money; that the receipts had
been growing less and there was no hope of their increase in
the immediate future; that the road ran through a new and
undeveloped country in which .great financial depression existed at the then present time, "and that unless said railway
be administered in such a manner as to maintain it with unimpaired efficiency during this period of depression, its assets
will be sacrificed without any adequate benefit to any of its
creditors;" that the financial embarrassments of the Texas
Company were aggravated by the fact that it was originally
built as relying on business connections with the Houston
Company; that it had always been managed and operated in
connection with the latter; that it had no round-houses or
repair shops, and its maintenance and transportation business
had always, until recently, been conducted entirely by the
officers of the operating department of the Houston Company
without any additional expense to the Texas Company, but
that the Houston Company had lately been placed in the
hands of receivers by the order of the United States Circuit
Court for the Fifth Judicial Circuit and Eastern District of
Texas in a suit entitled "Th e oouthern -DevelopmentCompany
v. TNe Houston and Texas Central Railway Company," and
the result of said receivership had been to deprive the Texas
Company of its former operating officers and of the benefit
of the harmonious business relations formerly existing with
the Houston Company, and the interdependence of said two
railways upon each other had been such that it was to the vital

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

interests of both companies that that interdependence should be
maintained; that the Houston Company owned over one-third
of the capital stock of the Texas Company, and the Houston
Company wasalso obligated for the indebtedness of $761,992.01,
pledged by it to complainant, and it was of vital importance to
both of said roads that the management of the two should be
under one common head. Complainant prayed for the appointment of one or more receivers of the property of the defendant
and for a decree for the payment and satisfaction of its claims
out of the rents, revenues, issues and profits coming to the receivers. Copies of the deeds of trust from the Texas Central
Railway Company to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
of September 15, 1879, and of May 16, 1881, and of that to
the Metropolitan Trust Company of October 1, 1884, were
attached to the bill.
On the 4th of April, 1885, the receivers of the Houston
Company were appointed receivers of the Texas Company, the
Texas Company appearing and submitting the motion for
such action of the court as might seem just and equitable.
On the 2d of May complainant filed its amended and supplemental bill against the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
trustee, and the Metropolitan Trust Company, trustee, as well
as the Texas Central Railway Company, which recapitulated
the averments of the original bill and insisted that the indebtedness of $762,000 was an equitable lien upon all the property
of the railway company, and entitled to be paid, in case of
sale, out of the proceeds of such sale, before any money was paid
to the holders of the said mortgage bonds: That the indebtedness should have been paid by the railway company out of its
annual earnings, which were sufficient for that purpose, but
instead of paying the debts incurred for labor, material, betterments and services necessary to the operation of the railway,
and to keep the same in proper condition of repair and running order, the defendant railway company expended its revenues in paying the interest on the mortgage bonds, leaving
the complainant and others similarly situated unpaid, and they
were entitled, in equity and good conscience, to stand in the
place and stead of said mortgage creditors for the amounts the

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

177

Statement of the Case.

latter had respectively received, and to have their claims satisfied out of the property of the railway compan y, or out of
the proceeds of any sale thereof. The bill prayed, among
other things, for a decree of lien by reason of the certificates,
an accounting, a sale of the property if necessary, and the
payment of the amounts decreed to be due the complainant,
out of the proceeds, in preference to any amounts due on the
mortgage bonds, etc.
The Texas Company answered, admitting in general the
allegations of the bill, but submitting to the court that the bill
was destitute of equity.
The Metropolitan Trust Company filed its answer August
17, 1885, admitting the allegations, in respect to the mortgage
executed to it as trustee on October 1,1884, and that it refused
to certify bonds thereunder until the completion of the recording of the mortgage. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
answered September 24, 1885, and denied, on information and
belief, the allegations of the bill in respect to the advances by
the Houston Company to the Texas Company, and also that
the indebtedness stated in the bill was a first lien upon the
income or property of the Texas Company, and averred that,
if any advances were made, they were payments which, in
equity, should be imputed to complainant; that the Houston
Company and the complainant were the owners of the Texas
Company and of its property, holding the same as a mere
appendage to the Houston road, and the mortgages executed
by the Texas Company were in fact mortgages procured to be
made by the parties controlling the complainant and the
Houston Company; and, in various averments, recited the
facts and circumstances attending the formation of the Mlorgan Company, its ownership of the Houston Company, and
the creation of the Texas Company, and of the Southern
Development Company, upon whose application receivers had
been appointed for the Houston Company in the suit referred
to in complainant's bill; it alleged that the complainant in
that suit and in this, represented practically and substantially
the same interests, the two complainant corporations being
owned and controlled by the same persons, and that all the
VOL. cxxxvu-12

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

proceedings and acts of the defendant, the Texas Company,
from its organization were, in fact and law, those of the complainant, and to be equitably imputed to the complainant:
and it denied that the Texas Company had used its earningsfor making payment of coupons upon its first mortgage bonds,
and which the holders were not entitled to receive, and asserted that the bill, as framed, was open to demurrer, for
reasons given.
Subsequently, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, upon
leave duly granted, filed its cross-bill in the cause against complainant and its co-defendants. This set up the mortgages
and averred that the mortgagor had failed to pay the interest.
on all the bonds secured by the mortgages respectively, which
became due and payable May 1, 1885, and all interest since
that date; that payment of such interest had been duly demanded; that said default had continued sixty days after such
demand, and thereupon the principal of all the bonds was and
had become immediately due and payable; that the lien of the
deed of trust to the Metropolitan Company was subsequent
and subsidiary to the lien of the trust deeds or mortgages
made to complainant; and that, if the claim of the Morgan
Company, as set forth in its bill, was a lien at all on the property, it was subject and inferior to the liens of the mortgages
to complainant. The bill alleged the insolvency of the Texas
Company, and the insufficiency of its net earnings to pay the
floating debt and discharge the interest on the mortgage
bonds, and concluded with the usual prayers for the appointment of a receiver, an injunction and an account of the bonds
and the amounts due the holders; and for a decree that the
amounts so found due shall constitute a first lien on the property; that the railway company pay into court the amount
found due, together with costs; and that, in default of such
payment, the property and franchises of the railway company
be sold; and for judgment for any deficiency. The fourteenth
paragraph of this cross-bill averred that the Texas Company
had made default upon the first deed of trust held by it, by
failing to pay the interest on the bonds which became due and
payable on the first day of May, 1885; that payment of such

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY. 179
Statement of the Case.

interest had been duly demanded, "and said default had continued sixty days after such demand;" and that "thereupon
the principal of the said bonds secured by said last-mentioned
mortgage or deed of trust is and has become immediately due
and payable, and the same and all said interest so in arrears
as aforesaid remains still due and unpaid." Paragraph fifteen
made the same averments as to the second mortgage held by
the cross complainant.
The Texas Company, in its answer, admitted the allegations
of the bill of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company as to
the execution of the mortgages, and admitted the fourteenth
paragraph of the bill to be true, except that it set up, by way
of explanation, that its roads and property were placed in the
hands of receivers on May 14, 1885, on the bill filed by the
Morgan Company. It admitted the allegation in the fifteenth
paragraph to be true, as stated.
The Morgan Company, in its answer, reiterated all the
averments in its original and amended bills, and claimed that
it had a lien upon the property of the Texas Company, and
that, in any foreclosure proceedings, it was entitled to be paid
out of the proceeds of sale by prefeolence over the mortgage
creditors. It admitted that the matters set forth in the fourteenth and fifteenth paragraphs of the cross-bill were true.
The Metropolitan Company admitted the allegations of the
cross-bill respecting the mortgage executed to it, as trustee, by
the railway company, in October, 1884, and alleged that no
bonds had, to its knowledge or belief, been issued secured by
the lien of the said mortgage.
Replications were filed and proofs were taken.
Evidence was given of the issuing of the bonds under the
two mortgages to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and
of a request to that company for the institution of proceedings
to foreclose the trust deeds, but not on behalf of the holders
of seventy-five per cent of the bonds of either issue. The
three trust deeds or mortgages referred to in the original bill,
the sixteen notes, amounting to $761,992.04, and the certificates of the Texas Company, were also put in evidence, and a
statement from the books of the Texas Company, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"TXAS CENTRAL RAILwAY ComiPAY.
"Statement of Gross Earnings,Expenses of Operation, and Charges against
Income from Comuencement of Operation to Sept. 30, 1884, Inclusive.

earnings
Idebt.
ToDec.31,1830.
1"1881.
,11882.
S 188:3.
Sept. 30,1884.

Total .

$102,713
247,707
205,887
20,262
210,312

76
02
32
45
78

$1,056,943

3

Taxes.

p
$75,360 25
115,426 83
157,89673
248,310 73
177,302 88

on bonded

$79 67
3,60324
9,626 79
13,440 32
14,337 40

774,297 421087 42

Interest other than on bonded debt ....
Total deficit ........

Interest

Operating

Gross

.................
........................

$54,250 00
140,875 00
218,68000
237,930 00
247,930 00

Total charge
against income.
$129,6S9 92
259,905 07
386,203 52
499,681 05
429,57028

Deficit.

$26,916
12,198
180,316
209,418
219,257

16
05
20
60
50

889,665 00 $1,705,049 84 $648,106 51
70,098 85
$718,205 36
70,09885
$648,106 51

The Morgan Company called as a witness, E. W. Cave,
treasurer for the receivers, and treasurer for the Texas Company in 1880, 1881, 1882, 1883, and 1884, and also of the
Houston Company, and produced the resolution of the directors of the Houston Company of December 1, 1884, pledging
the notes and certificates to the Morgan Company and the
receipt of the latter therefor. Mr. Cave testified that the
notes were given by the Texas Company to the Houston
Company in settlement of the indebtedness of the former to
the latter, which arose from cash advances and payments
made by the Houston Company for the benefit of the Texas
Company; that the account between the Houston Company
and the Texas Company was adjusted and closed about the
last of October, 1884; that there was no year during the five
years mentioned when the Texas Company earned enough to
pay its operating expenses and fixed charges, including taxes;
that the funds advanced were used in paying the operating
expenses of the Texas Company for material and supplies, for
maintenance and such things as had to be done to improve or
keep the property up, and some portion of it may have been
applied to the maintenance of its security by the payment of
interest on its bonds; that some of the money necessarily
went for that, because whatever money was used by the

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

181

Statement of the Case.

company out of its own gross earnings from its general business, for the payment of interest, left a deficit in its operating
expenses and maintenance, which had to be covered by advances; that the officers of the Houston Company and of the
Texas Company were practically the same; that no salary
was paid to the officers of the Texas Company, which was
organized in the interest of the Houston Company; that the
Houston Company owned about two-fifths of the Texas Company's stock and the Morgan Company the other three-fifths ;
that the directors of the two companies were mainly the same,
and the Morgan Company owned a majority of the stock of
the Houston Company; that the bonds that were issued under
the mortgage to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company were
negotiated by the president of the Houston Company; that
the Texas Company was practically a part of the Houston
Company, and the latter company collected its revenues and
accounts; that the money was disbursed from the moneys that
were collected, and only as the deficit arose and increased
were the advances made by the Houston Company : that the
road was operated practically as a division of the Houston
Company; that the officers of the Houston Company acted as
officers of the Texas Company; that the revenues came in and
went into accounts, and then those accounts went on to the
books of the Texas Company where matters were not kept
direct; that the earnings went into the books of the Houston
Company, and, when the Texas Company got into debt, the
executive officers of the Houston Company advanced the
money; that they were authorized to advance it and the debts
of the Texas Company were paid; that the Houston Company
collected all the earnings of the Texas Company, and when
the latter was short it received help; that that was the way
this balance of nearly $762,000 arose, it being the balance of
running account beginning from the time the road commenced
to be operated as a road; that, when the settlement was made
upon which these notes were issued, the account was brought
down to date, interest calculated by the auditor of the Houston Company, understood and acknowledged, and a balance
of interest struck, and the balance found to be as stated, about

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

$762,000; that interest was computed on both sides; that
there was a continual running account; that, when the Texas
Company had funds and balances, it paid the interest on the
bonds, and did not have to call on the Houston Company for
funds, and whenever it did not have funds, as in the matter of
interest or as in other matters, whatever balance was needed
was supplied, but the Texas Company's coupons were paid by
Cisco & Son upon separate account, that firm being the fiscal
agent of both roads.
The following were questions to and answers of the witness :
"Q. The accruing funds, the income of the Central Company, was there any special use of its own funds, of its own
earnings, towards paying running expenses rather than interest, or towards paying interest rather than running expenses,
or was that all a matter of running account?
"A. It was all in one account, so far as the account of the
Houston and Texas Central Railway Company was concerned,
and whether the advances were made for one purpose or another they were charged so much cash; but the Texas Central
Railway Company, of course, took cognizance of what it was
used for.
"Q. So that whenever it was behindhand on its current
indebtedness and needed money the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company paid it, and when it came to pay interest and did not have funds, the Houston and Texas Central
Railway Company paid it?
"A. The Houston and Texas Central Railway Company let
it have the money."
On the 12th of April, 1887, the Circuit Court entered its
decree. The decree found the execution and delivery to the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of the two mortgages of
September 15, 1879, and May 16, 1881, and of the mortgage
of the first day of October, 1884, to the Metropolitan Trust
Company: That the liens and claims of the Metropolitan
Company and the beneficiaries under its trust were in all
respects subsequent, subsidiary and junior to the rights and
equities of the Farmers' Company and its beneficiaries, both

MIORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

183

Statement of the Case.
of the mortgages to the Farmers' Company being prior liens
to the mortgage to the Metropolitan Company, the first as to
the property therein described, and the second as to the entire
property of the defendant, the Texas Company: That the
Morgan Company had an equitable lien upon all the property
of the Texas Company to the amount of $761,992.04, with
interest from November 1, 1884, said lien, however, being
junior and subordinate in all respects to the liens under the
mortgage deeds of trust to the Farmers' Company: That in
each of the mortgages it was provided that in case the Texas
Company, defendant, should fail to pay any of the interest on
any of the bonds due under the mortgage at any time when
the same might become due and payable, and said default
should continue sixty days after said demand, then and thereupon the principal of all of the said bonds should become
immediately due and payable; that the Texas Company was
on May 1, 1885, and still was, insolvent and unable to meet or
pay its obligations, including the coupons issued on its bonds
secured by the said mortgages to the Farmers' Company and
maturing upon that date, and that it wholly failed to pay the
same, and made default in the payment of all the coupons
upon said bonds, and has mot paid any of the said coupons
which fell due November 1, 1885, or May 1, 1886, nor any
coupons which matured since that date; that payment of said
interest has been duly demanded and said default has continued sixty days after such demand; and that the principal of
all the bonds under both mortgages was and had become
immediately due and payable. It found the amount of principal and interest due on both sets of bonds, and that by
reason of the default of the Texas Company to pay the interest and any of it, and by reason of other matters and things
hereinabove alleged, the conditions of the mortgages and of
each of them held by the Farmers' Company had been broken,
and the said mortgages and deeds of trust and both of them,
had become absolute, and the trustee was entitled to a decree
for the sale of all the mortgaged property to satisfy the principal and interest of the said bonds; and the decree then
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the principal sums had

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

become due and payable, and that unless the defendant, the
Texas Company, should within ten days pay into court the
sum found due with interest, and an amount sufficient to
defray the costs, the equity of redemption of said defendant,
and of all the parties to the suit, and of all the holders of
bonds or other claims secured by the mortgage to the Metropolitan Company, in or to the mortgaged property, should be
barred and foreclosed, and the mortgaged premises and property should be sold to the highest bidder for cash, as provided.
It further ordered, among other things, that in case the
amount of the bid should be more than sufficient to pay the
sums and amounts found and adjudged to the Farmers' Company, the overplus should be applied to the payment of the
sums decreed to be due to the Morgan Company; and provided for deficiency decrees in favor of the Farmers' Company
and the Morgan Company.
From this decree separate appeals were prosecuted by the
Morgan Company and the Texas Company. On behalf of the
Morgan Company it was insisted, that the court erred in adjudging that its claim was not in equity a lien and charge
upon the property of the Texas Company, prior and superior
in right to the lien of the mortgages of the Farmers' Company, and justly entitldd to be paid out of the proceeds of. the
sale of the property in preference to the mortgage bonds; and
in granting leave to the Farmers' Company to file the bi]l of
complaint for the foreclosure of the mortgages, and rendering
a decree thereon; and that, if it had jurisdiction to entertain
the bill of the Farmers' Company, then it erred in proceeding
to a decree for foreclosure and sale to pay the principal of the
bonds upon a default in the payment of interest, without averring and proving that the bill had been filed for that purpose
by the request of the holders of seventy-five per cent in
amount of the outstanding bonds.
On behalf of the Texas Company errors were assigned to
the action of the court in entertaining the bill of the Farmers'
Company and rendering the decree of foreclosure and sale
thereon, and also in adjudging the principal sums of the bonds
to be due and payable, and ift decreeing foreclosure and sale

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

185

Argument for Appellant.

without proof of a request to the trustee, by the holders of
seventy-five per cent, in amount, of the bonds, to foreclose.
.Mr. J. lubley .Ashton for Morgan's Louisiana and Texas
Railroad and Steamship Company, appellant.
I. The Priority of the lien of the appellant.
The first three assignments of error upon the decree below,
present the question as to whether or not the claim of the
MQrgan Company, the original complainant, constitutes, in
equity, a lien and charge upon the property of the defendant
Railway Company, prior and superior in right to the lien of
the mortgages to the defendant, the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, and is justly entitled to be paid out of the proceeds
of the sale of that property in preference to the mortgage
bonds.
It is maintained and submitted, on the part of the appellant,
that this question should be answered in the affirmative upon
the principles settled in this court by the case of Fosdick v.
Schall, and the decisions which followed it, on the subject of
the relative equitable rights of mortgage and other creditors of
an insolvent railroad company, in respect to its property in the
hands of a court of equity, for administration as a trust fund
for the payment of incumbrances; and that, upon the authority
of those adjudications, the appellant is entitled to the relief
asked in respect to the advances which constitute the basis of
its claim in this suit. Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235; 7ale
v. Frost, 99 U. S. 389, 392; .Miltenberger v. Logansport Rail,way Co., 106 U. S. 286, 311; Union Trust Co. v. Souther,
107 U. S. 591, 594; Union Trust Co. v. Walker, 107 U. S.
596; Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Union Trust Co. v.
Ilknois Midland Co., 117 U. S. 434, 457; Porter v. Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Co., 120 U. S. 649; Penn v. Calhoun,
121 U. S. 251; Sage v. 1femphis &c. Railroad Co., 125 U. S.
361; St. Louis &c. Railroad Co. v. Cleveland &c. Railway,
125 U. S. 658, 676; Union Trust Co. v. Morrison, 125 U. S.
591, 609, 612; Toledo &. Railroad Co. v. ilamilton, 134 U. S.
296, 302. See, also, Blair v. St. Louis &c. Railroad Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

22 Fed. Rep. 474; Farmers' Zoan and Trust Co. v. Ticksurgh &c. Railroad Co., 33 Fed. Rep. 778.
The decisions thus cited are so recent, and the doctrines
-declared so familiar to the court, that it is unnecessary to
present a detailed analysis of them.
It would seem to be plainly deducible from them, that
where a mortgaged railroad is in the hands of a court of
chancery, in foreclosure proceedings, and it appears that advances were made to the company to enable it to pay the
-expenses of maintenance and operation, in lieu of moneys
.diverted from the earnings to pay bonded interest, or to enable
it to pay such interest when there were no net earnings applicable to it, or when the net earnings were insufficient to meet
the bonded interest, the mortgage security is chargeable with
the payment of the debt for such advances in preference
to the mortgage bonds.
Under such circumstances there should be a restatement of
the account, and there must be charged against that which.
would otherwise go to the bondholders, such amounts as they
have received, which ought really to have been applied to the
,cost of maintaining and operating the 'road, or which were in
excess of the amounts that upon a correct accounting they
were entitled to receive in respect to the operations of the
road.
Such advances constitute a debt of the mortgaged property,
and are equitably entitled to be paid out of the proceeds of its
sale in preference to any payment upon the mortgage bonds.
The principles thus adjudged by this court entitle the appellant to the payment of its claim in respect to the advances to
the Texas Central Railway Company set forth in the bill, and
shown by the proofs, in this cause, and decreed by the court
below to be due to the appellant, out of the proceeds of the
sale of the mortgaged property, before the mortgage bonds,
and in preference to payment upon those bonds.
The aggregate amount of those advances, as shown by the
testimony of Mr. Cave, and the statement annexed to his
deposition, was $648,106.51, which, with interest thereon to
ffovember 1, 1884, amount to the sum of $761,992.04, repre-

MIORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

187

Argument for Appellant.

sented by the sixteen notes delivered by the Texas Central
Railway Company to the Houston and Texas Central Railway
Company, and endorsed" and pledged by the latter Company
as part security for its indebtedness to the appellant, as stated
in the testimony of Mr. Cave.
It is unimportant, in any view of the rights of the appellant,
involved in this cause, that, as stated by Mr. Cave, the lHouston and Texas Central Railway Company owned about twofifths of the capital stock of the Texis Central Railway Company, and that one-fifth of that stock was owned by Morgan's
Louisiana and Texas Railroad and Steamship Company.
It has been often said, by this court, that the stockholders
are not the corporation, which is a separate, legal or political
person, distinct from the stockholders, whose property and
rights of contract, or otherwise, belong to "the legal entity,
the artificial being, created by the charter," and not to the
individual members. Bank of Augusta v. Barle, 13 Pet. 519,
587; Pullman Car Co. v. .Jlissouri Pacifle Co., 115 U. S.
587; Porterv. Bessemer Steel Co., 120 U. S. 649, 670.
II. Te Bill of the Farmers'Zoan and Trust Company.
The replications of Morgan's Company to the answers of
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and the Metropolitan
Trust Company, were filed November 2, 1885, and the cause
was thus at issue at that time.
The application of the defendant, the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, whose answer was filed September 241, 1885,
for leave to file a cross-bill for the enforcement and foreclosure
of its mortgages, was not filed until July 3, 1886 ; and on July
1, 1886, it appears, the District Judge granted the Company
leave to file the bill exhibited by it, as a cross-bill in the
original suit.
The bill appears to have been filed July 3, 1886.
The rule of equity procedure is well settled that the proper
time for filing a cross-bill, where such a bill is necessary, is at
the time of putting in the answer to the original suit, and
before the issue is joined by the filing of the replication. 2
Daniell's Cb. Pr., 1650.
The answer was, in fact, both an answer and a demurrer to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

the bill of the Morgan Company. It was not necessary to the
defence of the Farmers' Company to the claim asserted in the
bill, or to a complete determination *of its merits, that this
foreclosure bill should be filed.
As an original bill the court below had no jurisdiction to
entertain it, since the complainant (the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company) and one of the defendants, (the Metropolitan
Trust Company of New York,) are citizens of the same State.
Section 738 of the Re'vised Statutes providing for substituted service, by publication, against non-resident defendants,
"in a suit in equity to enforce any legal or equitable lien or
claim against real or personal property in the District where
the suit is brought," does not give, or purport to give, jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, in such a suit, where the complainant and one of the defendants are citizens of the same State.
Brigham v. Luddington, 12 Blatchford, 237, 241; Carpenterv.
Talbot, 33 Fed. Rep. 537.
As the bill for foreclosure of the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company sought to extinguish the equity of redemption of
the Metropolitan Trust Company of the City of New York,
as junior mortgagee, that Company was a necessary and indispensable party to the bill, or any bill for the foreclosure of
the mortgages to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
seeking to divest its rights in the mortgaged estate. Chicago
and Vincennes Railroad v. Fosdick, 106 U. S. 47.
Unless, therefore, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
was entitled to file this bill, as a proper cross-bill, in the original suit, according to the principles applicable to such bills in
the Federal Courts, the court below erred in granting leave to
fie the bill, and in entertaining the same, and should have
dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction to consider it.
It is submitted, on the part of the appellant, that the socalled cross-bill is not, and cannot stand, as a true or proper
cross-bill in this suit, within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, by virtue of its jurisdiction of the original cause.
This court has adopted Judge Story's definition: "A crossbill, ex Vi terminorum, implies a bill brought by a defendant
in a suit against the plaintiff, or against other defendants, in

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY. .189
Counsel for Appellee.

the same suit, or against both, touching the matters in question
in the original bill. Story Eq. Pl., see. 389; Curtis, J., in
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 145. See also Ayres v. Carver, 17 How. 591 ; Cross v. De Valle, 1 Wall. 5, 14; .Ruber Co.
v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 807, 809.
It cannot be said, we think, that within these adjudicated
definitions the present bill is a true cross-bill, a mere auxiliary
or ancillary suit, a graft or dependency on the original bill,
which is supported by the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
over the original suit, rendering it unnecessary that it should
appear that the bill could be maintained, in that court, as an
original or independent suit for relief.
III. The construction and efect of the mortgages.
The contention, on the part of the appellant, is, that by the
true construction of the foregoing conditions of the mortgages,
the action of the trustee, in enforcing the stipulation that
upon the prescribed default in the payment of the interest,
the principal of the bonds shall become due, is subjected to
the wishes of the bondholders, and the trustee is without right
or power to institute proceedings for the collection of the principal sum of the mortgage debt, by foreclosure and sale, upon
such default in the payment of the interest, before the day
fixed by the credit, except upon the request of the holders of
seventy-five per cent in amount of the bonds outstanding
under the mortgages. By the true construction of the contract, the principal sum of the mortgage debt is not absolutely
due, for the purpose of a foreclosure of the lien against the
corpus of the property, by reason of. default in the payment
of coupon interest, until the holders of seventy-five per cent of
the debt shall request the trustee toforeclose the mortgages.
In other words, the right of action for the principal debt,
against the corTus of the mortgaged estate, does not accrue
until the bondholders have requested the trustee to foreclose
the mortgages.
3r. Charles E. Tweed for the Texas Central Railway Company, appellant, submitted on his brief.
-Mr. Hferbert B. Turner for the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
Alt. CHiFF JUSTICE FunLaR,after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The objection that the Farmers' Company could not proceed
to a foreclosure and sale to pay the principal as well as the
interest of the bonds upon a default in the payment of interest,
without averring and proving that the bill had been filed for
that purpose by the request of the holders of seventy-five per
cent in amount of the outstanding bonds, rests upon the language of the conditions of the mortgages. Each of them,
after providing that it should be void in the event that the
railway company should pay the principal of the bonds and
the several instalments of interest as they became due, stipulated as follows:
"But in case the Texas Central Railway Company shall fail
to pay the principal or any part thereof, or any of the interest
on any of the said bonds at any time when the same may
become due and payable according to the tenor thereof, and if
the said default shall continue sixty days after having been
demanded, then and thereupon the principal of all the said
bonds hereby secured shall be and become immediately due
and payable, and upon the request of the holder or holders of
seventy-five per cent of said bonds then outstanding, and
written notice of said request being served on the New York
agency of the party of the first part, at which said bonds and
coupons are made payable, the said trustee (who may act by
its president or attorney), or its successor or successors in this
trust, may and shall take actual possession (with or without
entry or foreclosure) of said railway hereby conveyed, and of
all and singular the said mortgaged property, and shall manage and operate the same and receive all the income and
profits of the same, together with all the books, papers,
records, accounts, and money of said railway company, first
defraying out of the same the expenses of the road and its
needful repairs and the management of said trust, and the
surplus to pay the interest and principal of all the bonds issued
hereunder which may be due and outstanding and hereby
secured pro rata; and, upon the request of the holder or

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

191

Opinion of the Court.

holders of seventy-five per cent in amount of the bonds so in.
default which may be at any time outstanding under this deed
of trust, it shall be the duty of the said Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company of the city of New York, by its president oragent duly appointed in its behalf, to foreclose this mortgage
or deed of trust and sell the property herein and hereby conveyed, at the city'of Houston, Texas, at public auction, to the
highest bidder for cash, after having given at least sixty dayse
notice of the time, place, and terms of sale by advertisement,
in at least two daily newspapers published in the city of Houston, and two daily newspapers published in the city of, New
York," etc.
It is contended on behalf of the appellants that by the true
construction of the foregoing conditions, the action of the
trustee in enforcing the stipulation that, upon the prescribed
default in the payment of the interest, the principal of the
bonds should become due, is so far subjected to the wishes of'
the bondholders, that the trustee is without right or power ta
institute proceedings for the collection of the principal sum
before the date of payment in course, by foreclosure and sale
upon such default on interest, except upon the request of the
holders of seventy-five per cent in amount of the bonds outstanding. We do not agree with this view. Whenever default
upon the interest should continue sixty days after maturity
and demand, then and thereupon it was declared that the principal of all of the bonds should be and become immediately
due and payable, and that the trustee, upon the request of the
holder or holders of seventy-five per cent of the outstanding
bonds, and written notice thereof being served on the New
York agency of the mortgagor, where the bonds and coupons
were made payable, might take possession and operate the
road; and upon like request it was made the duty of the trustee to foreclose the mortgage and, after advertisement, sell
the property, at public action to the highest bidder for cash.
Hence, although, as to the particular form of foreclosure and
sale at public auction by advertisement, and without the aid
of the court, the proper construction would be that that course
could not be taken without the request prescribed, this nof

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

only did not limit the power of the trustee to proceed by
application to a court of equity to foreclose, but each of the
mortgages contained near its close the following clause: "It
is hereby further agreed that nothing herein contained shall
be held or construed to prevent or interfere with the foreclosure of this instrument, the appointment of a receiver, or any
other act or proceeding appropriate in such cases, by any
court of competent jurisdiction."
There was nothing in the mortgages which took away the
inherent right of resort to the courts, and this clause did not
impart what existed without it, but its insertion, evidently out
of al3undant caution, made it perfectly clear that the provisions relied on by appellants did not apply to foreclosure by
bill in equity but to the cumulative remedy specified., It is
easy to see why taking possession and selling without the
intervention of the court should be guarded against, and the
trustee not be required or allowed to proceed in that summary
manner except on the request of a certain percentage of the
holders of the bonds. Such proceedings might result in
injury, which could not be predicated of those regularly taken
in a court of equity. Arbitrary procedure by the trustee was
not deemed desirable, in view of the interests of both mortgagor and the bondholders as a class, while each would find
the protection, to which it might be entitled, at the hands of
the court.. -lercantileTrust Co. v. .Missouri,Kansas & Texas
Railway, 36 Fed. :Rep. 221.
The case of Chicago and Vincennes Railroad v. Fosdick,
106 U. S. 417, is so different upon the facts from that in hand
as to deprive it of the weight attributed to it by appellants.
The mortgage in controversy in that suit contained no provision saving to the trustees the right to resort to the courts for
a foreclosure. It provided for a remedy in case of default, by
entry and sale by the trustees, and also by foreclosure and
sale, but it was provided that demand for possession should
not be made by the trustees until they were required to take
such possession by the holders of at least one-half of the outstanding bonds, and that where there was a default on interest, continued for six months after demand, the trustees might

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

193

Opinion of the Court.

declare the principal due and give notice to the mortgagor,
and, upon the written request of the holders of a majority of
such bonds, proceed to collect both principal and interest by
foreclosure and sale, or otherwise, as provided. (106 U. S. 49,
50.) This court held, that the restriction on the acceleration
of the principal did not prevent a foreclosure suit for overdue
interest, and that, as the company in that case was in default
on some of the coupons, the trustees or any bondholder, independently of the particular provisions just referred to, on nonpayment of any instalment of interest, could file a bill for
the enforcement of the security and obtain a decree nisi, for
such defaulted interest, and if the same were not paid as
directed, a sale would be ordered. But as the finding of the
amount due was the foundation of the right of the mortgagee
to proceed, and the right to redeem would not be taken away
except upon a strict compliance with the steps necessary to
divest it, it became, said Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for
the court, "of the first importance to ascertain whether the
decree of foreclosure and sale, in the present case, found due
and required to be paid, as the condition of exercising the
right to redeem, a larger sum than was then due." The evidence being examined, it was found that there was none to
establish that "any coupon, not afterwards funded, was presented and payment thereof refused;" and it was pointed
out, that under the eighth article of the mortgage there
involved, (which provided that if default was made in the
payment of any half year's interest on any of said bonds, and
the coupons for such interest should have been presented, and
such default should have continued for six months after such
demand, without the consent of the holder of said coupon or
bond, then the principal of all of the said bonds should be and
become immediately due and payable, anything in said bonds
to the contrary notwithstanding, and that the trustees might
so declare the same and notify the party of the first part
thereof,) the forfeiture must stand or fall upon the fact of
such declaration and notice, as it might be justified or not by
the circumstances existing when they were made, and that
whether the whole debt had become due or not, must rest exVOL. cxxxvn-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

elusively upon the alleged default, which had been' found insufficient. And it was further held that under the same article
which provided for a foreclosure on the written request of the
holders of the majority of the outstanding bonds, even if the
principal sum of the mortgage deed had been rightfully
declared due and the required notice given, nevertheless the
foundation for proceeding to foreclosure would fail without
proof that the bill had been filed for that purpose upon such
written request.
In the case at bar, the proof of the presentation and default
upon the coupons was full and was not disputed. The mortgages specifically provided that upon such default continuing
for sixty days after demand, the principal of all of the bonds
should become immediately due and payable. The Texas
Company and the Morgan Company both admitted that the
principal had become due and payable. The instruments did
not require a written request for a declaration by the trustee
that the principal was due, or such a declaration and notification to the defaulting company, in order to make the principal
mature. That was a consequence of a default continuing
sixty days after demand. Nor was there any restriction upon
the power to proceed by bill in equity, but on the contrary
any intention to impose such a restriction was disavowed.
The Morgan Company insisted by its pleadings that it was
justly entitled to be paid out of the proceeds of the sale decreed in preference to the first mortgage bonds, because, as it
alleged, the Houston Company under which it claims advanced
the amount in question to the Texas Company to be used for
taxes, operating expenses, equipment, improvements, and other
necessary expenditures, by which the Texas Company's railway had been kept in safe running order, its business and
importance increased, and it thereby rendered more valuable
to the first mortgage bondholders; that the indebtedness was
contracted by the Texas Company upon consideration of its
promise to pay the same out of the earnings of its railway;
that (as is charged upon information and belief) the company
had used at least $500,000 of said earnings during the years
1882, 1883 and 1S84 for the payment of coupons of its first

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRALj RAILWAY.

195

Opinion of the Court.

mortgage bonds, although the holders of the coupons were only
entitled to receive payment thereof after the Texas Company
had paid the amounts advanced and paid as aforesaid,; and
that the forgan Company was entitled to stand in the place
and stead of said mortgage creditors for the amounts received.
In other words, the contention seemed to be, that the Houston
Company should be awarded priority of lien because it advanced the amount in question to be used in the payment of
operating expenses and taxes, and"it was so used: or upon the
promise that it should be so used, which was broken by its
diversion to the payment of interest; or, if there were no
such promise, express or implied, then that the application of
the advances to the payment of interest entitled the Houston
Company to preference by way of subrogation, or because by
such payment the Texas Company was kept running for five
years, which without such payment would have been impossible.
We do not, however, understand it to be claimed upon the
evidence, that any express agreement is made out for the
application of the advances to any particular purpose, or for
the right of subrogation between the Houston Company and
either the Texas Company or the first mortgage bondholders,
or that any of the interest coupons upon the first mortgage
bonds, which were paid by the Texas Company, were taken
by the Houston Company as security for advances. But it is
argued that the advances were for the payment of operating
expenses, taxes and interest during five years, whereby the
railroad property was preserved as a "going" concern; that
at the time the road was constructed the country through
which it ran was in a prosperous condition, but afterwards
unfavorable conditions supervened and continued throughout
the period covered by the advances; that "it was hoped and
expected, however, that an improvement in the business of the
road would take place, and that the company would be enabled
to reimburse the advances ;" that the advances were made to
meet the particular deficits as they occurred from time to
time, to pay operating expenses when there was a deficiency
in the earnings, and to pay interest on the bonds when there

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

was not enough from the earnings to pay it, and, as a whole,
constituted the ways and means of maintaining the good will
and integrity of the enterprise, and preserving the property,
business and franchises; and that, as all that was done by the
Houston Company enured directly for the benefit of the public and of the property, it was just and equitable, "inasmuch
as the expectations of the parties in regard to the enterprise
were not realized, without any fault of theirs, that the mortgage securities should bear *theloss which must be sustained
either by the bondholders or the appellant."
From the account stated, it appears that the gross earnings
were each year sufficient to pay the operating expenses and
taxes, and that the deficit of each year was produced by the
payment of interest on the bonded debt. But if the advances
could therefore be treated as having been specifically procured
for, or specifically applied to, the payment of interest as such,
(although there is no evidence to that effect,) still such payment would afford no basis for the assertion of a preference as
against the bondholders. So far as disclosed, the interest coupons were paid, not purchased, Eetchum v. Duncan, 96 U. S.
659; IWood v. Guarantee Trust Co., 128 U. S. 416, and cannot
be set up as outstanding; and the contention is wholly inadmissible that the bondholders, because they received what was
due them, should be held to have assented to the running of
the road at the risk of returning the money thus paid, if the
company, by reason of unrealized expectations on the part of
those who made the advances, should ultimately turn out to
be insolvent and unable to go on. By the payment of interest, the interposition of the bondholders was averted. They
could not take possession of the property, and should not be
charged with the responsibility of its operation.
It is true that a railroad company is a corporation operating
a public highway, but it does not follow that the discharge of
its public excuses it from amenability for its private obligations. If it cannot keep up and maintain its road in a suitable
condition, and perform the public service for which it was
endowed with its faculties and franchises, it must give way to
those who can. Its bonds cannot be confiscated because it

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

197

Opinion of the Court.

lacks self-sustaining ability. To allow another corporationj
which for its own purposes has kept a railroad in operation in
the hands of the original company, by enabling it to prevent
those who would otherwise be entitled to take it, from doing
so, a preference in reimbursement over the latter on the ground
of superiority of equity, would be to permit the speculative
action of third parties to defeat contract obligations, and to
concede a power over the property of others which even governmental sovereignty cannot exercise without limitation. And
if all these advances should be considered as applied in payment of the operating expenses only, upon the theory, where
such was not literally the fact, that they supplied a deficit
created by the payment of interest out of the gross earnings,
the same remarks would be applicable.
The doctrine of Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235, is that a
court of equity may make it a condition of the issue .of an
order for the appointment of a receiver, that certain outstanding debts of the company shall be paid from the income that
may be collected by the receiver or from the proceeds of sale;
that the property being in the hands of the court for administration as a trust fund for the payment of incumbrances, the
court, in putting it in condition for sale, may, if needed, recognize the claims of material men and laborers, and some few
others of similar nature, accruing for a brief period prior to
its intervention, where current earnings have been used by the
company to pay mortgage debt or improve the property, instead of to pay current expenses, under circumstances raising
an equity for their restoration; as for instance where the company, being insolvent and in default, is allowed by the mortgage bondholders to remain in possession and operate the road
long after that default has become notorious, or where the
company has been suddenly deprived of the control of its
property, and the pursuit of any other course might lead to
cessation of operation. Miltenberger v. Logansvort Railway,
106 U. S. 286, 311, 312. If the officers of the company, remarked Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in Fosdick v. Sohall, "give
to one class of creditors that which properly belongs to another, the court may, upon an adjustment of the accounts, so

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

use the income which comes into its own hands as, if practicable, to restore the parties to their original equitable rights.
Whatever is done, therefore, must be with a view to
a restoration by the mortgage creditors of that which they
have thus inequitably obtained. It follows that if there has
been in reality no diversion, there can be no restoration; and
that the amount of restoration should be made to depend upon
the amount of the.diversion." Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S.
776; Union Trust (Y%. v. Illinois Midland Co., 117 U. S. 434.
In the light of these decisions, the inquiry before us is
whether these bondholders are to be postponed in respect to
the proceeds of the sale of the corpus of the property upon
which their lien is first and paramount, to this claim of the
Houston Company, upon the ground of the particular application of these moneys, or that they supplied a diversion by the
officers of the Texas Company equitably binding as such upon
the bondholders. Now, if these advances were made generally, as needed by the Texas Company, it matters not whether
they were devoted to the payment of running expenses or not.
The relation of debtor and creditor existed, and no equity
could arise in favor of the creditor as against other creditors
holding security prior in time, by reason of the voluntary
application the debtor might make of the money borrowed.
We repeat, that, so far as appears, the money advanced to one
road by the other was simply a loan. The account between
the companies was a running account, and the balance was
only a balance for cash advances made from time to time.
Moneys received from the operation of the Texas road and
moneys received from the Houston Company all went into a
common fund, from which payments were made for expenses,
taxes, and so on. It is also shown that the Texas Company
and the Houston Company had the same fiscal agent in INew
York, who paid the coupons of both; that the management
of the Texas Company was, during its entire existence, in the
hands of the same officers and directors who managed the
Houston Company; that these officers derived their compensation from the Houston Company; that all receipts from the
Texas Company were first received by the Houston Company

MORGAN'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

199

Opinion of the Court.

and then transferred on the books to the treasurer of both
companies, as treasurer of the Texas Company; that whenever
there was a deficit of funds on the part of the Texas Company,
such deficit was made up by the Houston Company; and that
the latter company received and disbursed everything. Under
such circumstances, it cannot be maintained, against the first
mortgage bondholders, that a balance of such a running
account of five year's duration represents money so applied
to the current expenses of the road, or so diverted therefrom
to the payment of interest on the bonds, as to carry with it a
superior equity for repayment. Penn v. Calhoun, 121 U. S.
251; Kneeland v. American Loan and Tiust Co., 136 U. S.
89; St. Louis, Alton &c. Rail'adv. Cleveland,, Columbus &c.
Railway, 125 U. S. 658.
It is to be observed, also, that the Morgan Company counted
upon the certificates of the Texas Company, whereby it bound
itself to deliver to the Houston Company the third mortgage
bonds as soon as executed by the Metropolitan Company as
trustee, and asked for a decree against all the defendants,
declaring the amount found due to complainant, as holder of
such certificates, to be "a full, complete, perfect and equitable
mortgage and lien upon said railway and upon all of the property, incomes, tolls and profits in said deed of trust of October
1, 1885, described" and prayed "that out of the proceeds of
any sale which may be made to satisfy any decree of this
honorable court your orator's claim for said amount be paid
and satisfied." It is thus seen that the Morgan Company
asserted its equities as based on the third mortgage bonds,
which renders it still clearer that upon this record no reason
exists for the subordination of the first and second mortgages
to this claim. Our conclusion is, that the Circuit Court, while
it decreed a lien to the Morgan Company, rightfully refused
to give it preference over the paramount lien of the first and
second mortgage bonds.
Notwithstanding the decree was properly rendered upon the
merits, we are urged to reverse it upon the further ground
that the bill of the Farmers' Company ought not to have been
allowed to be filed, because not in time, and not a cross-bill,

-OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and that, if treated as an original bill, it cannot be maintained,
for want of jurisdiction, the Farmers' and Metropolitan Companies being citizens of New York, the Morgan Company of
Louisiana, and the Texas Company of Texas.
Tinder the original bill filed by the Morgan Company, and
on its application, the court had taken possession of the
property of the Texas Company, through receivers. The Farmers' and Metropolitan Companies were then brought into
court by an amended and supplemental bill, which prayed for
an account of all liens and incumbrances on the property of
the Texas Company and of all its assets, and for a decree
adjudging the sums alleged to be due to the Morgan Company
liens upon the net earnings of the Texas Company and all its
property, superior in rank to the claims of the said trustees
and of the holders of the mortgage bonds issued under the
various deeds of trust, the giving of which had been set up in
the original bill and copies thereto annexed; and that the
amount due to it by reason of its advances to the Houston
Company should be paid out of the net earnings, and if they
proved insufficient, then that a sale be ordered of the property
in bulk, and that the amount decreed to the Morgan Company
be paid out of the proceeds in preference to the amounts due
on the mortgage bonds. It was also specifically prayed, as
has been stated, that the rights of the Morgan Company under
the certificates given it by the Houston Company in lieu of
the bonds issued under the third mortgage should be decreed
to be an equitable mortgage upon the property of the Texas
Company, and, inferentially at least, superior to the lien of
the first two mortgages.
"A cross-bill," says Mr. Justice Story, (Eq. Plead.  389,)
e vi terminorum, implies a bill brought by a defendant in a
suit against the plaintiff in the same suit, or against other
defendants in the same suit, or against both, touching the
matters in question in the original bill. A bill of this kind is
usually brought, either (1.) to obtain a necessary discovery of
facts in aid of the defence to the original bill, or (2.) to obtain
full relief to all parties, touching the matters of the original
bill." And, as illustrative of cross-bills for relief, he says

MORGA-N'S CO. v. .TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

201

Opinion of the Court.

(392): "It also frequently happens, and particularly, if any
question arises between two defendants to a bill, that the court
cannot make a complete decree without a cross-bill or crossbills, to bring every matter in dispute completely before the
court, to be litigated by the proper parties, and upon the
proper proofs."
It seems to us that in order that a decree might be made
upon the whole matter in dispute, brought completely before
the court, the bill in question was necessary and was correctly
styled a cross-bill. In no proper sense were new and distinct
matters introduced by it, which were not embraced in the
original and amended and supplemental bills, and while it
sought equitable relief, it was such as, in point of jurisdiction
over the subject matter, the court was competent to administer. It may be that, so far as it sought the further aid of the
court beyond the purposes of defence to the original bill, it
was not a pure cross-bill, but that is immaterial. The subject matter was the same, although the complainant in the
cross-bill asserted rights to the property different from those
allowed to it in the original bill, and claimed an affirmative
decree upon those rights. A complete determination of the
matters already in litigation could not have been obtained
except through a cross-bill, and different relief from that
prayed in the original bill would necessarily be sought. This
bill was filed, on leave, before the testimony was taken, and
though there should be as little delay as possible in fling bills of
this kind, yet that was a matter entirely within the discretion
of the court, which could have directed it to be fied even at the
hearing. And whether this bill be regarded as a pure cross-bill,
as an original bill in the nature of a cross-bill, or as an original
bill, there is no error calling for the disturbance of the decree
because the court proceeded upon it in connection with the
other pleadings. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court did not
depend upon the citizenship of the parties, but on the subject
matter of the litigation. The property was in the actual possession of that court, and this drew to it the right to decide
upon the conflicting claims to its ultimate possession and
control. Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609; Peo-

OCTOBER TER? 1890.
Syllabus.

pie'8 Bank v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256; Krippendorf v. Hyde,
110 U. S. 276.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES. FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
No. 1143. Argued October 29, 1890. -Decided

November 24, 1890.

The Guano Islands Act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, reenacted in Rev. Stat.
 5570-5578, is constitutional and valid.
Section 6 of the act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, reenacted in Rev. Stat.
 5576, does not assume to extend the admiralty jurisdiction over laud, but
merely extends the provisions of the statutes of the United States for
the punishment of offences upon the high seas to like offences upon guano
islands which the President has determined should be considered as
appertaining to the United States.
Under Rev. Stat.  730, 5339, 5576, murder committed on a guano island
which has been determined by the President to appertain to the United
States, may be tried in the courts of the United States for the district
into which the offender is first brought.
By the law of nations, when citizens or subjects of one nation, in its name,
and by its authority or with its assent, take and hold actual, continuous
and useful possession (although only for the purpose of carrying on a
particular business, such as catching and curing fish, or working mines,)
of territory unoccupied by any other government or its citizens, the
nation to which they belong may exercise such jurisdiction and for such
period as it sees fit over territory so acquired.
Who is the sovereign, de jure or de facto, of a territory is not a judicial,
but a political question, the determination of which by the legislative
and executive departments of any government conclusively binds the
judges, as well as all other officers, citizens and subjects of that government.
Courts of justice are bound to take judicial notice of the terrritorial extent
of the jurisdiction exercised by the government whose laws they administer, or of its recognitioif or denial of the sovereignty of a foreign
power, as appearing from the public acts of the legislature and executive, although those acts are not formally put in evidence, nor in accord
with the pleadings.
In the ascertainment of facts of which judges are bound to take judicial

