HARDING v. WOODCOCK.
Statement of the Case.

in their employment as superintendent of machinery, and
before his application for either patent. According to the
express terms of the statute, therefore, the defendants had the
right to continue to use these specific machines without paying
any compensation to him or his assigns, whether asked for or
not.
To the argument of the plaintiff's counsel, that the statute
is unconstitutional as depriving the inventor of his property
without compensation, there is a twofold answer: The patentee
has no. exclusive right of property in his invention, except
under and by virtue of the statutes securing it to him, and
according to the regulations and restrictions of those statutes.
Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477, 493; Brown v. lDuchesne, 19
Bow. 183, 195; JMarsh v. Nichols, 128 U. S. 605, 612. And
these machines have been set free from his monopoly by his
own act, consent and permission. Wade v. M2Jetealf, 129 U. S.
202.
Judgment afflirmed.

HARDING v. WOODCOCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UMTED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 29. Argued and submitted October 22, 1890.-

Decided November 3, 1890.

The due and regular assessment of a distiller's tax by an internal revenue
collector, properly certified, is a sufficient defence to the collector in an
action on the case against him by the distiller to recover the value of
property, seized and sold for the payment of the tax, upon the ground
that, in a subsequent action by the United States against the distiller
and the sureties on his bond, to recover the uncollected portion of the
same- tax, its assessment was adjudged to have been invalid: and this
defence may be set up under the general issue without pleading it
specially in justification.

Tis was an action against the collector of internal revenue
of the fifth collection district of Tennessee, for an alleged
wrongful seizure and sale of property of the plaintiff upon an
assessment against him as a distiller of liquors, made by the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Statement.of the Case.

Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

It was commenced in a

state court of Tennessee, and upon application of the defendant
was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States. The
material facts as disclosed by the record were these: The
plaintiff in 1881 and in 1882 owned and operated a distillery
of liquors in the county of Robertson, Tennessee, and had
executed the bond required by statute in such cases. In July,
1881, an assessment was made against him for taxes alleged
to be due to the United States, amounting to $4339.37, for
whiskey supposed to have been produced by, him at .his distillery. The plaintiff thereupon applied to the commissioner,
in accordance with the statutes and the regulations of the
Treasury Department, to reconsider the assessment, termed in
the statute an appeal to him, but a reconsideration was refused.
Upon the assessment the defendant, as collector, on the 3d.of
January, 1882, seized property belonging to the plaintiff consisting of 578 gallons of whiskey, and, on the 16th of that
month, sold the same for $32. On the 2d of June, 1882, he
seized other personal property of the plaintiff, and also levied
upon the distillery premises containing ten acres, and soon
afterwards sold both for $76.72. The price thus received Vas
greatly below the actual value of the property. The plaintiff
delivered the personal property and the distillery to the purchaser, with a deed of the latter premises.
In March, 1882, an action was brought by the United States
against the distiller and the sureties on his bond to recover
the taxes assessed, and in November, 1883, a verdict was
rendered in their favor. The question in issue in the action
was the validity of the taxes assessed. The verdict and the
judgment thereon were produced and relied upon as establishing the invalidity of the assessment and the liability of the
collector for the damage sustained by the plaintiff for the
seizure and sale of his property. The first seizure and sale, as
stated above, took place before the action was begun, and the
second seizure and sale, though afterwards, were made before
the trial in the action was had.
The declaration contained three counts. The first set forth
substantially the facts as stated above, except the amount at

HARDING v. WOODCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

which the property seized was sold. It also averred that the
plaintiff at the time protested against the seizure and sale in
both cases, and that by them he was deprived of the use, control and ownership of his property, to his great damage. The
second count was for a conversion of the property; and the
third for trespass on the distillery premises. To the declaration, the defendant, in addition to the general issue of not
guilty, filed several special pleas; among others, one of justification of the acts complained of, averring that they were done
by him as collector in the enforcement of the assessment duly
made and certified to him by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, with a direction to collect the same by distraint.
There was a replication to this'plea, and a demurrer to the
replication, which was finally disposed of'by the court ordering the plea to be stricken out. The rulings upon the other
special pleas do not require notice, as they were not material
to the disposition of the question presented. The principal
facts as disclosed by the pleadings were also established by
the evidence on the trial, the plaintiff introducing the warrants issued to the collector for the seizure and sale of the
property.
The court instructed the jury that the taxes for which the
defendant, as collector, seized and sold the plaintiff's property
having been assessed, and the assessment certified to him, the
assessment was a complete protection to him against the suit
of the plaintiff, and directed the jury to return a verdict in
his favor, which was accordingly done, and judgment entered
thereon. This instruction was excepted to, and constituted
the alleged error for a reversal of the judgment.
.i. S. WYaom and Hri,. G. ff. Tillman, for plaintiff in error,
submitted on their brief.
Xi.

olicitor General for defendant in error.

M . JusTIcE FIELD, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The plaintiff contended in the court below, and renews the
contention here, that the plea of justification interposed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant for the acts complained of, the seizure and sale
of the property, having been stricken out, he is left defenceless in the action. That such would be the effect of the ruling
if the declaration was one in form for an ordinary trespass
may be conceded.

But the rule that a justification to an

alleged trespass, to avail, must be pleaded, does not apply
here. The striking out of the plea did not remove the fact
that the seizure and sale were made under proceedings which

protected the officer of the government from personal liability,
because in the declaration itself his liability, is charged upon a
state of facts which shows that he acted in conformity with
the law, and could not, therefore, be held responsible for the
alleged invasion of the rights of the plaintiff in its enforcement.
When the assessment was certified to the collector, his duty
in enforcing it was one which he could not refuse to perform.
There was no discretion vested in him to revise or alter it in
any respect. His duty was purely ministerial. In Erskine v.
Hohnbach, 14 Wall. 613, 616, which, like the present action,
was brought against a collector of internal revenue for the
seizure and sale of property of the plaintiff upon an assessment
for taxes duly made by the assessor of the district, the court
held that the assessment, certified to him (the collector), was
his authority to proceed, and, like an execution to a sheriff,
regular on its face, issued by a tribunal having jurisdiction of
the subject matter, constituted his protection. At that time,
1871, officers, termed assessors, made the assessment for taxes
due to the United States on distilled spirits in their several
districts, (15 Stat. 133, c. 186, § 20,) but their office was abolished
in 1873, and the power to assess for such taxes vested in the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. 17 Stat. 401, 402, c. 13,
§§ 1, 2. In the case referred to the liability of a ministerial
officer in the enforcement of process was the subject of consideration, and it was there held that whatever may, at one
time, have been the conflict in the adjudged cases as to the
extent of protection afforded to such officers, acting in obedience to process or orders issued to them by tribunals or officers
invested by law with authority to pass upon and determine

HARDING v. WOODCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

particular facts and render judgment thereon, it was now well
settled "that if the officer or tribunal possesses jurisdiction
over the subject matter upon which judgment is passed, with
power to issue an order or process for the enforcement of such
judgment, and the order or process issued thereon to the
ministerial officer is regular on its face, showing no departure
-from the law, or defect of jurisdiction over the person or
property affected, then, and in such cases, the order or process
will give full and entire protection to the ministerial officer,
in its regular enforcement against any prosecution the party
aggrieved may institute against him, although serious errors
may have been committed by the officer or tribunal in reaching the conclusion or judgment upon which the order or
process is issued." This doctrine was deemed applicable to
collectors of internal revenue in enforcing an assessment for
taxes regular on its face, made by the assessors of the district
and duly certified to them.
The same doctrine was reasserted in protection of a collector
of internal revenue in the subsequent case of Hcaffin v. Mason,
15 Wall. 671, 675, the court observing that "a ministerial officer, in a case in which it is his duty to act, cannot upon any
principle of law be made a trespasser."
No question is raised as to the regularity in form of the
assessment certified to the collector. It is assumed on both
sides that it is not open to objection in that respect. The principal point urged by the plaintiff in error is that the defendant
should not have proceeded to enforce the assessment after the
action by the United States was commenced on the bond of
the distiller to collect the same taxes. But it is plain that the
officer had no discretion in the matter. He could not suspend
or in any way delay the performance of the duty imposed
upon him because the government may have judged it proper
to proceed for the same taxes by action, not only against the
distiller, but against the sureties on his bond also. The government may have thought that the property which could be
reached by the collector would prove inadequate to meet the
amount claimed. By instituting the action it did not waive
its right to pursue any other remedies afforded by the law to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

secure the payment of its claim. Nor could the collector consider whether in the pending action it might not be ultimately
determined that the taxes were illegal which he was endeavoring to collect. He had completed his duty more than a year
before that decision was rendered. Had the judgment of their
illegality been pronounced before the enforcement of the assessment by the collector, and been brought to his notice, a different question might possibly be raised.
What remedy the plaintiff may have for the loss of his
property or for the amount of the proceeds obtained on its
sale, we are not called upon to determine in this case. There
may be, perhaps, a claim against the government. All that
we decide is, that a liability cannot be fastened upon the collector, a ministerial officer, for the enforcement of an assessment for taxes regular on its face, made by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. Of such an officer the law exacts unhesitating obedience to its process.
Judgment affirmed.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 1210. Submitted October 21, 1890.-

Decided November .3,1890.

A title, right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution, or any treaty
or statute of the United States, is not properly set up or claimed under
Rev. Stat. § 709, when suggested for the first time in a petition for rehearing, after judgment.
The provisions of the Code of Practice of Louisiana in relation to judgments of the Supreme Court of that State, do not require the application
of any different rule.
Where a decree is entered by a court of the United States, by consent, and
in accordance with an agreement, between the parties referred to therein,
no title or right claimed under an authority exercised under the United
States is decided against by a State court in determining that the validity of a particular article of such agreement was not in controversy
or passed upon in the cause in which the decree was rendered; and in the

