DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE CO.
Statement of the Case.

to do. The objection really is that the averments of the
return, upon this point, lack the essential requisites of good
pleading. It does not appear that any such ground was taken
in the court below. As to the second point, it is our opinion
that the agreement between Mitchell and the accounting officers, as stated in the return, was lawful, and if carried out by
Mitchell would have been fair and proper. It was simply that
the amount which would otherwise have been excluded by
reason of Mitchell's default from the balance certified and
from the warrant for payment, should go in part to the payment of the men by whose labor and means the houses of the
Life Saving Service had been built for the United States.
The judgment of the court below is

fimed.

DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE DISTRICT OF

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

AIYLAND.

No.1203. Submitted January 9, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.

The right conferred by the United States, under the Guano Islands Act of
August 18, 1856, c. 164, (Rev. Stat. tit. 72,) upon the discoverer of a deposit
of guano'and his assigns, to occupy, at the pleasure of Congress, for the
purpose of removing the guano, an island determined by the President
to appertain to the United States, is not such an estate in land as to be
subject to dower, notwithstanding the act of April 2, 1872, c. 81, (Rev.
Stat. § 5572,) extending the provisions of the act of 1856 "to the widow,
heirs, executors or administrators of such discoverer" if he dies before
fully complying with its provisions.

THIS was a petition for dower in a guano island. The Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland,
upon the bill of a citizen of Maryland against the Navassa
Phosphate Company, a corporation of New York doing business in Maryland, having appointed receivers of all its property within the jurisdiction of the court, Isabella Duncan of
Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, filed in the cause a petition containing the following allegations and prayer:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"1st. That she is the widow of Peter Duncan, late of Baltimore city, in the State of Maryland, and now deceased, having
been married to said Peter Duncan on December 19, 1850K,
and said Peter Duncan having died on January 26, 1875.
"2d. That on July 1, 1857, her late husband, said Peter
Duncan, discovered a deposit of guano on an island in the
Caribbean Sea, not within the lawful jurisdiction of any government and not occupied by the citizens of any government,
said island being called Navassa, and lying in latitude 18 ° 10r
north, longitude 75' west, and that on September 19, 1857, he
took peaceable possession and was in occupation of said island
in the name of the United States under and by virtue of the
act of Congress of August 18, 1856, c. 164, (11 Stat. 119,) and
did, on November 18, 1857, file his claim to said island in the
Department of State of the United States, in accordance with
the provisions of said act of Congress, and did afterwards furnish satisfactory evidence of his said discovery, occupation and
peaceable possession to the said Department of State, and in
respect to said island so discovered his assignee was declared
to be entitled to the rights intended to be secured by said act.
"3d. That said Peter Duncan remained in lawful possession
and was legally seized of said Island of Navassa from September 19, 1857, unto November 18, 1857; all of which will appear
by the said claim of Peter Duncan as discoverer of said island
and the affidavit in evidence thereof, on file with the records
of the Department of State in Washington, D. C., certified
copies whereof are filed herewith as part of this petition, and
by the proclamation of the proper authorities of the United
States," a certificate from the Department of State of the
issue of which was also filed with the petition. Said claim and
proclamation, and the substance of said affidavit, are set forth
in Jones v. United States, ante, 202, 205, 206, 218.

"4th. That after remaining in possession and lawfully
seized of said Island of Navassa from September 19, 1857, to
November 18, 1857, as aforesaid, and which period of time was
during the coverture of your petitioner, said Peter Duncan
did grant and assign and convey his title and interest in said
Island of Navassa to E. K. Cooper; and that by mesne assign-

DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE CO.
Statement of the Case.

ments the title to said island became vested in the Kavassa
Phosphate Company of New York, who now hold said island
under and through the title of her late husband, said Peter
Duncan, and through no other title; but does not know when
said Navassa Phosphate Company became the owner of said
island, or who were owners since the death of her said husband; but she avers that there was a reconveyance of said
island to her husband about January 1, 1860, and a subsequent conveyance of the same by her husband to E. K.
Cooper; but your petitioner has not said deeds of assignment,
but believes they are in possession of the Kavassa Company.
"5th. That she has never joined in the execution of any
deed for said island, or in any other manner made conveyance
or release of her dower interest in the same.
"6th. That she has been advised that by said act of Congress, the United States assumed jurisdiction of and over said
Island of Navassa, and an heritable estate therein vested in
her late husband, said Peter Duncan, from the time of his discovery and occupation of said Island of Navassa, and that, by
reason of his seizin of said estate in said island during coverture, and alienation of the same without the joining of your
petitioner, your petitioner did at the death of her said husband
become by the common law of this land entitled to her dower
interest in said Island of Navassa and of the rents and profits
thereof; but by reason of legal and other impediments, and
through no fault of hers, she has heretofore believed that a
demand for said dower would be fruitless.
"That said island is covered largely with a deposit of guano,
and the chief or entire profit of the said island consists in the
sale of this guano, which constitutes a portion of the soil of
said island; and she cannot ascertain in a court of law to how
much and in what proportion of the said guano heretofore
mined and removed by said Navassa Phosphate Company
since the death of her husband she should be equitably entitled,
and that all the title deeds are in possession of said Navassa
Phosphate Company, and she is and has been since her widowhood unable to proceed at law for an assignment of her dower
and accounts; and furthermore, said company being under

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the immediate charge and control of this court, she is advised
that she should ask for relief from this honorable court, which
is also the proper tribunal to construe said act of Congress;
and that the amount involved exceeds $5000.
"Your petitioner therefore prays that the said Navassa Phosphate Company of New York, and Thomas M. Lanahan and
Walter B. McAtee, the receivers of the same, may be directed
to bring into this court for the inspection of your petitioner
all title deeds relating- to said Island of Navassa; that they
may discover, under oath, to your petitioner, the amount of
guano mined and disposed of since the death of her said husband, Peter Duncan, and the net value or profit of the same;
and that, to the extent of her dower interest therein, said
Navassa Phosphate Company may be declared to have acted
as trustee for your petitioner, and to hold the same in trust
for her to the extent of her said dower interest, and may
be directed to account with your petitioner and pay over to
her such sum or amount as this court may find proper; and
that this court may assign to your petitioner her dower in said
Island of Navassa, or a gross sum as reasonable and just coinmutation for the same; and may grant such other and further
relief as her case may require."
The Navassa Phosphate Company and the receivers demurred to the petition. The demurrer was sustained, and the
petition dismissed. 35 Fed. Rep. 474. The petitioner appealed
to this court.
.Mr. Victor Smith and .1'. D. Eldridge .Monroe for appellant.
. r. S. Teackle TFallis for appellees.
MR. JUsTmcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

It has been decided, at the present term, that the Guano
Islands Act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, (11 Stat. 119,) reenacted in Title 72 of the Revised Statutes, is constitutional
and valid; and that under that act, and by the action of the
President, as appearing in documents of the Department of

DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

State, and of which this court is bound to take judicial notice,
the Island of Navassa must be considered as appertaining to
the United States. Jones v. United States, ante, 202.
The question now presented is whether Peter Duncan, the
discoverer of the deposit of guano on that island, had such an
estate or interest as to entitle his widow to dower. This question is brought before us by her appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court for the District of Maryland, dismissing on demurrer her petition against the lNavassa Phosphate Company
and its receivers, which prayed an assignment of dower, or an
allowance of a gross sum in commutation therefor.
Duncan's only interest in the island or in the guano thereon,
asserted in the petition of his widow, or shown in the public
documents relating to the matter, was derived from the United
States, and is defined in section 2 of the act aforesaid, which
provides that "the said discoverer or discoverers, or his or
their assigns, being citizens of the United States, may be
allowed, at the pleasure.of Congress, the exclusive right of
occupying said island," "for the purpose of obtaining said
guano, and of selling and delivering the same to citizens of
the United States, for the purpose of being used therein," at
certain rates specified.
By the subsequent sections, the President is empowered to
employ the land and naval forces of the United States to protect "the rights of the said discoverer or discoverers, or their
assigns, as aforesaid;" the criminal laws of the United States,
and the laws regulating the coasting trade, are extended to
guano islands; and nothing contained in the act is to be construed as obligatory on the United States to retain possession
of the islands after the guano shall have been removed. Congress has not legislated concerning any civil rights upon
guano islands; but has left such rights to be governed by
whatever laws may apply to citizens of the United States in
countries having no civilized government of their own.
The whole right conferred upon the discoverer and his
assigns is a license to occupy the island for the purpose of
removing the guano; this right cannot last after the guano is
removed; and by the express terms of the act it may be ter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

minated at any time "at the pleasure of Congress." The act,
as well observed by Mr. Dana in his notes to Wheaton, "secures to citizens the usufruct of unoccupied guano deposits,
which they have discovered and peacefully occupied, beyond
the jurisdiction of any foreign State, upon certain terms
as to the sale and exportation of the guano, and stipulates
for nothing beyond the usufruct while the guano remains."
Wheaton's International Law (Sth ed.), note 104 to § 176.
It is a matter of grave doubt, to say the least, whether such
a license, if irrevocable, cpuld be treated as creating an estate
subject to dower at common law, and whether the common
law upon the subject could be held to be in force in the Island
of Navassa.
But it is unnecessary to decide either of those questions,
because, if both of them should be answered in the affirmative, there remains the insurmountable obstacle to the petitioner's claim, that the interest of her husband, if it can possibly
be considered as an estate in land, is an estate at the will of the
United States, from whom it was derived, and is therefore
not subject to dower at common law. Even a copyhold, which
was practically an estate of inheritance, yet, because it was
legally an estate at the will of the lord, was not liable to
dower, except by and according to local custom. 2 Bl. Com.
132; 1 Scribner on Dower (2d ed.) 369.
It is argued that, even if Duncan was only a tenant at will,
yet the Navassa Phosphate Company, claiming under Cooper,
the original assign of Duncan, by mesne assignments, among
which were a reconveyance of the island by Cooper to Duncan,
and a second conveyance by Duncan to Cooper, is estopped to
deny that Duncan had an inheritable estate in the island.
The conclusive answer to this. argument is that the petition
alleges that the Navassa Phosphate Company holds the island
under and through the titlelof Duncan, and through no other
title; and does not show that either of the two conveyances
from Duncan to Cooper, or the intermediate reconveyance by
Cooper to Duncan, or any of the mesne assignments under
which the Navassa Phosphate Company claims, purported to
be of an estate in fee, or of any other or greater interest than

DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE 00'
Opinion of the Court.

the right secured by the act of Congress, and recognized by
the proclamation of the President, referred to in the petition,
and set forth in Jones v. United States, ante, 206. The question, argued by counsel, and upon which there is a conflict of
authority, whether a grantee, accepting a deed purporting to
convey a greater estate than the grantor actually had, is
thereby estopped to deny, as against the grantor's widow, that
he had such an estate, does not arise.
The petitioner's claim of dower is not aided by the act of
Congress of April 2, 1872, c. 81, by which the provisions of
the act of 1856 are "extended to the widow, heirs, executors
or administrators of such discoverer, where such discoverer
shall have died before perfecting proof of discovery or fully
complying with the provisions of said act;" "provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be held to impair any rights of
discovery, or any assignment by a discoverer, heretofore recognized by the government of the United States." 17 Stat.
48; Rev. Stat. §§ 5572, 5574.
The petitioner claims, and can claim, no rights under that
act, both because her husband had died before its passage,
and because the assignment of his right to Cooper had been
recognized by the United States in the proclamation of the
President, above mentioned.
It is argued for the petitioner that the act of 1872 is "in the
nature of a statutory recognition of the widow's derivative
right, and the widow's only right at common law is dower."
But the statute does not purport to secure the right of the
discoverer to his widow and heirs only. It mentions his
"widow," who might be entitled to dower in his real estate,
and to a share of his personal estate under the statute of distributions of his domicil; his ".heirs," who as such would take
real estate only, but as next of kin might take personal property; and his "executors or administrators," who would take
personal property only, and no interest in real estate. Whether
the statute intends that the whole right shall pass either to
the widow, or to the heirs, or to the executors and administrators, in the order named, or that it shall be distributed
among them under whatever law may regulate the succession

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to his estate, according to its nature as realty or personalty,
might be a question of some difficulty. But it is impossible
to find in this act any manifestation of an intention of Congress that the interest of the discoverer should be subject to
dower, or even that it should be considered as real estate
rather than as personal property.
.Deeree affirmed.

EGAN v. CLASBEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
hfo. 117. Submitted December 1, 1890.-Decided January 19, 1891.

The pleadings and findings in this case fully sustain the judgment of the
court below, and it is therefore affirmed.

Tmis was an action at law, brought in one of the Territorial
Courts of Utah Territory, by Edward D. Egan against James
T. Clasbey, to recover the value of 1475 shares of stock of the
Bannock Gold and Silver Mining Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of that Territory, which, it was
alleged, had been received by the defendant, in excess of the
number to which he was entitled, under the following agreement:
SALT LAKE C=-, 11th Sept., 1885.
"This agreement, entered into on this the eleventh day of
September, 1885, by and between Ed. D. Egan, party of the
first part, and James T. Clasbey, party of the second part, and
both of Salt Lake City and County, Utah Territory:
"That said Ed. D. Egan, party of the first part, does hereby
agree to deliver to James T. Clasbey, party of the second part,
stock in the mining claim at present known as Martin's Horn
silver mine, and situated near Lava Beds, Idaho Territory.
"The amount of said stock to be of the value of five thousand ($5000) dollars, at its original cost; and it is further
agreed that if said stock is not issued the said Ed. D. Egan,
party of the first part, does agree to deliver to said James T.

