OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

on the first, leaving the defendant" "to bring an action for
not referring," or (under a modern English statute) "to stay
the action till there has been an arbitration." 1 Ex. D. 260.
Applying this test, it is quite clear that the separate and
independent provision, in the policy now before us, for submitting to arbitration the amount of the loss, is a distinct and
collateral agreement, and was wrongly held by the Circuit
Court to bar this action.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded,with directions to set
aside the 'verdict, and to take such further proceedings as
may be consistent with this opinion.

THE PROPELLER BURLINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 783. Submitted December 1, 1890.-Decided December 15, 1890.
The Ubellant in an Admiralty suit, owner of a barge lost through alleged negligence in the propeller towing it, obtained a decree against the offending
vessel in the Circuit Court on appeal, valuing it at e5300, and adjudging
that he recover of the claimants (owners) and also against the sureties
on the appeal bond, $2422.28 for his own damages by loss of the barge
and freight, and $2877.72 as trustee for the owners of the lost cargo.
Claimants appealed to this court. After this appeal was taken claimants
commenced a new suit in Admiralty in the District Court, in which a
decree was obtained valuing the vessel at $7000 and distributing this
amount to the libellant in this suit and to other sufferers. In this new
distribution libellant was awarded e4658, instead of e5300. Held,
(1) That this Court had jurisdiction of the appeal in this suit;
(2) That this jurisdiction was not affected by the proceedings in the subsequent and independent suit.
When a tow suffers injury through improper and unseamanlike conduct on
the part of the tug hauling it, the latter is liable. Facts stated which
show such improper and unseamanlike conduct in this case.
MOTION TO DISMISS OR

court, was as follows:

AFFIRM.

The case, as stated by the

THE PROPELLER BURLINGTON.
Statement of the Case.

Darius C. Ford filed his libel in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, as owner
of the barge William Vanetta, and trustee for the owners of
her cargo, against the propeller Burlington, to recover damages for the loss of the barge and cargo in Lake Erie, while
being towed by the propeller, because, as averred, of her careless and negligent management.
Bradley and Burrington, as owners of the propeller, answered, denying carelessness and negligence, and pleading
also the limitation of liability act in connection with an
appraisal and stipulation in the case.
The District Court found the Burlington guilty of the carelessness and negligence alleged, and entered a final decree
confirming the report of the commissioner fixing the damages
for the loss of the cargo at the sum of $3361.93, and for the
loss of the barge and freight at the sum of $2829.83, in all,
$6191.76 ; and it further appearing to the court that the propeller had been duly appraised at the sum of $5300, and that
a stipulation with sureties had been filed in that amount to
secure the judgment of the court, it was ordered that the said
sum of $5300 be apportioned and distributed as follows:
$2422.28 to libellant for his damages by reason of the loss of
the barge and freight, and $2877.72 to libellant as trustee for
the owners of the cargo; and these sums were awarded to
him for the damages therein, and it was decreed that he
recover the same of the claimant of the propeller and the
sureties in the stipulation with costs, and that libellant have
execution therefor.
The owners of the propeller appealed to the Circuit. Court,
and the appeal having been heard, that court made the following findings of fact and conclusion of law, to wit:
"This court finds from the evidence that there was an
agreement on the part of the Burlington to tow the Vanetta
from Detroit to Cleveland via the South passage, through
Lake Erie.
"That in violation of such agreement the master of the
Burlington, after entering Lake Erie and running for some
hours on the proper course for the South passage, changed

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

the course of the Burlington and took the Vanetta via north
shore of Lake Erie.
"That the South passage was the usual, safest and proper
course from the Detroit River through Lake Erie to Cleveland at that season of the year, especially with the wind from
the southward and westward, as it prevailed when the Burlington started oa the trip with the Vanetta in tow.
"That with the wind as it was, the north shore was a lee
shore to the Burlington and her tow, and in taking the North
passage, the master of the Burlington not only violated his
agreement with the Vanetta, but by this direction actually
exposed the latter to greater risk and danger.
"That the master of the Burlington having sought and
gained shelter from the southwest wind on the east side of
Pt. Pelee Island, which offered him a safe and sufficient protection, about 3 o'clock in the morning of April 1st, 1886, left
that shelter and pulled the Vanetta and her other barge back
to the north'ard and westward into the open lake, where the
Burlington and her tow were subjected to the full force of the
wind on a lee shore and where the Burlington was unable to
control and manage said barge, thereby bringing about a collision between them, which resulted in serious injury to the
Vanetta and led to her total loss.
"That it was an improper and unseamanlike move on the
part of the propeller Burlington to leave the shelter of the
east side of Pt. Pelee Island and go back into Pigeon Bay on
a lee shore, where the Vanetta was exposed to greater danger,
which resulted in her loss.
"That the propeller was in fault for not attempting to tow
the Vanetta to a place of greater safety after the latter was
injured in Pigeon Bay and had signaled the former for help.
"It follows, therefore, as a matter of law, that said propeller
Burlington is liable to the libellant and appellee for the value
of said barge William Vanetta, and her cargo, as adjudged by
the District Court, whose judgment an( decree in this case is
in all things affirmed, with costs and interest on the amount
awarded libellant in the court below. Judgment will accordingly be rendered herein against the appellant, and the stipu-

THE PROPELLER BURLINGTON.
Statement of the Case.

lators on the appeal bond for the amount of the decree below
with interest and costs, for which execution is awarded."
And decree was thereupon entered as follows:
"This cause having been fully argued by counsel on either
side, and the record of the court below being seen and fully
considered, it is now by this court considered, adjudged and
decreed that the judgment and decree of the District Court
aforesaid be, and the same is now, in all things affirmed.
" And it is further considered, adjudged and decreed by this
court, that the said libellant do recover of and from the said
Russell M. Bradley and Riley M. Burrington, claimants and
appellants, and also against Perry R. Hall, Russell M. Bradley,
Charles H. Bradley and Say Conderman, as sureties on appeal
for said appellants, the sum of five thousand, five hundred and
sixty-seven dollars and sixty-five cents damages, being the sum
for which judgment or decree in the .ourt below was allowed,
($5300,) with interest to this day, ($267.65,) together with said
libellant's cost of suit both in the District Court and in this
court, to be taxed by the clerk of this court. It is further
ordered, considered, adjudged and decreed that the above sum
of five thousand, five hundred and sixty-seven dollars and
sixty-five cents, be apportioned and distributed between libellant as owner of scow William Vanetta and freight, and as
trustee for the owners of the cargo of said scow in manner
following: The sum of two thousand five hundred and fortyfour dollars and sixty-one cents ($2544-.61) to libellant for his
damages by reason of the loss of said scow William Vanetta
and freight; and the sum of three thousand and twenty-three
dollars and four cents ($3023.04), to libellant as trustee for the
owners of the cargo of said scow, and that he have execution
against the said claimants and appellants and said sureties on
appeal therefor."
From this decree an appeal was takell to this court. It was
shown by affidavit that, after this appeal was taken, the owners of the propeller filed their petition in the District Court,
alleging, among .other things, the assertion of claims against
them as owners of the propeller by reason of the loss of the
barges Vanetta and Star of Hope, while in tow of the propel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ler; the seizure of the propeller at the suit of the appellee,
her appraisal at the sum of $5300, and the filing of the stipulation in that sum; and praying that they might contest their
liability and the liability of the propeller for the loss of the
barges; that such proceedings were had thereunder as resulted
in finding the value of the propeller on the day of the loss at
$7000; that there was due appellee by reason of the loss of
the Vanetta the sum of $5330.T4 and interest, and to the'owners of the Star of Hope by reason of her loss the sum of $4000
and interest, and a final decree was entered limiting the liability of appellants to the sum of $7000 with interest, which
decree was, on appeal to the Circuit Court, in all things
affirmed; that at the date of the entry of the decree from
which the appeal in this case was taken there was due appellee
the sum of $6542.06, and to the owners of the Star of Hope
the sum of $4488, principal and interest; that at that date the
declared value of the propeller, with interest from the day of
the loss, was $7854; and that the proportion due to appellee
was the sum of $4658. This appears in substance, with a
slight difference in the amounts by reason of the calculation
of interest, from the report of the commissioner in the limited
liability proceedings, a copy of which was attached to the
affidavit.
Ar. H. C. Winer for the motion.
-Mr. H. H. Swan and -Mr. F. H. Canfield opposing.
MR. CHrEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a motion to dismiss, united with
a motion to affirm. Appellee contends that as he recovered
for himself, as owner, only the sum of $2544.61, and for the
owners of the cargo only the sum of $3023.04, the matter
stands as though two separate suits had been brought, and
that the amount in controversy in either does not reach the
jurisdictional sum; and Es parte Baltimore & Ohio Rairvoad
Co., 106 U. S. 5, and The Nevada, 106 U. S. 154, are cited.

THE PROPELLER BURLINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

But in both of those cases the owners of the vessel and the
owners of the cargo were parties to the proceedings and recovered the amounts due them respectively. Here Ford is to be
treated in all respects as the sole libellant, and the decree is
for the recovery of the total sum of $5567.65, and, although
this amount was subsequently apportioned so as to show the
allowance for the loss of the barge and that for the loss of the
cargo separately, the decree for recovery of the aggregate
remained the same, and the execution ordered against the
claimants and their sureties on appeal would issue for the single
amount.
Nor does the fact, that, upon the subsequent proceedings for
limitation of liability, it appeared that Ford could not collect
more than $4658, his pro 9.ata share of the limit decreed, affect
the question. That limitation was arrived at in the other suit,
and cannot be laid hold of as controlling this. We think,
however, under the circumstances, that there was color for the
motion to dismiss, though we overrule it, and that we may
therefore consider the motion to affirm.
Under the act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, our
review of the decrees of the Circuit Courts upon their findings
of fact and conclusions of law in admiralty cases is "limited
to a determination of the questions of law arising upon the
record, and to such rulings of the Circuit Court, excepted to
at the time, as may be presented by a bill of exceptions, prepared as in actions at law." There is no bill of exceptions
here, and the inquiry is reduced simply to whether the findings of the Circuit Court justify the decree appealed from.
The general rule is laid down by Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the opinion of the court in The Stearner TWebb, 14 Wall.
406, 414, "that an engagement to tow does not impose either
an obligation to insure, or the liability of common carriers.
The burden is always upon him who alleges the breach of
such a contract to show either that there has been no attempt
at performance, or that there has been negligence, or unskilfulness to his injury in the performance. Unlike the case of
common carriers, damage sustained by the tow does not
ordinarily raise a presumption that the tug has been in fault.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The contract requires no more than that he who undertakes
to tow shall carry out his undertaking with that degree of
caution and skill which prudent navigators usually employ in
similar services. But there may be cases in which the result
is a safe criterion by which to judge of the character of the
act-which has caused it."
The Circuit Court found that the loss of the Vanetta was
the result of improper and unseamanlike conduct on the part
of the propeller Burlington. And the findings state various
facts showing that the propeller was in fault, and that but for
such fault the loss would not have happened. Findings that
the master of the Burlington took the Vanetta via the north
shore of Lake Erie when the South passage was the usual,
safest and proper course at that season of the year, especially
with the wind as it then prevailed, and that in doing so he
violated his agreement with the Vanetta and exposed the
latter to greater risk and danger; that the master having
gained shelter which offered a safe and sufficient protection,
left it and pulled the Yanetta and the other barge into the
open lake, where the propeller and her tow were subjected to
the full force of the wind on the lee side, and the propeller
was unable to confrol and manage the barges, which resulted
in serious injury to the Yanetta and led to her total loss;
that this was an improper and unseamanlike move, and
resulted in the Vanetta's loss; and that the propeller was in
fault for not attempting to tow the Vanetta to a place of
greater safety after the latter was injured in Pigeon Bay and
bad signaled the former for help; are findings from which the
conclusion of law followed; for these findings established
that in what was done, there was an actionable lack of the
usual caution and skill, and that what was omitted to be done
was within the power of the propeller to do, and should have
been done by any master of competent skill and experience;
and that different conduct would, in all probability, have prevented the catastrophe. As we cannot go behind the findings, and they are sufficient to sustain the decree, further
argument is not required. The Jiaggie J. Smith, 123 U. S.
349 ; The Gazelle and Cargo, 128 U. S.474.
.Decreeajfrmed.

