C., Al. AND ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.
Syllabus.

therefore, that under this statute the wife was an incompetent witness as against her husband.
Other questions in the record need not be considered, as
they will probably not arise on a new trial.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah is reversed, and the case remanded, with nstructions
to order a 9zew trial.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ARTERY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 91. Argued November 25, 1890.-Decided December 22, 1890.

Section 1307 of the Code of Iowa of 1873 in regard to the liability of a railway corporation for damages to its employ~s in consequence of the
neglect of their coemploy6s, in connection with the use and operation
of the railway, construed.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa as to the statute, reviewed.
An injury sustained by an employ6 while riding on a car propelled by handpower, through the negligence of a coemployC riding on the same car,
is one sustained in connection with the use and operation of the railway,
within section 1307.
If a witness is to be impeached, in consequence of his having made, on some
other occasion, different statements, oral or written, from those which
he makes on the witness stand, as to material points in the case, his
attention must first be called, on cross-examination, to the particular
time and occasion when, the place where, and the person to whom he
made the varying statements.
The Circuit Court erred in laying it down as a rule, that a written statement
signed by a witness and admitted by him to have been so signed, could
not be used in cross-examining him as to material points testified to by
him; and in announcing it as a further rule, that the only way to impeach
a witness by showing contradictory statements made by him, is to call
as a witness the person to whom or in whose presence the alleged contradictory statements were made.
The rule of evidence, that if, on cross-examination, a witness admits a letter
to be in his handwriting, he cannot be questioned by counsel as to whether
statements, such as the counsel may suggest, are contained in it, but the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
whole letter must be read as the evidence of the existence of the statements, does not apply to the present case, because the opposite party did
not take the objection that the whole statement was not, but should
have been, read as evidence, and the court, with his assent, excluded it
from being read in evidence.

THE plaintiff below (defendant in error) sued the plaintiff in
error (defendant below) to recover fop injuries inflicted through
the neglect of a coemploy6, and recovered judgment. The
case in this court is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. John IF. Caty for plaintiff in error.
.l'r. Delos -E. Lyon for defendant in error.
Fouke was with him on the brief.

Mir. H. B.

MR. JUsTicE BLAToHForm delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law, brought in the District Court of
Dubuque County, in the State of Iowa, by James Artery
against the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, a Wisconsin corporation, to recover damages for a personal injury, and removed by the defendant into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Iowa.
The petition alleges that the defendant owns and operates a
line of railroad from Dubuque in Iowa to La Crosse in Wisconsin and St. Paul in Minnesota, and in the operation of it
uses locomotives propelled by steam, hand-cars propelled by
hand, and cars drawn by its locomotives; that the plaintiff,
on March 5, 1883, and for several months prior thereto, was
in the employ of the defendant in the use and operation of
the road in the county of Allamakee, in Iowa, in working
upon its road and road-bed, in keeping the ties in good order,
in keeping the road well and properly ballasted, in removing
obstructions from its track, in keeping its culverts and crossings
in repair, in keeping the iron on the road properly spiked and
fastened, and in keeping the road-bed fit for use and operation
along its line of road and right of way in the county of Allamakee; that in doing such work, cars propelled by steam and
hand-cars were used by the plaintiff and others, the cars being

C., Al. AND ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.
Opinion of the Court.

furnished by the defendant; that while in such employ, the
plaintiff left the village of Harper's Ferry, in said county, with
other employ~s, under a foreman of the defendant, named Rellehan, and went north some ten miles, making repairs on the
road; that, after doing such work, and towards evening, the
foreman ordered a start to return to Harper's Ferry, on a small
hand-car, on which were placed seven or eight men, and more
than the car could or ought to carry; that, when the band-car
was ordered by the foreman to start to Harper's Ferry, it was
started at the time that a train of cars was due, of which the
plaintiff then had no knowledge; that the snow had been falling
and there was snow on the rails, and the foreman ordered the
plaintiff to get a shovel and seat himself on the front of the
hand-car, and hold the shovel on the top of the rail, in order
to move the snow as the hand-car went forward; that on the
hand-car there were no places provided for the feet to rest
upon while performing such duty; that the plaintiff was compelled, in order to hold the shovel, to exert all his strength,
and by muscular exertion hold up his feet and at the same
time guide and hold the shovel; that the hand-car was run
ahead of the train then due, at the rate of more than ten miles
an hour, being a dangerous speed; that while it was so running, and the plaintiff was holding the shovel, and while it
was crossing over a cattle-guard in the road, and without any
fault or negligence on his part, his foot was caught and he
was thrown off and under the hand-car, his body doubled up,
his spine injured, and his backbone broken; that by reason
thereof he has been confined to his bed ever since, unable to
work and suffering great pain in body and mind; and that all
this happened by the negligence of the defendant in furnishing
unfit and improper hand-cars, in requiring onerous and dangerous duty from the plaintiff, in running the hand-car at a
dangerous rate of speed, and in overloading it. Damages are
claimed in the sum of $20,000, besides the sum of $1000 for
money paid for board, care, and surgical and medical treatment. The petition was afterwards amended by alleging further, that the hand-car was not constructed with reasonably
safe appliances to push the snow off from the rails, which

OCTOBER TERMU, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

appliances could easily have been furnished by the defendant;
that it was wanting in the proper kind of a brake and the
proper kind of a foot-rest for doing the kind of work which
the plaintiff was ordered to do; that, when the plaintiff was
ordered by the foreman to sit down on the front of the handcar and hold the shovel, he was unaware of any danger therefrom, and had reason to believe and did believe that the
hand-car would be run by the foreman at a safe rate of speed;
that it was run at an unreasonable and unnecessarily fast and
dangerous speed, which the plaintiff could not control, nor could
he leave the car while it was in motion; that the cattle-guard
was made of three-cornered pieces of wood, placed negligently
on top of the ties, across the track instead of lengthwise, and
some of the three-cornered pieces stood higher than the surface of the rail, of which fact the plaintiff was not then aware;
and that, by reason of such negligent construction of the cattle-guard, the speed of the hand-car, and the dangerous and
tiresome position in which the defendant placed the plaintiff,
he was injured, either by his foot or feet coming in contact
with the rail or the three-cornered pieces, or by the shovel
getting caught on the rail or on such pieces, or by all of such
circumstances.
The answer of the defendant contains a general denial and
an allegation of contributory negligence on the part of the
plaintiff. The case was tried by a jury, which rendered a verdict for the plaintiff of $13,500, for which, with costs, he had
judgment, to review which the defendant has brought a writ
of error.
One of the principal points taken by the defendant is that
this was a case of an injury resulting from the negligence of a
coemploy6, namely, the foreman Rellehan, in the management
and running of the hand-car, and did not fall within the provisions of the statute of Iowa on the subject.
On the 8th of April, 1862, a statute was enacted in Iowa,
Laws of 1862, c. 169, sec. 7, p. 198, as follows: "SEC. 7. Every
railroad company shall be liable for all damages sustained by
any person, including employs of the company, in consequence
of any neglect of the agents or by any mismanagement of the

C., M. AND ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.
Opinion of the Court.

engineers or other employts of the corporation to any person
sustaining such damage."
This provision was afterwards modified by section 1307 of
the Code of Iowa of 1873, which was in force at the time of
this accident, and read as follows: "SEc. 1307. Every corporation operating a railway shall be liable for all damages
sustained by any person, including employ~s of such corporation, in consequence of the neglect of agents, or by any
mismanagement of the engineers or other employ~s of the
corporation, and in consequence of the wilful wrongs, whether
of commission or omission, of such agents, engineers, or other
employ4s, when such wrongs are in any manner connected
with the use and operation of any railway, on or about which
they shall be employed, and no contract which restricts such
liability shall be legal or binding." The modification introduced by the later statute is, that the wrongs for which the
corporation is to be liable must be wrongs connected with the
use and operation of the railway on or about which the employ~s are employed.
It is contended by the defendant that, under the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Iowa upon this statute, only employ~s
engaged in operating and moving trains, and who are injured
by such trains, and employ~s who, while in the discharge of
their duty, are injured by trains used in operating the railway,
are within the statute, and that, in the present case, the plaintiff was not engaged in operating and moving a train, and was
not injured by a train used in operating the railway. But we
cannot concur in this view.
In Deppe v. Chicago, Rock Island &c.Railway, 36 Iowa,
52, it was held, under the act of 1862, that the statute included
the case of an employ6 who was engaged in connection with a
dirt train, and was injured while loading a car, by the falling
of a bank of earth; and in .Frandsenv. Chicago, Rock Island
&e.Railway, 36 Iowa, 372, that a person employed as a section hand, in the business of keeping a certain part of the road
in repair, and going with his coemployes on the track in a
hand-car for that purpose, was within the act of 1862, he being
injured through a collision with the engine of a passenger train.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which struck the hand-car and threw it against the plaintiff
while he was on the ground and engaged in trying to remove
the hand-car out of the way of the engine.
The case of Schroeder v. Chicago, Roc7.'sland &c.Railway,
41 Iowa, 344, arose under section 1307 of the Code. It was
said in that case, that that section applied only to accidents
growing out of the use and operation of the road, and did not
apply to all persons employed by the corporation, without
regard to their employment, and it was held, therefore, that it
did not cover the case of Schroeder, fho was not connected
with the operation of the road, but who, while engaged in
removing the timbers of an abandoned bridge and loading them
on cars, was injured by some of the timbers which fell from a
car. The same view was held in Potter v. Chicago, Rock Asland
&c. Railway, 46 Iowa, 399, where Potter, a laborer in the
machine shop of the company, was injured by a locomotive
driving-wheel which he and other employ~s were moving by
hand.
It was held, in Schroeder v. Chicago, Rock Island &c. Rail'way, 47 Iowa, 375, that where a person was required, in the
course of his employment by the railroad company, to get upon
a train, and did so, he was to be regarded as being engaged in
its operation, although his employment might not be connected with the running of the train; and that the company
was liable to him for injuries resulting from the negligence of a
coemploy6.
In Pyne v. Chicago, Burlington &c. Railway, 54 Iowa, 223,
Pyne was employed by the railroad company as a private
detective, and, while walking on the track, in the performance
of his duties, and in obedience to the orders of the company,
was injured, without negligence on his part, through the
negligence of the engineer of a passing train, and it was held
that his case fell within the provisions of section 1307, and that
he was entitled to recover from the company for the injuries
received by him.
In Smith v. Burlington &c. Railway, 59 Iowa, 73, where it
appeared that the plaintiff was only a section-hand, and, when
injured, was engaged in loading a car, and it did not appear that

C., 2r. AN D ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.
Opinion of the Court.

his service pertained to the operation of the road, it was held
that he could not recover for an injury which occurred through
the negligence of a coemploy6, the court remarking that, under
section 1307 of the Code, it must be shown that his employment was connected with the operation of the railway.
It was held, in -Malonev. Burlington &c. Railway, 61 Iowa,
326, that a person whose duty it was to wipe the company's"
engines and to do other work about the round-house, and to
open the doors of that house so as to allow the engines to pass
in and out, and who, while endeavoring to shut those doors,
was injured by the carelessness of his coemploy~s who were
at the time engaged with him in the same effort, could not
recover under section 1307 for the injury, because it was not
"in any manner connected with the use and operation" of the
railway, as contemplated by that section.
In Foley v. Chicago, Boek Island &e. Railway, 64 Iowa,
644, it was held that a car-repairer, whose duty it was to
repair cars on the track, but who had nothing to do with cars
in motion, except to ride on passenger or freight trains to and
from the places where his services were required, was not
engaged in the operation of a railway, within the meaning of
section 1307, and could not recover of the company for an
injury received while in the discharge of his duties, through
the negligence of a coemploy6. Foley was engaged at the
time in making repairs on a car, and was injured while under
the car, through its being moved improperly.
The .falone Case came up again, in 65 Iowa, 417, and it was
there held that Malone, whose duty it was to wipe engines,
open and close the doors of an engine-house, and remove snow
from a turn-table and connecting tracks, was not, by reason
of such duties, employed in the operation of the railroad,
within the meaning of section 1307; and that, for an injury
received by him while performing such duties, and through
the negligence of a coemploy6, he could not recover against
the company, although he might have had other duties to perform which did pertain to the operation of the road.
It was held, in Luce v. Chicago, &. Paul &c. Railroad,
67 Iowa, 75. that a person employed in a coal-house of the
VOL. cxxxvu- 33

OCTOBER TERlMe,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

railroad, and injured by the negligence of a coemploy6 while
loading coal upon a car, could not recover from the company
under section 1307, because the injury was not in any manner
connected with the use and operation of the railway.
In Matson v. Cicago,Rock ]sland &c. Railway, 68 Iowa,
22, the plaintiff was a member of a construction gang on the
road, and his duties required him to ride upon, and to work
upon and about, the company's cars and tracks. He was
injured by the negligence of a coemploy6 in throwing a heavy
stone upon his hand, while he was engaged in placing stones
under the ends of the ties. It was held that the injury was
not connected with the use and operation of the railway, as
contemplated in section 1307, and that the company was not
liable.
It was held, in Stroble v. Chicago, lilwaukee &c. Railway,
70 Iowa, 555, that a person whose sole duty it was to elevat&
coal to a platform convenient for delivering it to the tendero
of engines, was not employed in the use and operation of the
railway, within section 1307, because he was in no way concerned with the moving and operation of trains.
In Pierce v. Cent'ral Iowa Railway, 73 Iowa, 140, a mechanic from a shop of the company was working, under orders,
upon a ladder which leaned against one of the cars of a train.
The train-men moved the train backward, without notice to
him, the ladder fell, and he was injured. It was held that the
negligence, whether that of the train-men or of the foreman in
not giving the requisite information to the train-men, was connected with the use and operation of the railway, and was the
negligence of some one employed on it, so as to make the
company liable, under section 1307, for the injury sustained
by the plaintiff, and this although he was not engaged in the
operation of the railway.
It was held, in Nelson v. Chicago, .Milwaukee &c. Railway,
73 Iowa, 576, that the working, on the railway, of a ditching
machine which was operated by the movement along the track
of the train of which it formed a part, was an employment
connected with the use and operation of the railway, within the
meaning of section 1307, and made the company liable for

C., 3. AND ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.

515

Opinion of the Court.

injury to an employ6 through the negligence of a coemploy6
although the plaintiff was not engaged in the actual movement of the train, but was only one of the crew necessary for
the performance of the work intended to be d6ne by the
train and its machinery and appliances.
In Rayburn v. Central Iowa . ailway, 74 Iowa., 637, the.
plaintiff and others were section-hands of the company,
engaged in removing snow and ice from the track, when a
train of cars loaded with slack came along, moving slowly,
and the conductor and others in charge of the train directed
them to get upon the train to unload the slack. They requested
that the train be stopped, but were told that if it was stopped
it could not be started again. In attempting to obey the
order, the plaintiff was thrown down by a jerk of the train
and injured. It was held that he was not precluded from
recovering against the company under section 1307, on the
-ground that the negligence complained of was not connected
with the use and operation of the railway.
From this statement of the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Iowa, we are clearly of opinion that, in the present case,
the defendant was liable, under section 1307 of the Code, for
the injury to the plaintiff caused in the manner set forth in the
petition, and in the vidence contained in the bill of exceptions. The plaintiff was upon a moving car propelled by
hand-power. The movement of the car, its speed, the position of the plaintiff upon it, and the duties he had to discharge
in that position, were under the direction of the foreman, who
was upon the same car. The injury was directly connected
with the use and operation of the railway, in whose common
service the foreman and the plaintiff were, and they were coemploy6s. The injuries to the plaintiff were, by the petition
and the evidence, sought to be attributed to the smallness of
the hand-car, its being over-crowded, the failure to provide it.
with contrivances for removing snow from the track, the
absence of a proper brake, the want of foot-rests, and thearrangement of the cattle-guard. The railway was being
used and operated in the movement of the hand-car, quite as
much as if the latter had been a train of cars drawn by a,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

locomotive.

If a single locomotive be on its way to its engine-

house, after leaving a train which it has drawn, or if it be
summoned to go alone for service to a point more or less distant, and, in either case, by the negligence of one employ6
upon it, another, employ6 is injured, the injury takes place in
the use and operation of the railway, under section 1307, quite
-as much as if it takes place while the locomotive is drawing a
train of cars. This we understand to be the manifest purport
:and effect of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa on
.the subject, as well as obviously the proper interpretation of
the statute.
But, although this is so, we are of opinion that a new trial
must be granted, on account of errors in the exclusion of evidence offered by the defendant.
At the trial, one Jerry Artery, a brother of the plaintiff,
was called as a witness by him. He was on the hand-car with
the plaintiff at the time of the accident and saw all that*
occurred. He testified as to the speed of the car, and as
to its size and its cramped and crowded condition, and as to
the fact that there was nothing on it in front upon which the
plaintiff could rest his feet while he was holding the shovel,
and as to the arrangement of the cattle-guards. In the course
of his cross-examination, the following proceedings occurred:
"Q. On the 23d of M arch, 1886, at Harper's Ferry, in the
presence of Mr. Buell, did you sign a written statement, stating what you knew about this case and about the accident to
your brother, after the written statement had been read over
to you? A. Yes, sir. Q. I will show you now the written
statement and ask you whether that is your signature? Written statement shown the witness hereto attached and marked
Exhibit A. A. That is my signature there. Q. In the written statement which I have just shown you you state as follows : At the time Jim got hurt we were running from 4-,- to
5 miles an hour -certainly
not to exceed 5 miles.' Is that
statement correct? Objected to by plaintiff; objection sustained.
"The grounds upon which the court sustained the objections to interrogatories to this and other witnesses, based upon

0., M. AND ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.
Opinion of the Court.

a written statement signed by the witness, and to the introduction of the written statements themselves, were, that it
appeared that the statements were not volunteered by the witnesses, but that the company had sent its claim agent, after
the happening of the accident, to examine the employes of
the company who were present at the time of the accident,
in regard to the transaction; that the statements made by
the witnesses were not taken down in full, but only a synopsis
thereof made by the agent, the correctness of which is questioned by the witnesses in some particulars, although such
written statement was signed by the witness; that, upon the
trial of this case, these statements, thus obtained, were sought
to be used not alone as a means of impeaching the witness,
but as evidence of the matters therein recited; that it is apparent to the court that, whether so intended or not, these statements become a ready means of confusing and intimidating
witnesses before the jury, and that, if it be permitted to parties to thus procure written statements in advance from witnesses, and then use the same in examining such witnesses,
it will enable parties to shape and control the evidence in a
cause by committing the witnesses to particular statements,
couched in the language not of the witness, but of the person
carrying on such e _parte examination; that these growing
abuses can only be prevented by entirely excluding such statements, thus procured, from being introduced in evidence for
any purpose; that, if the party desired to impeach a witness
by showing contradictory statements made by him, the person to whom or in whose presence such alleged contradictory
statements were made should be called as a witness, so that
opportunity might be afforded of placing before the jury the
statements actually made by the witness sought to be impeached, and not a mere synopsis thereof made by another
person, and the accuracy of which, in some particulars, was
challenged. Exception by defendant."
The following further proceedings took place on the crossexamination of the same witness: "Q. On the occasion I have
referred to, did you make this statement: ' Six men on a handcar have plenty of room. We often have had 8 and 10 men

OCTOBER TER.M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

eon a hand-car of the same size'? Objected .to by plaintiff;
,objection sustained; exception by defendant. Q. Did you, on
-the occasion I have referred to, at Harper's Ferry, say as follows: I I am a larger man than Jim ever was, and my legs
are a great deal longer. I have never had any trouble in
ikeeping my feet up when I sat on the front of the car'?
,Objected to by plaintiff; objection sustained; exception by
defendant. Q. On the occasion referred to, did you state as
follows: ' If a man is holding a shovel on the rail and he is
-sitting on the front of a hand-car there is no way for him to
get hurt unless he forgets himself and lets his feet drop down'?
'Objected to by plaintiff; objection sustained; exception by
'defendant. Q. On the occasion referred to, did you state:
,'The hand-car was in good condition, nothing broken about
-it in any way. It was an ordinary car, full size' ? Objected
to by plaintiff; objection sustained; exception by* defendant.
Q. Did you, on the occasion referred to, state as follows : II
am f6reman at present on section No. 20. The top of the
ribbons on: the ties of the cattle-guard was about level with
the ball of the rail'? A. Well, sir, I don't remember whether
I did or not say that. Q. If you did say that, was it the truth
or not? Objected to by plaintiff ; objection sustained; exception by defendant."
Subsequently, while the defendant was putting in its evi-dence, the bill of exceptions says: "Thereupon the defendant
.offered in evidence, for the purpose of impeachment, the state-ment under date of Mlarch 23, 1886, shown the witness Jerry
Artery, and hereto attached, marked Exhibit A, which, on
objection by plaintiff, was ruled out by the court; to which
uling the defendant at the time excepted." The court, in sustaining the objection, stated that it deemed the proper method
to be to produce the person to whom the alleged statement
was made, and to prove by him what the witness may have
said on the occasion. Exhibit A, thus referred to, is a paper
signed by the witness, and contains the statements set forth in
the six questions thus excluded, as above.
That the evidence covered by the six questions was material
to the issue, is apparent. They related to the speed of the.

• C., 2f. AND ST. P. RAILWAY v. ARTERY.
* Opinion of the Court.

car, to the question of its size and whether it was crowded or
not, to the question whether the plaintiff could have kept up

his feet without a foot-rest, and to the question of the condition of the cattle-guard.

It is an elementary principle of the law of evidence, that if
a witness is to be impeached, in consequence of his having

made, on some other occasion, different statements, oral or
written, from those which he makes on the witness-stand, as
to material points in the case, his attention must first be called,
on cross-examination, to the particular time and occasion
when, the place where, and the person to whom he made the
varying statements. In no other way can a foundation be
laid for putting in the impeaching testimony.
In the present case, it is apparent that the views of the
court, as set forth in the bill of exceptions immediately after
the exclusion of the first question which is above stated to
have been excluded on the cross-examination of the witness
Jerry Artery, must' save been founded not only upon what
had at that time transpired, but also upon the subsequent proceedings at the trial, and were the views of the court upon
additional and kindred questions which arose in the case, because, at the time such first question was asked upon crossexamination and excluded, it had not yet appeared in evidence
under what circumstances the written statement was made by
the witness. Moreover, it was stated by the court that the
written statements of the witnesses "were sought to be used
not alone as a means of impeaching the witness, but as evidence of the matters therein recited;" whereas, when the
statement signed by the witness Jerry Artery was offered in
evidence and excluded, it was distinctly offered "for the purpose of impeachment," and it is not otherwise stated in thebill of exceptions that it was offered for any other purpose;
and, in excluding it, the court excluded it as so offered.
We think the Circuit Court erred in laying it down as a
rule, that a written statement signed by a witness and admitted by him to have been so signed cannot be used in crossexamining him as to material points testified to by him; and
in announcing it as a further rule, that the only way to im-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

peach a witness by showing contradictory statements made by
him, is to call as a witness the person to whom or in whose
presence the alleged contradictory statements. were made.
The foundation must be first laid for impeaching a witness, by
calling his attention to the time, place and circumstances of
the contradictory statements, whether they were in writing or
made orally; and the court, in the present case, excluded that
from being done.
The written statement having been presented to the witness, and he having admitted that what purported to be his
signature to it was his signature, it was perfectly open to him
to read it, and he could have been inquired of as to the circumstances under which it was taken' down and signed, so as
to advise the jury as to its authenticity and the credit to be
given to it. The bill of exceptions does not show that the
plaintiff's counsel asked the witness to read the statement, or
asked the court to have it read to him, or that the witness did
not read it, or did not have it read to "him. The exclusion
of the first question put to him and excluded, namely, "Is
that statement correct ?" did not refer to the entire written
statement, but to the statement in it as to the speed at which
the car was running. That inquiry was directly pertinent to
the issue that was being tried.
The rule of evidence invoked by the plaintiff, and laid down
in The Queen's Case, 2 Brod. & Bing. 281, 288, is, that if, on
cross-examination, a witness admits a letter to be in his handwriting, he cannot be questioned by counsel as to whether
statements, such as the counsel may suggest, are contained in
it, but the whole letter must be read as the evidence of the
existence of the statements. This principle is not applicable
.to the present case, because the plaintiff did not take the
objection that the whole statement was not, but should have
been, read as evidence ; and the court, with the assent of the
plaintiff, excluded it from being read in evidence.
The case of Vieksburg & -Meridian Railroad v. O'Brien,
119 U. S' 99 is not in point. In that case, which was a suit
against a railroad company to recover for personal injuries
received by an accident to a train, a written statement as to

WELLFORD v. SNYDER.
Syllabus.

the nature and extent of the injuries, made by the plaintiff's
physician while treating him for them, was held not to be
admissible as. affirmative evidence for the plaintiff, even
though it was attached to a deposition of the physician, in
which he swore that it was written by him and that it correctly stated the condition of his patient at the time referred
to. The question was not one which arose on the crossexamination of a witness or in regard to his impeachment.
Nor was the present case one involving the well-established
proposition, that incompetent questions are not allowable on
cross-examination in order to predicate upon them an impeachment or contradiction of the witness.
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court, with a direction to grant a new trial.

WELLFORD v. SNYDER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 105.

Argued December 5, 8, 9, 1890.- Decided December 22, 1890.

A testator bequeathed to four dauglhters the sum of $20,000 apiece, to be
invested in public securites and held in trust by hig executors for his
said daughters respectively, and the income, as it accrued, applied to their
several use and benefit; and directed that "from and after the intermarriage of any of them," the executors should hold the securities " belonging
to the said daughter so marrying, in trust for the following purposes,"
namely, for the maintenance of her and her husband and the survivor of
them for life, and after the death of both "for such issue as she may leave
at the time of her death; and in case she shall die without leaving such
issue," then for her surviving sisters and the issue of any deceased sister; and declared his intention that both principal and income should be
free from the control of any husband; " and the better to secure the
payment of these my daughters' fortunes," directed that, if a fund appropriated to the payment of debts and legacies should be insufficient, his
whole estate should be charged "to make up the deficiency to my said
daughters." Held, that the principal of the sum bequeathed to a daughter, who never married, vested in her absolutely, and passed by her will.

