SIRE v. ELLITHORPE AIR BRAKE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

SIRE v. ELLITHORPE AIR BRAKE CO.
ERROR

TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1479. Submitted December 15, 1890.-Decided January 5,1891.

In this case, on a motion to dismiss a writ of error, for want of jurisdiction in this court, or to affirm the judgment, it was held that, though
this court had jurisdiction, there was sufficient color for the motion to
dismiss to warrant this court in considering the motion to affirm, and that
the latter motion must be granted.
The propriety of questions put to a witness cannot be passed upon intelligently unless the bill of exceptions shows the character of the evidence
previously put in.
The case having been tried by the court without a jury, it was held that
the facts found justified the conclusion of law.
A paper which forms no part of a bill of exceptions, and is signed only by
an attorney, and purports to be exceptions to findings of fact and the conclusion of the judge thereon, cannot be regarded as a bill of exceptions,
or as part of the bill of exceptions signed by the judge, irrespectively of
the point that this court cannot review the findings of fact.
As the writ of error appeared to have been sued out merely for delay, the
judgment was affirmed with damages at the rate of ten per cent.
MOTIONT TO

DISMSS OR AFFIRM.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
MXr. Sarauel Ashton for the motion.
Jr. J. Hfubley Ashton, -Mr. Chauncey Shafer and -Yr. Albert I. Sire opposing.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by the
Ellithorpe Air Brake Company, an Illinois corporation, against
Henry B. Sire. The plaintiff is engaged in the business of
constructing elevators and putting them into buildings. The
complaint sets forth a contract between the plaintiff and
the defendant for the plaintiff to furnish and erect for the

OCTOBER TERI1, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant two hydraulic passenger elevators and two safety
steam passenger elevators, in buildings in the city of New
York, in eighty to ninety days from the date of the receipt
of approved plans, for $6750, one half to be payable when
the machines were in the buildings, and the other half
when the elevators were in running order, with a provision
that if the defendant should delay the plaintiff in shipping
or erecting the elevators, then both of the payments should
be due on the date named for completion, and that any deferred
payment should bear interest. The complaint further alleges
that the plaintiff caused the elevators to be constructed, ready
for shipment, within the time specified, and to be set up, in
running order, in the buildings, in accordance with the contract; that the two hydraulic elevators were duly shipped, and
within the time specified the machinery was placed in the
buildings, and one of them was set up in running order, and
the other one was very nearly set up, when the plaintiff and
its workmen were stopped and prohibited by the defendant
from further proceeding with the work; that, after the two
safety steam elevators were ready for shipment, and were
about to be shipped, the defendant requested the plaintiff not
to ship them, as he was not ready for them and desired to
make some changes, and he directed it to hold them in store
until further orders from him, all of which the plaintiff caused
,to be done; that the defendant refused to accept the same or
permit the plaintiff to ship them or set them up; that the
plaintiff is and always has been willing to carry out its agreement to furnish and erect all of the elevators; that the defendant has refused to permit the plaintiff to perform its contract,
or to allow the elevators to be erected, or to make the payments therefor, except the sum of $1900 on account; that, in
consequence, the elevators have become wholly lost to the
plaintiff, and it has sustained damage to the amount of $6750
and the interest thereon, no part of which has been paid,
except the $1900; that the plaintiff has sustained additional
loss by way of special damage, and has been compelled to
employ extra workmen and to do extra work and labor in the
buildings, and to incur other expenses, amounting to $2500, to

SIRE v. ELLITHORPE AIR BRAKE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the damage of the plaintiff in all of $7000, for which amount,
with interest from the commencement of the suit, it asks judgment.
The answer of the defendant sets up a general denial, except
that he admits that he has paid $1900; and avers that the
contract between the parties, in respect to the four elevators,
was in writing; and that the plaintiff has failed to perform
the provisions of the contract, while the defendant has observed
them. It also sets up a counter-claim, and claims $6000 damages for the failure of the plaintiff to perform the contract, alleging that by reason thereof the defendant had been prevented
from renting the buildings or occupying part of them himself.
Under a written stipulation duly filed, the case was tried
before the court, held by Judge Shipman, without a jury; and
he, on the 6th of March, 1890, made his findings and decision
(41 Fed. Rep. 662), in pursuance of which a judgment was
entered in favor of the plaintiff for $2485, with $158.60 interest from March 14, 1889, amounting in all to $2643.60, and
$330.05 costs, making a total of $2973.65. To review this
judgment, the defendant has brought a writ of error. The
plaintiff now moves to dismiss such writ or to affirm the
judgment.
One of the grounds alleged for the motion to dismiss is, that
this court has no jurisdiction of the case, because of informalities in the bill of exceptions, the only exceptions presented
thereby being alleged errors in rulings admitting evidence.
The bill of exceptions does not set forth any part of the evidence on which the questions which were admitted were based.
The propriety of the admission of the questions depended
entirely upon the state of the evidence, and the bill of exceptions fails to show that. It is further contended, in favor of
the motion to dismiss, that deducting the $1900 from the $6750
left only the sum of $4850, with the special damage claim of
$2500; that the plaintiff's judgment amounted only to $2485;
and that, although the defendant set up a counter-claim for
$6000, the record fails to disclose any evidence sustaining it,
and therefore the actual amount in controversy between the
parties was only $2485, with interest.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

We think, however, that inasmuch as the defendant loses
by the judgment $2485, exclusive of interest and costs, and in
addition to that does not recover anything on account of his
counter-claim of $6000, the aggregate amount is sufficient to
give this court jurisdiction.
We think, also, that there was sufficient color for the motion
to dismiss, to warrant us in considering the motion to affirm;
and that the judgment ought to be affirmed.
The bill of exceptions shows objections and exceptions by
the defendant to six questions put by the plaintiff to one of
its witnesses; but, as before stated, inasmuch as the bill
of exceptions fails to show what the character of the evidence was which previously had been put in, it is impossible
intelligently to pa~s upon the propriety of the questions admitted. They related to what was done by the plaintiff with
regard to fulfilling the contract, after the plaintiff's proposal
to erect the elevators was accepted by the defendant; to the
market value of two of the elevators; to what was said between the general manager of the plaintiff and the defendant
in regard to those two elevators; to the purpose of the general
manager in coming to New York as the representative of the
plaintiff; to the value of the work that was done in respect
of another elevator; and to the market value of the two
hydraulic elevators. It cannot be seen that these questions
were improper, or that the answers to them caused any injury
or disadvantage to the defendant.
There is no finding of facts by the Circuit Court, separate
from that which is contained in the opinion of the judge; but
that finding is very full, and is introduced by the words:
"Upon said trial, the following facts were found to have been
proved and to be true." The facts as found clearly justified
the conclusion of law drawn by the court. In its opinion, the
court states that neither party complied with the contract, and
the plaintiff did not complete the elevators in one of the buildings within the specified time, but that this non-compliance
was fully waived by the defendant; that the defendant broke
the contract, and there was no wilful abandonment of the
work on the part of the plaintiff; that the loss of rent by the

SIRE v. ELLITHORPE AIR BRAKE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant was attributable to his own conduct; that upon
the counter-claim no loss or damage was proved for which the
plaintiff was liable; that the plaintiff was at all times ready
and willing to perform its part of the contract, except in the
matter of time, which breach was waived by the defendant;
that the plaintiff having in good faith built and completed one
of the elevators, though not within the time specified by the
contract, and the defendant having accepted the work, the
plaintiff could recover the value of that elevator; and that, in
regard to another of the elevators, as the plaintiff had delivered it to the defendant, and nearly completed the work of
setting it up, and was prevented, without its fault, by the
defendant, from completing the performance of the contract,
it was entitled to recover its loss, which was its outlay, and
amounted to $2050, and also damages for the virtual refusal
of the defendant to have the contract carried out in regard to
the steam elevators.
There is in the record a paper filed in the Circuit Court
eight days after the opinion and findings of the court were
filed, which paper forms no part of the bill of exceptions
which is signed by the judge, but is a paper signed only by
the attorney for the defendant, and purports to be exceptions
to certain findings of fact made by the judge and to his
conclusion based upon such findings. This paper cannot be
regarded as a bill of exceptions, or as part of the bill of exceptions signed by the judge, irrespectively of the point that this
court cannot review the findings of fact.
Judgment afirmed, with damages at the rate of tenper cent,
as the writ of error appears to have been sued out merely
for delay-

