DABLE GRAIN SHOVEL CO. v. FIINT.
Statement of the Case.

sacks of corn, is covered by the finding of fact that the sinking
took place witholit negligence on the part of the steam-tug or
her owners or their agents or servants, and was an unavoidable
accident.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
.Affirmed.

DABLE GRAIN SHOVEL COMPANY v. FLINT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1213. Submitted October 21,1890.-

Decided November 3,1890.

The act of March 3, 1839, c. 88, ยง 7, authorized persons in whose building a
machine was put up by the inventor thereof, and with his knowledge and
consent, while he was in their employment, and before his application
for a patent, to continue to use the specific machive, without paying
compensation to him or his assigns, although asked for after obtaining
the patent; and is not unconstitutional as depriving him of his property
without compensation.

THIS was an action for the infringement of two patents for
improvements in machinery for unloading grain from railroad
cars, issued in 1866 and 1868 to John Dable, and by him since
assigned to the plaintiff.
The defendants filed several pleas, the fourth of which
averred "that the only machines for unloading grain from
railroad cars, ever used by them during the life of either of
said patents set forth in said declaration, were constructed and
put into use in their grain elevators by the said John Dable,
and with his consent and allowance, while he was in their
employ as superintendent of machinery, and prior to his application for either of said letters patent; and thereby, and by
virtue of the statute in such case made and provided, the
defendants became possessed of the right to use oall said
machines during the life of each of said patents, without liability to the said John Dable or the plaintiff."
The parties afterwards filed a stipulation in writing, by which

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

they waived a trial by jury; agreed that the facts alleged in
the fourth plea were as therein stated, and~also that Dable,
when he obtained each of his patents, claimed of the defendants compensation for the use of the inventions covered
thereby, and that the defendants refused to recognize the
claim; and submitted the issue presented by this plea to the
judgment of the court upon the facts so stated and. admitted.
The Circuit Court held that these facts constituted a good
defence to the action, and therefore entered judgment for the
defendants. 42 Fed. Rep. 686. The plaintiff sued out this
writ of error.
M.. William Zimmerman for plaintiff in error.
X
A&. Thomas A. Banning and XA'. Ehraim Banning for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The fourth plea is based upon section 7 of the act of March
3, 1839, c. 88, (in force when the patents were granted,) providing that "every person or corporation, who has or shall
have purchased or constructed any newly invented machine,
manufacture or composition of matter, prior to the application
by the inventor and discoverer for a patent, shall be held to
possess the right to use, and vend to others to be used, the
specific machine, manufacture or composition of matter so
made or purchased, without liability therefor to the inventor
or any other person interested in such invention." 5 Stat. 354.
In the later statutes, this provision has been reenacted with
the qualification that the machine, manufacture or composition
of matter must have been purchased from the inventor, or
constructed with his knowledge and consent. Act of July 8,
1870, c.-230, ยง 37, 16 Stat. 203; Rev. Stat. ยง 4899.
It is agreed that the machines in question were constructed
and put in use in the defendants' grain elevators by the inventor himself, and with his knowledge and consent, while he was

HARDING v. WOODCOCK.
Statement of the Case.

in their employment as superintendent of machinery, and
before his application for either patent. According to the
express terms of the statute, therefore, the defendants had the
right to continue to use these specific machines without paying
any compensation to him or his assigns, whether asked for or
not.
To the argument of the plaintiff's counsel, that the statute
is unconstitutional as depriving the inventor of his property
without compensation, there is a twofold answer: The patentee
has no. exclusive right of property in his invention, except
under and by virtue of the statutes securing it to him, and
according to the regulations and restrictions of those statutes.
Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477, 493; Brown v. lDuchesne, 19
Bow. 183, 195; JMarsh v. Nichols, 128 U. S. 605, 612. And
these machines have been set free from his monopoly by his
own act, consent and permission. Wade v. M2Jetealf, 129 U. S.
202.
Judgment afflirmed.

HARDING v. WOODCOCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UMTED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 29. Argued and submitted October 22, 1890.-

Decided November 3, 1890.

The due and regular assessment of a distiller's tax by an internal revenue
collector, properly certified, is a sufficient defence to the collector in an
action on the case against him by the distiller to recover the value of
property, seized and sold for the payment of the tax, upon the ground
that, in a subsequent action by the United States against the distiller
and the sureties on his bond, to recover the uncollected portion of the
same- tax, its assessment was adjudged to have been invalid: and this
defence may be set up under the general issue without pleading it
specially in justification.

Tis was an action against the collector of internal revenue
of the fifth collection district of Tennessee, for an alleged
wrongful seizure and sale of property of the plaintiff upon an
assessment against him as a distiller of liquors, made by the

