OCTOBER TERM£, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

We think, therefore, that the appellants Broom and Whitaker having had full notice, actual and constructive, of the
mortgage and the pendency of the suit commenced before
the expiration of the ninety days, acquired no valid title to the
property in question, and that the purchase of the property
by the appellant Broom was subject to the rights of the appellee under his mortgage. His mortgagee, with like notice,
can have no superior rights in the premises. That appellee's
mortgage was executed to secure a bonafide debt, and in good
faith, is not disputed.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
is
Affirmed-

UNITED STATES v. LYNCH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 1195. Argued November 20, 1890.-Decided December 8, 1S90.

In order to enable this court to entertain jurisdiction of a writ of error to.
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia upon the ground that
the validity of an authority exercised under the United States was drawn
in question in the case, the validity of the authority must have been
denied directly and not incidentally.
Where the relator in an application for mandamus seeks to compel the
Fourth Auditor and the Second Comptroller to audit and allow a claim
for mileage upon the ground that the statute provides for such mileage
in terms so plain as not to admit of construction; that this court has so
decided; and that hence the duty to be performed is purely ministerial;
he does not thereby directly question the validity of the authority of the
auditor to audit his account, and of the comptroller to revise and pass
upon it.

ON the 6th day of December, 1889, R. Mason Lisle filed a
petition for a writ of mandamrus in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia against John R.Lynch, Fourth Auditor,
and Benjamin F. Gilkeson, Second Comptroller, of the Treasury of the United States, and their successors, in the name of
the United States, upon his relation, couched in these words :
"1. The petitioner avers that he was an officer of the Navy
from March 19, 1872, to May 6, 1872, of the rank of lieuten-

UNITED STATES v. LYNCH.
Statement of the Case.

ant; that on March 19, 1872, he was ordered by his superior
officer to proceed from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, via New
York and the Pacific mail steamer from New York, on March
30th, to Aspinwall, across the Isthmus of Panama, and thence
to the navy-yard, Mare Island, California, and report for duty
on board the U. S. S. ' Lackawanna' ; that he proceeded by
the said route, in accordance with said orders, completing the
journey on May 6, 1872.
"2. That in obeying the said orders he travelled 6222
miles, viz., from Philadelphia to New York, 88 miles; from
New York to Mare Island, 6134 miles. For his travelling
expenses from Philadelphia to New York he was paid $8.80,
being at the rate of ten cents per mile; but for his travelling
expenses from New York to Mare Island lie was only credited
with mileage for the distance between the extreme points by
the overland route -a route he was not ordered to travel and
did not travel - 3248 miles, at ten cents per mile, amounting
to $324.80, whereas, by the law in force at the time of the
travel, (Act of March 3, 1835, 4 Stat. 755,) he should have
been credited with mileage for the distance actually travelled,
6134 miles, at ten cents per mile, amounting to $613.40; thus
the petitioner has received $288.60 less than he should have
received under the said act of Congress, which was the act
which governed the compensation to be paid for mileage at
that time.
"3. That the respondents have refused, and still do continue
to refuse, to pay the petitioner, or to credit him with, the sum
of $288.60, that being the amount remaining unpaid on the
said travel under the said act of Congress.
"4. That there is no application of the statute of limitations,
for the claim was adjusted and disallowed by Comptroller Maynard on February 2, 1887, the said disallowance being a clear
violation of the said act of Congress.
"Therefore, the said travel having been performed, the distance having been correctly computed, the application of the
said act of Congress to the said travel -under
the acts of
Congress, Rev. Stat. (1878), sections 273, 277, prescribing the
duties of the accounting officers - is a mere ministerial duty,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

the exercise of a discretion being invalid under the said sections.
"Wherefore the petitioner prays that a writ of mandamus
may be issued to the said respondents, commanding them to
audit the petitioner's account for the said travel and allow the
same, and to issue a warrant in the manner it is the custom of
the Treasury to issue warrants for the payment of mileage
under the said act of Congress of March 3, 1835, the same
being mandatory upon the accountingofficers."
A rule to show cause was thereupon entered, and the defendants appearing, it was agreed that the petition and rule
to show cause should be considered and treated as an alternative writ of mandamus, to which the respondents might make
answer or demur as they might be advised. The respondents
accordingly demurred, their demurrer being accompanied by
the following:
"NOTE.Among the matters of law relied upon and to be
argued in support of the above demurrer are "1st. That mandamus will not lie against an officer of the
Treasury Department for refusal to allow and pay a claim
against the United States; for, however obviously without
legal justification his refusal may be, a mandamus against him
to compel such allowance and payment is none the less in
effect a suit against the United States.
" 2d. That it appearing that the relator's claim had been
disallowed by the predecessor in office of the respondent Gilkeson, (to wit, Second Comptroller Maynard,) and there being
no allegation of the production before the respondents of newdiscovered material evidence, or that the original disallowance
involved errors of computation, it is not competent for
these respondents to reopen the settlement involving such
disallowance."
The cause was heard by the Supreme Court of the District
sitting in general term, and judgment rendered denying the
relief sought, and dismissing the petition. The pending writ
of error was thereupon sued out.
Mr. R.. Mason Lisle in person, (with whom was Mr. J.
Edward Carpenter on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

UiITED STATES v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

Mrb'. Assistant Attorney General i aury for defendant in
error.
M . CmEF
court.

JusTicE

F LLER delivered the opinion of the

As the matter in dispute does not reach the jurisdictional
sum or value, it is contended that this court has jurisdiction to
entertain the writ of error because "the validity of an authority exercised under the United States" was drawn in question
in the case. 23 Stat. 443, c. 355.
The claim of the relator arises under the last clause of section 2 of the act of March 3, 1835, entitled "An Act to Regulate the Pay of the Navy of the United States," 4 Stat. 755,
757, c. 27, which reads: "It is hereby expressly declared that
the yearly allowance provided in this act is all the pay, compensation, and allowance that shall be received under any circumstances whatever, by any such offices or person, except for
travelling expenses when under orders, for which ten cents
per mile shall be allowed."
By section 273 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that:
"It shall be the duty of the Second Comptroller: First. To
examine all accounts settled by the Second, Third, and Fourth
Auditors, and certify the balances arising thereon to the Secretary of the Department in which the expenditure has been
incurred. Second. To countersign all warrants drawn by the
Secretaries of War and of the Navy, which shall be warranted
by law."
And by section 277: "The duties of the Auditors shall be
as follows: . . . Fifth. The Fourth Auditor shall receive
and examine all accounts accruing in the Navy Department
or relative thereto, and all accounts relating to Navy pensions; and, after examination of such accounts, he shall certify
the balances, and shall transmit such accounts, with the
vouchers and certificate, to the Second Comptroller for his
decision thereon."
Section 236 provides: "All claims and demands whatever
by the United States or against them, and all accounts what-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ever in which the United States are concerned, either as
debtors or as creditors, shall be settled and adjusted in the
Department of the Treasury."
By the act establishing the offices of Comptroller and Auditor, the former was authorized and required "to superintend
the adjustment and preservation of the public accounts," and
"to examine all accounts settled by the Auditor;" and it was
made the duty of the latter "to receive all public accounts,
and-after examination to certify the balance, and transmit the
accounts with the vouchers and certificate to the Comptroller
for his decision thereon." 1 Stat. 66.
Considering the accepted definition of an auditor with the
language used in these provisions, the Fourth Auditor may be
correctly said to be authorized to examine accounts accruing in
the Navy Department, compare the items with the vouchers,
allow or reject charges, and state the balance; and the Comptroller has authority to revise the action of the Auditor and
certify the balances finally found by him.
It is stated in the opinion delivered by Air. Chief Justice
Waite in United States v. Graham, 110 U. S. 219, 220, cited
on behalf of relator, that it was found as a fact in that case
"that on the 6th of April, 1835, which was only a little more
than a month after the act of 1835 passed, circular instructions were issued from the Treasury Department to the
effect that mileage at the rate of ten cents a mile was fixed
by law and should be paid for travelling expenses within
the United States, but that the usual and necessary passage
money actually paid by officers returning from foreign service,
under orders or on sick ticket, when they could not return in
a public vessel, would be paid as theretofore, as well as the
like expenses of officers going out. The nAvy regulations
adopted in 1865, and in force in 1872, when the claim of
Graham, the appellee, accrued, provided that 'for travelling
out of the United States the actual expenses only are allowed.'
It is also found that from the time of the passage of the act
of 1835 until the decision of Temple's case in this court, the
Navy and Treasury Departments had, with a single exception,
always held that the ten cents a mile did not apply to travel

UNITED STATES v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

to, from, or in foreign countries, but only to travel in the
United States. In Temple's case the long continued practice
in the Departments was relied on to justify the decision of the
accounting officers of the Treasury against him, but the fact
of the actual existence of the practice was not found as it has
been now."
The decision in United States v. Temple, 105 U. S. 97, was
announced at October term, 1881. That case brought under
consideration the act of Congress of June 30, 1876, relating to
the mileage of officers of the Navy, while Graham's case arose
under the act of March 3, 1835, and it was held that, as the
language of the statute in each-instance was clear and precise
and its meaning evident, there was no room for c.onstruction,
and that eight cents a mile in the one case and ten cents in
the other, was properly allowed the claimants by the Court of
Claims, from whose judgments in their favor appeals were
prosecuted to this court.
It is now argued that the duty of the Fourth' Auditor and
of the Second Comptroller, under the last clause of section 2
of the act of 1835 and the decision of this court in relation to
it, was merely ministerial, and that by the disallowance of
relator's claim for mileage these officers exercised a discretion
which they did not possess; that this was an invalid exercise
of an authority under the United States; and that hence the
validity of the authority was drawn in question. In order to
justify this position, however, the validity of the authority
must have been drawn in question directly and not incidentally.
The validity of a statute is not drawn in question every time
rights claimed under such statute are controverted, nor is the
validity of an authority, every time an act done by such
authority is disputed. The validity of a statute or the validity
of an authority is drawn in question when the existence, or
constitutionality, or legality of such statute or authority is
denied, and the denial forms the subject of direct inquiry.
We think that the authority of the Second Comptroller and
the Fourth Auditor is not thus denied here, nor the validity of
that authority questioned, but that what is claimed is that in
the exercise of a valid authority, the Auditor and Comptroller

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

erred in respect to an allowance, in view of the decision of
this court in another case.
In Decatur v. Paulding,14 Pet. 497, 515, it was remarked
by M r. Chief Justice Taney that the duties to be performed
by the head of an executive department of the government,
whether imposed by act of Congress or by resolution, are not,
in general, mere ministerial duties; that departmental duties
are executive in their nature; that the laws and resolutions of
Congress under which the departments are required to act
have to be expounded in the exercise of judgment; and that,
while the court would not be bound to adopt the construction
given, when departmental decisions are under review in a
proper case, the court would not by mandamus control the exposition of statutes by direct action upon executive officers.
In relation to the interpretation of a pension law by the Commissioner of Pensions and the Secretary of the Interior, in
United States ex el. Dunlap v. Black, Cormrnissioner, 128
U. S. 40, 48, Mr. Justice Bradley said: "Whether, if the law
were properly before us for consideration, we should be of the
same opinion, or of a different opinion, is of no consequence in
the decision of this case."
The contention of the relator is, that the interpretation he
puts upon the act is too obviously correct to admit of dispute,
and that this court has so decided; but it does not follow,
because the decision of the Comptroller and Auditor may have
been erroneous, that the assertion of relator to that effect
raises a cognizable controversy as to their authority to proceed at all. What the relator sought was an order coercing
these officers to proceed in a particular way, and this order
the Supreme Court of the District declined to grant. If we
were to reverse that judgment upon the ground urged, it would
not be for want of power in the Auditor to audit the account,
and in the Comptroller to revise and pass upon it, but because
those officers had disallowed what they ought to have allowed
and erroneously construed what needed no construction. This
would not in any degree involve the validity of their authority. Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346, 353; Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210. In

GROVER & BAKER MACHINE CO. v. RADCLIFFE.

287

Syllabus.-

Clayton v. Utah.Territory,132 U. S. 632, the power vested in
the governor of the Territory of Utah by the organic act, to
appoint an auditor of public accounts, was drawn in question;
and in Clough v. Curtis, 134 U. S. 361, 369, the lawful existence, as the legislative assembly of the Territory of Idaho, of
a body of persons claiming to exercise as such the legislative
power conferred by Congress, was controverted. In 3reilson
v. 1agow, 7 How. 772, 775, and 12 How. 98, the plaintiff in
error claimed the land in dispute through an authority exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury, and the State court
decided against its validity. The existence or validity of the
authority was primarily involved in these cases, and they contain nothing to the contrary of our present conclusion.
Why the relator did not bring suit in the Court of Claims
does not appear, nor does the record show the reasons of the
Second Comptroller for rejecting this claim in 1887, nor for
the action of the present Auditor and Comptroller other than
as indicated in the demurrer. These matters are, however,
immaterial in the view which we take of the case.
The writ of error must be dismissed and it is
So ordered.

GROVER AND

BAKER SEWING MACHINE COMPANY .v. RADCLIFFE.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 72.

Argued November 13, 14, 1890.-

Decided December 8,1890.

Domicil generally determines the particular territorial jurisprudence to
which the individual is subjected.
Although a judgment in one State against a citizen of another State, may
be held valid under local laws by the courts of the former, the courts of
the latter are not bound to sustain it, if it would be invalid but for the
special laws of the State where rendered.
B., a citizen of Maryland, having executed a bond, containing a warrant
authorizing any attorney of any court of record in the State of NTew York
or any other State, to confess judgment for the penalty, and judgment
having been entered against him in Pennsylvania by a prothonotary,

