HOFFMNAN v. OVERBEY.
Statement of the Case.

HOFFMAN v. OVERBEY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF ,THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 99. Argued December 2,1890. -Decided

December 22, 1890.

A suit in equity to set aside a written compromise between a creditor and
a debtor, whereby the former, in consideration of the surrender by the
latter of certain real property of much less value than his debt, and
of his representation that he was unable to pay such debt in full, discharged the debtor absolutely. The ground of relief was the false and
fraudulent representations of the debtor as to his financial condition,
and the admissions of the debtor to the creditor, made more than twelve
years after the compromise. These admissions constituted the principal
evidence of the fraud charged. Held, that the relief asked could not be
granted, because such admissions were made after the debtor's intellect
had become so far impaired, that his statements ought not to be the basis
of a decree affecting his rights of property, and because it did not satisfactorily appear from other evidence that he had made false or fraudulent
representations to the creditor.

TaE case was stated by the court as follows:
Hoffman, Lee & Co., merchants of Baltimore, agreed to aid
James R. Milliner in his business of manufacturing tobacco in
Pittsylvania County, Virginia, by advancing to him, when
called upon, between the 10th days of March and May, 1871,
the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, to be repaid with interest
at the rate of six per cent per annum; Millner agreeing that
all the tobacco that he worked or caused to be worked during
the year 1871 should be shipped to Hoffman, Lee & Co., for
sale by them at not less than its market value. To secure the
payment of that sum with interest, Millner, February 13,1871,
mortgaged to Hoffman, for his firm, a tract of land in Pittsylvania County containing two hundred acres, with its buildings, improvements and appurtenances, including the tobacco
factory situated on it, with the fixtures and appliances thereto
belonging.
By deed of May 3, 1872, Millner continued this mortgage
in force as security for an additional loan of fifteen thousand
VOL. cX-Cn-30

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

dollars, which Hoffman, Lee & Co. agreed to make between
that date and June 1, 1872- if he needed that amount, or
should call for it, or any part thereof -upon the same terms
as those expressed in the first mortgage.
On the 28th day of February, 1873, Millner and Hoffman,
Lee & Co. entered into an agreement in writing, which, after
reciting the above mortgages, proceeded: "Whereas upon a
settlement of accounts between the parties respecting the
advances secured by said deeds, the said James R. Millner is
found indebted to said Hoffman, Lee & Co. in the sum of
$15,758.67, which sum it is agreed far exceeds the value of all
the property, real and personal, embraced in said mortgage
deeds; and whereas the said James R. Millner is unable to
pay the said debt in full and has offered, by way of compromise, to said Hoffman, Lee & Co., that he and his wife will,
by a proper deed, surrender and release to said Hoffman, Lee
& Co., or to said Robert G. Hoffman for their benefit, all the
right, title and interest whatsoever in law and equity, including the wife's contingent right of dower, of them, the said
James R. Millner and wife, and to all the property of every
kind embraced and described in said deeds of mortgage,
except as hereinafter stated, provided the said Hoffman, Lee
& Co. will accept the said surrender and release, when perfected by a proper deed, in full satisfaction and discharge of
his said debt to them, and will allow him to remain in the,
occupation of the land described in said mortgage deeds as
the tenant of said Hoffman, Lee & Co. until the 1st day of
January, 1874, without paving any rent for the same, it being
understood that since the date of the last-mentioned deed a
portion of the tobacco fixtures of the tobacco factory described
in said deed of mortgage has been sold by said James R. Millner to Millner Bros. with written consent of said Hoffman, Lee
& Co., and the portion so sold is not included in the present
compromise, which includes, however, all the residue of the
mortgaged property, except that portion of the tobacco fixtures
so sold; and whereas the said Hoffman, Lee & Co. have
accepted the said offer of compromise: Now, therefore, the
parties do agree that the said James R. Millner and his wife

HOFFMAN v. OVERBEY.
Statement of the Case.

shall, without unreasonable delay, proceed to execute and
acknowledge a proper deed relinquishing, surrendering and
releasing to said Robert G. Hoffman, for the benefit of said
Hoffman, Lee & Co., all their right, title and interest whatsoever inlaw or equity in and to all the mortgaged property
aforesaid, except the portion of the fixtures sold as aforesaid;
and upon the delivery of said deed executed and acknowledged
as aforesaid, ready to be recorded, said Hoffman, Lee & Co.
shall and will accept the same in full satisfaction and discharge
of the said debt due to them by said James R. Millner and
will allow him to occupy the land, including the factory and
all the buildings upon it, as their tenant, during the remainder
of the present year, without paying any rent."
Millner Brothers, a firm composed of John P. Millner and
Joseph T. Millner, (brothers of James R.Millner,) under date
of March 5, 1873, entered into a written contract with the
appellants, whereby the latter in consideration of the delivery
to them, by Millner Brothers, of 16,000 pounds of twist
tobacco, branded "Jas. R.Millner's Extra Goldwin Twist,"
promised to make title to the former for the property which
by the agreement of 28th of February, 1873, was to be conveyed by James R.Millner and wife to Hoffman, Lee & Co.
On the 15th day of March, 1873, James R.Millner and wife,
in execution of the agreement of February 28, 1873, made an
absolute conveyance to Hoffman, for his firm, of the property
covered by the mortgage of February 13, 1871, excepting
therefrom certain fixtures previously sold to Millner Brothers
with the consent of Hoffman, Lee & Co. This deed contained
the recital that the parties agreed that the amount due from
James iR. Millner to the appellants, $15,758.67, "far exceeds
the value of all the said mortgaged property," but that the
latter had consented to accept that property, free of all claims
at law or in equity of James R. Millner and wife, or either of
them, in full satisfaction and discharge of their debt.
The contract of March 5, 1873, having been satisfactorily
performed, Hoffman, Lee & Co., by deed of June 10, 1874,
conveyed to Milliler Brothers the property embraced by the
deed from James R. M,illner and wife. Subsequently, Septem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ber 3, 1874, Millner Brothers sold and conveyed it to James
R. Millner, the consideration recited in the deed being six thousand dollars paid or secured to be paid.
On the 30th of June, 1885, more than twelve years after
the settlement between James R. Millner and Hoffman, Lee
& Co., the latter brought the present suit against James R.
Millner, John P. Millner and J. D. Blair, administrator of
Joseph T. iMillner. The suit proceeds upon these grounds,
substantially: That in order to induce the plaintiffs to make
the settlement of February 28, 1873, James R. M illner represented to them not only that he had faithfully invested and
used in the purchase and manufacture of leaf tobacco all the
moneys advanced by the plaintiffs, and was iotally unable to
discharge his debts to them, and would surrender "all the
property he owned," with a clear title thereto instead of a
mere security therein, but that the property held by plaintiffs
as security was worth $6000 to $8000, and "was all he had
on earth," and that unless they took it and released him, he
would avail himself of the bankrupt law; that, relying upon
such representations, the plaintiffs "consummated the parol
agreement to accept the mortgaged property from James R.
Millner and release him," and to that end took the deed of
March 15, 1873; that the representations so made were false;
that the mortgaged property was not worth the sum named
by him; that the whole transaction, resulting in the release
of James R1. Millner, and the sale to -illner Brothers, was
pursuant to a plan formed between the three brothers to
defraud the plaintiffs; that in violation of the arrangement
under which the plaintiffs advanced moneys to James R.
Millner, the latter "systematically set apart and appropriated
to himself certain sums from such advances," without the
knowledge of the plaintiffs, "until, at the time of said settlement and release, he had thus accumulated the large amount
of $12,000, which money he had thus without warrant deducted from the advances and failed to invest and use as
agreed ;" that at the time of such settlement and release the
plaintiffs were not advised that Millner "tfad so much money,"
certainly "they never suspected that he had $12,000 of their

HOFF-MAN v. OVEERBEY.
Statement of the Case.

money, in his hands in ready cash, which had been advanced
only to be used in the purchase and manufacture of tobacco
for them;" that these facts were fraudulently concealed by
Millner to enable him to secure his release; that MIillner
Brothers knew of his having the $12,000, or, at least, knew
that he had a large sum rightfully belonging to the plaintiffs;
that they, also, knew of the above settlement and release, and
aided James R. 2fillner therein, taking the conveyance to
themselves of the mortgaged property to further said fraud,
knowing that the property was to be paid for with tobacco
manufactured by using plaintiffs' money; that the money so
withheld and concealed was used as common capital between
James R. Millner and Miillner Brothers, the latter sharing in
the general division of the profits arising therefrom; and that
the tobacco delivered by them for the property was, in fact,
purchased and prepared for sale with the money of the
plaintiffs.
The bill also alleges that the plaintiffs, until very recently
before the commencement of this suit, rested absolutely upon
the finality and good faith of these transactions and settlements, and would have continued to do so, but for the revelation of the above facts made in June, 1885, by James R.
2fillner himself.
The relief sought is a decree declaring void the above
releases and conveyances, and causing the property to be
conveyed to the plaintiffs; that an accounting be had between
them and the defendants; and that after all recourse against
James R. Millner is exhausted, Millner Brothers and the administrator of Joseph T. MillUner be required to reimburse them
to the extent of any deficiency that may be found to exist.
During the progress of the cause an answer was filed by the
committee of James ER. Millner, who was adjudged a lunatic
on the 24th of October, 1885, and committed to an insane
asylum. He died pending this appeal, and his administrator
was made a party instead of his committee. His heirs at law
have also been made parties. Answers were fied by John P.
Millner and the administrator of Joseph T. Millner, putting in
issue the material allegations of the bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

By the final decree the bill was dismissed, the circuit judge
being of opinion that its allegations were not sustained by the
proof.
.MXr. S. Teakle Wallis and Mri. James P. Harrison (with
whom was Mr. ]andon . Berkeley, Jr., on the brief), for
appellants.
Mr. Samuel Field Phillipsand _M. FrederioD.AMoeenney,
for appellees.
M . JUsTicE HARLAw,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The principal question raised by the pleadings and discussed
at the bar involves actual fraud upon the part of James R.
Millner in procuring the release from Hoffman, Lee & Co.
We have seen that, according to the bill, Milluer sought such release upon the ground of his "total inability" to discharge that
claim, and because the mortgaged property, which he proposed
to surrender absolutely, and freed from his wife's contingent
right of dower, was all that he owned and "all he had on
earth;" whereas, it is alleged, he had at the time $12,000 in
cash that had been fraudulently kept out of the moneys advanced to him from time to time for the purchase and manufacture of tobacco to be shipped to Hoffman, Lee & Co. for
sale, the proceeds to be applied to the payment of the moneys
so advanced. That iillner had $12,000 in cash during the
summer after the settlement with Hoffman, Lee & Co., is
clearly established by the evidence. But that he represented
to them at the time of, or as an inducement for, the settlement
of February 28, 1873, that the mortgaged property was all he
had, or that he threatened to take the benefit of the bankrupt
law unless discharged upon the terms stated in the writing of
that date, or that he retained, without investing in his business, $12,000 out of the moneys advanced to hini, only appears
from the depositions of Hoffman and his attorney and a physician, each of whom details conversations had by them, separately, with James R. Millner, in June, 1885, at Buffalo Lithia

HOFFMAN v. OVERBEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Springs, Virginia, where he was then staying for his health.
Upon a careful scrutiny of all the evidence, oral and written,
bearing upon the condition of James R. Millner at the date of
the above conversations, we are satisfied that he was of unsound
mind. What he said in those conversations cannot properly
be made the basis of a decree against him. His mental faculties had then become too much impaired to admit of any decree
against him, based upon his statements or admissions. Indeed,
the evidence fairly requires the conclusion that he was not at
any time during the six months immediately preceding that
time competent to make any admission that ought to be the
foundation of a decree affecting his rights of property.
The only representation that he may be held, upon the present record, to have made in order to induce Hoffman, Lee &
Co. to accept the mortgaged property and discharge him from
further liability, is, that at the time of the compromise he was
"un- in the words of the agreement of February 28, 1873able to pay the said debt ($15,758.67) in full." Was that representation false or fraudulent? That it was either, is not
shown with sufficient clearness to justify the court in disregarding or setting aside a settlement made more than twelve years
before this suit was instituted. Besides there is no proof that
James R. Millner had, at the time the compromise was made,
the means that he subsequently invested in the business conducted by Millner Brothers, nor does it satisfactorily appear
when or from whom he got the moneys that were thus invested.
If he were in such condition as to be able to testify or to furnish evidence upon this point, it may be that the fact of
his having, in cash, as much as $12,000 shortly after the
settlement of 1873, if not explained, would justify the conclusion that he had that amount at the time he asserted his
inability to pay in full the debt of Hoffman, Lee & Co. No
such rule ought, however, to be applied in the present case;
for it may well be supposed that his committee could not, after
the lapse of so many years, furnish the explanation that would
properly be required of Millner if he were alive and of sound
mind.
Beyond this, it is not at all clear from the evidence, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Hoffman, Lee & Co. released Millner in the belief that, when
surrendering the mortgaged property, he gave up or intended
to give up, literally, everything that he had, retaining nothing
for the support of himself or family pending his efforts to
establish himself again in business. The representation that
he was unable to pay the debt of the plaintiff in full was not
equivalent to a representation that the mortgaged property
was all he owned. Liberally construed, the former representation was not inconsistent with the retention of a part of
his means for the support of his family or to meet the demands
of other creditors.
The fact principally relied upon to show that he and his
brothers combined to defraud the plaintiffs is, that the property surrendered to the latter, and by them sold and conveyed
to Millner Brothers, was ultimately repurchased by him. But
there Was no concealment of the fact that Millner Brothers,
before taking a conveyance from the plaintiffs, had arranged
to sell the property to James R. Millner. Of that fact the
plaintiffs were informed both by Millner Brothers and by
James R. fillner as early as April, 1873. The deed to the
latter was put upon record September 3, 1874; so that Hoffman, Lee & Co. knew, or could easily have known, at least
ten years before this suit was brought, that James R. Millner
had become again the owner of the property surrendered to
them in 1873. If they understood him as representing, in
February, 1873, that the mortgaged property was "all he had
on earth," the question would naturally have arisen in their
minds as to how he was able to buy that property back so
soon after the compromise. But no inquiry upon that subject
was instituted; at least the evidence does not show that when
the facts were recent, or before James R. Millner's mind was
permanently impaired, any was made by them. The utmost
that can be fairly predicated of such of the evidence as may
be properly considered as the basis of a decree in the cause,
is, that there is ground to suspect that James R. Millner did
not make a frank and full disclosure as to his financial condition at the time the compromise was effected with the
plaintiffs. But a suspicion of the want of good faith is not

BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER. 473
Syllabus.

sufficient to justify a decree setting aside, upon the ground of
fraud, a compromise made as far back as 1873; especially,
when the party to be affected by such a decree has become
incapable, from impairment of intellect, to present his side of
the question. Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the
ends of justice will be best subserved by not disturbing that

compromise.
These views render it unnecessary to consider other questions argued by counsel, and require an affirmance of the
decree.
_Afft'rmed.

BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 103. Argued December 5, 1890. -Decided

December 22, 1890.

Facts contested in a trial before a jury must be taken in this court to be as
determined by the verdict.
The mere receipt of a bill on payment of money is not an assent to the
proposition that the bill contains the whole contract between the parties,
but whether it is so or not is a fact to be determined by the jury.
A party receiving moneys from another to be transmitted for him to a
named destination, in order that they may be used there to pay his liabilities, cannot change the destination at the desire of the party to whom
the money is sent, without becoming liable for the loss, in case loss
ensues in consequence of the change.
In the relation of principal and agent, strict compliance by the latter with
the instructions of the former is an unvarying condition of exemption
from liability.
C in New York, who had had business relations with M. & Co. of
Glasgow, drew upon them for £5000, to mature February 29. On February 26th he bought of plaintiff in error, who had an office in London,
a cable transfer of this amount in favor of MI. & Co. to be transmitted in
a check by post from London to Glasgow, and took from the bank a
receipt "for cable transfer on the Bank of British North America, London, in favor of" M2.& Co. " Glasgow." The cable message was accordingly sent, but the London office, under previous directions from M. &
Co. as to all such matters, but without knowledge of C, instead of forwarding the check to Glasgow, deposited it to the credit of M. & Co.
in the Bank of Scotland in London, which action was approved by Il &

