LAWRENCE v. RECTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

LAWRENCE v. RECTOR.
APPEAT

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKA.NSAS.

No. 56. Argued November 6, 7,1890.-Decided November1, 1890.
The court adheres to the views of the law expressed in its opinion delivered
at the former trial of this case, (Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276,) and
finds that the decree below was made in accordance with them.
Under the peculiar circumstances of this case, having reference to the doubt
as to title, and to the evident good faith of the parties, the true measure
of liability is the actual receipts from the property, and not its rental
value; and in that respect the decree below is held to have been erroneous.

IN

EoQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

AJfr. Henry A. Gardner (with whom was Air. Robert D.
XloFadon on the brief) and Air. Samuel T. Williams (with
whom was .Mr'. S. F. Clark on the brief) for appellants.
-Mr. U. X. Rose and Air. Augustus H. Garland(with whom
were .3'. F. TV. Compton and Mir. G. B. Rose on the brief)
for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is the second time this case has been to this court. It
came first on demurrer to the bill, and the decision is reported
in 111 U. S. 276. The demurrer, which had been sustained
in the Circuit Court, was overruled by this, and the case remanded with instructions to permit answer and proceed to
proof. Obediently thereto answer was filed in the Circuit
Court, and the case proceeded to proof and hearing. The
history of the "Hot Springs" litigation, of which this is but
a fragment, has been so often referred to in the opinions of
this court, particularly in the case in 111 U. S. supra,that
reference thereto now is superfluous; and in reference to the
principal matter in controversy here, the title to the lots, it is
enough to say that every material fact alleged in the bill was
proved, and that nothing was developed in answer or testimony to disturb the conclusions of law heretofore reached by

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

this court. The matter of title was established by the decree
of the Circuit Court in accordance with the views of the -law
entertained and announced by this court, and there is nothing
in the testimony to withdraw the case from the scope of that
conclusion.
The Circuit Court entered a decree for title - also directed
an accounting. That accounting, as finally settled, credited
.the defendant with the amount of taxes and assessments paid
by him -the amount of purchase-money paid to the United
States for the lots and the expenses incurred in obtaining the
patent -and the amount due for improvements, on the basis
of the lease which established the rights of the parties, and
charged him with the money received on certificates from the
government for buildings condemned and destroyed, and also
the rental value of the premises from the time of the award
of the commissioners to the date of the decree. We are of
opinion that the rental value ought not to have been charged;
that, under the peculiar circumstances of this case, having
reference to the doubt that must have arisen as to the matter
of title, to the primafaoie effect of the award given by the
commissioners, and to the evident good faith of all the parties
in reference thereto, the true measure of liability is not the
rental value, but the actual receipts. This account, as stated
by the Circuit Court, was as follows:
To rent of premises ...
...........
...
$9,541 66
To amount due on certificates for condemned buildings .......
................
. 10,737 86
$20,279 52
By amount of taxes and assessments paid, $2,306
By amount purchase-money paid for lots, 1,528
By amount expenses in getting patent
112
By amount for improvements as per
covenant ...
...........
.. 8,666

98
00
35
67

$12,614 00 $12,614 00
Balance due Rector

.

$7,665 52

GURNEE v. PATRICK COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

This account should be modified so as to charge defendant
with amount received on certificates for condemned buildings,
$10,737.86, and other amounts actually received from the
property, $5659.07; total $16,396.93. From which, deducting the credits allowed, there remains a balance of $3782.93.
The decree of the Circuit Court will therefore be modified
and the case
Remanded with instructions to enter afinal decree, as heretofore, establishing the title of the complainant and decreeing
to him possession, and adjudging that he recover of the
defendants the sum of $3782.93, with interest from the
11th day of Nfovember, 1886, the time of the final decree.

GURNEE v. PATRICK COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 57. Argued and submitted November 7, 1890.-Decided November 17,1890.
If a law conferring jurisdiction is repealed without any reservation as to
pending cases, all such cases fall with the law.
forey v. Lockhart, 123 U. S. 56; Wilson v. Nebraska, 123 U. S. 286; Sherman
v. Grinnell, 123 U. S. 679; and Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398,
affirmed.
Richmond & Danville Railroad Co. v. Thouron, 134 U. S. 45, affirmed.
A judgment in a Circuit Court of the United States on a general demurrer
to the declaration in an action removed from a State Court, that the demurrer be sustained, and, as the record showed that the court had no
jurisdiction, that the cause be remanded to the State Court, is not a judgment to which a writ of error from this court can be maintained.

THis case was called when reached in the regular order upon
the calendar, and argument was commenced. The court, however, on examining the record, declined to hear further argument, but granted to counsel leave to file briefs on the question
of jurisdiction. The case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
Plaintiffs in error are citizens of the State of New York,
and the owners and holders of certain bonds of the county of

