In re GRIMLEY, Petitioner.
Argument for Appellee.

In re GRI LEY, Petitioner.
APPRA

FROM THE CIROCIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MfASSAOHUSETTS.
No. 761. Submitted October 21, 1890.- Decided November 17, 18"0.

Civil Courts may inquire, under a writ of habeas corpus, into the jurisdiction of the court over the party condemned, but cannot inquire into or
correct errors in its proceedings.
An enlistment is a contract between the soldier and the government which
involves, like marriage, a change in his status which cannot be thrown
off by him at his will, although he may violate his contract.
An enlisted soldier cannot avoid a charge of desertion by showing that, at
the time when he voluntarily enlisted, he had passed the age at which
the law allows enlisting officers to enlist recruits.
A recruit who voluntarily goes before a recruiting officer, expresses his
desire to enlist, undergoes a physical examination, is accepted by the
officer, takes the oath of allegiance before him, signs the clothing rolls,
and is placed in charge of a sergeant, has thereby enlisted and has
become a soldier, in the army of the United States, although the articles
of war have not been read to him.
Tyler v. Pomeroy, 8 Allen, 480, distinguished from this case.

HABEAS COrPUS. The prisoner, a recruit in the army of the
United States, being discharged, the United States took this
appeal. The objections to the validity of the enlistment are
stated in the report of the argument of the appellee's counsel.
The statutes regulating enlistments will be found in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. Solicitor General for the United States, appellants.
.Yr. henry IV. Putnam and .Mr. William H. Brown for
the petitioner, appellee.
I. Grimley's alleged enlistment, on February 18, 1888, was
void. He was, at the time, over forty years of age, and therefore above the maximum age for enlistment. Seavey v. Seyinour, 3 Cliff. 439, 445, 447; In re AleDonald, 1 Lowell, 100;
In re Davison, 21 Fed. Rep. 618; In re Bearn, 32 Fed. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellee.

141; In re Lawler, 40 Fed. Rep. 233, 235; Goodson v. Caldwell, 2 Winston (N. C.) 135.
The reasons for holding void an enlistment, like the present,
above the maximum age are even stronger than in the case of
one below the minimum; for the latter is a defect which time
would speedily remedy, while time would only aggravate the
former, by rendering the recruit constantly less "effective"
and less "able-bodied."
The reason and importance of the
rule as to the maximum age are emphasized by the exception
in sect. 1116, that "this limitation as to the, age shall not
apply to soldiers re~nlisting," - thus negatively, as well as
affirmatively, forbidding the enlistment of new men over
thirty-five; and also by the fact that while the minimum age
has been reduced to sixteen, even in time of peace, and the
minimum height of five feet six inches is abolished (Stat.
1838, c. 162, ยง 30), the maximum age has never been raised
above thirty-five, except temporarily in the War of 1812, when
it was raised first to forty-five, and then to fifty, and was
promptly restored in 1815 to thirty-five years, where it has
remained since.
The declaration of the petitioner at the rendezvous as to his
age is not conclusive as against the actual fact, and is immaterial if he is not in fact within the statutory age. He cannot
by any declarations of his own make himself a soldier if the
law says he cannot be one. In re M Donald, 1 Lowell, 100;
"Seaveyv. Seymour, 3 Cliff. 439, 447. An oath as to age is
not, and never has been, made by statute conclusive that a
man is within the maximum.
The military authorities cannot waive the statutory maximum established by Congress, either on account of the recruit's perjury as to his age or for any other reason whatever.
The legislative department, or officers expressly thereunto
authorized by statute, can alone do that. Winthrop's Military
Law, 769, 770. The remark of the court in United States v.
Wingall, 5 Hill, 16, that an illegality can be waived by the
Government is obiter dictum, the enlistment in that case being
held not to be illegal.
Even if the government officers can waive the maximum of

In re GRI]ILEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

age, they had already waived the enlistment itself quite as
effectually by telling his mother that he need not return, and
might go to work. If the officers could do the one, they could
do the other, and the inchoate enlistment was waived first.
II. Independently of Grimley's age, the proceedings at the
rendezvous did not constitute a valid enlistment so completed
as to exchange his civil status for the military status. United
States v. Thompson 2 Sprague, 103; Tyler v. Pomeroy, 8
Allen, 480, 485, 486; Baafgeld v. -Abbot, 9 Law Rep. 510.
He was entitled to be allowed time to consider the subject
until his mind was fully made up before the oath was administered to him, and his mind could not be intelligently made
up within the meaning of the law, until all the Articles of
War had been read to him, so that he could know just what
his new status was. Several days out of the atmosphere of
the rendezvous are deemed a reasonable time to think it over.
The oath administered to Grimley was, therefore, ineffectual
in law to make him a soldier. The reading of the Articles
of War must precede the taking of the oath. "These rules
and articles shall be read . . . and he shall thereuvon,
take an oath, etc.," the reading being thus expressly made a
condition precedent to the valid administration of the oath.
It does not appear that articles 47 or 103, or any of the other
Articles of War, were intelligibly explained, or even read to
him at all; and it is evident that the nature of the oath, or
even of oaths in general, was not explained to him during the
fifteen minutes or so that he was at the rendezvous in all.
Under such circumstances Grimley evidently still had in
law a loc'usyerdteni? open to him. The mere administration
of the oath, even if in compliance with the law, does not make
the man a soldier. Seavey v. Seymomr, 3 Cliff. 439.
MR. JusTicE

tBREER

delivered the opinion of the court.

John Grimley, the appellee, was, on the 28th day of May,
1888, found guilty by a court-martial of the crime of desertion,
and sentenced to be imprisoned six months. While serving
out this sentence at Fort Warren,, Massachusetts, he sued out

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

a writ of habeas corpus from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts. That court, on June
25, 1888, discharged him from custody. The United States
appealed to the Circuit Court for said District, which, on the
27th day of February, 1889, affirmed the decree of the District
Court. 38 Fed. Rep. 84. From this decision the United
States has brought this appeal.
The Circuit Court found that the petitioner was forty years
of age at the time of his alleged enlistment, although he represented himself to be but twenty-eight; and, under section
1116 of the Revised Statutes, ruled that the enlistment was
void, and that Grimley never became a soldier, and was not
subject to th*e jurisdiction of the court-martial. That section
reads: "Recruits enlisting in the Army must be effective and
able-bodied men, and between the ages of sixteen and thirtyfive years, at the time of their enlistment." It cannot be
doubted that the civil courts may in any case inquire into the
jurisdiction of a court-martial, and if it appears that the party
condemned was not amenable to its jurisdiction, may discharge
him from the sentence. And, on the other hand, it is equally
clear that by habeas corpus the civil courts exercise no supervisory or correcting power over the proceedings of a courtmartial; and that no mere errors in their proceedings are open
to consideration. The single inquiry, the test, is jurisdiction.
That being established, the habeas corpus must be denied
and the petitioner remanded. That wanting, it must be sustained and the petitioner discharged. If Grimley was an
enlisted soldier he was amenable to the jurisdiction of the
court-martial; and the principal question, the one ruled against
the government, is whether Grimley's enlistment was void by
reason of the fact that he was over thirty-five years of age.
This case involves a matter of contractual relation between
the parties; and the law of contracts, as applicable thereto, is
worthy of notice. The government, as contracting party,
offers contract and service. Grimley accepts such contract
declaring that he possesses all the qualifications prescribed in
the government's offer. The contract is duly signed. Grimley has made an untrue statement in regard to his qualifica-

In re GI.IMLEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

tions. The government makes no objection because of the
untruth. The qualification is one for the benefit of the government, one of the contracting parties. Who can take advantage of Grimley's lack of qualification? Obviously only
the party for whose benefit it was inserted. Such is the ordinary law of contracts. Suppose "A," an individual, were to
offer to enter into contract with persons of Anglo-Saxon
descent, and "B," representing that he is of such descent,
accepts the offer and enters into contract; can he, thereafter, "A" making no objection, repudiate the contract on
the ground that he is not of Anglo-Saxon descent? "A"
has prescribed the terms. He contracts with "B" upon
the strength of his representations that he comes within
those terms. Can "B," thereafter, plead his disability in
avoidance of the contract? On the other hand, suppose
for any reason it could be contended that the proviso as to
age was for the benefit of the party enlisting, is Grimley in
any better position? The matter of age is merely incidental,
and not of the substance of the contract; and can a party by
false representations as to such incidental matter obtain a contract, and thereafter disown and repudiate its obligations on
the simple ground that the fact in reference to this incidental
matter was contrary to his representations? May he utter a
falsehood to acquire a contract, and plead the truth to avoid
it, when the matter in respect to which the falsehood is stated
is for his benefit? It must be noted here, that in the present
contract is involved no matter of duress, imposition, ignorance or intoxication. Grimley was sober, and of his own.
volition went to the recruiting office and enlisted. There was
no compulsion, no solicitation, no misrepresentation. A man
of mature years, he entered freely into the contract.
But in this transaction something more is involved than the
making of a contract, whose breach exposes to an action for
damages. Enlistment is a contract; but it is one of those
contracts which changes the status ; and, where that is changed,
no breach of the contract destroys the new status or relieves
from the obligations which its existence imposes. Marriage is
a contract; but it is one which creates a status. Its contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

obligations are mutual faithfulness; but a breach of those
obligations does not destroy the status or change the relation
of the parties tb each other. The parties remain husband and
wife, no matter what their conduct to each other - no matter
how great their disregard of marital obligations. It is true
that courts have power, under the statutes of most States, to
terminate those contract obligations, and put an end to the
marital relations. But this is never done at the instance of
the wrongdoer. The injured party, and the injured party
alone, can obtain relief and a change of status by judicial
action. So, also, a foreigner by naturalization enters into new
obligations. More than that, he thereby changes his status;
he ceases to be an alien, and becomes a citizen, and when that
change is once accomplished, no disloyalty on his part, no
breach of the obligations of citizenship, of itself, destroys his
citizenship. In other words, it is a general rule accompanying
a change of status, that when once accomplished it is not destroyed by the mere misconduct of one of the parties, and the
guilty party cannot plead his own wrong as working a termination and destruction thereof. Especially is he debarred from
pleading the existence of facts personal to himself, existing
before the change of status, the entrance into new relations,
which would have excused him from entering into those relations and making the change, or if disclosed to the other party,
would have led it to decline admission into the relation, or consent to the change.
By enlistment the citizen becomes a soldier. His relations
to the State and the public are changed. He acquires a new
status, with correlative rights and duties; and although he
may violate his contract obligations, his status as a soldier is
unchanged. He cannot of his own volition throw off the garments he has once put on, nor can he, the State not objecting,
renounce his relations and destroy his status on the plea that,
if he had disclosed truthfully the facts, the other party, the
State, would not have entered into the new relations with him,
or permitted him to change his status. Of course these considerations may not apply where there is insanity, idiocy, infancy, or any other disability which, in its nature, disables a

it re GRIMLEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

party from changing his status or entering into new relations.

But where a party is suijmuis, without any disability to enter
into the new relations, the rule generally applies as stated. A
naturalized citizen would not be permitted, as a defence to a
charge of treason, to say that he had acquired his citizenship
through perjury, that he had not been a resident of the United
States for five years, or within the State or Territory where
he was naturalized one year, or that he was not a man of
good moral character, or that he was not attached to the Constitution. No more can an enlisted soldier avoid a charge of
desertion, and escape the consequences of such act, by proof
that he was over age at the time of enlistment, or that he was
not able-bodied, or that he had been convicted of a felony, or
that before his enlistment he had been a deserter from the military service of the United States. These are matters which do
not inhere in the substance of the contract, do not prevent a
change of status, do not render the new relations assumed
absolutely void. And in the case of a soldier, these considerations become of vast public importance. While our regular
army is small compared with those of European nations, yet
its vigor and efficiency are equally important. An army is
not a deliberative body. It is the executive arm. Its law is
that of obedience. No question can be left open as to the
right to command in the officer, or the duty of obedience in
the soldier. Vigor and efficiency on the part of the officer
and confidence among the soldiers in one another are impaired
if any question be left open as to their attitude to each other.
So, unless there be in the nature of things some inherent vice
in the existence of the relation, or natural wrong in the manner in which it was established, public policy requires that it
should not be disturbed. Now, there is no inherent vice in
the military service of a man forty years of age. The age of
thirty-five, as prescribed in the statute, is one of convenience
merely. The government has the right to the military service of all its able-bodied citizens; and may, when emergency
arises, justly exact that service from all. And if for its own
convenience, and with a view to the selection of the best
material, it has fixed the age at thirty-five, it is a matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which in any given case it may waive; and it does not lie in
the mouth of any one above that age, on that account alone,
to demand release from an obligation voluntarily assumed, and
discharge from a service voluntarily entered into. The government, and the government alone, is the party to the transaction that can raise objections on that ground. We conclude,
therefore, that the age of the petitioner was no ground for his
discharge.
A minor question arises on these facts as to whether the
petitioner was in fact enlisted. It appears that on Saturday,
February 18, 1888, the petitioner entered the recruiting rendezvous in Boston, and expressed a desire to enlist. He
underwent a physical examination. He took the oath of
allegiance before the recruiting officer, signed the clothing
rolls, and was placed in charge of the sergeant. The latter
took him to the clothing-room, and selected for his uniform a
cap, trousers, blanket, shirt and pair of stockings, and laid
them before him. lHe put none of these articles on except the
cap, and that in a few minutes he took off. He then asked
permission to go away and see his friends, and the sergeant
told him to go, and be back on Monday. He went away in
his citizens' clothe , returned to his mother's house and told her
what he had done. She was very much grieved, and after
some conversation with him went to the recruiting office, and
finding three men there told them her errand, and was advised
substantially that Grimley need not come back, and might go
to work. Who these men were is not disclosed. On the
strength of that he did not return, but went off and engaged
in service as a coachman. He was arrested as a deserter on
May 16, 1888, brought before a court-martial and found guilty,
as heretofore stated. The oath of allegiance which he took
was as follows:
"The United States of America.
"State of Massachusetts,
City or Town of Boston,s
"I, John Grimley; born in Armagh, in the State of Ireland,
months, and by occupation
aged twenty-eight years and-

In re GRIAMEY, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

a groom, do hereby acknowledge to have voluntarily enlisted,
this eighteenth day of February, 1888, as a soldier in the Army
of the United States of America, for the period of five years,
unless sooner discharged by proper authority; and do also
agree to accept from the United States such bounty, pay,
rations and clothing as are or may be established by law.
And I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the United States of America, and that I
will serve them honestly and faithfully against all their enemies
whomsoever; and that I will obey the orders of the President
of the United States, and the orders of the officers appointed
over me, according to the rules and articles of war.
"JomH GmLEY. [Seal.]
"Subscribed and duly sworn to before me this 18th day of
February, A.D. 1888.
"J A.ES

MILLERn

"Captain, 2d Infantry, Recruiting Officer."
The question presented is, whether the petitioner had, in
fact, enlisted and become a soldier. It will be noticed that in
this oath of allegiance is an acknowledgment that he had
enlisted, and that it was not an agreement to enlist. In this
respect this case differs from that of Tyler v. Pomeroy, 8 Allen,
480, in which the plaintiff, with others, had signed a paper by
which, in terms they agreed to serve for a period of three
years "ffrom the date of our being mustered into the United
States' service." In that case, Mr. Justice Gray, then a member of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in an opinion
reviewing all the authorities in England and in this country,
drew a distinction between an agreement to enlist, which, if
broken, simply gives a right of action for damages, and an
enlistment, which changes the status of the party, transfers
him from civil to military life, and renders him amenable to
military jurisdiction. Section 1342 of the Revised Statutes
provides that the Army of the United States shall be governed
by certain rules and articles thereafter stated. Article 2 provides: "These rules and articles shall be read to every enlisted
man, at the time of, or within six days after, his enlistment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and he shall thereupon take an oath or affirmation," &c.
Obviously the oath is the final act in the matter of enlistment.
Article 47, respecting desertion, reads: "Any officer or soldier
who, having received pay, or having been duly enlisted in the
service of the United States, deserts the same," &c. By this,
either receipt of pay or enlistment determines the status; and
after enlistment the party becomes amenable to military jurisdiction, although no actual service may have been rendered
and no pay received.
It is insisted that the Articles of War were not read to him;
but that is not a prerequisite. "Within six days after" is the
statute. The reading of the one hundred and twenty-eight
articles, many of which do not concern the duty of a soldier,
is not essential to his enlistment. Paragraph No. 766 of the
Army Regulations of 1881 is as follows: "The forms of
declaration, and of consent in the case of a minor, having
been signed and witnessed, the recruit will then be duly
examined by the recruiting officer and surgeon, if one be
present, and, if accepted, the 47th and 103d Articles of War
will be read to him, after which he will be allowed time to
consider the subject until his mind appears to be fully made
up before the oath is administered to him." That this was
complied with is probable, from the testimony.
The petitioner testifies that something was read to him out
of a book, though he is unable to say what it was; and
Captain Miller, the recruiting officer, testifies that he is under
the impression, though not positive, that he read the 47th
article to him. He also says that he had quite a conversation
with him, inquiring as to his past life and why he had decided
to enlist. No solicitations were used, no advantage taken of
him. The enlistment was a deliberate act. No specified
amount of .time for the purpose of consideration is prescribed
by the regulation. The oath is not to be administered until
his mind is fully made up, and that is all that is required.
There is nothing in the circumstances surrounding the enlistment to vitiate the transaction. We conclude, therefore, upon
the whole case, that the age of the petitioner was no bar to his
enlistment of which he can take advantage; that the taking

In re MORRISSEY, Petitioner.
Citations for the Petitioner.

of the oath of allegiance is the pivotal fact which changes the
status from that of civilian to that of soldier; that the enlistment was a deliberate act on the part of the petitioner; and
that the circumstances surrounding it were not such as would
enable him, of his own volition, to ignore it, or justify a court
in setting it aside.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be
Reversed and the case remanded with instructions to reverse
the decree of the District Court and take such further proceedings as shall be in conformity with the opinion of this
court.

In re MORRISSEY, Petitioner.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCtT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 931.

Submitted October 21, 1890.-Decided November 17, 1890.

This case is rightfully brought here by appeal, and not by writ of error.
The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 1117," that no person under the age of twentyone years shall be enlisted or mustered into the military service of the
United States without the written consent of his parents or guardians:
Provided that such minor has such parents or guardians entitled to his
custody and control," is for the benefit of the parent or guardian, and
gives no privilege to the minor, whose contract of enlistment is good
so far as he is concerned.
The age at which an infant shall be competent to do any acts, or perform
any duties, civil or military, depends wholly upon the legislature.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Y. Henry W. Putnam and .Wr. Daniel N'Toyes. Jirby for
the petitioner, cited the following cases in their brief: Ex
parte lason, 1 Murphy (iN. C.) 336; Shorner's Case, 1 Caroiina Law Repository, 55 ; United States v. Anderson, 1 Cooke
(Tenn.) 143; Commonwealth v. Harrison,11 Mass. 63; Commonwealth v. Cushing, 11 Mass. 67; S. C. 6 Am. Dec. 156; Commonwealth v. Callan, 6 Binney, 255; Lewis' Case, 2 Carolina

