OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

ing duties, after it was manufactured, its dutiable quality was
to be decided by its actual color, graded by the Dutch standard, or by its saccharine strength as ascertained by chemical
tests; and it was held that the actual color was the test. So,
in the present case, the actual qualities belonging to the given
separable quantity of leaf tobacco which is made dutiable at
75 cents a pound, determine the rate of duty.
The present case was tried twice. At the first trial, before
Judge Wheeler, he directed a verdict for the plaintiffs; but he
subsequently granted a new trial. In his opinion granting it,
25 Fed. Rep. 897, he said: "Justice to the plaintiffs, however,
requires that they be entirely acquitted of any attempt to
deceive the customs officers by what they did; for it was done
with their full knowledge, and partly at their suggestion, and
after a like importation, with the full knowledge of all, had
been passed, as a test case, at the lower rate." We concur in
Judgment aji'med.
this view.

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK v.
AMERICAN MILLS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 62. Argued November 10,1890.-Decided November 24,1890.
A New York corporation consigned goods to G., a commission merchant in
New York city, for sale. He advanced to it thereon, in cash and negotiable acceptances, more than the value of the goods, it having the benefit of the acceptances, which passed into the hands of bona fide holders.
It then transferred the goods to him, as absolute owner, in discharge
pro tanto of its debt to him. He then sold the goods to his wife, for
full value, in part payment of money he owed her, and she resold them
and received the proceeds. A creditor who had recovered judgments on
some of the acceptances against G. and the corporation, brought a bill in
equity against them and the wife of G. to have such proceeds applied on
his judgments: Held,
(1) G. had a lien on the goods, which was foreclosed by the transfer of
them to him;

FOURTH NAT. BANK v. AMERICAN MILLS CO.

235

Opinion of the Court.
(2) G. had a right to treat the goods as his own, so long as the acceptances were outstanding and his lien was unsatisfied;
(3) The creditor could not have the relief asked.

I

EQun.

The case is stated in the opinion.

-Hr.David Willcox, (with whom was A&. William S. 06pdyke
on the brief,) for appellant.
.r.

Alexander Thain for appellees, Mary J. Graeffe and

William H. Garner.
Mr. JusTicE BL&ToHOrD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by the
Fourth National Bank of the city of New York, a national
banking association, against the American Mills Company, (a
New York corporation,) Albert J. Graeffe, Mary J. Graeffe,
(his wife,) William H. Garner, and William H. Bowen. Its
object was to procure the application upon judgments recovered by the plaintiff against the American Mills Company
and Albert J. Graeffe, of the proceeds of certain merchandise
which had been transferred by Albert J. Graeffe to Garner, as.
trustee for Mary J. Graeffe, to be applied upon debts due by
Albert J. Graeffe to Mary J. Graeffe. After issue joined,
proofs were taken, and the case was heard by Judge Coxe,
who entered a decree dismissing the bill as to Albert J.
Graeffe, Mary J. Graeffe, Garner and Bowen. Albert J.
Graeffe, Bowen and the American Mills Company had joined
in an answer to the bill, and Garner and Mary J. Graeffe had
each put in a separate answer. The opinion of the Circuit
Court is reported in 29 Fed. Rep. 611. An application for a
rehearing was made by the plaintiff and denied, the opinion
on the same being reported in 30 Fed. Rep. 420. The plaintiff has appealed from the decree. The suit was brought in
December, 1881, before the passage of the act of July 12,
1882, (22 Stat. 163, c. 290, ยง 4.) Charlotte Nat. Bank v. Xorgan, 132 U. S. 141.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts of the case are as follows, as stated by the Circuit
Court in its opinion: The American Mills Company was a
manufacturing corporation, having its principal office in the
city of New York, and its manufactory at Warwick, Rhode
Island. Albert J. Graeffe was the treasurer of the company
and one of, its trustees, and the commission merchant in the
city of New York to whom its goods were consigned for sale.
On February 28,1881, he had in his possession merchandise of
the company of the value of about $45,000. Prior to that
time, he had accepted for the benefit of the company twentythree drafts drawn upon him by the company, against the
consignments, for $57,600.40. Of these twenty-three drafts,
eleven, amounting to $27,600.40, were, after acceptance, returned by Graeffe to the company and used by it. The
remaining twelve drafts, amounting to $30,000, were, after
acceptance, discounted by Graeffe, and the proceeds were remitted by"him to th e company. Eleven other drafts, amounting to $32,500, drawn by the company upon Graeffe, were
accepted by him, but the company did not have the benefit of
any of them, because they were retained by Graeffe and used
by him in his own business. None of these thirty-four drafts
were due on the 28th of February, 1881. On that day, the
.company transferred to Graeffe, as absolute owner, the goods
which he so had in his possession, he taking them in discharge
pro tanto of the company's indebtedness to him. On the following day, he sold the goods to Garner, as trustee for Mary
J. Graeffe, for $45,064.30, in part payment of debts due from
him to her. They were afterwards sold through Bowen, and
the proceeds were paid to Mrs. Graeffe, or to Garner for her.
On the 3d of March, 1881, Graeffe made a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors, and the American Mills
Company failed at the same time. On the 30th of March,
1881, the plaintiff recovered a judgment against the Mills
Company and Graeffe, in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York, on one of the acceptances for $2500, which formed
part of the $30,000 of acceptances; and on the 22d of June,
1881, it recovered another judgment against the same parties,
in the Court of Common Pleas for the city and county of New

FOURTH NAT. BANK v. AMERICAN MILLS CO. 237
Opinion of the Court.

York, on six others of the acceptances, being one for $2500
and one for $3000, forming part of the $30,000 of acceptances,
and four for $3000 each, forming part of the $32,500 of acceptances. Executions upon these judgments were returned unsatisfied in September, 1881. Subsequently to the failure of
the company, and before July 1, 1$81, other judgments were
obtained against it in New York and Rhode Island for over
$70,000.
The theory of the bill is, that Mary J. Graeffe is indebted
to the American Mills Company for the value of the goods
embraced in the transfer to her, on the ground that such
transfer was without consideration and constructively fraudulent. No allegation of actual fraud is made against any person, and it' is clear that there was a bona fde indebtedness
from Graeffe to his wife of over $100,000, created by loans
to him of her own money.
It is contended by the plaintiff that the transfer of the
goods by the company to Graeffe was made in contemplation
of insolvency, and therefore was void by virtue of the provision of section 4, title 4, chapter 18, part 1, of the Revised
Statutes of New York (1 Rev. Stats. N. Y., 603), which declares that it shall not be lawful for any incorporated company to "make any transfer or assignment in contemplation
of the insolvency of such company, to any person or persons
whatever;" that Graeffe had no right in the goods which
he could transfer in payment of his debt to his wife, and to
the exclusion of the debt of the company and himself to the
plaintiff; that Mrs. Graeffe acquired no right in the goods
by virtue of the transfer, and was liable for their value; and
that, at all events, as to the three acceptances amounting to
$8000, and forming part of the $30,000 of acceptances, of
which the company had the benefit, the sole right of Graeffe
in the goods was to apply their proceeds to the payment of
those three acceptances.
But it appears in evidence that, by the 28th of February,
1881, at which time Graeffe had in his possession the goods in
question, of about the value of $45,000, he had advanced, as
against those goods, by cash and acceptances, the sum of about

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

$54,000. The acceptances were negotiable securities, which
had passed in the market into the hands of bonafide holders,
and on which Graeffe was primarily liable. He had a valid lien
on the goods for the $54,000. The legal title to them, which
the American Mills Company held when it gave the bill of
sale to Graeffe, on the 28th of February, 1881, was, therefore,
of no value, because the goods were then encumbered for more
than they were worth. That company, in transferring the
goods to Graeffe, as absolute owner of them, on the 28th of
February, 1881, recognized the lien and admitted that its liability to Graeffe exceeded the value of the goods; and the
transaction was in effect a foreclosure of the lien. The interest of the American Mills Company in the goods was only
contingent, and no court of equity, in a case like the present,
can declare that Graeffe could not transfer the goods to Mrs.
Graeffe, as against his other creditors and those of the company.
Under the statute of New York of April 16, 1830, (Laws of
1830, c. 179, p. 203,) Graeffe had a right to treat the goods as
his own, so long as his negotiable acceptances, of which the
company had had the benefit, were outstanding, not taken up
by it, and his lien on the goods was unsatisfied. Cartwright
v. Wilmerding, 24 N. Y. 521, 530.
The cases cited by the plaintiff are cases where the question
as to the right of property in the goods, as between the consignor and the factor, was raised by the consignor, or where
the consignor had not conveyed all his title in them to the
factor.
It is contended by the plaintiff that the lien of Graeffe did
not exceed $21,715.58. Graeffe at that time claimed a lien
for advances, which was conceded by the company, for the
amount of, at least, $54,215.58. The plaintiff claims that the
$32,500 of acceptances outstanding, of which Graeffe had had
the benefit, and from which the company had derived no
benefit, should be deducted from the $54,215.58, leaving a
balance of 821,715.58. But it appears that the items composing the $32,500, and which were accommodation drafts of the
company on Graeffe, accepted and used by him, were neither

FRENCH v. CARTER.
Statement of the Case.

charged on the one side of his account with the company nor
credited on the other. These accommodation acceptances
were not due on the 28th of February, 1881, and have never
been paid by the company. Graeffe was not bound to give
credit for them to the company until the company had paid
them and surrendered them to him.
As to the three acceptances, amounting to $8000, they
formed part of the acceptances of which the company had
the benefit, and, while the plaintiff holds those acceptances
against Graeffe, it cannot take from him, or from Mrs. Graeffe,
the property which he held as security against them. Its
position is no better than that of the company would have
been, and the companyf could not have deprived Graeffe of the
goods without discharging his obligation on those particular
acceptances. Moreover, even regarding the $8000 of acceptances as surrendered and cancelled, and deducted from the
$54,215.58, there is left $46,215.58, which amount exceeds the
value of the goods transferred to Mrs. Graeffe.
.Decreeaj5Ymed.

FRENCH v. CARTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No: 63. Argued November 12, 1890.-

Decided November 24,1890.

Letters patent No. 244,224, granted to Hamline Q. French, July 12, 1881,
for an improvement in "roofs for vaults" are invalid, in view of the
state of the art, for want of patentable invention, it requiring only
mechanical skill to pass to the patented device from what existed
before, the question being one of degree only, as to the size of the component stones.
A prior foreign publication is competent as evidence in regard to the state
of the art, and as a foundation for the inquiry whether it required invention to pass from a structure set forth in the publication to the patented
structure.

IN EQurrY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

