LN RE PENNSYLVANIA CO.
Opinion of the Court.

An re PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No.7. Original.

Argued December 8, 1890.-Decided December 22,1890.

The power which this court had before the passage of the act of March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, (reenacted August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866,)
to afford a remedy by mandamus when a cause, removed from a state
court is improperly remanded to the state court, was taken away by
those acts.
Under the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, and the act of August
13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, the matter in dispute in a case removed
from a state court on the ground of prejudice or local influence must
exceed the sum of two thousand dollars in order that the Circuit Court
may take jurisdiction.
Since the passage of those statutes, when a cause is removed from a state
court on the ground of prejudice or local influence, the Circuit Court
must be legally satisfied, by proof suitable to the nature of the case,
of the truth of the allegation that by reason of those causes the defendant will not be able to obtain justice in the state court; the amount and
manner of such proof being left, in each case, to the discretion of the
court.

Tins was a petition for mandamus to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut,
to take jurisdiction of the suit of Alberto T. Roraback against
the petitioner. The case is stated in the opinion.
3ir. Daniel Davenport, (with whom was Mr. William I.
O'Hara on the brief,) for the petitioner.
11r. Lewis . Stanton opposing.
MR. Jusncn BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition of the Pennsylvania Company, a corporation and a citizen of Pennsylvania, for a mandamus to be
directed to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Connecticut, commanding them to

OCTOBER TERVE, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

reinstate, take jurisdiction of and try and adjudge a certain
suit of one Alberto T. IRoraback, a citizen of Connecticut,
against the said Pennsylvania. Company. The suit had been
commenced on the 4th of June, 1889, by writ returnable the
first Monday of July, 1889, in the court of common pleas for
Litchfield County, in the State of Connecticut. The demand
in said suit was for the sum of five hundred dollars. In the
term of March, 1890, of said court of common pleas the company filed a petition for the removal of the suit to the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut, on the
ground of prejudice and local influence, filing therewith proper
affidavit and bond, and the said court accepted said petition
and bond, and granted the application and ordered the suit to
be removed. On the opening of the Circuit Court of the 'United States in April, the company entered in said Circuit Court
a copy of the record, and also filed a petition to the same
court reciting the steps already taken, realleging the ground
of removal, and praying the court to take jurisdiction of the
suit; and filed an additional affidavit setting forth all the facts
as to the existence of the alleged prejudice and local influence
in the state court, and that the petitioner would not be able
to obtain justice therein.. But afterwards the plaintiff in the
suit moved to remand the same to the state court, on the
ground that the amount in dispute did not exceed the sum of
two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs. The Circuit Judge granted the application and made an order for
remanding the cause, and the Circuit Court refuses to take
jurisdiction of the same. 42 Fed. IRep. 420. Wherefore the
present mandamus is prayed.
The first question to be decided is, whether this court has
power to grant the writ applied for. The general power of
the court to issue a writ of mandamus to an inferior court, to
take jurisdiction of a cause when it refuses to do so, is settled
by a long train of decisions. .Ex parte Bradstreet,7 Pet. 634;
1iLe and Fire 1is. Co. v. Wilson, 8 Pet. 291; United States v.
,Gomez, 3 Wall. 752; Exparte R~oberts, 15 Wall. 384; Exeparte
United States, 16 Wall. 699, 702; Ins. Co. v. Cometock, 16
Wall. 258, 271; Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507; Ex

IN RE PENNSYLVANIA CO.
Opinion of the Court.

parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369; Harringtonv. Holler, 111
U. S. 796; 1x_parte Brown, 116 U. S. 401; EoarteParker,
120 U. S. 737; Exparte ilollonr Parker, 131 U. S. 221.
It is true that after a case has proceeded to the filing of a
declaration and a plea to the jurisdiction, or its equivalent, and
a judgment is rendered in favor of the plea and a consequent
dismissal of the action, this court has held that the plaintiff is
confined to his remedy by writ of error, and cannot have a
mandamus, which only lies, as a general rule, where there is
no other adequate remedy. .Exparte Balt. & Ohio Railroad,
108 U. S. 566; Ex parte Railway Co., 103 U. S. 794. But it
was expressly held in Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507,
that a mandamus would lie to compel a Circuit Court to take
jurisdiction of and proceed with a case which it had wrongfully
remanded to the state court. The reason was that an order
to remand was not a final judgment, and no writ of error
would lie. This case is supported. by the rule laid down by
Chief Justice Marshall in Exparte Bradstreet,7 Pet. 634; and
if the decision of the present case depended only on the general rule, the power of the court to issue the mandamus would
be undoubted.
But in our opinion, the matter is governed by statute. This
will be manifest by reference to previous legislation on the
subject. The 5th section of the act of Narch 3, 1875, (determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts,) provided that
the order of the Circuit Court dismissing or remanding a
cause to the state court should be reviewable by the Supreme
Court on writ of error or appeal, as the case might be. 18 Stat.
470, 472, c. 137. This act remained in force until the passage
of the act of March 3, 1887, by which it was superseded, and
the writ of error or appeal upon orders to remand causes to
the state courts, was abrogated. The provision of the act of
1887 is as follows: "Whenever any cause shall be removed
from any state court into any Circuit Court of the United
States, and the Circuit Court shall decide that the cause was
improperly removed, and order the same to be remanded to
the state court from whence it came, suck remand shall be
immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

error from the decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such
cause shall be allowed." 24 Stat. c. 373, 552, 553. This
statute was reenacted August 13, 1888, for the purpose of
correcting some mistakes in the enrollment, 25 Stat. c. 866,
433, 435; but the above clause remained without change. In
terms, it only abolishes appeals and writs of error, it is true,
and does not mention writs of mandamus; and it is unquestionably a general rule, that the abrogation of one remedy
does not affect another. But in this case, we think it was the
intention of Congress to make the judgment of the Circuit
Court remanding a cause to the state court final and conclusive. The general object of the act is to contract the jurisdiction of the federal courts. The abrogation of the writ of
error and appeal would have had little effect in putting an
end to the question of removal, if the writ of mandamus could
still have been sued out in this court. It is true that the general supervisory power of this court over inferior jurisdictions
is of great moment in a public point of view, and should not,
upon light grounds, be deemed to be taken away in any case.
Still, although the writ of mandamus is not mentioned in the
section, yet the use of the words "such remand shall be immediately carried into execution," in addition to the prohibition
of appeal and writ of error, is strongly indicative of an intent
to suppress further prolongation of the controversy by whatever process. We are, therefore, of opinion that the act has
the effect of taking away the remedy by mandamus as well as
that of appeal and writ of error.
We also agree with the circuit judge that, by the act 'of
1887, the matter in dispute must exceed the sum or value of
two thousand dollars in order to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction, as well in cases sought to be removed from a state
court on account of prejudice or local influence, as in other
cases. It is true that the clause allowing a removal for such
cause does not name any amount as requisite. But we should
bear in mind the history of the law, and read the whole of
the two sections together. The act of March 2, 1867, which
first gave the right of removal for cause of prejudice and
local influence at any time before the final hearing of the case,

LN RE PENNSYLVANIA CO.
Opinion of the Court.

required that the matter in dispute should exceed the'sum or
value of five hundred dollars; which was the amount then
required for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in all ordinary
cases, whether by original process or by removal from a state
court; that is, in all cases except those in which jurisdiction was given independently of the amount in controversy.
14 Stat." c. 196, 558. This statute was carried into section
4639 of the Revised Statutes, article "Third." Now as the act
of 1887 raises the jurisdictional limit prescribed for the Circuit Courts in ordinary cases to an amount exceeding the sum
or value of two thousand dollars (instead of five hundred dollars), we naturally expect to find the same amount required
for its jurisdiction in cases of removal for cause of prejudice
or local influence. The first section requires that amount in
ordinary actions for its original jurisdiction. .Thesecond section requires the same amount in ordinary cases removed from
a state court. Its language is as follows:
"SEC. 2. [I.] That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in
equity, arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority, of which the Circuit Courts of the United States
are given original jurisdiction by the preceding section, which
may now be pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in
any state court, may be removed by the defendant or defendants therein to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district. [II.] Any other suit of a civil nature, at law
or in equity, of which the Circuit Courts of the United States
are given jurisdiction by the preceding section, and which are
now pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in any state
court, may be removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the proper district by the defendant or defendants
therein, being non residents of that State. [III.] And when in
any suit mentioned in this section there shall be a controversy
which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which
can be fully determined as between them, then either one or
more of the defendants actually interested in such controversy
may remove said suit into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the proper district. [IV.] And where a suit is now

OCTOBER TERAII, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

pending, or may be hereafter brought, in any state court, in
which there is a controversy between a citizen of the State in
which the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, any
defendant, being such citizen of another State, may remove
such suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district, at any time before the trial thereof, when it
shall be made to appear to said Circuit Court that frola prejudice or local influence he will not be able to obtain justice in
such state court, or in any other state court to which the said
defendant may, under the laws of the State, have the right,
on account of such prejudice or local influence, to remove said
cause."
Here the first two clauses expressly require an amount
exceeding two thousand dollars. The third clause, in referring
to "any suit mentioned in this section," evidently means the
two first clauses of the section, and, of course, is limited to
cases in which the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand
dollars. The fourth clause (the one in question) describes
only a special case comprised in the preceding clauses. The
initial words, "And where," are equivalent to the phrase,
"And when in any such case." In effect, they are tantamount to the beginning words of the third clause, namely:
"And when in any suit mentioned in this section."
On this point, the circuit judge refers to an opinion of Mr.
Justice Harlan in the case of -Malone v. Richmond & Danville Railroad, 35 Fed. Rep. 625, which seems to us to express
the correct view of the law. It is true, other judges have taken
a different view; but, on a careful consideration of the subject,
we have come to the conclusion above expressed.
There is another question raised in this case, on which it is
proper that we should express our opinion. It arises upon the
following words of the act: "TWhen it shall be made to appear
to said Circuit Court that from prejudice," etc. How must
it be made to appear that from prejudice or local influence the
defendant will not be able to obtain justice in the state court ?
The act of 1867 only required an affidavit of the party that he
had reason to believe that from prejudice or local influence he
would not be able to obtain justice in the state court. Rev.

IN RE PENNSYLVANIA CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. ยง 639, Subdiv. Third. By the act of 1887 it must be made
to appea to the court. On this point, also, various opinions
have been expressed in the Circuit Courts. Our opinion is,
that the Circuit Court must be legally (not merely morally)
satisfied of the truth of the allegation that, from prejudice or
local influence, the defendant will not be able to obtain justice
in the state court. Legal satisfaction requires some proof
suitable to the nature of the case; at least, an affidavit of a
credible person; and a statement of facts in such affidavit,
which sufficiently evince the truth of the allegation. The
amount and manner of proof required in each case must be
left to the discretion of the court itself. A perfunctory showing by a formal affidavit of mere belief will not be sufficient.
jf the petition for removal states the facts upon which the
allegation is founded, and that petition be verified by affidavit
of a person or persons in whom the court has confidence, this
may be regarded as piima faaie proof sufficient to satisfy
the conscience of the court. If more should be required by
the court, more should be offered.
In view of these considerations, we are disposed to think
that the proof of prejudice and local influence in this case was
not such as the Circuit Court was bound to regard as satisfactory. The only proof offered was contained in the affidavit
of the general manager of the defendant corporation, to the
effect that, from prejudice and local influence, the company
would not be able to obtain justice in the court of common
pleas for Litchfield County, or any other state court to which,
etc. We do not say that, as a matter of law, this affidavit.
was not sufficient, but only that the court was not bound to
regard it so, and might well have regarded it as not sufficient.
The petitionfor mandamus is denied.

I. re

PENNSYLVANIA

ComPANY,

Petitioner. On petition for

mandamus to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United

States for the District of Connecticut, to take jurisdiction of the
suit of Samuel A. Herman against the petitioner. No. 6, Original.
Argued December 8, 1890. Decided December 22, 1890. TiU. Jus-

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

TiCE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case in all
material respects is identical with the case of Ex 1xarte The Penn-sylvaniaCompany, just decided, and the same conclusion is reached
as in that case. The petition for mandamus is
Denied.
.Mr. Daniel Davenport and Mr. William H. O'Hara for the
petitioner.

iLf'. Lewis B. Stanton opposing.

BASS v. TAFT.
'ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 93.

Submitted November 26, 1890. -Decided

December 22, 1890.

Statutes of Kentucky, of 1869, 1870, 1872 and 1873, construed, in reference
to the duty of the judge of a county court to levy an annual tax to pay
the interest on bonds of the county issued in aid of the Cumberland and
Ohio Railroad Company, and to appoint a collector of the tax.
A mandamus to the county judge to compel him to levy such annual tax
and cause it to be collected, refused, because it appeared that he had
levied the tax and appointed a person to collect it.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M'. Philip B. Thompson, Jr., for appellant, submitted on
his brief.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 2d of February, 1887, Harvey S. Taft, a citizen of
Michigan, presented a petition for a mandamus to the Circuit
,Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky. The
petition states that John W. Bass, the presiding judge of the
county court of Taylor County, in the State of Kentucky, is
a citizen of Kentucky, and that Taylor County is a municipal

