YORK v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

nor gross, nor inexcusable, and where the other circumstances
present a strong case for his relief. We think this rule is applicable to all like cases of marine tort founded upon negligence and prosecuted in admiralty, as in harmony with the
rule for the division of damages in cases of collision. The
mere fact of the negligence of the libellant as partly occasioning the injuries to him, when they also occurred partly through
the negligence of the officers of the vessel, does not debar him
entirely from a recovery.
The necessary conclusion is, that the question whether the
libellant, upon the facts found, is entitled to a decree for
divided damages, must be answered in the affirmative, in
accordance with the judgment below. This being the only
question certified, and the amount in dispute being insufficient
to give this court jurisdiction of the whole case, our jurisdiction is limited .to reviewing this question. Chicago Union
Bank v. Yansaq City Bank, 136 U. S. 223. Whether, in a
case like this, the decree should be for exactly one-half of the
damages sustained; or might, in the discretion of the court, be
for a greater or less proportion of such damages, is a question
not presented for our determination upon this record, and we
express no opinion upon it.
.Decees affrmed.

YORK v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO'THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 999.

Submitted October 21, 1890. -Decided

November 3, 1890.

The provisions in the Revised Statutes of Texas, Articles 1242-1245, which,
as construed by the highest court of the State, convert an appearance by
a defendant for the sole purpose of questioning the jurisdiction of the
court, into a general appearance and submission to the jurisdiction of
the court, do not violate the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution which forbids a State to deprive any person of life,
liberty or property without due process of law.

ON the 14th day of November, 1888, a personal judgment
was rendered in the District Court of Travis County, Texas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

against the plaintiff in error, which judgment was subsequently
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Error is now
alleged in this, that the District Court had no jurisdiction of
the person of the defendant. The record discloses that on
October 20, 1885, the defendant leased from the State certain
school lands, at a stipulated rental. The lease provided that
in all suits thereunder the venue should be laid in Travis
County, Texas. The State filed its petition on February 15,
1888, alleging non-payment of the rent due in 1886 and 1887.
The defendant being a non-resident, a citizen of St. Louis, Missouri, a notice in accordance with the provisions of the statute
was served upon him personally in that city. No question is
made but that the service was in strict conformity with the
letter of the statute. On March 9, 1888, the defendant
appeared by his counsel and filed a special plea, challenging
the jurisdiction of the court, on the ground that he was a
non-resident and had not been served personally with process
within the limits of the State. This plea was overruled.
Thereafter, and on the 5th day of October, 1888, the defendant appeared by his attorneys in open court, demanded a jury,
paid the jury fee, and had the cause transferred to the jury
docket. On the 6th day of October he again filed a plea to
the jurisdiction, on the same ground, Which was also overruled.
On the 14th day of November, when the cause was reached
and called for trial, he again appeared by his attorneys, waived
his right of trial by a jury and his demand of a jury, and
declined to further answer to the cause - relying solely upon
his plea to the jurisdiction. The court thereupon proceeded
to render judgment against him, which, as heretofore stated,
was affirmed by the Supreme Court. '73 Texas, 651.
.31>. Rufus H. T ayer for plaintiff in error.
The District Court of Travis County had no jurisdiction
over the plaintiff in error by reason of the service in St. Louis.
The Supreme Court of Texas concedes this when it says:
'Since the decision made in the case of Pennoyer v. -Are , 95
IT. S. 714, 723, it must be held that service made without this

YORK v. TEXAS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

State, as it was upon appellant, is not sufficient to confer jurisdiction on a court of this State to render a mere personal judgment against one, a citizen of and resident in another State.
Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185; Hart v. Sansum, 110
U. S. 151; Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; Cooper v. Reynolds,
10 Wall. 308. One of the grounds on which the decision in
Pennoyer v. .NefJ is based, makes it authoritative throughout
all the Union in all cases to which it is applicable, and, although
there may have been some decisions made in this State asserting a contrary rule, we feel bound to follow it."
The Supreme Court of Texas, however, does not stop here as
we contend the court should have done, and enter a judgment
reversing and dismissing this cause for want of jurisdiction,
but it goes further; and while it says that a judgment entered
against York before his filing his plea to the jurisdiction would
have been a nullity, it also says, that by appearing for that
purpose, even though the record leaves no ground for claim,
appellant thereby intended voluntarily to submit himself to
the jurisdiction of the court, which from first to last he resisted,
and thereby submitted to the jurisdiction of the Travis County
District Court. We contend that this ruling is wrong; that
it is in contravention of the Constitution of the United States
and the Fourteenth Amendment thereof; and that it is repugnant to the same as it thereby confers jurisdiction on the courts
of Texas of citizens of other States; and that the judgment of
the lower court affirmed by the Supreme Court is an absolute
nullity.
I. The appearance of plaintiff in error in response to the
notice served on him, and under protest for the sole purpose of
questioning the jurisdiction of the District Court of Travis
County, in no sense bound him to submit to the jurisdiction of
that court. Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S.476 ; Bank of 17ic7sbury v. Slocomb, 14 Pet. 60; Raquet v. 2ixon, Dallam (Texas),
386; -DeWitt v. .Monroe,20 Texas, 289; Rfagood v. Dial, 43
Texas, 625; Robinson v. Schmidt, 48 Texas, 13; Ins. Co. v.
Fitzgerald, White & Willson (Texas), 785; United States v.
Yates, 6 lHow. 605; Decker v. Belting Co.; 11 Blatchford, 76;
Pomeroy v. I. Y. & R. . Railroad,4 Blatchford, 120; Day
VOL. cx.-xvni-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Newark India -Rubber Co.,'1 Blatchford, 628; Parrott v.
Ala. Life Ins. Co., 4 Woods, 353; Cunningham v. Goelet,
4 Denio, 71; Wheelock v. -Lee, 74 N. Y. 495; Sullivan v.
Frazee, 4 Robertson (N. Y.) 616; X,cVabb v. Bennett, 66 Illinois, 157; Awaltman v. Steinan, 8 Nebraska, 109; W1ight V.
BJoynton, 37 N. H. 9; S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 319; Brauner v.
Chapman, 11 Kansas, 118; Wynn v. Wyatt, 11 Leigh, 584;
Cooper v. Smith, 25 Iowa, 269.
II. The appearance of plaintiff in error under protest solely
for the purpose of questioning the jurisdiction of the District
Court, even in contemplation of Art. 1242 of the Revised Statutes of Texas, was not such a voluntary appearance, nor was
his plea such an answer, as to make him subservient to the
jurisdiction of the Travis County District Court. Such was
the undoubted rule before the enactment of the Revised Statutes. ]?aguet v. Nixon, Dallam, 388; De Witt v. -Monroe,
20 Texas, 289; JHagood v. Dial, 43 Texas, 625; lobinson v.
Sehmidt, 48 Texas, 19.
The learned justice who rendered the opinion in this cause,
seems to concede that such was the rule in Texas prior to the
adoption of the Revised Statutes, but in a very ingenious manner, after citing Arts. 1242, 1243 and 1244 of the.Revised Statutes of Texas; after stating that an answer consists of all
the defensive pleadings; after holding that a plea to the jurisdiction is therefore an answer; he invokes especially Art. 1242
of Revised Statutes, which says that the filing of an answer
by the defendant shall constitute such an appearance as no
longer to make necessary the issuance of a citation; and he
concludes, therefore, that the plaintiff in error has voluntarily
appeared, and therefore affirms the judgment.
We cannot agree with the learned judge in the conclusion
that Art. 1242 of the Revised Statutes changed the law of
Texas from what it was as laid down in the cases above cited
before the Revised Statutes went into effect. A careful examination of the report of the commissioners to revise the statutes
of Texas, which report, so far as it is pertinent to this case, is
to be found in Vol. 2 of Sayles' Revision of the Texas statutes,
pp. 722, 723, will show that at least in the minds of the com-

YORK v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

missioners, no such sweeping change was intended ; for, in their
report, they fail to show anywhere that the old law was in
any way repealed, changed or modified, though the purpose
of the report was to show this very fact. We are further
borne out in this conclusion by the Revised Statutes themselves, for Art. 1262 says: "The defendant in his answer may
plead as many several matters whether of law or fact as he
shall think necessary for his defence and which may be pertinent to the cause, provided that he shall file them all in due
order of pleading."
In this connection, we desire further to call the attention of
the court to the fact, that this view of the statute in the opinion of the Supreme Court, if inference is worth anything, was
certainly not in the mind of the other Texas courts, who have
had occasion to pass on this question of what constitutes an
appearance since the revising of the Texas statutes. Paproft
v. Alabama Gold Life Ins. Co., 4 Woods, 353; P. & A. Life
Ins. Co. v. Fitzgerald,White & Willson, 781; Liles v. Woods,
58 Texas, 419; Bradtreet Co. v. Gill, 72 Texas,-115.
fr. James S. Hogg, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
for defendant in error.
M . JusTicE BREiWiR, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It was conceded by the District and the Supreme Courts
that the service upon the defendant in St. Louis was a nullity,
and gave the District Court no jurisdiction; but it was held
that, under the peculiar statutes of the State of Texas, the
appearance for the purpose of pleading to the jurisdiction was
a voluntary appearance, which brought the defendant into
court. Plaintiff in error questions this construction of the
Texas statutes; but, inasmuch as the Supreme Court, the
highest court of the State, has so construed them, such construction must be accepted here as correct, and the only question we can consider is, as to the power of the State in respect
thereto.
It must be conceded that such statutes contravene the estab-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

lished rule elsewhere -a rule which also obtained in Texas at
an earlier day, to wit, that an appearance which, as expressed,
is solely to challenge the jurisdiction, is not a general appearance in the cause, and does not waive the illegality of the
service or submit the party to the jurisdiction of the court.
Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; Raquet v. Nixon, Dallam
(Texas), 386; .De Witt v. fonroe, 20 Texas, 289; Hagood v.
Dial, 43 Texas, 625; Robinson v. Schmidt, 48 Texas, 19.
The difference between the present rule in Texas and elsewhere, is simply this: Elsewhere the defendant may obtain
the judgment of the court upon the sufficiency of the service,
without submitting himself to its jurisdiction. In Texas, by
its statute, if he asks the court to determine any question, even
that of service, he submits himself wholly to its jurisdiction.
Elsewhere, he gets an opinion of the court before deciding on
his own action. In Texas, he takes all the risk himself. If
the service be in fact insufficient, all subsequent proceedings,
including the formal entry of judgment, are void; if sufficient,
they are valid. And the question is, whether under the Constitution of the United States the defendant has an inviolable
right to have this question of the sufficiency of the service
decided in the first instance and alone.
. The Fourteenth Amendment is relied upon as invalidating
such legislation. That forbids a State to "deprive any person
of life, liberty or property, without due process of law." And
the proposition is, that the denial of a right to be heard before
judgment simply as to the sufficiency of the service operates
to deprive the defendant of liberty or property. But the
mere entry of a judgment for money, which is void for want
of proper service, touches neither. It is only when process is
issued thereon or the judgment is sought to be enforced that - '
-liberty or property is in present danger. If at that time of
immediate attack protection is afforded, the substantial guarantee of the amendment is preserved, and there is no just
cause of complaint. The State has full power over remedies
and procedure in its own courts, and can make any order it
pleases in respect thereto, provided that substance of right is
sbcured 'without unreasonable burden to parties and litigants.

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
Syllabus.

Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769. It certainly is more convenient that a defendant be permitted to object to the service,
and raise the question of jurisdiction, in the first instance, in
the court in which suit is pending. But mere convenience is
not substance of right. If the defendant had taken no notice
of this suit, and judgment had been formally entered upon
such insufficient service, and under process thereon his property, real or personal, had been seized or threatened with
seizure, he could by original action have enjoined the.process
and protected the possession of his property. If the judgment had been pleaded as defensive to any action brought by
him, he would have been free to deny its validity. There is
nothing in the opinion of the Supreme Court or in any of the
statutes of the State, of which we have been advised, gainsaying this right. Can it be held, therefore, that legislation
simply forbidding the defendant to come into court and challenge the validity of service upon him in a personal action,
without surrendering himself to the jurisdiction of the court,
but which does not attempt to restrain him from fully protecting his person, his property and his rights against any
attempt to enforce a judgment rendered without due service
of process, and therefore void, deprives him of liberty or property, within the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment ?
We think not.
The judgment is alrmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

and Mm. JUSTICE GAY dissented.

BUTLER v. STECKEL.
APPEAT FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

PoR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 36. Argued October 24, 1890.-Decided November 3, 1890.

The claims of letters patent No. 274,264, granted to Theodore H. Butler,
George W. Earhart, and William M. Crawford, March 20, 1883, for an

