OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

years did not relieve him from his obligations as a soldier, or
his liability to military control. The order of the Circuit
Court remanding him to the custody of the appellee was correct and must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. TRINIDAD COAL AND COKING
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 774. Argued October 29, 30, 1890.

Decided November 17, 1890.

Officers, stockholders and employ6s of a private corporation formed a
scheme whereby they made entries in their individual names, but really
for the benefit of such corporation, of vacant coal lands of the United
States. The scheme was carried out, and patents were issued to such
individuals, who immediately conveyed the legal title to the corporation,
which bore all the expenses and cost of obtaining the lands, and some of
the members of which had previously taken the benefit of the statute
relating to the disposal of the public coal lands: Held,
(1) That such a transaction was in violation of sections 2347, 2348 and
2350 of the Revised Statutes;
(2) That it was not necessary to the right of the United States to maintain
a suit to set aside such patents as void, that the government should
offer to refund to the corporation the moneys advanced by it to the
patentees in order to obtain the lands, and which the latter paid
to the officers of the United States;
(3) That the rule that a suitor, asking equity, must do equity, should
not be enforced in such a case as this;
(4) That if the corporation be entitled, upon a cancellation of the patents
so obtained, to a return of such moneys, it must be assumed that
Congress will make an appropriation for that purpose when it becomes necessary to do so.
A private corporation is an association of persons within the meaning of
those sections.

THIS was a suit in equity by the United States against the
Trinidad Coal and Coking Company, a corporation created
under the laws of Colorado and engaged in the business of
mining coal. The defendant held the legal title to six tracts
of coal land within the Pueblo Land District, in the county of

UNITED STATES v. TRINIDAD COAL CO.
Statement of the Case.

Las Animas, in that State, containing in the aggregate 954
and 31-100 acres, under conveyances executed to it by various
individuals to be presently named, and .to whom, respectively,
patents were issued.
The relief sought by the government was a decree setting
aside these patents, and declaring them void and of no effect
as against the United States. The defendant demurred to
the bill upon the ground that it did not make a case for
relief in a court of equity, nor allege that any of the entries
were fraudulent or in contravention of law. The demurrer
was sustained and the bill dismissed, the opinion of the court
being reported in 37 Fed. Rep. 180. The sole question was
whether the United States was entitled upon the showing
made by the bill to the relief it asked.
Taking the allegations of the bill to be true, the case made
by the government was as follows:
On or about the 4th of June, 1883, T. J. Peter and Robert
Savage were officers and stockholders, and William H. Leffingwell, Milford N. Wells, Alexander Craigmyle, Charles F.
Schuman and Thomas Winsheimer, were employ~s of the
defendant corporation. Peter, Savage, and certain other officers and members of that corporation, whose names are unknown to the government, together with Leffingwell, Wells,
Craigmyle, Schuman and Winsheimer, formed a scheme to
procure patents for these lands "for the benefit and on behalf
of said defendant corporation, and for the purpose of enabling
said corporation to fraudulently obtain titles" from the United
States for its "coal lands in excess of 320 acres, contrary to
the statutes of the United States in such cases made and provided." In furtherance of that scheme the persons just named,
and those associated with them, or some one of them, or some
one acting for them and in their behalf, on or about the day
above named, wrote and prepared, or caused to be written
and prepared, certain affidavits, one of which was in substance
and to the effect that "no portion of the tract of land described
as the northeast quarter of section six, township thirty-four
south, of range sixty-three, west of the sixth principal meridian, and containing one hundred and fifty-two and 53-100ths
voL. cxxxvii-11

OCTOBER TERMS, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

acres, was in the possession of any other party; that said Robert Savage was twenty-one years of age, a citizen of the United
States, and had never held nor purchased, as an individual or
as a member of any association, lands under the laws of the
United States relating to the sale of coal lands of the United
States; that he, the said Savage, was well acquainted with
the character of said land and with every legal subdivision
thereof, and had frequently passed over the same; that his
knowledge of said land was such as to enable him to testify
understandingly in regard thereto; that said land contained
large deposits of coal, and was chiefly valuable therefor; that
there was not, to his knowledge, within the limits thereof, any
vein, or lode of quartz or other rock in place, bearing gold, silver
or copper; and that there was not within the limits of said
land, to his knowledge, any valuable deposits of gold, silver or
copper." This affidavit was subscribed and sworn to by Savage
on the 4th of June, 1883, before the register of the Land Office
at Pueblo. The other affidavit, subscribed and sworn to before the same officer by Leffingwell and Wells, set forth in
substance the same facts as being within their knowledge.
The conspirators, or some one or more of them, or some one
acting for them, on or about the same date, filed these affidavits in the Land Office at Pueblo, and made application, in
the name and on behalf of Savage, to enter and purchase,
under the Statutes of the United States, this tract of one hundred and fifty-two and -v acres, as vacant coal land ; and at
the same time there was paid to the receiver of public moneys
at that office the sum of three thousand and fifty and -,4o dollars as the purchase price of the tract at twenty dollars per
acre. Thereupon the register issued in duplicate a certificate
to the effect that Savage had on that day purchased this land
from that officer at the price stated; that the payment of the
price had been made in full as required by law; and that, on
the presentation of the certificate to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, he would be entitled to receive a patent
for the land. Upon the payment of this money and the issuing of the certificate, the receiver delivered to Savage, or to
the conspirators, or to some one of them, or to some one for

UNITED STATES v. TRINIDAD COAL CO.

163

Statement of the Case.

them, in duplicate, a receipt which in effect acknowledged that
he had paid the above sum as and for the price of the land at
twenty dollars per acre. This being done, the register and receiver forwarded the papers, affidavits, applications, and one of
the certificates and receipts to the General Land Office at
Washington, delivering the other duplicate certificate to the
conspirators, or to some one of them, or to some one acting
for them, "such delivery purporting to be for and on behalf
of the said Robert Savage."
Similar applications and affidavits were prepared and filed,
at the instance of the same persons, in behalf of Leffingwell,
Wells, Craigmyle, Schuman, and Winsheimer, respectively, in
reference to the remaining tracts, and they severally procured
patents to be issued, as follows: To Savage for 152 and acres; to Leffingwell, Craigmyle, Schuman and Winsheimer,
each, for 160 acres; and to Wells for 161 and y acres. The
government, relying upon such affidavits and certificates, believing that the lands were legally entered by each individual
for his own use and benefit, and in ignorance of the conspiracy
and its objects, issued patents for the several tracts, purporting thereby to convey all its rights, title, interest and estate
therein to the parties, respectively, in whose names the entries
were made. The patents were subsequently delivered to the
patentees or to some one representing them and acting in their
name.
It, also, appeared from the bill that Savage, Leffingwell,
Wells, Craigmyle, Schuman and Winsheimer did not enter
the lands for their own use dnd benefit, nor for the use and
benefit of any of them, but for the direct use and benefit of
the Trinidad Coal and Coking Company; that its officers procured the entrymen to go in a body to the city of Pueblo to
file the above papers, as stated; that the papers and affidavits
were drawn and prepared by its officers; that the expenses of
the conspirators in going to that city to make the entries were
paid by its officers, acting for it and in its behalf; that the
entire purchase money for all the tracts and all land-office
fees, costs and expenses were paid by the company; that immediately after the filing of the affidavits in the land office,

OCTOBER TERAI\,

1890.

Counsel for Parties.

and the pretended entries, Savage, Leffingwell, Wells, Craigmyle, Schuman and Winsheimer, and each of them, executed

and delivered to the company warranty deeds conveying to it
each of said tracts; that the company immediately entered
into possession, and has possessed and claimed the lands until
the present time; that no one of the patentees had ever
claimed or asserted any right or interest in them, or in any of
them, by virtue of the above fraudulent and illegal entries;
that the entries were in reality and effect a purchase of the
lands by the company; and that the entries and purchases by
the persons named were only a device to evade the laws of the
United States and to procure for the defendant a greater
amount of coal lands than it could legally purchase and hold.
The bill further alleged that these entries of coal lands were
illegal for the additional reason that, prior to the fourth of
June, 1883, Peter, being an officer and stockholder of the
company, had, on the fifth day of August, 1881, entered and
purchased under the laws of the United States one hundred
and sixty acres of vacant coal land, and other officers and
stockholders of the company, namely, Charles P. Teat, Joseph
L. Prentiss, Orlando B. Wheeler and others whose names are
unknown to the government, had purchased tracts of coal land
of the United States, all of which, entered and purchased by
T. J. Peter and by such other officers and stockholders of the
company, were, on the fourth day of June, 1883, held and
owned by the defendant, and were in the aggregate in excess
of three hundred and twenty acres of coal land; that neither
the company nor any member or officer of it, for its own
benefit or in its behalf, could then legally enter or purchase
additional coal lands from the government; and that when
said tracts were conveyed to it by the several patentees it had
full notice of the alleged fraudulent scheme, as well as of the
fact that the lands were being entered and purchased for its
benefit exclusively.
.M. Assistant Attorney General anry for appellant.
3Lt. CMarles . Gast and 3fr. A. B. Browne for appellee.
M1r. George R. Peok and _3MP. A. T. Britton were with them
on the brief.

UNITED STATES v. TRINIDAD COAL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE

'ARLA" delivered the opinion of the court.

The patents in question were based upon entries made under

sections 2347, 2348, 2350 and 2352 of the Revised Statutes,
which embody substantially provisions in an act of Congress
approved March 3, 1873, entitled "An act to provide for the
Sale of the -Lands of the United States containing Coal." 17
Stat. 607-8, c. 279. These sections are as follows:
"SEc. 2347. Every person above the age of twenty-one
years, who is a citizen of the United States, or who has declared his intention to become such, or any association of persons severally qualified as above, shall, upon application to the
register of the proper land office, have the right to enter, by
legal subdivisions, any quantity of vacant coal lands of the
United States not otherwise appropriated or reserved by competent authority, not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres to
such individual person, or three hundred and twenty acres to
such association, upon payment to the receiver of not less than
ten dollars per acre for such lands, where the same shall be
situated more than fifteen miles from any completed railroad,
and not less than twenty dollars per acre for such lands as
shall be within fifteen miles of such road.
"SEC. 2348. Any person or association of persons severally
qualified, as above provided, who have opened and improved,
or shall hereafter open and improve, any coal mine or mines
upon the public lands, and shall be in actual possession of the
same, shall be entitled to a preference-right of entry, under
the preceding section, of the mines so opened and improved:
Provided, That when any association of not less than four persons, severally qualified as above provided, shall have expended
not less than five thousand dollars in working and improving
any such mine or mines, such association may enter not
exceeding six hundred and forty acres, including such mining
improvements."
"SEc. 2350. The three preceding sections shall be held to
authorize only one entry by the same person or association of
persons; and noassociation of persons any member of which
shall have taken the benefit of such sections, either as an

OCTOBER TERMA

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

individual or as a member of any other association, shall enter
or hold any other lands under the provisions thereof; and no
member of any association which shall have taken the benefit
of such sections shall enter or hold any other lands under their
provisions; and all persons claiming under section twentythree hundred and forty-eight shall be required to prove their
respective rights; and pay for the lands filed upon within one
year from the time prescribed for filing their respective
claims; and upon failure to file the proper notice, or to pay
for the land within the required period, the same shall be
subject to entry by any other qualified'applicant."
"SEc. 2352. Nothing in the five preceding sections shall be
construed to destroy or impair any rights which may have
attached prior to the third day of March, eighteen hundred
and seventy-three, or to authorize the sale of lands valuable
for mines of gold, silver or copper."
The restrictions imposed upon the entry and purchase of
the vacant coal lands of the United States have been so clearly
expressed that no doubt can exist as to the intention of Congress in enacting the above sections. The statute authorizes
an association of persons to enter not exceeding three hundred
and twenty acres, and provides that only one entry can be
made by the same person or association, and that "no association of persons, any member of which shall have taken the
benefit of such sections, either as an individual -or as a member of any other association, shall enter or hold any other
lands under the provisions thereof."
It is contended that the ease made by the bill is not within
the prohibitions of the statute, although the demurrer admits
that the Trinidad Coal and Coking Company acquired the
lands in dispute pursuant to a scheme whereby the several
tracts were to be entered for its benefit, in the name of certain persons, its officers, stockholders and employ6s - the
title, when thus obtained, to be conveyed to the company,
which should, and did, bear all the expenses attending the
entries and purchases from the government. This contention
cannot be sustained unless the court lends its aid to make
successful a mere device to evade the statute. The policy

UNITED STATES v. TRINIDAD COAL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

adopted for disposing of the vacant coal lands of the United
States should not be frustrated in this way. It was for Congress to prescribe the conditions under which individuals and
associations of individuals might acquire these lands, and its
intention should not be defeated by a narrow construction of
the statute. If the scheme described in the bill be upheld as
consistent with the statute, it is easy to see that the prohibition upon an association entering more than three hundred
and twenty acres, or entering or holding additional coal lands,

where one of its members has taken the benefit of its provisions, would be of no value whatever. It is true, in the
present case, that some of the persons who made the entries
in question, were not, strictly speaking, members of the corporation, but only its employ~s. But as they were parties
to the alleged scheme, and were, in fact, agents of the defendant in obtaining from the government coal lands that could
not rightfully have been entered in its own name, that circumstance is not controlling. Besides, it appears from the bill
that when that scheme was formed and executed, Peter and
other officers and stockholders of the association had taken
the benefit of the statute, and that the lands originally entered and purchased by them were then held and owned by
the company, and were in excess of three hundred and twenty
acres. There is, consequently, in view of all the allegations
of the bill, no escape from the conclusion that the lands in
question were fraudulently obtained from the United States.
We say fraudulently obtained, because if the facts admitted
by the demurrer had been set out in the papers filed in the
land office, the patent sought to be cancelled could not have
been issued without violating the statute. The defendant
would not have been permitted to do indirectly that which it
could not do directly. If the patents could not have been
rightfully issued upon papers disclosing the fact that Savage,
Leffingwell, Wells, Craigmyle, Schuman and Winsheimer were
really acting in behalf of and as the agents of an association
which was to meet all the expenses attending the applications,
and which already held and owned coal lands formerly belonging to the United States, and under conveyances from some

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of its members who had previously taken the benefit of the
statute, it is difficult to perceive why the bill does not make a
case entitling the government to the relief asked. These
views are in accordance with the practice in the Department
of the Interior. Adolph Pete'sen et al., 6 Land Dec. 371;
2Northern Pac. Coal Co., 7 Land Dec. 422.
It is confidently asserted by the company that the individuals making entries who were citizens of the United States,
and not members of an association of persons, had a right,
under the statute, and upon their own responsibility, to enter,
each, the quantity of coal lands for which they respectively
received patents, and that, having obtained patents, they
were at liberty to dispose of the lands as they saw proper,
even to an association of persons which, or some member of
which, had already taken the full benefit of the statute.
Whether this be so or not, nothing else appearing than is just
stated, we need not now decide. The case before us is not of
that class. It is the case of an association seeking to evade
an act of Congress by using, for its own benefit, the names of
both its members and employ6s to obtain from the government vacant coal lands, which it could not legally obtain upon
entries made in its own name, and which it was expressly forbidden to enter by reason of some of its members having previously taken the benefit of the statute.
In X2cKinley v. Wheekr, 130 U. S. 630, 636, it was decided
that section 2319 of the Revised Statutes, declaring valuable
mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United States to be
free and open to exploration and purchase, and the lands in
which they were found to occupation and purchase by citizens
of the United States and those who have declared their intention to become such, did not preclude a private corporation,
formed under the laws of a State, whose members were citizens
of the United States, from locating a mining claim on the public lands of the United States. Thus far it has been assumed
that the defendant, although an incorporated company, is an
"association of persons" within the meaning of the statute
relating exclusively to the vacant coal lands of the government, and, as such, is subject to the restriction as to the num-

UNITED STATES v. TRINIDAD COAL

C O.

Opinion of the Court.

ber of acres of such lands that may be entered in its name.
We have seen that the right to enter such lands is given only
to persons above the age of twenty-one years who are citizens
of the United States, or have declared their intention to
become such, and to associations of persons, severally so qualified; and each person of the former class is permitted to enter
not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, while "associations of persons," severally qualified as above, may enter not
exceeding three hundred and twenty acres. ยง 2347. The
object of these restrictions as to quantity was, manifestly, to
prevent monopolies in these coal lands. The reasons that suggested the prohibitions in respect to associations of persons
apply equally to incorporated and unincorporated associations. But the purpose of the government would be defeated
altogether, if it should be held that corporations were noV
"associations of persons" within the meaning of the statute,
and subject to the restrictions imposed upon the latter by sections 2347 and 2350. It is unreasonable to suppose that Congress intended to limit the right of entering coal lands to one
hundred and sixty acres in the case of an individual, and to
three hundred and twenty acres in the case of an unincorporated association, and leave the way open for an incorporated
association, by means of entries made for its benefit in the
names of its agents, officers, stockholders, employ6s and agents,
to acquire public coal lands without any restriction whatever
as to quantity. The language of the statute, to say nothing
of the policy which underlies it, does not require or permit
any such interpretation of its provisions. The words "association of persons" are often, and not inaptly, employed to
describe a corporation. An incorporated company is an association of individuals acting as a single person, and by their
corporate name. As this court has said, "private corporations are but associations of individuals united for some common purpose, and permitted by the law to use a common
name, and to change its members without a dissolution of the
association."
Baltimore and Potomac Railroad v. Fifth
Baptist Cliurch, 108 U. S. 317, 330.
One other point discussed at the bar deserves consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended by the defendant that the United States is
subject, as a suitor, to the same rules that control courts of
equity when determining, as between private persons, whether
particular relief should be granted; that the government, asking equity, must do equity; and, consequently, that the bill
is defective in not containing a distinct offer to refund the
moneys which, it is alleged, were furnished by the defendant
to the several persons to whom patents were issued. The rule
referred to should not be enforced in a case like the present
hone. In the matter of disposing of the vacant coal lands of
the United States, the government should not be regarded as
occupying the attitude of a mere seller of real estate for its
market value. It is not to be presumed that the small price
per acre required from those desiring to obtain a title to such
lands had any influence in determining the policy to be
adopted in opening them to entry. They were held in trust
for all the people; and in making regulations for disposing of
them, Congress took no thought of their pecuniary value, but,
in the discharge of a high public duty and in the interest of
the whole country, sought to develop the material resources
of the United States by opening its vacant coal lands to entry
by individuals and by associations of persons at prices below
their actual value. The controlling object of this and similar
suits is to enforce a public statute against those who have violated its provisions. It is not disputed that the Attorney
General may, in virtue of the authority vested in him, institute
this suit. According to the allegations of the bill, which are
admitted to be true, the defendant is a wrongdoer against
whom the government seeks to vindicate its policy in reference
to the development of its vacant coal lands. Congress, when
establishing that policy, was not bound to assume that individuals or associations of individuals would attempt to defeat
it by means of fraudulent schemes or otherwise. If the defendant is entitled, upon a cancellation of the patents fraudulently and illegally obtained from the United States, in the
name of others, for its benefit, to a return of the moneys furnished to its agents in order to procure such patents, we must
assume that Congress will make an appropriation for that

M1ORGA-N'S CO. v. TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

171

Syllabus.

purpose, when it becomes necessary to do so. The proposition
that the defendant, having violated a public statute in obtaining public lands that were dedicated to other purposes, cannot
be required to surrender them until it has been reimbursed the
amount expended by it in procuring the legal title, is not
within the reason of the ordinary rule that one who seeks
equity must do equity; and, if sustained, would interfere with
the prompt and efficient administration of the public domain.
Let the wrongdoer first restore what it confesses to hrave
obtained from the government by means of a fraudulent
scheme formed by its officers, stockholders and employis in
violation of law.
Te decree is 'eversed, with directions to overrule the de-'
murrer, and for furtherproceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

MORGAN'S LOUISIANA AND TEXAS RAILROAD
AND STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. TEXAS CENTRAL
RAILWAY COMPANY; FARMERS' LOAN AND
TRUST COMPANY; AND METROPOLITAN TRUST
COMPANY.
TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY v. MORGAN'S LOUISIANA AND TEXAS RAILROAD AND
STEAMSHIP COMPANY; FARMERS' LOAN AND
TRUST COMPANY; AND METROPOLITAN TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Nos. 55, 59. Argued November 4, 1890.-Decided November 24, 1890.

When a mortgage provides that the principal shall become due for the purposes of foreclosure upon a default in interest continuing for sixty days,
the trustees in the mortgage may proceed for the collection of the whole
amount of principal and interest by bill in equity, without a formal
declaration of the maturity of such principal.

