OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

the petition is reversed and the case is remanded to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for further proceedings, as herein indicated.
Reversd.

BRANTLEY v. STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT (b# '1wr RTATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 692.

Argued April 6, 1910.-Decided April 11, 1910.

Where one has been tried in a state court for murder and convicted
of manslaughter, and, on his own motion, obtains a reversal and
new trial, on which he is convicted of a higher offense, and the constitution of the State provides that no one shall be put in second
jeopardy for the same offense save on his own motion for new trial
or in case of mistrial, there is no question involved of twice in
jeopardy under the Constitution of the United States.
132 Georgia, 573, affirmed.

TEm facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Randolph Cooper for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John C. Hart, Attorney General of the State of Georgia,
for defendant in error, submitted.
PER CURIAM: Brantley was indicted in the Superior Court
of Washington County, Georgia, charged with the offense of
murder; was tried and found guilty of voluntary manslaughter; filed a motion for new trial, and upon appeal to the state
Court of Appeals obtained a reversal of the judgment, and a
new trial was ordered.
At the second trial he filed a plea of former jeopardy, claiming that he had been tried for murder, and having been found
guilty of a lesser grade of homicide that operated to acquit
him of the charge of murder, and to try him again for murder
under the same indictment would be to try him again for an

BRANTLEY v. GEORGIA.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

offense of which he had been previously acquitted, and that
he could only he arraigned for voluntary manslaughter. This
plea was demurred to and the demurrer sustained by the court.
The case then proceeded to trial, and the jury found him
guilty of murder, whereupon he was sentenced to life imprisonment. He moved for new trial, which motion was overruled,
and thereupon he appealed to the Supreme Court of the State
of Georgia, which affirmed the judgment of the lower court.
Brantley v. State, 132 Georgia, 573.
The constitution of the State of Georgia provides that "No
*person shall be put in jeopardy of life or liberty more than
once for the same offense, save on his or her own motion for
new trial, after conviction, or in case of mistrial." This writ
of error was sued out and plaintiff in error contended that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia was in violation of
the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
and that the provision of the constitution of the State of
Georgia was null and void as construed by the state Supreme
Court.
The contention is absolutely without merit. It was not a
case of twice in jeopardy under any view of the Constitutior
of the United States.

Jvdmen affirned.

