UNITY BANKING CO. v. BETTMAN.
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

power of the United States is concerned, the State has the
right, by any rule it deems proper, to classify persons or
businesses for the purposes of taxation, subject to the condition that such classification shall not be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States; that the requirement by
the State, that all wholesale dealers in specified articles shall
pay a tax of a given amount on'their occupation, without
exacting a similar tax on the occupations of wholesale dealers
in other articles, cannot, on the face of the statute or by
reason of any facts within the judicial knowledge of the court,
be held, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment,
to deprive the taxpayer of his property without due process
of law or to deny him the equal protection of the laws; and
that the Federal court cannot interfere with the enforcement
.of the statute simply because it may disapprove its terms, or
question the wisdom of its -enactment, or because it cannot
be sure as to the precise reasons inducing the State to enact it.
For the reasons herein stated, the judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITY BANKING AND SAVING COMPANY v. BETTMAN, TRUSTEE OF HOLZMAN &CO., BANKRUPTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 126.

Argued March 4, 7, 191 0.-Decided April 4, 1910.

As against the true owner, a right of property cannot be acquired by
means of a forged written instrument relating to such property, except when the owner has by laches or gross or culpable negligence induced another who proceeds with reasonable care to act in belief that
the instrument was genuine or would be so recognized by the owner.
Where the owner of property which passes only by written transfer has
left it with another who has wilfully forged the name of such owner
to a transfer of the property, the person taking it acquires no right
thereto merely because the property was left with party committing
the forgery.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

217 T.S.

Qure, how far a broker having lawful possession of stock certificates
belonging to a customer, the legal title to which has not been transferred to him, may retain the same as security for any debt balance
of such customer.

THE only question to be determined in this case relates to
the ownership of fifty shares of preferred stock in the Philip
Carey Manufacturing Company, a corporation of Ohio.
On or about May 13th, 1905, Richard Fritz, the owner of
such shares, placed the certificate for them in the hands of
a member of the partnership of Holzman & Co., brokers,
with or through whom Fritz had some dealings. The deposit of the stock with that firm was upon an express agreement that it was to be held by them only to show Fritz's
financial responsibility, a,d was not to pass out of their
possession. There was no change in the terms or conditions
of that contract. The certificate was in the name of Fritz
Brothers, and was thus indorsed: "For value received, I, the
undersigned, hereby sell and transfer to Richard Fritz fifty
shares of stock within mentioned and described and hereby
true and lawful attorney irrevocaappoint
ble, with power and [of] substitution to transfer said stock
hand and seal
on the books of the company. Witness
this 5th day of January 1905. Fritz Bros. per Otto H. Fritz.
Witness Max Winkler."
On May 5th, 1905, without the knowledge or consent of Fritz,
this certificate was pledged by Holzman & Co. with the .Unity
Banking. and Saving Company as a substituted security for
a note, dated March 21st, 1905, for $10,000, which that firm
had executed to the bank, other security of substantially the
same value being withdrawn at the time of the substitution.
That transaction had no connection with any dealings by
Holzman & Co. for or on behalf of Fritz.
When the pledge to the bank was made there was
pinned
to
purporting
attorney
of
power
a
blank
certificate
to the
have been signed May 13th, 1905, by Richard Fritz in the
presence of Ross Holzman, the active member of the firm of

UNITY BANKING CO. v. BETTMAN.
217 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Holzman & Co. None of the blanks in the power of attorney
were then filled out, and the only writing on the paper included the date, the name of Richard Fritz in the blank for
the signature, and Ross Holzman in the blank for the attestation.
Upon the petition of certain creditors of Holzman & Co.,
that partnership and the individuals'composing it were on
July 1st, 1905, adjudicated bankrupts by the District Court of
the United Stittes for the Southern District of Ohio, the petition charging that the act of bankruptcy was committed
May 25th, 1905. Boyden was the first trustee in the bankruptcy case. He subsequently resigned and was succeeded
by Bettman. The case was sent to a Referee in Bankr
ruptcy to take such further proceedings as might be necessary.
Richard Fritz filed in the bankruptcy procepding a claim,
supported by affidavit, that he owned the certificate of stock
placed with Holzman & Co., and which, as above stated, was
afterwards pledged by that firm, without the authority or
knowledge of Fritz, with the Unity Banking and Saving
Company. He neither signed, nor authorized to be signed
for him, the blank power of attorney of May 13th, 1905, and
his nime to that paper was a forgery. It does not appear who
committed the forgery. But at the time of the hearing of the
case Ross Holzman was beyond the jurisdiction of the court
and in parts unknown. The Referee so stated.
The relief sought by Fritz was, among other. things, an
order requiring the delivery to him of the above stock in the
Philip Carey Manufacturing Company, free from the claims
of all the parties.
At the time of the hearing below the certificate for the
stock had come under the control of the court. The Banking
and Saving Company asserted its right to the possession of
the stock and to retain the certificate therefor, with authority
to apply the proceeds. of the sale of the stock on the loan for
had been pledged to the bank. The trustee asked
which it
voL.
ccxIV-9

OCTOBER TERM,. 1909.
Statement of the Case.

217 U. S.

the determination of the controversy between Richard Fritz
and the Manufacturing Company and for the protection of
the interests represented by him as trustee. He contended
that if Fritz did not sign the power in question, he authorized
it to be signed for him.
The cause was sent to a Referee in Bankruptcy, who found
that Richard Fritz had never signed the above power of
attorney, nor authorized any one to sign it for him; that he
was the owner of the fifty shares of stock represented by the
certificate; and that he was entitled to the possession of them,
free of all liens and interests, either by the Unity Banking
and Saving Company or of the trustee in bankruptcy. The
Referee thus stated his conclusion of law from the facts found
by him: "Where F deposits with a broker a certificate of
stock belonging to F and in his name, without any indorsement or power to execute or transfer of said stock, upon an
agreement that said stock is to be held by said broker as an
evidence of F's financial responsibility only and is not to
leave the broker's possession, and the broker pledges said
certificate to a bank as security upon a note of the broker for
money loaned by the bank to the broker for general use of
the broker, the bank holds said certificate, subject to all the
conditions of the original deposit by F with the broker, and
F is not estopped to claim title to said certificate as against
the bank by the mere placing of said certificate in the hands
of the broker, or the further fact that in the course of dealings
between F and the broker large balances have at various times
been owed by F to the broker when it appears that no demand
for the payment of said balances was made upon F or notice
served upon him changing the conditions of the deposit of
said stock and further, that at the conclusion of the dealings
between F and the broker, F is a creditor and not a debtor
of said broker."
This order, upon being brought before the court in bankruptcy for review, was affirmed. The case was then carried
by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the

UNITY BANKING CO.. v. BETTMAN.
217 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

decree of the District Court.. Only the Unity Bank and
Saving Company appealed to this court.
Mr. Constant Southworth, witn whom Mr. Louis J. Dolle
was on the brief, for appellant:
Fritz was engaged in a gambling transaction with thc
bankrupts. He has no standing in this court of equity to
claim the Carey certificate.
Fritz .and the bankrupts are charged with knowledge that
their dealings were illegal. .See Re A. B. Baxter & Co., 152
Fed. Rep. 137; Wood v. Hubbell, 10 N. Y. 479 Irwin v. Williar,
110 U. S. 499, 511; Flagg v. Baldwin, 38 N. J. Eq. 219, 231;
Lester v. Buel, 49 Ohio St. 240, 252; Barnard v. Backhaus, 52
Wisconsin, 593. Hence Fritz has no standing in this court
of equity. Kahn v. Walton, 46 Ohio St. 195; Higgins v.
McCrea, 116 U. S. .671; Loevy v. Kansas City, .168 Fed. Rep.
524; Marden v. Phillips, 4 Am. Bk. Rep. 566; St. Louis R. R.
Co. v. Terre Haute R. R., 145 U. S. 393, 407; Thomas v. City
of Richmond, 12 Wall. 349; Hanauer v. Doane, 12 Wall. 349.
The Unity Bank is in a far better position than the bankrupts. If the bankrupts could have interposed the defense of
illegality, much more can the Unity Bank, which is an innocent purchaser for value. Baxter v. Deneen, 98 Maryland,
181; Plank v. Jackson, 128 Indiana, 424; and see Cont'l Wall
Paper Co. v. Voight & Sons Co., 212 U. S. 227.
As against an innocent purchaser for value such as the Unity
Bank, Fritz has no standing in this Qourt of equity to recover
"he Carey certificate, because his gambling partners abused
his confidence. See Ohio statutes as to gaming, ,§ 6934a-1;
§ 1; § 6934a-2; § 6934a-4; § 4.
The Ohio statutes as to losses at gaming are in the nature
of penal statutes, Paulv. Groene, 4 0. L. R. 632; and of course
they will not be recognized .or eDforced in a Federal court.
Perkins v. B. & A. R. R. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 321. The local
law, including the Ohio cases, controls. Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

217 U. S.

The fact of the illegality of a contract may be raised at any
time in a legal proceeding; and the court may do so of its own
motion in the absence of objection by the parties. Oscanyan
v. Arms Co., 103 U. $. 261; In re Wilde's Sons, 144 Fed. Rep.
972; Loveland's Bankruptcy, 3d ed., 143.
The answer of the Unity Bank is evidence and proves that
the disputed signature is genuine and adopted by Fritz.
Bankruptcy proceedings are governed by the rules of equity.
Re McIntire, 142 Fed. Rep. 593; Bardes v. Bank, 178 U. S.
524; Dodge v. Nortin, 133 Fed. Rep. 363; Nashville Ry. Co. v.
Bum, 168 Fed. Rep. 862; Shook v. Dozier, 168 Fed. Rep. 867;
Scott v. McNeely, 140 U. S. 106; Elliott v. Toeppner, 187 U. S.
327; General Orders in Bankruptcy, No. 37; Schwarts v.
Siegel, 117 Fed. Rep. 13, 16; In ft Rochford, 124 Fed. Rep. 182;
In re Cooper. Bros., 159 Fed. Rep. 956; Goldman v. Smith, 93
Fed. Rep. 182; Dokken v. Page; 147 Fed. Rep. 438; Barton
v. Barbour, 140 U. S. 126; Rouse v. Hornsby, 161 U. S.
588; Mercantile Trust Co. v. Pitts. & W. Ry. Co., 115 Fed.
Rep. 475; Loveland's Bankruptcy, 3d ed., pp. 34, 88, 458,
459.
Marshalling assets is essentially equitable relief. 2 Pomeroy's Equitable Remedies, § 865 (6 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur.,

§865).
The circumstantial evidence in the case shows conclusively
that the power of attorney was Fritz's either by actual execution or by adoption. The referee wrongfully placed the
burden of proof on the Unity Bank, which materially prejudiced its rights. McNutt & Ross v. Kaufman, 26 Ohio St. 127;
List & Sons Co. v.'Chase, 80 Ohio St. 42.
Where a party like Fritz attempts to make his case by proving the commission of crime, as forgery, in a civil case, his
testimony must be clear and convincing. UnitedStates v. Am.
Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 224; Lexington Ins., Co. v. Paver, 16
Ohio, 324, 332; approvedi in Strader v. Mullane, 17 Ohio St.
624; Still v. Wilson, Wright, 505; Sprague v. Dodge, 48
Illinois, 142; Lalone v. United States, 164 U. S. 255; Conner v.

UNITY BANKING CO. v. BETTMAN.
217 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Groh, 90 Maryland, 674; Kansas M.-O. M. Ins. Co. v. Rammelsberg, 58 Kansas, 531.
The bankrupts had the right to rehypothecate the Carey
stock to raise money to carry out Fritz's orders. The Unity
Bank, therefore, acquired a valid lien to the extent of its advance. Lawrence v. Maxwell, 58 Barb. (N. Y.) 511; 53 N. Y.
19; Whitlock v. Seaboard National Bank, 29 Misc. (N. Y.) 84;
and see also Martin v. Megargee, 212 Pa. St. 558; Horton v.
Morgan, 19 N. Y. 170; Caswell v. Putnam, 120 N. Y. 152;
Mays v. Knowlton, 134 N. Y. 250; Berlin v. Eddy, 33 Missouri, 426; Price y. Gover, 40 Maryland, .103.
The rehypothecation of the Carey certificate to the Unity
Bank gave it in equity all the rights of the bankrupts. Talty
v. Freedman's Savings & Trust Co., 93 U. S. 321; Belden v.
Perkins, 78 Illinois, 449; and see also Donald v. Suckling,
L. R., 1 Queen's Bench, 585; Reardon v. Patterson, 19 Montana, 231; National Cash Register Co. v. Cerrone, 76 Ohio St.
12.
It is also held that the assignment of the collateral carried
with it the debts secured. Lahmers v. Schmidt, 35 Minnesota,
434; Dintruff v. Crittenden, 1 Thomp. & C. (N. Y.) 143;
Hawkins v. Oswald, 2 Woodw. Dec. (Pa.) 345.
It makes no difference whether or not Fritz knew of the
equitable assignment to the Unity Bank of his debt, or that
the equitable assignment was of part only of his debt to the
bank. Knickerbocker Trust Co. v. Coyle, 139 Fed. Rep. 792;
Exchange Bank v. McLoon, 73 Maine, 498, 505; Jones on
"Liens," 2d ed., § 43. Fritz's debt to the bankrupts is still
unpaid. Fritz was negligent and must bear any loss that may
occur. FirstNational Bank of Chicagov. Baird, 141 Fed. Rep.
862; Brown v. Blydenburg,.7 N. Y. 141, approved in Kenochan
v. Dunham, 48 Ohio St. 1, 24; Syracuse Savings Bank v.
Merrick, 182 N. Y. 387; Hoffmaster v. Black, 78 Ohio St.
1; 4 Cyc. 85, note 13.
Even though Fritz could recover the Carey stock from the
bankrupts, he cannot recover it from an innocent transferee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

such as the Unity Bank. Fenno v. Satre, 3 Alabama, 458;
Willis v. Hockaday, 1 Spear (So. Car. Law), 37N): Chiles v
Coleman., 2 A. K. Marshall (Ky.), 296 (687); Neuremberger v.
Lehenhauer, 23 Ky. L. Rep. 1753; Greathouse v. Throckmorton,
7 J. J. Matshall (30 Ky.), 17, 28; Harrod v. Black, 1 Duv.
(62 Ky.) 180; Braswell v. Braswell, 109 Xentucky, 15, 17;
Smith v. Kamerer, 152 Pa. St. 98; Martinez v. Lindsey & Gay,
91 Alabama, 334; Parsonsv. Joseph, 92 Alabama, 403; Maue v.
Krell Piano Co., 7 0. L. R. 539; Lawler v. Kell, 4 Ohio Nisi
Prius, 218;, Oliver v. Cincinnati, C. & W. Tpk. Co., Hosev.,
457, affirmed. And see Combes v. Chandler et al., 33 Ohio St.
178.
Mr. Theodore Horstman for appellee Fritz.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

riefly outlined, the ease as disclosed by the above statement is this: The certificate of stock in the Carey Manufacturing Company was placed in the possession of Holzman & Co.
under an express agreement that it should not go out of their
pos ession, but be held'simply for the purpose of showing
Pritz's financial responsibility; that Holzman & Co. had no
authority to pledge the stock with the Unity Banking and
Saving Company as security for the payment of their individual note for $10,000 to that institution; that the pledging of the stock with the bank by Holzman & Co. was without
Fritz's knowledge; that his signature to the blank power of
attorney was unauthorized by him and was a forgery: that
Fritz did not, by anything said, done or omitted by him, lead
the bank to .believe that he had executed such power of attorney, or had authorized any one to do so for him; and that
he never, in any way, ratified the forgery of his name or
approved the pledging of the stock to the Unity Banking and
Saving Company for the individual debt of Hoizman & Co.

UNIrY BANKING CO. v. BETTMAN.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In view of these facts-which the Referee as well as the District and Circuit Courts of Appeals correctly held to have been
established by the evidenc-e-it would seem unnecessary to
cite authorities to 6how thut., s' between the bank and Fritz,
the bank did not acquire any interest, legal or equitable, in
the stock represented by the certificate placed in the possession of Holzman & Co. under the circumstances stated. The
bank no doubt relied upon-the integrity of that firm, and acted
in the belief that Fritz had in fact signed the blank power of
attorney or authorized it be signed for him. But that belief
was not, accordi.g to the evidence, superinduced by anything said, done or omitted by Fritz. He was -notchargeable
with laches or negligence. The bank having elected to rely
upon.Holzman & Co., must stand the consequences. It cannot say that it was misled by Fritz to its prejudice. It could
not,, therefore, as betveen itself and Fritz, take anything in
virtue of the forgery. As against the true owner, a right of
property cannot be acquired by means of a forged written
instrument relating to such property. This is the general rule.
An exception to the rule arises where the owner by laches, or
by culpable, gross negligence, or by, remaining silent when
he should speak, has induced another, proceeding with reasonable caution, to act with reference to the .property, in the
belief that the instrument was genuine, or would be so recognized by the owner. In such cases the owner would be
equitably estopped to rely upon the fact of forgery, as against
the person who was misled by his conduct. There are no facts
in this case from which could arise an exception to the general
rule.
Nor, in view of the fats, need we follow the example of
dounsel and enter upon an examination of the cases bearing
on the general inquiry as to the circumstances under which
a broker who, by the act of the owner, comes into the lawful
possession of a stock certifica e-but, without the legal title
having been transferred to him-may retain the certificate
as security for any balance ascertained upon settlement due

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

217 U. S.

him on account of dealings for crr on behalf of such customer.
We say this, because it appears, and it is so found, that at the
close of the business transacted by Holzmar, & Co. for Fritz,
the latter was a creditor, not a debtor, of that. firm.
In any aspect in which the case can be properly viewed,
and for the reasons stated, the judgment sustaining Fritz's
claim to the stock and certificate in question faust be
Affirmea.

ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 111.

Argued January 26, 27, 1910-Decided April 4, 1910.

Where the constitutional defenses asserted in the answer, and embraced in the instructions asked, and refused, in an action for penalties for violating an order of a state commission are net confined to
the reasonableness of the order as such, but also challenge the power
of the State to inflict the penalty at allunder the circumstances dinclosed by the answer, the judgment does not rest on gounds of local
law alone, but a Federal right has been set up and denied which giv&
this court jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709, Rev.
Stat.
A state statute which compels a railroad to distribure cars for shipments in a manner that subjects it'to payment of hL rvy penaltiein connection with its interstate busmess irnpow? a burden on it,
interstate business, and is unconstitutional under fhe commerce
clause of the Constitution; and so held in regard to thp Arkansas act
and order of the commission in regard to distribution of cars for
shipment of freight.
Whether or not the rules of an association of railroads in regard to exchange of cars are efficient to secure just dealings as to cars moved iD
interstate commerce is a matter within Federal control, and it is beyond the power of a state court to determine that they are inefficient
and to compel a member of the association to violate such rules.
85 Arkansas, 311, reversed.

