OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court,

217 U. S,

OWEN v. DUDLEY & MICHENERI.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEAL8 OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 142.

Argued April 7, 8, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.

In this case a contract made by the attorney of record with associate
counsel for professional services to be paid out of feeb in an Indian

litigation in the Court of Claims ponstrued; and, although the contract provided that in case the fees were not provided for by legislation but had to be proved each party should prove his fee inde.
pendently, held, that as the attorney of record had cal[ected without
legislation the entire fee originally contemplated and allowable he
must account for the amount so collected by him and pay the associate counsel the amount agreed under the contract.
31 App. D. C. 177, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract for
legal fees, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Robeson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel A. Putman and Mr. Charles Poe for defendants
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by defendants in error against plaintiff in
error tQ recover the sum Qf ten thousand drllars ($10,000),
alleged to be due on account of the folloving contract entered
into by the parties:
"This memorandum of agreement witnesses: That John
Vaile, Esq., of Fort Smith, Ark., having been erployed by
the Eastern Cherokee Council of the Cherokee Nation, Iiidian Territory, under. contract of Febrizary E.".d April, 1900
and ratified a third time by that cour,-tIl cf September 4, 1901:

OWEN v. DUDLEY.
217 U.S.

.Opinion of the Court.

"And whereas, the said John Vaile has employed the
services of Robert L. Owen, of Muscogee, Indian Territory,
under his aforesaid contracts:
'"Now, therefore, the premises considered, the said Owen
hereby contracts and agrees to convey to W. W. Dudley and
L. T. Michener, partners of the firrm of Dudley & Michener,
the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) out of the fee so
pledged to the said Owen, immediately upon the collection,
or in the exact proportion as the said fees may be collected,
it being understood and agreed that this contract is conditioned upon the collection of the fees aforesaid. And in the
contingency of the said fees not being provided for by legislation, as per the contract of the Eastern Cherokee Council
aforesaid, but upon proof of services, then, and in that event,
each of the parties hereto shall prove .service independently
of the other, and said Owen shall not be expected, out of fees
collected for his personal service, to pay the fee to the said
Dudley & Michener, but it is understood and agreed that he
will, in such a contingency, do what he can to assist Dudley &
Michener to collect the fee hereby contracted by them.
"The said Dudley & Michener, on their part, agree to give
their co-operation in the collection of the money due the
Eastern Cherokees and to assist the said Owen as associate
counsel in this case..
. "Witness our hands and seals in duplicate on this 28th day
of May, 1902.
[SEAL]
ROBERT L. OWEN.
"(Signed)
[SEAL]"
DUDLEY & MICHENER.
"(Signed)
The question in the case turns upon the construction of the
following provision of the contract: "And in the contingency
of the fees not being provided for by legislation, as per the
contract of the Eastern Cherokee Council aforesaid, but upon
proof of services, then, and in that event, each of the parties
hereto shall prove service independently of the other, and
said Qwen shall not be expected out of fees collected for his

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

personal service to pay the fees to the said Dudley and Michener, but it is understood and agreed that he will, in.such a
contingency, do what he can to assist Dudley and Michener
to collect the fees hereby contracted by them." Certain facts
were found by the trial court as helping to clear up, with the
statute law then existing, the ambiguity of the provision.
That court deduced from them a meaning favorable to plaintiff in error. The Court of Appeals found in them evidence of
a different meaning and reversed the judgment. of the trial
court. The facts found, in addition to the.agreement, are as
follows:
"On March 20, 1905, the Court of Claims rendered a judgment in the case of the Eastern Cherokees against the United
States. On April 17, 1905, the defendant,.- Owen, addressed
the following letter to the plaintiffs:
'The Southern,
'St. Louis, April 17, 1905.
'Dudley & Michener, Washington, D. C.
'Gentlemen: I expect to be at Riggs House about April 28th,
1905, and wish by that time you would make up a careful
affidavit of services rendered in case under contract of May 28,
'02, as I am preparing decree and wish to protect'your fee.'
Yours truly,
R.L..OwEN.'.
"A few days thereafter the plaintiff Michener met the defendant, and was told by him that he had abandoned the
purpose to make -application for fees at that time and would.
postpone said application until after the Supreme Court of
the United States, to which the said casd was to be appealed,
had acted thereon, and the application was so postponed. by
the defendant Owen. The judgment of the Court of Claims
was affirmed by the Supreme Court with a slight modification.
After the return of the mandate of.the Supreme Court to the
Court of Claims the defendant Owen, who was. one of the attorneys of record in the case in the Court of Claims, together
with his co-attorney of record, R. V. Belt, made an applita-

OWEN v. DUDLEY.
217.U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

tion to the Court of Claims for the allowance of 15 per cent of
the judgment to them as their fee. By agreement between
the said Owen and Belt and certain of their associate attor-.
neys, other than the plaintiffs, and without -notice from defendant to the plaintiffs, the court apportioned the fee of
15 per -cent among said Owen and Belt and those. associate
attorneys, in accordance wIth their several contracts.
"Under the rules of the Courtof Claims the attorneys of
record had absolute. control of the distribution of the fee allowed by the court, and the court, not recognizing any associate counsel, save as directed by the attorneys of record,
the. plaintiffs could. not, und.er 'the rules of the court, have
claimed..any fee except by permission of the said attorneys
Of record.•
"Under'said decree the'defendant, Owen, was. allowed and
was paid the full amount of fees contemplated to be received
by him according to the terms of the said coitract between
him and Dudley &.Michener..
*"The plaintiffs were not parties. to the said agreement between Owen- and. Belt;. as attorneys of record, and said associate counsel, and had no further. notice from Owen that any
application was to be made to the court to apportion fees to.
any counsel except attorneys of record, nor were they ever
further notified by the*defendant .toprepare and render proof
of their services after the interview between the plaintiff
Michener and the defendaiit, in April, 1905."
.The trial court also"found that defendants, in error gave
plaintiff in error "their .cb-operation, assistance and services
in the prosecution and collection of the claim referred to in
said contract,' as said. contract provided they should do,"
and..that they have not been paid anything therefor.
The contentions of the parties are in sharp opposition.
Plaintiff in error contends that the "contingenicy" provided
for in the passage which we. have quoted was direct and positive legislation,. fixing his fee, and cites instances of such legislation as-examples in the minds and intention of -the parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Defendants in error contend that the legislation contemplated
was that which would exempt plaintiff in errof from making
prdof of service to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and to
the Secretary of the Interior under §§2103 to 2106, bdth..inelusive, of the Revised. Statutes of the' Uniteci States. And'
that the. acts of Congress which we shall presently refer to
costitute such legislation.
That some legislation there might be. is conceded by both
parties. That some proof of service might become necessary
is also conceded by both parties. The disagreement is as to
what tribunal, whether the Secretary of the Interior and the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs or the Court of Claims. There
was some legislation, and this is urged by defendants .in error
ae proof of their contention; there was in a sense a proof.of
services required, and this is urged by ,plaintiff in error as a
support of his contention. It must therefore, be conceded
that each. contention has plausible support, and the different
meanings which the lower courts assigned to the agreeme.O
show its ambiguity. The trial court, as we have seen, taing
the view contended for by plaintiff in error, the Court of Appeals that urged by defendants in error, and decided that the
contract referred to the proof of services required by §§ 2103
to 2106.
Those sections provide that no agreement shall be made by
any person with any tribe of Indians or individual Indians
not citizens of the United States (italics ours) unless the.agreemert be in writing and in 'duplicate and. ( 2103, 2d par.)
"be executed beforea judge of a court, and bear, the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior and the. Commissioner of In
dian Affairs endorsed. upon it.", Many other formalities are
prescribed, and it is provided that contracts and, agreements
made in. violation of the section "shall be null and void, and
all money or other thing of value . .. , in excess of the
amount approved by the Commisioner and. Secretary for such
services may be recovered by suit in the name of the United
regardless of the amount in controversy."
States, ..

OWEN v.. DUDLEY.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By § 2104 it is provided that no money shall -be paid under such contract .except for fees due thereunder and by the
United States through its officers or agents, and not until a
sworn statement be filed with the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, showing each particular act of service, giving date and
facts in detail," and the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs shall determine therefrom whether,
in their judgment, such contract or agreement has been complied with or fulfilled; if so, the same may be paid. and if not,
it shall be paid in proportion to the services rendered under
the contract." It is provided in § 2105 that if any person receives money contrary to the provisions of the preceding sdction he shall forfeit the sum paid, and be punished by fine and
imprisonment
It will be observed that these provisions apply to Indians
-not citizens of the United States, and it is pointed out that the
Eastern Cherokees became citizens March 3, 1901, c. 868, 31
Stat., pt. 1, p. 1447. That may be true, but thefoundation
of Owen's right to the fee was under an agreement with John
Vaile, and the latter's right to engage Owen depended upon
a contract with the Indians made in February and April,
1900, that is, a contraL which was made before citizenship.
had been conferred upon the Indians. It certainly, can be
contended that when the Vaile contract was made it was subject to the provision of §§ 2103 et seq., and that the approval
of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the Secretary of
the Interior was necessary to give it validity. It is true that
it was ratified by the Indians September the 4th, 1901, that
is, after they had been made citizens, but the effect of that
might be disputed, and there being elements of doubt about
it plaintiff in error and defendants in error well might have
supposed the contract would be subject to the provisions of
the Revised Stafutes quoted above. The. fact that legislation was sought confirms such view. If the Indians after
March 3, 1901, had the same power to contract and the same
extent of responsibility as white citizens, their contract would

OCTOBER TERM,1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

need no confirmation by legislation. But such freedom of
contract "was certainly not supposed to exist. It is not .with:.
out importance that the first act passed contained a limitation of it, and adopted the proof of services required by the
Revised Statutes. .That act conferred jurisdiction on the
Court of Claims to hear ad determine the claim of th? Indians
and provided that any suit brought under it should "be
through attorneys -employed and to be compensated in the
manner prescribed in sections 2103 to 2106, both inclusive,
of the Revised Statutesof the United States."
It must therefore have been a proof of services by sworn
statement, as provided inthe. sections referred to,. that the
parties contemplated. -There were no other provisions in existence and there is not a circumstance to show that in the
legislation that was looked forward to there would be provision for a proof of services which should supersede the contract of Vaile with the Indians and be the means. through
which Owen. would be compensated,. The legislation which
was finally secured cannot be said to have required or provided
for a proof of services in the sense that those words are used
in the contract of plaintiff in error and. defendants in error.
The final act was passed March 3, 1903. It made the Eastern Cherokees, so called, including those in the Cherokee Nation, a band or bands for all purposes of § 68 of. the act of
July 1, 1902, and provided that the. prosecution of the suit
in the Court of Claims on the part of the Eastern Cherokees
should "be through attorneys employed by their proper au-.
thorities, their compensation for expense and services 'rendered in relation to such claim to be fixed by the Court of
Claims upon the determination of such suit." March 3, 1903,
c. 994, 32 Stat. pt. 1, p. 996. In other words, it recognized
whatever contract of employment that should be made by
the AIndians with their atlorneys, and it gave the Court of
Clahns power over the amount of compensation. But that
sucdh -power might be given, or rather that there might be a
limitation of the amount agreed upon, and therefore a re-

OWEN i. DUDLEY.
217 U. S.

495

Opinion of the Court.

duction of the amount to be received by the plaintiff in error
under the Vaile contract, was contemplated. The agreement
recites that he (plaintiff in error) had been employed by Vaile,
and that be agrees "to convey" to defendants in error "the
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) out of the fees so
placed" to him "immediately upon the collection, or in the.
exact proportionas the saidfees may be collected" (italics ours).
It seems to us, therefore, that the contract contemplated two
contingencies and provided for them. (1) That the fee of
plaintiff in error might receive reduction, even if it should be
specifically provided for by legislation. In. such case the
amount to be paid to defendants in error would be proportionately reduced. (2) That if the fee as fixed by the Vaile
contract should be subject to supervision by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the proof of services required as
provided by § 2104, then the parties should make such proof
independently.
It is contended by plaintiff in error that "the Vaile contract was confessedly invalid and was not enforced and Owen
(plaintiff in error) was not paid by virtue of its validity, but
upon 'proof of service.'" The contention as to the invalidity
of that contract. is made for the first time in a supplemental
brief filed by plaintiff in error after the oral argument. The
contract had no validity, it is said, "for the simple reason that
there were thirty-two thousand Eastern Cherokees, citizens
of the United States, who obviously could not be bound by
a few of their numbers." The purpose of the contention, no
doubt, is to show that the contract was not, and that proof
of services was, the ground of the action of the Court of
Claims. And yet it is conceded that to Vaile was -assigncd
three per cent of the fee allowed by the court. Why? It may
be asked, and what other evidence is there in the record that
plaintiff in error had any authority to appear for the Indians
except through his engagement by Vaile? He was one of the
attorneys of record-how did he become such? May -weassume that it was in some other. way than the record shows?

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

The contention, however, has not much relevancy. The
agreement sued on states the authority of plaintiff to be the
Vaile contract and the foundation of his power to engage defendants in error. His services and their services get their
sanction from that contract, and according to the findings of
the trial court he "was paid the full amount of the fees contemplated to be received by him according to the terms of the
said contract between him and Dudley & Michener."

Our construction of the contract is fortified by that finding.
It is also fortified by the letter which plaintiff in error addressed to the defendants in error April 17, 1905, which is set
out in the bill of exceptions, and the subsequent conversation
he had with them. It is also fortified by the finding of the
trial court that the attorneys of record had absolutif control
of the distribution of the fees. The latter finding is attacked
by plaintiff in error, and it is asserted that it has no justification in the rules of the Court of Claims, and is contradicted
by the fact that fees were allowed others for services. We
must take the record as we find it, and under what circumstances fees were allowed others does not appear. But the
fact does appear, and we repeat it because we regard it asespecially pertinent, that the plaintiff in error received the
fees and the exact fees that he expected to receive by his contract with Vaile with aid of legislation, upon which event he
promised to pay defendants in error ten thousand dollars
($10,000) for their services. And there is no denial that they
rendered them, and no question is made of their value and
efficiency.
Judgmen affirmed.

