HEIKE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

HEIKE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 849. Submitted April 11, 1910.-Decided May 2, 1910.
Appellate jurisdiction in the Federal system of procedure is purely
statutory. American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville, Tampa &
-Key West Railway Co., 148 U. S. 372.
A case cannot be brought to this court by piecemeal; it'can only be
reviewed here.afte. final judgment.
A decree is final for the purposes of review by this court when it terminates the litigation on the merits and leaves nothing to be done except to enforce by execution what has been determined. St. Louis,
Iron Mountain &.Southern R. R. Co. v. Express Co., 108 U..S. 24.
A judgment overruling. a special plea of immunity under statutory
provisions, with leave to plead over, does not, in a criminal case,
terminate the whole matter in litigation,'and is not a final judgment
to which a writ of error will lie from this court.
The immunity of one testifying before a grand jury, under the act of
February. 25, 1903, 32 Stat. 904, as amended June 30, 1906, 34 Stat.
798,. does not render him immune from any prosecution whatever,
but furnishes a defense which, if improperly overruled, is a basis
for reversal of a final judgment of conviction.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. JohnB. Stanchfield and
Mr. George S. Graham were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
A judgment, to be appealable, need not be one that finally
determines the case. If the judgment from which an appeal
is taken, settles a collateral matter distinct from the general
subject of the litigation, it is a final, appealable judgment
within the law. McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661; Bowker v..
United States, 186 U. S. 135, only hold that appeals direct to
this cQurt under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, may be taken

from a final judgment alone. They leave unsettled what constitutes a final judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

The immunity statute provides: "No person shall be prosecuted," etc., and unless'this court entertains this writ of error,
the defendant will be denied an immunity from prosecution,
given to him under the statute in lieu of the constitutional
privilege and safeguard against self-accusation embodied in
the Fifth Amendment; and no subsequent action of this
court, after either conviction or acquittal, can'repair the
wrong thus done.
This question is an absolutely new one. While a judgment
of respondeat ouster is usually not a final or appealable order,
the judgment herein is not one of respondeat ouster.. There is
no analogy between this case and those involving autrefois
acquit or convict, former jeopardy, senatorial privilege, and the
like. See Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547.
No substitute for the protection contemplated. by the
Amendment would be sufficient were, its operation less extensive and efficient. It constituted a protection in advance.
The substitute provided by the statute must equal the privilege that has been taken away, and furnish protection from
prosecution in advance. See Shiras, J., in Brown v. Walker,
161 U. S. 592.
-This court, having declared that the- immunity statute is
constitutional; is all the more bound to see that the substitute which, it provided- shall not be a mockery and a snare.
The Order of the court directing plaintiff in error to go to
trial, is a violation of the rights of the plaintiff in error as
guaranteed to him by the immunity statutes.
To permit the trial to proceed takes away that which never
can be restored. In: fact, plaintiff in error will have been
compelled to testify against himself.
The rule as to *hat will constitute finality and give the
appealable quality is alike in civil and criminal matters. For
instances in which decrees analogous to the one involved were
held final, see Forgay v. Conrad,6 How. 201; Bru.Rh Elertric
Co. :v. Electric Imp. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 557.
The controversy in this case over the immunity of plain-

HEIKE v. UNIThD STATES
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tiff in error settles a collateral matter distinct from the general subject of litigation. See McGourkey v. Toledo &c. Railway Co., 146 U. S. 536.
Whenever there is a determination of some question of
right, a decision is final in the sense in which an appeal from
it is permitted, if it decides :and disposes of the whole merits
of the case as between the parties on that issue. Alexander v.
.United States, 201 U. S. 117, distinguished. That and other
similar"cases admit that where the court below proceeds to
compel the witness to answer, there is a final, reviewable decision or judgment; and see Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Baird, 194

U. S. 25.
The only thing that can follow in this case, is prosecution;
and the court'has ordered prosecution, and this stands in
the place of the order of the. court directing punishment for
contempt. The question of immunity is not one involved in
the general issue, -but a separate and distinct privilege. Williams V: Morgan, 111 U. S. 684, 698.
Plaintiff in -error might.have allowed. sentence to go against
him without asking for' any further opportunity of defense,
and thus have created a final judgment, but why should he?
Thejudgment entered upon his plea, and the order to proceed
to trial, constitute as complete 'a violation of his rights as
that which is reached where a withess is ordered to answer
and, upon refusal, is committed for contempt. Hazeltine v.
Bank, 183 U. . 130; Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198 U. S. 173.
Appeals taken from the judgment relate to . the highest
court of a State reversing and remanding the cause for further
proceedings, and have no application to this question; nor
has California v. San Pablo & Tulare Co., 149 U. S. 308, 314;
Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651; Kimball v. Kimball, 174 U. S.
158; Rankin v. The State, 11 Wall. 380.
The immunity statute does more than merely furnish a
defense to a defendant when put on trial. It gives him freedom from actually being put on trial.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U.'S.

An immunized person has greater rights than an innocent
person. The former has given up and surrendered something
on the strength of the pledge of the United States contained
in the'statute, while the innocent person has given up nothing:
It cannot be said of the -innocent 1erson that he shall not be
prosecuted; while it has been said most emphatically that
the immunized person shall not be prosecuted.
The cases of Rebstock v. Superior Court of San Francisco,
146 California, 38, those -quoted from Wisconsin, and Regina v. Skeen, 8 Cox, C. C. 143, 153, etc., are inapplicable. .
The reference to the Criminal Appeals Act has no relevancy. United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393, simply decided
that this act was constitutional.
Plaintiff in error suffers a grievous hardship if he be compelled to await the end of the case below before having his
rights under the immunity plea reviewed. There is no ground
for the fears expressed by the Government with reference to
the increase of business through interlocutory reviews. Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117, cited by the Government
in faet sustains the contention of plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor General, Mr. Henry L. Stimson, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Mr.. Felix Frankfurter,
Assistant United States Attorney, for: the United States.
MR.

JusTICE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Charles R. Heike, was indicted, with
others on January 10, 1910,, for alleged violations of the
customs laws of the United States in connection 'with the
fraudulent importation of sugar, and also for conspiracy under § 5440 of the kevised Statutes of the United States to
defraud the United States of its -revenues. Heike appeared
and filed a special plea in bar claiming" immunity from prosecution under the act of February 25, 1903, c. 755, 32 Stat.
904, as amended June 30, 1906, c. 3920, .34 Stat. 798. The
plea set up in substance that Heike had been called -upon to

HEIKE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

testify before the grand jury in matters concerning the
prosecution against him, and had thereby become immune
from prosecution under the law. The Government filed a
replication, taking issue upon the matters set up in the
plea. The issues thus raised were brought to trial before
a jury in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and at the conclusion of
the testimony the Government and the defendant each
moved for direction of a verdict, and the court thereupon
instructed the jury to find the issues joined in favor of the
Government. Upon application by Heike he was granted
the privilege of pleading over, and he thereupon entered
a plea of not guilty, and the case was set for trial on
March 1, 1910.
No judgment having been entered in the case mandamus proceedings were brought in this court, and in pursuance of its order a judgment nunc pro tunc was entered
as of February 14, 1910, as follows: "Judgment be and
is hereby entered for the United States upon the verdict
with leave to the defendant to plead over."
On February 25. 1910, a writ of error was allowed to the
Circuit Court from this court. by one of its justices. The
Govermuent then moved, February 28, 1910, to vacate
the order allowing the writ. That motion was overruled,
March 14, 1910, and the Government made the present
motion to dismiss the writ of error, upon the ground that
the judgment entered as of February 14, 1910, is not a final
judgment within the meaning of the Court of Appeals Act.
The motion to dismiss brings to the attention of the court
the important question of practice as to whether, after a
judgment has been entered upon a verdict setting up the
plea of immunity under the act of February 25, 1903, as
amended June 30, 1906, finding the issues against the defendant, with leave given to plead over, and a plea of not
guilty entered, on which no trial has been had, such judgment is, or is not, a final judgment reviewable by writ of error

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 1.

from this court where a constitutional question is involved,
under § 5'of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
The appellate jurisdiction in the Federal system of procedure is purely statutory. American Construction Co. v.
Jacksonville, Tampa & Key West Ry. Co., 148 U. S. 372, 378.

For many years it did not exist in criminal cases. It has been
granted by statute in certain cases; and criminal cases in
which are involved a deprivation of constitutional rights, may
be brought to this court by writ of error under §5 of the Court
of Appeals Act. Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283.
In the case at bar it is the contention of the plaintiff in error
that he was deprived of the constitutional right of trial by jury
in the direction by the court that the jury find a verdict against
him upon his plea in bar. The question then is, Is the judgment entered nunc pro tune as of February 14, 1910, a reviewable one under the statute? That judgment in effect denied
the validity of the plea in bar, and left the defendant to plead
over, which he did. putting in issue the averments of the indictment.
The construction of §5 of thQ Court of Appeals Act was before'this court in the case of McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, 665,
and it was there held that the allowance of appeals or writs of
error under that section must be understood to have the meaning which those terms had always had under acts of Congress
relating to the appellate jurisdiction of this court, and that
taken in that sense appeals or writs of error could only be
allowed in cases in which there had been a final judgment.
Mr. Justice Lamar, who spoke for the court in that case,
pointed out that under the Judiciary Act of 1789 no appeal
would lie to this court except from final judgments or decrees,
and further stated that this was only declaratory of the settled
practice of England, where no writ of error would lie except
from a final judgment; and if the writ was made returnable
before'such judgment it would be quashed, and in this connection, speaking for the court, the learneoi justice said:
"From the very foundation of our judicial system the ob-

HEIKE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ject and policy of the acts of Congress in relation to appeals
and writs of error

...

have been to save the expense

and delays of repeated appeals in the same suit, and to have
the whole case and every matter in controversy in it decided
in a single appeal."
McLish v. Roff, supra, has been followed and approved in
this court. American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville, Tampa
& Key West Ry., 148 U. S. 372; Kirwan v. Murphy, 170 U. S.
205, 209; Ex parte National Enameling Co., 201 U. S. 156.
It may, therefore, be regarded as the settled practice of this
court that a case cannot be brought here by piecemeal, and is
only to be reviewed here after final judgment by direct appeal
or writ of error in a limited class of cases under J 5 of the Court
of Appeals Act.
It is unnecessary to enter upon a full consideration of what
constitutes a final judgment, a subject of much discussion.
The definition of a final judgment or decree was tersely stated
by Mr. Chief Justice Waite in St. Louis, Iron Mountain & S. R.
R. Co. v. Express Co., 108 U. S. 24, 28, in these terms: "A decree is final for the.purposes of an appeal to this court when it
terminates the litigation between the parties on the merits of
the case and leaves nothing to be done but to enforce by execution what has been determined."
If we apply the definition herein contained of a final judg-.
ment or decree it appears certain that the judgment of respondeat ouster, leaving the case with issue joined upon the
plea of not guilty, does not dispose of the whole matter litigated in this proceeding, leaving nothing to be done except the
ministerial act of executing the judgment. The thing litigated
in this case is the right to convict the accused of the crime
charged in the indictment. Certainly that issue has not been
disposed of, much less has a final order been made concerning
it, leaving nothing but an execution of it yet undone. The
defendant was indicted for the crime alleged, and being apprehended he had a right to raise an issue of law upon the indictment by demurrer, to plead in bar, or to plead the general

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

*issue. He chose to plead in bar immunity from prosecution
by reason of the statute referred to. That issue was, by direction of the court, whether properly or improperly, held
against him and the verdict of the jury and the judgment of
respondeat ouster duly entered. At the common law upon the
failure of such plea in:a case of misdemeanor it was usual at
once to sentence the defendant as upon conviction of guilt of
the offense charged. In cases of felony it was usual to permit a
plea of not guilty after judgment over. In the case at bar the
record shows after the return of the verdict the plaintiff in
error's counsel asked to be permitted to plead, and was allowed that privilege. As the case now stands, upon the plea
of not guilty, upon which the issue raised must be tried to a
jury, certainly the whole matter has not been disposed of.
It may be that upon trial the defendant will be acquitted on
the merits. It may happen that for some reason the trial will
never take place. In either of these events there can be no
conclusive judgment against the defendant in the case. It is
true tlhat in a certain sense an order concerning a controlling
question of law made ina case is, as to that question, final.
-Many interlocutory rulings and orders effectually dispose of
,,some matters in controversy, but that is not the test of finality
for the purposes of appeal or writ. of error. The purpose of
the statute is to give a review in one proceeding after final
judgment of matters in controversy in any given case. Any
contrary construction of the Court of Appeals Act may involve the 'necessity of examining successive appeals or writs
of error in the same case, instead of awaiting, as has been the
practice since the beginning of the Government, for one review after a final judgment, disposing of all controversies in
that case between the parties.
But it is urged by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in
error that this judgment must be held to be final for the purpose of review, otherwise the Government cannot keep the contract of immunity which it has made with the accused, by
virtue of the terms of the immunity statute, which provides:

HEIKE v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

".No person shall be prosecuted or be subjected to any
p nalty or forfeiture.for or on account of any transaction,
matter, or thing concerning which he may testify or produce
evidence, documentary or otherwise, in any proceeding, suit,
or prosecution under said acts [Sherman anti-trust and interstate commerce acts].

.

.

By the amendatory act of June 30, 1906, c. 3920, 34 Stat.
798, it was provided that the above immunity shall extend
only to a natural person who, in obedience to a subpoena, gives
testimony under oath or produces evidence, documentary or
otherwise, under oath.
In view of the provisions of this act it is argued that the
complete, immunity promised is not given unless the person
entitled to the benefits of the act is saved from prosecution, for,
it is contended, that if the. act is to be effective it means not
only immunity from punishment, but from prosecution as
well. It is admitted in the brief of the learned counsel for the
plaintiff in error that prosecution must necessarily proceed so
far as an indictment and apprehension are concerned, but
when the plea of immunity under this act is entered, if well
taken, the prosecution must be ended, as the statutes provide
that no person shall be prosecuted, etc. But we are of opinion
that the statute does not intend to secure to a person making
such a plea immunity from prosecution, but to provide him
with a shield against successful prosecution, available to him
as a defense, and that when this defense is improperly overruled it may be a basis for the reversal of a final judgment
against him. Such promise df immunity has not changed the
Federal system of appellate procedure, which is not affected
by the immunity statute, nor does the immunity operate to
give a right of review upon any other than final judgmerits.
A question very analogous to the one before us was made
and decided in the case of Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, in
which the constitutionality ,of an immunity statute was sustained. The statuite undertook to give immunity after testimony before the Interstate Comm-rce Commission, and to

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. B

provide that no person shouild be prosecuted nor subject to any
penalty, etc., concerning matters which he testified to by the
production of documents or otherwise before the Commission.
In that case, as in this, the contention was made that the
immunity was not perfect, because the witness might still be
prosecuted, and, therefore, the promised immunity was insufficient to afford constitutional protection. Answering that
contention this court said (161 U. S. 608):
"The same answer may be made to the suggestion that the
witness is imperfectly protected by reason of the fact that he
may still be prosecuted and put to the annoyance and expense of pleading his immunity by way of confession and
avoidance. This is a detriment which the law does not recognize. There is a possibility that any citizen, however innocent,
may be subjected to a civil or criminal prosecution and put
to the expense of defending himself, but unless such prosecution be malicious he is remediless, except so far as a recovery
of costs may partially indemnify him."
The Constitution of the United States provides that no person shall be twice placed in jeopardy of life and limb for the
same offense, yet the overruling of a plea of former conviction
or acquittal has never been held, so far as we know, to give a
right of review before final judgment. In the case of Rankin
v. The State, 11 Wall. 380, an attempt was made to bring to
this court a judgment of a state court upon a plea in bar of
former conviction in a capital case. But this court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Bradley, said:
"It is a rule in criminal law infavorem vitw, in capital cases,
that when a special plea in bar is -found against, the prisoner,
either upon issue tried by a jury or upon a point of law decided by the court, he shall not 'be concluded or convicted
thereon, but shall have judgment of respondeat ouster, and
may plead over to the felony the general issue, 'not guilty.'
4 Blackstone's Commentaries, 338. And this is the effect of
the judgment of .reversal rendered by the Supreme Court of
Tennessee in this case, so that in no sense can that judgment

GRENADA LUMBER CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
217 U. S.

Syllabus.

be deemed a final one. The case must go back and be tried
upon its merits, and final judgment must be rendered before
this court can take jurisdiction. If after that it should be
brought here for review, we can then examine the defendant's
sufficiency."
plea and decide'upon its
It may- thus be seen that a plea of former conviction under
the constitutional provision that no person shall be twice put"
in jeopardy for the same offense does not have the effect to
prevent a prosecution to final judgment, although the former
conviction or acquittal may be finally held to be a completp
bar to any right of prosecution, and this notwithstanding the
person is in jeopardy a second time if after one conviction or
acquittal the. jtiry is empanelled to try him again. We think,
then, that the effect of the immunity statute in question is not
to change \the system of appellate procedure in the Federal.
courts and give a right of review before final judgment in a
criminal case, but was intended to provide an effectual defense against further prosecution, which if denied may be
brought up for review after a final judgment in the cAse.
We therefore reach the conclusion that the motion to dismiss the present writ be sustained, and it is so'ordered.
Writ of error dismissed.

GRENADA LUMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF MIS-

SIssgPPI.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 493. Submitted January 10, 1910.-tDecided May 2, 1910.

This court accepts the construction of the st4te court; and wherq that
court has held that an agreement between retailers not to purcbse
from wholesale dealers who sell direct to consumers within prescribed localities amounts to a restraint of trade within .the meaning
of the anti-trust statute of the State, the only question for this court
is whether such statute so unreasonably abridges freedom of conVOL. ccxvii--28

