SOUFFRONT v. COMPAGNIE DES SUCRERIES. 475
217 U. S.

Argument for .Plaintiffs in Error.

SOUFFRONT, WIDOW OF FLEURIAN, v. LA COMPAGNIE DES SUCRERIES DE PORTO RICO.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

PORTO RICO.
No. 155.

Argued April 15, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.

Where the vendors bring an action in their own name but to protect
their vendees, such vendee-, although having acquired title prior to
the institution of the action are privies thereto and may plead the
judgment in such action as res judicata; in such a case the general
rule that no one whose interest was acquired prior to the institution
of the action is privy to the judgment rendered therein does not
apply.
Under Spanish law it was competent for vendors after parting ,with
title to conduct a litigation in their awn names for the benefit of
their vendees, and therefore a judgment in such a case inures to the
benefit of the vendees as between them and. the defendants against
whom it was rendered and their respective privies.
One who prosecutes or defends a suit in the name of another to establish and protect his own right, or who assists in the prosecution or
defense of an action in aid of some interest of his own, and who does
this openly to the knowledge of the opposing party, is as much
bound by the judgment and as fully entitled to avail himself of it as
an estoppel against an adverse party, as he would be if he had been
a party to the record. Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1.
Assertions that parties are not privies to a judgment and cannot plead
it as res judicataand that a judgment can be collaterally attacked as
rendered against one insane at the time, raise questions of law, and
where, as in this case, such questions are to be determined on the
facts appearing in such judgments and in the pleadings the court does
not usurp the functions of the jury by determining that the contentions raised by such assertions are without merit.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hannis Ta'ilor with whom Mr. Charles M. Boerman
was on the briet, ror plaintiffs in error:
Those who acquire a title before any suit brought by the

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

217 U. 8.

vendors or former owners are not to be considered as privies
to such suit or a judgment thereon. Freeman on Judgments,
1st ed., § 162; Dull v. Blackman, 169 U. S. 248; Kerr v. Walls,
(6Wheat. 560; Canon River Mfg. Assn. v. Rogers, 43 N.' W.
Rep. 792; Sessions v. Johnson, 95 U. S. 347; Graham v. La
Crosse M. R. Conpany, 3 Wall. 704.
A party not concluded or bound by a judgment cannot invoke such judgment as estoppel against others. Keokuk Railroad v. Scotland County, 152 U. S. 326; Bedon v. Devie, 144
U. S. 143.
The judgment of a foreign court, and especially a French
court, upon the rights or title to real estate, situated in this
country, has not the effect of res judicata. Dull v. Blackman,
169 U. S. 246; Carpenterv. Strange, 141 U. S. 105. The court
has no inherent power, by, the mere force of its decree, to annul a deed, or to establish a title. Hart v. Sansom, 110 U. S.
151, 155; Ma:.sie v. Watts, 6 Cranch, 148,
citing Story, Confl.
Laws, § 549 Whart., Confl. Laws, §§ 228, 289; Watkins v. Holman, 16 F.c. 25; Northern IndianaRailroadv. Mich. Cent. Railroad' 15 tow. 233; Davis V. Headly, 22 N. J. Eq. (7C. E. Green)
115; Miller v. Birdsong, 7 Baxter, 531; Cooley v. Scarlett, 38
Illinois, 316; Gardner v. Ogden, 22 N. Y. 327.
A decree in equity rendered upon a demurrer to the bill
:without considering the merits of the case has not the effect
of res judicata. Walden v. Bodley, 14 Pet. 156; 1 Greenleaf's
Ev., §§ 529, 530, and authorities there cited; Hickey v. Stewart,
3 How. 758; Smith v. Sherwood, 4 Connecticut, 276; Stevens V.
Hughes, 31 Pa. St. 381; and see Freeman on Judgments, § 270.
As the action in the case at bar is in the nature of the trial
of the title it is not barred even by a former judgment in
ejectment. Mallet v. Foxcroft, 1 Story, 477; Foxeroft v. Mallet, 4 How. 378; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 434; Merryman v.
Bourne, 9 Wall. 599.
A United States court in an action at law cannot render
judgment without a jury upon the pleadings, where the facts
alleged by one party are controverted -by the other party.

SOUFFRONT v. COMPAGNIE DES'SUCRERIES. 477
217 U.

S.

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment VII. to the Constitution of the United States;
United States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dall. 297; Bank of Columbia
v. Oakly, 4 Wheat.235; Edwards v. Elliot et al., 21 Wall. 532.
This article. of the Constitution is in force in all the organized Territories of the United States. Cannon v. Gilmer, 131
U. S. 28; Tompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 346.
Section 34 of the act temporarily to provide revenues and
a civil government for Porto Rico, of April 12, 1900, provides,
that the United States District Court for Porto Rico shall
proceed in the same manner as a Circuit Court.
The single question which this court need consider is
whether the District Court erred insubstituting itself for the
jury, and in passing upon the contested issues of fact presented by the: replication, without a waiver of the right of
trial by jury by consent of parties. The trial of issues of fact
in civil cases by the courts of the United Stattes without the
intervention of a jury, can be had only when the parties waive
their right to a jury by a stipulation in: writing.. Bayli.s v.
Travelers' Ins. Co,, 113 U. S. 316; Elmore v. Grynes, 1 Pet.
469; D'Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet. 476; Castle v. Ballard, 23 How.
172; Hodes v. Eason; 106 U. S.408; Idaho Land Co: v. Bradbury, .132 U. S.515; Morgan v. Gay, 19 Wall. 81;.Royal Ins.
Co. v. Martin,. 192 U." S. 149. Trial byjury is a part of the
machinery of the District Court of the United States in Porto
Rico.
Mr. Charles Hartsell, With whom Mr. Manuel RodriguezSerrawas on the. brief, for defendanta in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In July, 1906, plaintiffs in error. commenced this action in
the District Court of the United States for the District of
Porto -Rico, to recover, from the defendant.; in error, the possession of certain described real estate and damages from
April 12, 1904, for unlawfully withholding possession thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 0g09.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

The right to the relief sought was based upon the averment
that one Clemente de Fleurian, at his death, on February.24,
1892, was seized in fee and entitled to the possession of the
premises, and that he died intestate, leaving the plaintiffshis widow and two children-" as his legal succession." A
demurrer to the complaint was overruled, except as to the
necessity of furnishing certain information in regard to rents
and profits,. which was afterwards done through the meium
of a bill of particulars. The defendants filed a joint answer.
In addition to a general denial, they, pleaded title by adverse
possession of twenty years: and that plaintiffs' right to recover was barred by reason of certain judgments obtained by
the predecessors in title of defendants in actions prosecuted
by theip in the courts of France and in the courts of Porto
Rico during the Spanish rc ime, and by reason of a judgment
of dismissal entered in favor of predecessors in title of defend.ants and against the plaintiffs, in a suit in equity brought by
the latter in the trial court below in the year 1904 to quiet
the title to the premises in controversy. A motion was filed
to strike out portions of the answer as alleging mere evidentiary matter, and a demurrer was also filed to the special
defenses of res judicata. The motion and demurrer. were overruled, the court filing an opinion, in which it detailed the substance of the matters set up in the answer, and, in effect, held
that the decrees or judgments of the French and Porto Rican
courts prior to the cession from Spain were res judicata-as to
the claims of the plaintiffs, unless their rights had subsequently arisen. After setting forth its reasons for such con-clusion the court called upon the plaintiffs "to file a replication within ten days or such longer, period as they may,
if at all, be entitled to, setting up the fact. whether or not the
answer is true in so far as it sets out the source of plaintiffs'
title and dcscribes or recites these proceedings in other courts
regarding this property." This requirement was followed by
the 'statement that "If it shall transpire that the answer has
set up the real facts in the case, then, on the application of

L(}iI'FRONT v. COMPAGN.IE DES S CILERILS. 479
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendants, the action will be immediately dismissed at the
cost of the plaintiffs,." ThereafT.:r a replication was filed on
the part of the plaintiffs, which, omitting the title and the
signatures of the attorneys, is s, follows:
Replication.
"Now come the plaintiffs herrrin, in conformity with the
order of the court entered hereir, and make reply to the answer of the defendants as foll6Aw.:
"First. TheV deny; that :the dofendant.<have ever had any
just title to the premises or that those from whom they derived title have possessed the premises in good faith or with
just title.
"Second. The plaintiffs impgn the afleged, prescription
either of ten years or of twenty years.
"Third. The plaintiffs deny the allegations .inthe answer
that the ancestor Clemente de Fleurian has obtained the deed
to the properties described in the complaint through fraud
and they allege that he purchased the said properties in good
faith and for valuabl6 considerationi and always was ready
and the plaintiffs are ready .tO comply with all the conditions
of the said deed of sale, and that said deed was delivered to
him by the vendors and their agents.
"Fourth1. The plaintiffs admit that the judgments mentioned
in the answer as a third defense to the complaint have been
rendered but the suits in which said judgments were rendered
have been instituted.against Clemente de Fleurian while he
was insane and out of his mind and without any curator or.
guardian or committee of his person Being named by the court;
and that the defendants herein were neither parties nor
privies to the said judgments and suits and appeals, and therefore-said judgnients cannot bar this action.
"Fifth. The plaintiffs admit that the judgment mentioned
in the answer as a fourth, defense to the domplaint has been
rendered, but the plaihtiffs state that the court which ren-

dered sWd judgment had no jurisdiction in the subject matter,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

and said judgment being of a foreign court without jurisdiction is not binding; and the plaintiffs further allege that the
defendants herein were neither parties nor privies to the said
judgment and Suit, and therefore said judgment is not a bar
to this action.
"Sixth. The plaihtiffs further replying say that the judgment or decree mentioned in the Answer as a fifth defense
to. the complaint was rendered not upon the merits of the case
and without any proof being taken, but only upon a demurrer
to the complaint for want of. equity and for laches, both
purely equitable deerises availAble only in suits in equity,
and the plaintiffs state that this decree is not a bar to this
action.
"Wherefore the plaintiffs pray judgment thereon."
Thereupon the following entry of dismissal was made:
"Now come the plaintiffs by their attorneys, Boerman &
Llorens, and file a replication to the answer in this cause, and
upon consideration thereof it appears to come within the rule
laid down in the court's opinion on the demurrer tothe answer
of the defendants filed June 1st. . Now,. upon application by
Hartzell and Rodriguez, the attorneys, of said defendants, the
cause is dismissed at the cost of the plaintiffs, -to be taxed by
the clerk, for which execution may issue.
*"Plaintiffs except- to the dismissal hereof."
' From this judgment of dismissalthe appeal now before us
was taken. In addition to assigning as error the overruling
of the demurrers to the respective defenses of res judicata, it
is set up that "The court erred in rendering judgment against
.the plaintiffs in said cause upon4the pleadings in said cause,
and that said judgment is contrary to the law and facts as
.stated in the pleadings in said court."
As upon the overruling of the demurrer, the court in substance made it a condition. for granting leave to reply to the
answer that such reply should disclose that the answer had
not set up The real facts in the case, which condition was mani•festly not' complied with in the replication, we shall review the

SOUFFRONT v. COMPAGNIE DES SUCRERIES. 481
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action of the court upon the hypothesis that the order overruling the demurrer had also absolutely decreed a dismissal
of the complaint. On this assumption we proceed to examine
the defense setting up as res judicota the judgments of the
Porto Rican courts rendered during the Spanish regime to
determine whether the court properly held that they barred
recovery.
The defense in question covers twenty-six pages of the
printed record, the judgment of the court of first instance
embracing seventeen and that of the Supreme Court of Porto
Rico seven pages. The judgments establish the following,
among other, facts: The real estate, the subject of controversy, was a sugar plantation known by the name of Serrano.
The plantation was owned in 1879 and prior-thereto by David
Laporte and others, and Clemente de Fleurian, through whom
plaintiffs claim title, was the manager of the pJantation. On
October 9, 1879, what is termed a " private contract of sale"
of the plantation to de Fleurian was executed in France. In
November following the owners of the property brought suit
in the civil court of Nimes, France, to annul the contract.
On February 18, 1880-the day after the return of de Fleurian
to Porto Rico-although the contract of, sale was not of
record in Porto Rico, de Fleurian mortgaged the plantation
to one Labastide to secure the payment of 36,811 pesos.
The civil court of Nimes on May 10, 1880, entered a decree of
nullity in the suit brought by the LIportes, and this decree,
upon the appeal of de Fleurian, was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of Nimes on March 24, 1885, and by the Court of
Cassation on May 17, 1886.
Pending the litigation just referred to, the Laportes, in the
proper district in Porto Rico, "instituted -possessory proceedings for the said property," in which Labastide and his
wife were summoned "as' abutting owners," and, they not
making opposition, the title of the Laportes was
duly registered.. Thereafter, the Laporte, by public instrument, of
October 16, 1883, ".sold the property to Don Juan Forgas and
VOL. CCxvi - 31

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

to Don Jose Gallart, free of all incumbrances, the Vendors
binding themselves to guarantee the title to the same as well
as to answer for all obligations for which the said property
might be liable.'
In the defense we are considering it was averred that title
to the premises came to the defendants through Forgas and
Gallart. It is also averred as follows:
"That these defendants are the successors and privies in
the ownership of said property to said original owners and to
the said Gallart, and Forgas and the succession of Gallart by
virtue of the said sale to the'said Forgas and Gallart. That in;
the deed selling and conveying said premises by. the said
owner to the said Forgas and Gallart, it was expressly contracted and agreed that the said owners should conduct the
litigation necessary to free the title of said premises from any
lien, cloud or incumbrance whatsoever, and the same was.
made the express condition of the payment of a large portion
of the purchase price of said premises. And that in pursuance of said obligation resting upon the said owners of said
property, in addition to the proceedings in the courts of
France hereinbefore referred to, the said owners of the said
property commenced their action in the court of first instance
in the judicial district of Ponce, Porto Rico, the district where
the said lands were located, the said court having full jurisdiction over the said property and over the said defendants.
The object of*said suit being to cancel and to have declared
null and void or for the rescission, as the case might be, of
the private contract .of sale of the said plantation described
in plaintiff's .complaint and known as .'Serrano,' and also to
have declared null and void and for the rescission and cancellation of the said mortgage executed by the said Fleurian
in favor of the said Labastide."
As above mentioned, the litigation in France was commenced by the Laportes before the sale to Forgas and Gallart,
and continued fter such sale, terminating in May, 1886.
The action f tainst de Fleurian and Labastide in the Porto

SOUFFRONT v. COMPAGNIE DES SUCRERIES. 483
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rican courts,- referred to in the excerpt just made, was commenced on May 9, 1887, and the final judgment of the trial
court relied upon as res judicata was entered therein on Oc-

tober 26, 1889. In that judgment, after referring to the proceedings had in .the litigation in France, as shown by the
records of the judgments of the French courts which were in
evidence, the court of first instance, after making certain
statements as t0 the effect as res judicata of the French judgments, Whichstatements are. copiedin the margin,' pro1 9. Whereas there is not any treaty between France and Spain
providing special rules as to the force and efficacy of the contracts
civil matters in any one of
executed and of judgments rendered iii
said nations as regards the other, and therefore, the general principles of international law are applicable to the case, among which of
said principles there is the principle of reciprocity, specially expressed
as to the execution of judgments rendered by foreign courts in articles 951 and 952 of the law of Civil Procedure.
10. Whereas, according to the French legislation, real property,
even if possessed by foreigners, is governed by the French law (article 3d of the Civil Code) "A judicial mortgage does not ensue from
a judgment rendered in a foreign country except when* such judgment has been declared executory by a French court" (paragraph 4
of article 2123); "contracts entered into in a-foreign country and acts
executed before foreign officers cannot produce mortgage on property in France" (article 2128); "the said acts and judgments are not
subject to execution in France except in the manner and in the cases
provided by articles 2123 and 2128 of'the Civil Code" (article 546 of
the Code of Procedure).
11. Whereas, according to the geheral interpretation in France as
to the aforesaid provisions of its legislation, as well as to article 14 of
the Civil Code, the acts and judgments rendered, by foreign courts arc
subject to revision and new discussion b6fore the French courts, and
that in that respect and on .the principle of reciprocity the final judgment rendered by the French courts, to which reference h. s bccn
made in this action by. the plaintiff, cannot produce the force and
effect of res judicata as to a decision of the questions which are being
ventilated in the same, especially when the same have not had the
execuatur of the Supreme Court of Justice in the form provided by
article 954 and subsequent articles of the said law of Civil Procedure.
12. Whereas, according to the principle of private international

OCTOBER TERM,. 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

ceeded to reinvestigate. the merits of the controversy and determine the questions arising as matters of first impression,
concluding by giving to the plaintiffs the full relief demanded,
the judgment reading as follows:
."I adjudge that Don Clemente de Fleurian is held to have
confessed to the questions propounded at folios 340 and 341
of the second record of the roll of evidence of the plaintiffs.
I should declare and do declare also the nullity of the instrument of sale and of. the instrument of mortgage of the sugar
cane plantation, called 'El Serrano,' the first of which was
executed in the private contract in Anduze, -France, dated
October ninth, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, between
the plaintiffs and Don Clemente de Fleurian, and the second
named at Juana Diaz, before the notary Don Ramon Rodriguez, on..the eighteenth day -of February, eighteen hundred
and eighty,*by Don Clemente de Fleurian and Don Fernando
Labastide, in consequence of which it is ordered that after this
decision shall have been final, the annotation of the said instument of mortgage in the registry of property- be cancelled, for which purpose the proper orders shall.issue with
the -necessary excerpts addressed to the registrar of property
for the district, taxing all costs against .the defendants, Don
Clemente Fleurian and Don Fernando Labastide. Thus,
finally adjudging, was pronounc6d, ordered and signed by the
judge."
On an.appeal, taken by. Labastide, the Supreme- Court of
Porto Rico on January 28, 1891, affirmed the judgment of the
court of first instance. Thereafter an appeal,. also taken by
law, sanctioned by the Supreme Court of Justice in several opinions,
the efficacy of the as or contracts affecting directly real property,
are governed by the royal. statute or namely, by the laws of the coun'try where the real property is situated, and therefore, as the question
in this suit is in regard to a property situated in a Spanish territory,
thc quertiOnp relating to the nullity or validity-of the title to the said
property, and of the mortgage put on the same, should be ventilated
or decided in accordance with the Spanish lws. Locus regit actum.

SOUFFRUNT v.COMPAGNIE'DES SUCRERIES. 485
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Labasticle, to trne Supreme Court of Spain was dismissed. and
it is'averred in the answer that 'the said decision of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico became firm and fixed, ani is
still in full force and effect;" -and that pursuant to the decisions of the Porto Rican courts above referred to "the
proper orders were issued and the registration of the said
mortgage from the Said Clemente de Fleurian to the said
Labastide wqs, duly cancelled and annulled in the registry of
property of Ponce, and the said decision of the court of first
instance of Ponce and the said decision of .the Supreme .Court
of Porto Ri,:o, confirming the same, have been carried out as.
to all matters and things which were ordered and directed
therein and thereby."
The question then is whether these judgments of the courts
of Porto Rico, entered in litigation prosecuted in the names
of the former owners for the benefit of their vendees, through
whom the defendants in this action deraign title, is, as contended by the defendants in error, "4 full, complete and final
determination of all the matters and things relating to the
alleged title of the :said Clemente de Fleurian in or to the said
premises. described in the. plaintiff's complaint herein," operative.'as res judicata in favor of the defendants, and constituting 'abar, to the further prosecution of the proceedings
under the complaint herein. We proceed tticonsider this
question.
It is recited i,the judgment entered on October 26, 1889,
by the court oi first instance of Porto .Rico, that the then
pending action was commenced on May 9, 1887, by the Laporte heirs, ai.d it also expressly found that the property had
been sold prior to the institution of the action, viz., on October 16,. 18&3, by the. Laportes to Forgas and Gallart, from
whom mediately or immediately the present defendants ac:quired title, "the vendors binding themselves to guarantee
the title to the -&mne as well as to answer for all obligations
for which the said property might be liable." It is also apparent from the ;'indings of the court that thl action referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

to was intended to make effective the result of the proceedings
institutea in France, which had been commenced in .order to
remove the cloud .upon the title of the Laportes resulting
from the contract of sale made to de Fleurian and the mortgage made by him to Labastide. As the judgment of the
court of first instance reciting the facts referred to was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, we may properly
.assume that the Porto Rican courts did not consider that they
were passing upon a merely moot question, but Were of opinion that the adjudication made inured to the benefit ofi the
Vendees of the nominal complainants, such .vendees being
the real owners. It being then competent, under the Spanish
law, for the vendors of property, after paring with title, to
conduct in their own names for the benefit of their vendees a
litigation havink for its object ultimate relief such as was
sought in the action so instituted by the Laporte heirs in 1887,
we are of opinion that there is .no merit in the contention upon
which plaintiffs in error rely in assailing-the sufficiency of the
defense set up in the third paragraph o the answer. In effect,
that contention simply was that as the original owners had
sold. the property before the institution of the action commenced in 1887 the defendants herein, as claimants under
purchasers who had bought from the Laportes before the
commencement of that action, are not in. privity with the
complainants in that suit, as they.were mere strangers to the
litigation and not entitled. to enjoy the benefit of the adjudi
cation.. Let it be conceded, for the sake of argument, that ordinarily no one is privy to a judgment whose succession to
the rights .of. property thereby affected occurred previously
to the institution of: the suit (Dull v. Blackman, 169 U. S.
248; Freeman on Judgments, 1st ed,,"§ 162), nevertheless the
rule has no application to a case like this wher6 the nominal
plaintiffs or complainants were in legal intendment conducting the litigation under the direction and for the benefit of
the real owners of the property. The persons for whose
benefit, to the knowledge, of the court and of all the parties

SOUFFRONT v. COMPAGNIE DES SUCRERIES. 487
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

to the record, litigation is being conducted.cannot, in a legal
sense, be said to be strangers to the cause. The case is within
.the principle that one who. prosecutes •or defends a suit in the
name of another to establish and protect .his own right, or
who assists. in the prosecution or defense. of an action in: aid.
of some interest of his own, and who does this openly to the
knowledge of .the opposing party, is as much bound by the
judgment and as fully entitled. to avail himself of it as an
estoppel .against an adverse party, as he would be if he had
been a party to. the record. Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1.
'There is no merit in the contention that in rendering judgment -upon the. pleadings the court. usurped the province of
the jury. In the view we have taken of the case it becomes
necessary I for the purpose Of testing that contention, to consider only the fourth paragraph . of the. replication., heretofore
quoted. In asserting, as was done in that paragraph, "that
the defendants herein were neither .parties nor prives :to the
said-judgments, suit and appeals (referred- to in the third defense), and therefore said judgments cannot bar this action,"
there was. presented merely a question .of law as to whether,
upon the facts appearing in the judgments or averred in the
third defense, the defendants in this action were, as a matter
of law, in privity with the complainants in the cause in which
the judgments pleaded as res .judicata were rendered. And
this i true also as to the charge made in the fQurth paragraph
of the replication that de Fleurian was insane when the judgments relied upon as res judicata were entered. We say this
because clearly whether the judgments. on such mere aver
ment were subject to be. collaterally attacked was .a matter
of law for the court, 'even if the assumptio h be indulged in
that the right to plead the asserted insanity, which we do-not
intimate to be the case, was within the. condition as to replying imposed by the court when it overruled the demurrer.
Affirmed..

