OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellants.

217 U. S.

scinded deeds were made. The defendant's rights were cut
down at least sufficiently by the trial court.
Judgment reversed, uith directions to affirm the judgment of
the District Court.

JAVIERRE. v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO..
No. 171.

Argued April 26, 1910.-Decided May 16i.1910.

Where a proviso carves i-n exception, dependent on a conditioli sui,sequent,, out of the body of a statute or contract, the party setting
up the exception must prove, and has the burden, that the condition
subsequent .has actually come to pass.
A contract for delivery for a term of years, of sugar, terminable meanwhile only in case a specified new Central was built, could not, in this
case, be terminated unless the particular Central contemplated was
built; it was not enough that a Central called by the same .name had
been built.
Damages in a'suit-at law for failure to comply with the terms of a contract for delivery of crops is an adequate remedy and specific performance and: an injunction against delivery to others. should have

been refused in this ease.

Tm facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Hartzell, with whom Mr. Manuel Rodriguez

Serrawas on the brief, for appellants:
The burden of showing that the Central Eureka referreid
to in the contract was not the project known as the Swift
Eureka Central was not on the defendants below but such
'burden as to the identity of the projected Central Eureka referred to was on the plaintiffs below.
There was not, nor is there now, any presumption that the
Central Eureka referred to was the Swift project.' The burden
of proof' of a fact is upon him who asserts it. Complainants

JAVIERRE v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
217 U.S.

Argument for Appellant&

(defendants in error here) allege, and to recover must. prove,
that defendants entered into a combination or conspiracy to
enable them to violate a contract; that this violation. was to
be committed *by pretending that a certain proposed sugar
mill known, by the name of "Eureka was not, in fact, the
Eureka project which the complainants alleged it to be, and
in order to make proof to justify.a decree in its favor it must
prove by a preponderance of the testimony, in view of defendanls' denial, that the Swift Eureka was the project. actually intended and referred- to in the said contract. Mutual
Reserve Fund v. Powell, 79 Ill. App. 3.64; Piper v.. Watldns,
8 Kan. App. 215; Rupp v..SarpyCounty, 71 Nebraska, 382;
Vertrees v. Gage County, 75 Nebraska, 332; Simonton v. Winter,
5 Pet. 141; Adams v. Adams, 21 Wall. 185; Knox v..Smith,
4 How; 298; Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 470.
Fraud and conspiracy, when alleged as the basis of action,
must be clearly proven in order to warrant a recovery. Farrar v. Churchill, 135 U. S. .609; Gaines v. Nicholson, 9 How.
356; United States v. Arredondo, .6.Pet. 691; Jones v. Simpson,
116 U.S. 609; Jacobsv. Van Sickel, 123 Fed. Rep. 341; Cheesman v. Hart, 42 Fed. Rep. 98, distingui.shed.
This case does not present in any event, any ground for
equitable relief, or the issuance: of an injunction. The only
consistent relief which could be applied for would be in the
nature of specific performance... Grape Creek Company v.
Spellman, 39 111. App. 630.
Equity should not intervene. An action at law for damages
is equally, or even more, effective for complainant. There is
no allegation in the complaint of defendants' insolvency.
The court erred, in granting any relief to appellee, because
the contract was wholly unilateral and incapable' of enforcement by a court of equity, either by way of specific performance or by injunction.
Appellee's mill was neither constructed nor enlarged upon
any consideration moving from this contract. There was no
consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

217 U. S.

Appellants were not in anywise dependent upon appellee
for a market for their sugar cane, for they -were dealing with
other mills before appellee's factory was started, and the bill
of complaint shows that there are more mills in the vicinity
than the supply of sugar cane would justify. The remedy must
be mutual. Ross v. U. P. R. R. Co., Fed. Cas. 12,080; Puilman Pal. Car Co. v. Texas & Pac. R. R. Co., 11 Fed. Rep. 625.
Where a contract is barsh the court will leave the parties
to their remedy at law. King v. Hamilton, 4 Pet. 311; Redman v. Zilley, 1 N. J. Eq. 320; Appeal of Weise, 72 Pa. St. 351.
Even though the contract be valid at law, if it be harsh or unjust, equity will not relieve. .Leigh v. Crump, 36 N. C. 299;
Friend v. Lamb, 152 Pa. St. 529.
Mr. Hugo Kohlman, with whom Mr. F. L. Cornwell and
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingillwere on the brief, for appellee:
Relief was properly given by injunction instead of by specific performance.
The bill of complaint prayed for an injunction and not for
specific performance. Defendants in a suit cannot complain
that only partial relief has: been granted. The bill is not
strictly to decree a performance of a contract, but, by injunction, to prevent the destruction of contractual obligations. Hendricks v. Hughes, 117 Alabama, 591.
This doctrine seems to be an extension of that maintaining the right to enjoin the violation of contracts for personal
services so well established and often applied since Lumley v.
Wagner, 1 De G., M. & G. 604.
The fundamental basis of jurisdiction to enjoin the violation of the contract instead of leaving a complainant to his
action at law for damages is the impracticability of ascertaining with any definiteness the real extent of such damage;
hence the inadequacy of the remedy. Where performance is
to continue through a series of years in thie future, that fact
alone renders definite ascertainment of damages impossible'
See the following English uases more or less analogous in their

JAVIERRE -v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
217 U. S.

Argument for -Appellee.

reasouing to the case at bar: Jones v. North, 44 L. J. Ch. 388;
Donnell v. Bennett, 22 Ch. Div. 835; Whitwood Chem. Co. v.
Hardman,L. R. [1891] 2 Ch. 416; Cat v. Tourle, L. R. 4 App.
Ch. 654; and also see the following American cases: W. U. Tel.
Co. v. U. P. Ry. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 423,429; C. & A. Ry. Co. v.
N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 516, 521; Alpers v.
City tf San Francisco,32 Fed. Rep. 503'; General Elec. Co. v.
Westinghouse Co., 151 Fed. Rep. 664, 672, 677; Manhattan &c.
v. N. J. &c., 23 N. J. Eq. 161; St. Regis Co. v. Lumber Co., 173
N. Y. 149, 161.
The same principles have been applied in cases involving
contracts wherein public interests were involved. Walla Walla
v. Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 11; Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1, 46.
Defense of appellants upon question of meaning of disputed clause of contract is affirmative.. The burden of proof
under such a proviso is clear. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall.
168, 176; and see Steel v. Smith, 1 B. & A. 99, in which a proviso, exactly as in the case at bar, was construed.
In equity where an answer which is put in issue admits a
fact, and insists upon a distinct fact by way of avoidance, the
fact admitted is established, but the fact insisted upon must
be proved. Clements v. Moore, 6 Wall. 299, 315; and see to
the same effect, Bour v. Kimball, 40 Ill. App. 327; Nelson v.
United States, 30 Fed. Rep. 116; Lake Shore Co. v. Felton, 43
C. C. A. 189, 193; Miller v. Shields; 124 Indiana, 170; Rowell v.
Janvrin, 151 N. Y. 60, 67..
Even had the proviso allowing the cancellation of the contract
been absolute, and selfi-operative in its terms, thus importing
a condition,. it would still have been a condition subseqfient*
of which the burden of proof would still be upon the party to
be relieved by its fulfillment. Den v. Steelman, 10 N. J. L.
193, 204; Hotham v. East India Co., 1 Term Rep. 638, 645.
The unilateral character of the contract is not open for consideration in this court, but even could the court consider
that question, the mutuality of consideration and obligation
is plainly apparent on its face.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

217 U.S.

JUsncE Homs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree enjoining the. appellants
•from delivering sugar cane grown on the haciendas Florentina and Estero to the Central Eureka for the- term of five
crops, beginning with the crop of the year 1906-7, or so
long within that term as the appellee is ready to grind.and
pay for the same; and also from '.selling, donating, renting
or mortgaging said. haciendas' without stipulating for the
carrying out of a contract made with the appellee. The contract referred to bound the appellants to have the cane grown
on the two haciendas ground at the sugar factory of the appellee for the term just stated, at a certain price,. with mutual
.agreements not necessary to set forth, but, so far as appears,
fair and'made upon equal. terms,. It was subject to a pro-viso, however, that if on January 15, 1908, the projected
*Eureka Central should have been erected, or should be in
.course. of. construction, the appellants might cancel the contract, giving notice on October 1, 1907. The notice was given,
but the appellee contended that the Eureka Central referred
to was abandoned and that the Central relied upon as the
ground for.the notice was one got up by the appellants and
named Eureka with a view to getting out of their contract
with the appellee.
The findings of fact are not entirely satisfactory upon the
point in issue. They set out evidence and avoid a conclusion
more definite than that which we shall state. It appears, however, that for some years one Swift had been negotiating for
the construction of a Central Eureka,-and was continuing his
efforts on December 10, 1906, when the contract was made.
But in October 1906, Javierre had telegraphed to him that
negotiations with him were at an end, and there was evidence
that Javierre and others had met and made an agreement on
October 20 to form a corporation to set up the 'said.Central,'
to be called the Central -Eureka, 'it being almost sure' that
Swift had failed. The parties were to sell their cane to this

JAVIERRE v. CENTRAL 'ALTAGRACIA.
217 U. S.

.

Opinion of the Court.

Central for ten years. The co*urt. studiously avoids finding
that this agreement was made, 'but does find that if Javierre
signed it he did not consider himself bound by it,. and, as has
been seen, thd contract with the appellee was of' later date.
The curt also.finds that it was not generally known that the
planters had held the alleged meeting or were contemplating
the erection of the Central, and, after stating other details,
finds that the appellants have not proved,. by' a preponderance oi.evidence,, that the contrict -referred to the Central
Eureka started by them, or that the Central Eureka. mentioned was other than the one projected. by Swift. It.
ruled
that. the burden' of proof was .n the appellants, and thereupon
made the decree.
Thereis. some preliminary argument that the finding concarning the contin'uance of Swift's efforts is not warranted by
the 'plealings. If,. this were true, no:objection seems.to have..
been made in the court below, .where no doubt an amendment
would have been all6wed if necessary. But.itis a mistake.
The bill :merely alleges that. Swift's arrangement failed .'during the latter part' of 1906, and 'qualifies even this by the
further allegation'that in the beginning of December Javierre.
stated .,o the officers ofthe complainant (appellee) that he.
was still bound to .Swift, but that the 'thing had failed, and
that' he was disposed to make a contract with them if he could
have a clause providing for the case of Swift's success. The
only real questions concern the ruling on the burden of proof
and the propriety of' the relief in such a case as this.
As to the burden of proof, if that really in any way determined the result, the ruling. was correct. The appellants were
seeking to escape from 'the contract made by them on the'
ground oi a .condition subsequent embodied in a proviso.' It
was for them to show that the facts. of the condition had come
to pass. It is said that the bill alleges affirmatively a con-.
spiracy to: evade the undertaking, but that is merely by way
of 'replication to the answer setting up the condition, and is
nothing but a specific mode of denying that the condition had

OCI OBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

been fulfilled. An allegation of fact that is materiai only as
an indirect negative of something to be proved by the other
party does not shift the burden of proof. ,Starrattv. Mullen,
148 Massachusetts, 570. So there is nothing butthe general
question to be considered and that is answered by the stvte-.
ment of it and by repeated decisions of this court.. When a
proviso like this carves an exception out of the body of a statute or contract those who set up such exception must prove
it. Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburg Ry. Co., 205
U. S. 1, 10. Ryan v. Carter,03 U. S. 78. United'Statesv. Cook,
17 Wall. 168.. United States v. Dickson, 15 -Pet. 141, 165.
'Therefore it was for the appellants to proye that the Central
referred to by .the contract had been built or started. It was
not enough to prove that a Central had been built and called
by, the same name.
*The doubt as to the relief granted below is more serious
and in the-opinion of the majority of the court must prevail.
According to that opinion a suit for damages would have
given adequate relief and therefore the appellee should have
been confined to'its remedy at law. Again, the court would
not undertake to decree specific performance and to require
and to supervise the raising of the crop and the grinding of
the sugar for even the now remaining peiiod of the decree.
There is a certain anomaly in granting, the half way relief of
an injunction against disposing of the crops elsewliere when
the court is not prepared to enforce the performance to accomplish which indirectly is the only object of the negative
decree. There is too a want .of mutuality in the remedy,
whatever thatobjection may amount to, as it is hard to see
how an injunction could have been granted against the appellee had the case been reversed. Rutland Marble Co. v.
Ripley, 10 Wall. 339. Notwithstanding these considerations
I should have preferred to 'affirm the decree, but as my reasons
have been stated to my brethren and have not prevailed it is
unnecessary t) repeat them now.
Decree reversed.

