KIDD, DATER CO. v. "MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 461
217 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

establishing the Court of Appeals, and that a final decision of
that court can be reviewed in this court only upon certiorari,
and that therefore the pending appeal must be dismissed.
And this conclusion is sustained by Atkins v. Moore, 212 U. S.

285, 291.
Appeal dismissed.

KIDD, DATER AND PRICE COMPANY v. MUSSELMAN
GROCER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 149. Argued April 13, 14, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.
Where this court has held a state statute constitutional it will follow
that decision in a oase involving the constitutionality of a statute
of another State which fundamentally is similar and which is attacked on the same ground by persons similarly situated; and so held
that the Michigan Sales-in-Bulk Act of 1905 which is fundamentally similar to the Sales-in-Bulk Act of Connecticut, sustained in
Lemieux v. Young, 211 U. S. 489, is not unconstitutional under the
due process or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is within the police power of the State to require tradesmen making
sales in bulk of their stock in trade to give notice to their creditors
and also to prescribe how such notice shall be given, and unless the
previsions as to such notice are unreasonable and arbitrary a statute to that effect does not amount to deprivation of property,
abridge liberty of contract or deny equal protection of the law within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment;, nor is the requirement
in the Michigan Sales-in-Bulk Act of 1905 that such notice be either
personal or by registered mail unreasonable or arbitrary.
151 Michigan, 478, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the Salesin-Bulk Act of 1905 of Michigan, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. G. M. Valentine, with whom Mr. E. L. Hamilton,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument tor Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. &

Mr. G. W.. Bridgmnan and Mr. E. B. Valentine were on the
brief, for the plaintiff in error:
The enforcement of the act deprives a merchant of his
property without due process of law, by making it extremely
difficult, if not impossible, whenever he may be in. debt, as he
usually is when he makes such a sale, to sell his stock otherwise than in the ordinary course of trade, even though he
may desire to make the sale for honest purposes.
The requirements for an inventory and list of creditors impose unreasonable restraints upon trade.
Suppose that the list is not full, accurate, and complete,
may the purchaser rely upon the sworn certificate of the seller,
or must he independently ascertain its accuracy and rely upon
it at his peril?
The requirement that notice be given to all creditors,
whether their claims are due or not, five days in advance of
the sale, either personally or by registered mail is onerous and
arbitrary.
The argument in support of the act in Spurr v. Travis, 145
Michigan, 721, is that, if an owner owes no debts, no delay is
required, and an-owner who is in debt may qualify himself at
once by paying his debts, or if not, the sale is postponed until
notice is given as the statute provides. But how shall the
purchaser know that there are no creditors? The act may not
literally take property without due process of law, but it annihilates its value and destroys its attributes. Wright v.
Hart, 182 N. Y. 330.
If this leginlation is valid, then it is competent for the legislature to make every transfer of a debtor's property, real
and personal, void. The property rights guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment consist not merely in the title or
right to the possession of property, but also the right to make
any lawful use of the property and the right to pledge or
mortgage it, sell or transfer it, and the right to buy it, so long
as the sale or transfer i., not made for fraudulent purposes.
Kuhn v. Common Coutcil. 70 Michigan. 534.

MIDD, DATLR CO. v. MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 463
217 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Nothing less than an opportunity to be heard in court upon
the question of the honesty of a purchase and sale can be due
process of law. Hagar v. Reclamation District No. 108, 111
U. S. 7C.
The enforcement of the act deprives an honest purchaser
of a stock of goods of his property without due process of law,
by compelling him to pay for the goods twice, if the terms and
conditions of the act have not been followed, and good faith
is no defense. Every citizen is entitled to the presumption
of honesty, and his dishonesty and his fraud must be proved
befoTe he can be deprived, either of his liberty, his property,
or his good name. Kuhn v. Common Council, 70 Michigan,
534.
The statute is not of the slightest use as a protection tn
creditors, for it may always be evaded, as, for instance, by
Hannah & Hogg v. Richter Brewing Company, 149 Michigan,
220; 12 L. R. A: (N. S.) 178.
The only benefit to the creditors is in. case the requirements
of the statute are not observed, and then the benefit is not
pro.'ata but only to those bringing suits.
A distinguishing peculiarity of this statute is that no benefits flow to creditors of merchants from its observance.
The enforcement of the act enables a purchaser who has
obeyed it, and who is also a creditor of the seller, to deprive
other creditors of their property without due process of law.
The enforcement of the act deprives a creditor of his property without .due processof law, by destroying all remedy
against the debtor's goods, probably at once, and certainly
after five days from time of receiving notice of the proposed
sale.

Before the enactment of this statute, a creditor might in a
proper case maintain an action of replevin or trover within
six yecrs from the time the cause of action accrued, Comp.
Laws of Michigan, 1897, ยง 9728, or obtain an attachment;
Comp. Laws of Michigan, 1897, c. 292; but all these remedies
algainst the property of the debtor are destroyed by the ,oct

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

217 U. S.

in question, unless brought within five days after receiving
the notice of the transfer.
To prescribe an unreasonably short period of limitation is
an impairment of the obligation of contracts, or a taking of
property without due process of law. 19 Am. & .Eng. Enc.
of LAw, 2d ed., 169, 170; Price v. Hophin, 13 Michigan, 318,
324, and cases cited.
Legislation similar to the.act here involved, and for the
same general purpose, has been enacted in many States.
Such acts have been held violative of both the state and
United States Constitutions, in the States of New York, Ohio,
Indiana, Illinois, Utah, and Virginia, on the ground that the
effect of such statutes is to cause the deprivation of property
without due process of law, and that the same does not afford
to persons interested, the equal protection of the laws. Wright
v. Hart, 182 N. Y. 330; 75 N.-E. Rep. 404; Miller v. Crawford,
70 Oh. St. 207; 71 N. E. Rep. "631; McKinster v. Sager, 163
Indiana, 671; 72 N. E. Rep. 854; Block v. Schwartz, 27 Utah,
387; 101 Am. St. Rep. 971; 65 L. R. A. 308; Off& Co. v. Morehead, 235 Illinois, 40; 85 N. E. Rep. 264.
Statutes for the same general purpose have been held
valid in Massachusetts, Tennessee, Washington, and Oklahoma, but the statutes of all those States are easily differentiated from the Michigan statute. Squire & Co. v. Tellier,
185 Massachusetts, 18; 69 N. E. Rep. 312; Neasv. Borches, 109
Tennessee, 398; 97 Am. St. Rep. 851; 71 S. W. Rep. 50; McDaniels v. J J. Connelly Shoe Company, 30 Washington, 549;
60 L. R. A. 347; 94 Am. St. Rep. 889; Williams v. Fourth
National Bank, 82 Pac. Rep. 496 (Okla.); 2 L. R. A. (N. S.)
334.
In Wisconsin and Maryland, such statutes have been before the court, but the question of their constitutionality
docs not seem to have been raised. See Fisher v. Herrman,
118 Wisconsin, 424; Hart v. Roney, 93 Maryland, 432. A
statute of Connecticut, having but slight resemblance to the
Michigan statute, was held valid by this court in Lemieux v.

KIDD, DATER CO. v. MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 465
217 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Young, 211 U. S. 489, but the case can be distinguished as the
statutes differ in many respects.
Liberty of a citizen includes the right to acquire property,
to own it, use it, buy it, or sell it, so long as his acts are without intent to defraud. When the owner is deprived of the
right to sell property, he is deprived of the property itself,
within the meaning of the Constitution, by having one of'
the incidents -of ownership taken away from him. A.lgeyer
v. State of Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Butchers' Union v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.
53; In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; People v. Gillson, 109 N. Y.
389; Braceville Coal Co. v. People, 147 Illinois, 66, 71; Ritchie
Y. People, 155 Illinois, 98, 104; Frorer v. People, 141, Illinois,
171; Commonwealth.v. Perry, 155 Massachusetts) 117; -Cleveland v. Clements Bros. Const. Co., 67 Ohio St. 197, 219. Dissenting opinion in Neas v. Borches, 109 Tennessee, 398;
Bank v. Divine Grocery Co., 12 Pickle, 611; Off & Co. v.Morehead, 85 N. E. Rep. 266. An act of the legislature which takes
.way a right by refusing a remedy in otao or except on impossible conditions, is as much a violation of the Constitution
as though Lhe right were taken away in express terms. Gilman
v. Tucker, 128 N. Y. 190.
*rhe terms, "law of the land" and "due process of the law"
do not mean merely an act of the legislature. Board of Ediwation v. Bakewell, 122 Illinois, 339; Clark v. Mitchell, 64
M*ssouri, 57S: Calhoun v. Fletcher, 63 Alabama, 574; Saco v.
iWentworth, ' 7 Maine, 165.
The law i;, the land does not mean merely an act of the
legilature: tr such a construction would abrogate all ret.rictions on Jegisiative power. 10 Am. & Enig. Enc. of Law,
2d ed., 291, 292; citing Cooley's Cons. Limit., 6th ed., 431;
Taylor v. Porter,4 Hill, 140, 145; and see In re Siebold, 23 Fed..
Rep. 791; Moore v. State, 14 Vroom (43 N. J. L.), 203; Dorman v. State, 34 Alabama,. 216.
There is no justification for the legislation under the police
power. The individual niav pursue without let or hindrance
VOL. CCXVI1--30

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument. for Defendant in Error.

217 U. S.

from anyone all such callings as are innocent in themselves,
and not injurious to the public.
The statute has no such effect as the preservation of the
public safety or welfare, but under the guise of police regulation is an invasion of the property rights of the individual.
Chaddock v. Day, 75 Michigan, 527; Matter of Frazee, 63 Michigan, 396; People v. Gillson, 109 N. Y. 389; In re Jacobs, 98
N. Y. 98; People v. Marx, 99 N. Y. 377; Fisher Co. v. Wood,
187 N. Y. 90; Gilman v. Tucker, 128 N. Y. 190; People v.
Warden, 157 N. Y. 116; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Richmond v. Southern Bell Telephone Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 19; Chicago v. Netcher, 183 Illinois, 104.
Sales statutes are not within the police power. MzUer v.
Crawford, 70 Ohio St. 207; McKinster v. Sager, 163 Indiana,
671; Off & Co. v. Morehead, 235 Illinois, 40; Wright v. Hart, 182
N. Y. 330; Neas v. Borches, 109 Tennessee, 398.
The decisions cited from the state courts do not differ from
the law as laid down by this court. Slaughter House Cases,
16 Wall. 36; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Davidson v.
New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 303; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; State of Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S.
313.
The act in question is substantially an insolvency law, and
therefore of no effect when a national bankruptcy law is in
force. Sturges v. Crowninshi6ld, 4 Wheat. 122; Ogden v
Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213; Tua v. Carriere, 117 U. S. 201
1 Fed. Stat. Annot. 526, 527, notes; Brandenburg o Bank.
ruptcy, 3d ed., ยง 16, and cases cited.
Mr. Benn M. Corwin for defendant in error:
The existence of an evil, so universal as to challenge the
attention of almost every legislative body in the country,
cannot be passed lightly by. People v. Arensberq, 103 N. Y.
388, 394.
Forty-one States and Territories. together with thc Dis-

KIDD, DATER CO. v. MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 467
217 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

trict of Columbia, have passed statutes. regulating the sale
of stocks of goods in bulk.

Theselstatutes may be divided into five groups or classes:
First. Arizona, California, Connecticuti Ohio, require notice of the proposed sale to'be recorded, from five to ten days,
before' completing the sale. Such provisions sustained in
Calkins v. Howard, 2 Cal. App. Rep. 233; Walp v. Moore, 76

Connecticut, 515; Spencer v. Broughton, 77 Connecticut, 38;
In re Paulis, 144 Fed. Rep. 472 (Conn.); Young v. Lemieux,
79 Connecticut, 434; Lemieux. v. Young, 211 U. S. 489.
Second. in the District'of Coluibia, Florida, Idaho, Kentucky, Maryland, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York
(new), Oregon, Pennsylvania. Rhode Island, Texas, West
Virginia and Wisconsin, fourteen in all, the purchaser is required to demand and receive of the seller a list of names afid
addresses of his creditorsand amount due each; the purchaser
is also required to notify each creditor of the terms and conditions of the sale, either personally or by registered mail, from
five to ten days before completion.
Three of these statutes have been construed and enforced
without reference to their constitutionality in Hart v. Roney,
93 Maryland, 432; Wilson v. Edwards, 32 Pa. Sup. Ct. 295;
Fiengold & Co. V. Barsh & Co., 33 Pa. Sup. Ct. 39; Fis ,r v.
Herrmann, 118 Wisconsin, 424.
Third. Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Michigan, Indiana
(new). Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota,. Mississippi, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and Vermont,
eighteen in all. In each of these States, the statute in force
contains substantially the saiaie provisions as those in the
second group, and in addition to the requirements of the
statutes in the second group, requires an inventory to be
taken and notice to be given in person or by registered mail,
as in the second group.
The eonstitutionality of six of this group of statutes, all

containing substantially the same provisions as the Michigan

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

217 U. S.

statute, has been upheld. Spurr v. Travis, 145 Michigan, 721;
Musselman Grocer Co. v. Kidd, Dater & Price, 151 Michigan,
478; Squire v. Tellier, 185 Massachusetts, 18; Thorpe v. Pennock, 99 Minnesota, 22; Jaques & Tinsley Co. v. Carstorphen
Warehouse Co., 131 Georgia, 1; Williams v. Fourth National
Bank, 15 Oklahoma, 477; Neas v. Borches, 109 Tennessee,
398.
In addition to the cases cited which have passed directly
upon the validity of these statutes, the validity of such statutes
has been assumed without question in Wasserman v. McDonnell, 190 Massachusetts, 326; Kelley-Buckley Co. v. Cohen, 195
Massachusetts, 585; Hart v. Brierley, 189 Massachusetts, 598;
Hannah & Bogg v. Brewing Co., 149 Michigan, 220; Farrarv.
Lonsby Lumber Co., 149 Michigan, 118; Pierson & Hough Co.
v. Noret, 154 Michigan, 268; BixIer v. Fry, 122 N. W. Rep.
(Mich.) 119; Carstorphenv. Fried, 124 Georgia, 544; Parham&
Co. v. Potts-Thompson Liquor Co., 127 Georgia, 303; Sampson
v. Brandon Grocery Co., 127 Georgia, 454; Taylor v. Folds, 58
S. E. Rep. (Ga.) 683; Gilbert v. Gonyea, 103 Minnesota, 459;
Kolander v. Dunn, 95 Minnesota, 422.
Fourth. Montana, Nevada, Washington, and Utah, require the purchaser to demand a sworn statement containing
a list of the seller's creditors, and provides that all sales in
bulk shall be void unless the purchaser shall pay or see to it
that the purchase money of said property is applied to the
payment of all bona fide claims of the creditors of the vendor,
share and share alike.
The Washington statute, has been upheld in McDaniell v.
Connelly Shoe. Co., 30 Washington, 549, and see also the following cases under this statute: In re Gaskill et al., 130 Fed.
Rep. (Wash.) 235; Fitz Henry v. Munter, 33 Washington,
629; Kohn v. Fishback, 36 Washington, 69; Plass v. Morgan,
36 Washington, 160; Holford v. Trewella, 36 Washington, 654;
Seattle Brewing &c. Co. v. Donofrio, 34 Washington, 18; Albrecht v. Cudihee, 37 Washington, 206; Everett Produce Co. v.
Smith Bros., 40 Washington, 566.

KIDD, DATER CO. v. MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 469
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fifth. The Louisiana statute makes it a misdemeanor to
purchase goods on credit and sell or oiherwise dispose of them
out of the usual course of business, with intent to defraud, and
also for a purchaser to.purchase a stock of goods in bulk without. first obtaining a sworn statement from the vendor that the
same are paid for.
For a conviction for fraud thereunder see State v. Artus,
110 Louisiana, 441.
Counsel for plaintiff erred in stating that the statute of Virginia has been held invalid.

Of all the cases decided under

statutes regulating the sales of stocks in bulk, only five have
held statutes invalid: Off & Co. v. Morehead, 235 Illinois, 40;'
McKinster V. Sager, 163 Indiana, 671; Wrightv. Harti 182 N. Y.
332; Miller v. Crawford, 70 Ohio St. 207; Block v. Schwartz,

27 Utah, 387.
MR. JuscE Warns delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the inquiry whether Act No. 223 of the
Public Acts of the State of Michigan of the year 1905, commonly known as the "Sales-in-Bulk Act," is repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment. The act is copied'in the margin. 1
SEC. 1. The sale, transfer or assignment, in bulk, of any part or
the whole of a stock of merchandise,.or merchandise and the fixtures
pertaining to the. conducting of said business, otherwise than in the
ordinary course of trade and in the regular and usual, prosecution of
the business of the seller, transferor or assignor, shall be void as against
the creditors of the seller, transferor, assignor, unless the seller, transferor, assignor and purchaser,"tansferee and assignee, shall, at least
five days before the sale, make a full detailed. inventory, showing the
quantity and, so far as possible with 'the exercise of reasonable diligence, the cost price to the seller, transferor and assignor of each article to be included in the sale; and unless the purchaser, transferee and
assignee demands and receives from the seller, transferor and assignor
a written list of names and addresses of the creditors of the seller,
transferor and assignor, with the amount of the indcbtedness due or
owing to each, and certified by the seller, transferor and a.ssignor, under
oath, to be a full, accurate and complete list of his creditors, and of his
indebtedness; and unless the purchaser, transferee and assignee shall,

OCTOBER TERI, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

The controversy'thus arose: Early'in the year 1906 Frank
B. Ford operated a store in the village of Berrien Springs,
Michigan, consisting of various departrients--hardware,
grocery, meat market and furniture department and buggies

and machinery department.

Prior to May 23, 1906, Ford

made sale of the stock included in the buggies and machinery
department. On the day mentioned plaintiff in error, after

taking an inventory of thestock in the.grocery department,
valuing it at cost less ten per cent, purchased the same for

$2,100, deducting an indebtedness due from Ford of $4.15.45
and paying the balance in cash. In making purchase the requirements of.the Sales-in-Bulk Act referred to were not complied with in any particular. After the sale Ford still owned
the meat market, worth between eight hundred and a thousand dollars, and the stock of hardware. worth between five
and six thousand dollars. He afterwards sold the stock of
hardware for about forty-one hundred dollars, and on such
at least five days before taking possession of such merchandise, or
merchandise and fixtures, or paying therefor, notify personally or by
registered mail, every creditor whose name and address are stated'in
said list, or of which he has knowledge of the proposed sale and of the
price, terms and conditions thereof.
SEc. 2. Sellers, transferors and assignors,. purchasers, transferees
and assignees, under this act, shall include corporations, associations,
copartnerships and. individuals. But nothing contained in this act
shall apply to sales by executors, administrators, receivers, trustees in
bankruptcy, or by any public offic& under judicial process.
SEC. 3. Any purchaser, transferee' or assignee, who shall not conform to the provisions of this act, shall, upon application of any of the
creditors of the seller, transferor or assignor, become a receiver and
be held accountable to such creditors for all the goods, wares, merchandise and fixtures that have come into his possession by virtue of
such sale, transfer or assignment: Provided, however, That any purchaser, transferee, or assignee, who shall conf3rm to the provisions of
this act shall not in any way be held accountable to any creditor of
the seller, transferor or assignor, or to the seller, transferor or assignor
-for any of the goods, wares, merchandise or fixtures that have come into
the possession of said purchaser, transferee or assignee by virtue of
such sale, transfer or astignment.

KIDD, DATER CO. v. MUSSELMAN GROCER CU. 471
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sale the requirements of the Sales-in-Bulk Act were complied
with. The meat market was also disposed of, and in February, 1907, bankruptcy proceedings were commenced against
Ford, with what result the record does not disclose.
After the sale of the stock of the grocery department to
Kidd, Dater & Price Company, plaintiff in error, the Musselman Grocer Company, defendant in error, sued Ford upon an
account and joined as garnishee the Kidd, Dater & Price Company, upon the theory that the latter company incurred a
liability to respond as garnishees for the property acquired
from Ford, because of non-compliance with the requirements
of the act in questioli. Upon the trial it was contended by
counsel for Kidd, Dater & Price Company that, if valid, the
statute did not authorize garnishment proceedings for its enforcement, and that the act was invalid because repugnant
both to the constitution of the State and to the Constitution of
the United States. The last contention, with which alone we
are concerned, was thus expressed:
"The act violates section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution, which provides that no State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge-the privileges or
immunities of the citizens of the United States; nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
The trial court held the contentions as to the proper construction of the statute and'its constitutionality to be without
merit, and by direction a verdict was returned for the plaintiff,
upon which judgment was duly entered. Upon appeal the
Supreme Court of Michigan affirmed the judgment. 151 Michigan, 478. It held the Sales-in-Bulk Act to be constitutional,
without discussion, upon the authority of a previous decision
(Spurr v. Travis, 145 Michigan. 721), and further decided that
the failure to comply with the act made the sale by Ford to
Kidd, Dater & Price Company void as to creditors, and that
the plaintiff in garnishment was entitled to avail of the gar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

nishment provisions*of the compiled laws of the State. This
writ of error was then prosecuted.
The erro.s assigned embody the proposition that the Salesin-Bulk Act in question was not a valid exercise of the police.
powers of the State, and is hence repugmint to the Fourteenth
Amendment, because wanting in due process. of law and denying the equal protection of the'laws. Substantially the same
arguments are urged as were presented in Lemieuxv. Young,
211 U. S. 489, decided after this writ of error was sued out.
In the Lemieux case the Validity of legislation of the keneral
character of that embodied in the Michigan statute was passed
on. The Connecticut law, the constitutionality of which was
particularly involved, was- held- to be a valid exercise of the
police power of the State, and not to be repugnant to the due
process or. equal proiection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, although it avoided as against creditors sales by retail
dealers in commodities of their entire stock at a single transaction, and not in the regular course of business, unless notice of
intention to make such sale was recorded seven days before
its consummation. The opinion in that case thus concluded:
"As the subject to which the ,tatute relates was clearly
within the police powers of the State, the statute cannot be
held to be.'repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because of the nature or character of the
regulations which. the. statute embodies, unless it clearly appears that those regulations are so beyond all reasonable relation to the subject to which they are applied as to amount to
mere arbitrary usurpation of power. dooth v. IEhnois, 184
U. S. 425. This, we think, is clearly not the case. So, also, as
the statute makes a classification based upon a reasonable
distinction, and one which, as we have seen, has been generally
applied in the exertion of the police power over the subject,
there is no foundation for the proposition that the result of
the enforcement of the statute will be to deny the equal protection of the laws."
These principles are decisive against the contentions made

KIDD, DATER CO. v.. MUSSELMAN GROCER CO. 473
217 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

in this case, as we do not find in the provisions of the Michigan.
statute when 'compared with the Connecticut statute such
differences as would warrant us in holding that'the regulations
of the Michigan statute are so beyond all reasonable relation
to the subject to which they are applied as to amount to mere
arbitrary usurpation of power. The purpose of both statutes
is the same, viz., to prevent the defrauding of creditors by the
secret sale of substantially all of a merchant's stock of goods
in bulk, and both require notice of such sale and make void as
to creditors a sale without notice. The differences between

the two statutes are pointed out by counsl in a summary
which we excerpt in the margin.'
11. The Connecticut law relates only to retail merchants; the Michigan law relates to wholesale and retail merchants.
2. The Connecticut law requires notice to be filed in the town clerk's
office; the Michigan law requires notice either personally or by registered mail to the creditors, and to this end requires that the seller,
transferor, or assignor shall, under oath, certify. to a full, accurate and
complete list of his creditors and of his indebtedness, and that the purchaser shall notify, personally or by registered mail, -every creditor so
certified, of the proposed sale and the conditions .,thereof.
3. The Connecticut'law requires notice to be filed seven days prior
to the sale, and the Michigan law requires five days before completion
of sale, the purchaser shall notify, personally or by registered mail,
every creditor, etc.
4. The Connecticut law requires a description in general terms of
the property to be sold; the Michigan law requires a full and detailed
inventory showing the quantity and, so far as possible with the ex..
ercige of reasonable diligence, the cost price to the seller, transferor,
and assignor of each article to be included in the sale.
5. The Michigan law provides that any purchaser not conforming
to the provisions of the act shall, on application of any creditor of the
seller, become a receiver and be held accountable to such creditors for
all the goods, etc.: the Connecticut law simply states that failure to
comply with the act.shall make the said void as against. the creditors.
6. The Michigan law provides that upon complianve with the provisions of the act a purchaser shall not in any way be held accountable
to any creditor of the seller or to the seller for any of the goods so purchased; the Connecticut law is without any such provision.

OCTOBER TER.M, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

It is apparent, we think, from this summary that the statutes are alike fundamentally, and differ only in minor and incidental provisions. In some .respects the Michigan law is
more comprehensive than the Connecticut law. at die latter
law was limited to retail merchants, while the Michigan law
affects .wholesalers as well as retailers. The requirements of
the Michigan law, that a full and detailed inventory shall, be
made, does not seem to us to be oppressive and arbitrary, as in
bona fide purchases of stocks of goods in bulk a careful purchaser is solicitous to demand such an inventory, and in the
purchase in question an inventory was in fact made. Nor can
we say, in view of the ruling in the. Lemieux case, to the effect
that a State may, without violating the Constitution of the
United, States, require that creditors be constructively notified
of the proposed sale of a stock of goods in bulk; that a requirement for-what is in effect actual notice to each creditor is so unreasonable as to be a mere arbitrary. exertion of power beyond
the authority of the legislature. to exert. We do not. deem
it necessary to further pursue the subject, as we think it.clearly
iesults, from the ruling in Lemieux v. Young, that the Michigan
statute in no way offends against .the Constitution of the
United States, and. therefore that the court below was right
in so deciding..
Affir.med.

