STOFFELA

t.

NUGENT.

499

Syllabus.

217.U. S.

from his opinion tha. one of the grounds of jurisdiction urged
before him was that this is an action ancillary to the judgment in the former suit, which of course it is not, any more
than Stillman v Combe, 197 U. S. 436; but the argument

recognized that the former judgment was the foundation of
the present case. Apart from that contention, there can be
no question that, as the judge below said, if the directors are
under obligations by Connecticut law to pay a judgment
against their corporation, that is not a matter that can be
litigated between citizens of the same State in the CircuitCourt of the United States. The only argument attempted
here is that which we have stated- and have decided not to be
open on the compila~at.
Judgment affirmed.

STOFFELA v. NUGENT.
APPEAL FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT OF TIlE TER1ITOICY

01'

ARIZONA,

No. 179.

Argued April 28, 1910.-Decided May 16, 1910.

One committing a fraud does not become an outlaw and caput lupin*in.
Although one by reason of fraud may have no standing to rescind his
transaction, if it is rescinded by one having the right tp do so tho
ecurt should do such iu.tice as is consistent with adherence to law.
Al.-iough one hdldt Ig a -rot .ge may have fraudulently endeavored to
prevent anuhcr t'.i' ,v-quiring the fee of the property, .;,, way still
rmortgage paid if the other fina.ly gets the
Ti
be entitled t ',ave
property.
Deeds and discharges of mortgages although different in-trunients may
be parts of one transaction; aid one setting aside the deed may also
be required to give up the discharge so as to restore other parties
to the condition in which they stood prior to the transaction.
18 Arizona, 151, reversed

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 190P,
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

Mt. J. J. Darlington, With whom Mr. Joh6 J. Hawktns
and Mr. Thomas Armstrong; Jr., were. on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives'for appellee submitted.
MR.JUSTICE.ROxi ES delivered the opinio1i of the court.

This is a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity brought
by. the appellee, Nugent, to set aside a deed and- mortgage as
a cloud upon his.title to certain land. The defendant denied
the. allegations of the complaint and filed across-complaint to
set asidefile deed to the plaintiff. The case was tried. before
a judge without a jury and he made findings of fact of which
thefollowing is an abridged statement. The land was subject to- two. mortgages .held by the defendant, upon which a
judgment of foreclosure had been rendered, the sum due being
$15,700 and'interest. Mrs. Heyl, the mortgagor and owner
of the equity, sold and conveyed the land to Nugent on Jan.uary 4, 1905, he agreeing to procure the payment of the mortgage and judgment liens. On January 9, the day before that
fixed for the mortgage sale, the defendant, having knowledge
of the conveyance to Nugent, and having evaded Nugent's
efforts to .pay the mortgage debt, induced Mrs. Heyl to con-.
vey a part of the premises to him absolu.' ly in satisfaction of
$10,000, and to mortgage the residue for V.700, and recorded
the deeds before Nugent had. recorded .:edeed to him. He
also, with fraudulent intent to defeat Nugent's title, it is said,
although the possibility is hard to conceive, satisfied of~record
the former mortgages . and judgment liens; the only consideration for his act being the later deed and mortgage given
by Mrs. Ieyl. On these facts judgment was given for the
plaintiff, conditioned upon his paying to the defendant $15,700
without intc -est, less $600 counsel fees and costs. The plaintiff appealed and the Supreme Court :f the Territory gave
the plaintiff an unconditional jadginent; on the ground that

STOFFELA v. NUGENT.
217 U. S.

Opinion of.the -Court.

the defendant's conduct was voluntary, in. pursuance. of his
fraudulent scheme, and that he had no claim as against Nugent to be relieved from the consequences of a collateral act.
It. was thought -that the debt from Mrs. Heyl to Stoffela was
a matter with which Nugent, in spite of his covenant -to pay
it, had no concern, the only :question being.the relative va'lidity of the plaintiff's and defendant's titles. The defendant
appealed to this court.
We are of opinion that the judgment appealed from -was
wrong, and that the judgment of the court of first instance
should be affirmed. It is true that the defendant acted
fraudulently and knew what he was about. But a man by
committing a fraud. does not become an outlaw and. caput
lupinum. National Bank & Loan Co. v. Petrie, 189 U. S. 423,
425.. He may have. no standing to .rescind his transaction,
but when it is rescinded by one who has the right to do so
the courts will endeavor to do substantial justice so far as is
consistent with adherence to law. See Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Central Transportation.Co., 171 U. S. 138, .150. If Nugent is allowed to have the land free of all charge and the defendant's -claim is extinguished, Nugent gets much more than
he bargained for and the defendant is deprived of .his equitable interest in Nugent's covenant to pay. the mortgage debt
(Johns v. Wilson, 180 U. S. 440), and is made to lose a large
sum rightly due to him, not from any necessity of justice, but
simply because he has acted badly and therefore any treatment is good enough for him. It is said that the discharge of
the old mortgages was a collateral matter with which Nugent
had no concern. If that were true, still justice might f6rbid
Nugent to rely upon it. But it is not correct. The discharge
and the new deeds, although different. instruments,- were parts
of one, transaction. Each was consideration for the other.
As the plaintiff elects to do away with the consideration for
the discharge, he must be taken to elect also to give up the
discharge, or, to put it in another way, he must restore the
defendant to the eondition in which he stood before the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellants.

217 U. S.

scinded deeds were made. The defendant's rights were cut
down at least sufficiently by the trial court.
Judgment reversed, uith directions to affirm the judgment of
the District Court.

JAVIERRE. v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO..
No. 171.

Argued April 26, 1910.-Decided May 16i.1910.

Where a proviso carves i-n exception, dependent on a conditioli sui,sequent,, out of the body of a statute or contract, the party setting
up the exception must prove, and has the burden, that the condition
subsequent .has actually come to pass.
A contract for delivery for a term of years, of sugar, terminable meanwhile only in case a specified new Central was built, could not, in this
case, be terminated unless the particular Central contemplated was
built; it was not enough that a Central called by the same .name had
been built.
Damages in a'suit-at law for failure to comply with the terms of a contract for delivery of crops is an adequate remedy and specific performance and: an injunction against delivery to others. should have

been refused in this ease.

Tm facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Hartzell, with whom Mr. Manuel Rodriguez

Serrawas on the brief, for appellants:
The burden of showing that the Central Eureka referreid
to in the contract was not the project known as the Swift
Eureka Central was not on the defendants below but such
'burden as to the identity of the projected Central Eureka referred to was on the plaintiffs below.
There was not, nor is there now, any presumption that the
Central Eureka referred to was the Swift project.' The burden
of proof' of a fact is upon him who asserts it. Complainants

