'FREEMAN v. UNITED STATES.

.539

Syllabus.

217 U. S.

284, 289. For it is to be observed further that the facts
involved were public facts, and that although the court
might not take notice of the precise situation of particular crossings it well might take notice, as the Supreme
Court of Georgia seems to have taken notice in the case
just mentioned, that they were numerous. See United
States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.
690, 638, and for many cases Wigmore, Ev., §§ 2575,
2580. 16 Cyc. 862.: 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
904. Again, if any merely technical objection had been
thought fatal to the defense, the petitioner undoubtedly
would have met it by a further amendment to its plea.
It seems to me a miscarriage of justice to sustain liability under a statute which possibly, and I think probably, is unconstitutional, until the facts. have been heard
which the petitioner alleged and offered to prove. I
think that the judgment should be reversed.
I am authorized to say that Mr. Justice WHITE concurs
in this dissent. -

FREEMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 156.

Submitted. April 11, 1910.-Decided May q1, 1910.

Provisions carried into the Philippine bill of rights,by the statute Qf

July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691,i such as "that no person shall be
imprisoned for debt," are to be interpreted and enforced according
to their well-known meaning at the time. Kepner v. United States,
.195 U. S. 100.
Statutes relieving from imprisonment for debt, as generally interpreted,

relate to commitment of debtors'for liability on contracts, and not
to enforcement of penal statutes providing for payment of money

540

4 O(OBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

as a penalty for commission of an offense and the provision against
imprisonment for debt in the Philippine bill of rights as contained
-in § 5 of the act of July 1, 1902, e. 1369, 32 Stat. 691.
The fact that a money penalty imposed for embezzlement goes to the
creditor and not into the public treasury does not make imprisonment for non'payment of the penalty imprisonment for debt; and
'so held as to § 5, Art. 5.35, of the Penal Code of the Philippine Islands.
Where the statute provides a penalty for embezzlement to the amount
proved, to go to the creditor, and a subsidiary sentence of imprisonment in case of non-payment, the court may, without violating .fundamental principles of justice, find. the amount wrongfully converted
for the purpose of fixing sentence in the criminal action, leaving the
creditor his remedy in a civil action for any excess due him over the
amount of the sentence; and so held as to a conviction for embezzlementtunder Article*535 pf the Penal .Code of the Philippine Islands.

T uz facts, which involve the validity of a. conviction
for embezzlement under § 535 of the Philippine :Code,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. AlHis B. Browne, Mr.' W. A. Kincaid, Mr. Alex-

ander BriUon and Mr. Evas Bromne for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for the United

States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, seeking to reverse a judgment of that
court affirming a conviction of the plaintiff in error of the
crime of eatafa (embezzlement) growing out of the alleged
misappropriation of some 3,500 pesos received by him as
manager of the steamship department of Castle Brothers,
Wolf & Sons. The sentence of the court of first instance
was as follows:
"The court therefore finds the defendant,- Otis G. Freeman, guilty of embezzlement of the sum of p3,500 Phil-

FREEMAN v. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ippines currency, as charged in the complaint, the property of Castle Bros., Wolf .& Sons, and does sentence him
to imprisonment, presidio correccional,in the insular prison
of Bilibid, for the period of one year and nine months,
and to restore to said Castle Bros., Wolf & Sons the sum
of p3,500 Philippines currency, or in lieu. thereof to suffer
subsidiary imprisonment for the period of seven months
and to pay the costs of prosecution."
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islqnds that court, after reviewing the testimony, said:
"This finding, of course, will in no way estop the said
firm of Castle Bros., Wolf & Sons. from recovering in a
civil action from the defendant any sum or sums in excess
of this amount which are found to.be due to the said firm.
The only charge (change) which this finding makes in.
the conclusion of the lower court is in the amount of
money which must be returned to the firm of Castle
Bros., Wolf & Sons by Virtue of this sentence.
"It is the'judgment of 'this court that the sentence of
the lower court be affirmed with this modification, and
that the defendant be sentenced to be imprisoned for a
period of one year and'nine months of presidio correccional,
and to restore to Castle Bros., Wolf & Sons the sum of
p2,078.50, or in lieu thereof to suffer subsidiary imprisonment for a' period not to exceed one-third of' the principal penalty, :and to pay the costs."'
The statute of the Philippine Islands defining the crime
is article 535 of the Philippine Code:
"(1) Philippine Penal Code, article 535:
" 'The following shall incur' the penalties of the preceding articles:
"'5. Those who, to the prejudice of another, shall appropriate or misapply any money, goods, or any kind of
personal property which they may have received as a deposit on commission for administration or in any other

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

character producing the obligation to deliver or return
the same, or who shall deny having received it.'."
Other pertinent articles of the Philippine Code are as
follows:
"(2) Philippine Penal Code, article 534:
"'A person who shall defraud another in the substance,
quantity, or quality of things he may deliver to him, by
- '
virtue
of an,Obligation,
shall
be• punished
S*
,*
,
,.
•
,
"'2.. With that (the penalty) of. arreeta mayor in its
m6dium degree to presidio correccional in its minimum
degree if it should exceed 250 pesetas and not be more
than 6,250 pesetas,'
"(3) Philippine Penal Code, article- 28:
" 'Those [penalties] of preidio correccional and prieion
,orreccimal shall last from six -months and one. day to
six years.
•
.
*
*
*
* .
,
*"
"'That- of arre-to mayor shall last from one month. and
one day to six months."
•:"(4) Philippine Penal Code, article 49:
"'In case the property of the person punished should
not be 'sufficient to cover all the pecuniary liabilities they
shall be satisfied 'in the following. order:.
"'1. Reparation.of the injury caused and indemnifi.'cation of damages.
" '2.. Indemnification to the State .for. the amount of
stamped paper and other, expenses which may have been
incurred on his accuntin the cause.
"'3. The costs of the private accuser.
"'4. Other costs of procedure, including those of the defense of the person prosecuted, without preference among
,the persons interested.
"'5. The.fine;
"'Should the crime. have been of those which can be

FREEMAN v.. UNITED STATES.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prosecuted only at the instance of a party, :the cost of
the private accuser shall be satisfied in preference to the
indemnification to the State.'
"(5) Philippine Penal Code, article 50:
" 'If the person sentenced should not have property
to satisfy the pecuniary liabilities included in Nos. 1, 3
and 5 of the preceding article, he shall be subject to a'
subsidiary personal liability at the rate of one day for
every 12Y2 pesetas, according to the following rule:
".'1. If the principal penalty imposed is to be undergone by the criminal confined in a penal institution, he
shall continue therein, although said detention cannot
exceed one-third of the term of the sentence, and in no
it exceed
one year.
case can
*
•
,
•
•
.
•
•
m
"'(6) Philippine Penal Code, article 52:
may have
"'The personal liability which the cri
incurred by reason of insolvency shall not. exempt him
from the reparation of the injury caused and the indemnification of damages if his pecuniary circumstances should
improve; but it shall exempt him from -the other pecuniary liabilities includedin Nos. 3 and 5 of article 49.'"
-It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
should be reversed for two reasons, first, because the
judgment was in substance and effect an imprisonment
for debt; second, because the court should have dismissed the case without prejudice to the right to institute a civil action for the renditic of accounts.
As to the first contention, that the judgment and sentence amounted to imprisonment for debt:-The act of
July 1, 1902, providing for the administration of the
affairs of the civil government 'of the Philippine Islands,
32 Stat. 691, provides among other .things in, § 5 thereof:
"That no person shall be imprisoned for debt." This
provision was carried to the Philippine Islands in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. S.

statute quoted with a well-known meaning, as understood when thus adopted into the bill of righ4 for the
government of the Philippines and must be so interpreted
aid enforced. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100,
124.
Statutes relieving from imprisonment for debt were
not intended to take away the right to enforce criminal
statutes shd punish wrongful embezzlements or conversions of -money. It was not the purpose of this class
of legislation t. interfere with the enforcement of such
penal statutes, although it provides for the payment of
money as a penalty for the commission of an offense.
Such laws are rather intended' to prevent the commitment of debtors to prison for liabilities arising upon their
contracts. McCool v. State, 23 Indiana, 129; Mus8er v.
Stewart, 21.Oh. St. 353; Ex parte Cotirell, 13 Nebraska, 193;
In re Ebenhack, 17 Kansas, 618, 622.
This general principle does not seem to be controverted
by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error, and the
argument is, that inasmuch as the money adjudged is to
go to the creditor, and not into the public treasury, impri onment for the non-payment of such sum is an imprisonment, for debt.. But we think that an examination
of the statutes of the Philippines and the judgment of the
Supreme Court shows that the imposition of the money
penalty was by way of punishment for the offense committed, and not a requirement to satisfy a debt contractual in its nature or be imprisoned in default of payment.
Section 5, article 535, of the Penal Code provides that
those who, to the prejudice of another, shall appropriate
or misapply any money, goods or any kind of personal
property which they may have received as a deposit on
commission for administration, or in any other character,
producing the obligation to deliver or return the same, or
who shall deny having received it, shall incur certain

FREEMAN v. tJNITE) .,sl'AIES.
217 U. S.

Opinion of the C
(uirt."

penalties. As a further means of punishing the act done
in violation of the statute he may, -under the Philippine
Code, be made to suffer a subsidiary imprisonment for a
term not to exceed one-third of the principal penalty in
lieu of the restoration of the sum found to be embezzled.
The -sentence of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands, including the imprisonment in lieu of the payment
of the sum found due, was because of the conviction for
the violation of this statute-in other words, the money
payment was part of the punishment and was not imposed *asan imprisonment, for non-payment of the debt,
regardless of the criminal offense committed. The sen-.
tence and each part of it was imposed because of the 'conviction of the defendant of the criminal offense charged.
This situation is not changed because the sentence provides for a release from the subsidiary imprisonment upon
payment of the money wrongfully converted. . The sentence imposed, nevertheless, includes the requirement to
pay money because of the conviction of the offense. The
requirement that there shall be no imj~risonment for debt
was intended to prevent the resort to that remedy for
the collection of contract debts, and not to prevent the
State from imposing a sentence for crime which should
require the restoration of the sum of money wrongfully
converted in violation of a criminal statute. The nonpayment of the money is a condition upon which the
punishment is imposed. State of Maryland v. Nicholson,
67 Maryland, 1.
We do not think that the sent/nce and judgment violated the statute providing that no person shall be imprisoned for debt.
As to the second objection, tha.t the court' should have
dismissed the cause without prejudice to the right of instituting a civil action, the argument seems to be that
this should be so because the payment of the money adjudged-or suffering the "subsidiary imprisonment" imVOL. ccxvii-35

546

OCTOBER TERM,. 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

217 U. 8.

posed would not, as the Supreme Court adjudged, bar
the creditor from a civil action to recover any sum. which
he might prove to be due in excess of the judgment rendered in the present case. "In other words," says the
learned counsel, "imprisonment will. satisfy-(and therefore discharge) the judgment here rendered, leaving another and wholly civil action. open to the complainants to
recover any additional sum arising out of the same cause
of action." This possibility is said to be so wholly unjust
that it ought not to be permitted to exist in any country
subject to American jurisdiction. But we fail to. appreciate the weight of this argument. We see no reason why
the court may not, for the purpose of the criminal proceedings, find the amount wrongfully converted by the
defendant for the purpose of fixing the sentence in this
case, leaving the firm defrauded to recover in a civil ac-.
tion any sum or sums in excess of that amount which
may be found due- and remain unpaid to them. We are
unable to perceive in this action such violation of the
fundamental principles Of justice as required the dismis-

sal of the criminal action, leaving the parties complaining to the remedies of a civil suit.
We find no error in the judgment of the court below,
and the same is affirmed.
Affirmed.
.

